{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V24 1910","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v24_1910.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V24 1910","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXIV
(CONTAINING PARTS LX, LXI AND APPENDIX)
I91O
The responsibility for both the facts aiid the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1910
Ageyits for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW : JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston,* Mass.
All rights reserved
CONTENTS.
PAET LX.
March, 1910.
General Meeting, - . - -
Supplementary Notes on the First Eeport on Mrs. Holland's Script.
By Alice Johnson, --------
Supplementary Notes on "A Series of Concordant Automatisms.''
By J. G. PiDDIMGTON,
Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper in 1908 :
Introduction. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W.
Verrall, and J. G. Piddington, - - - - -
I. Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance.
By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, - . . - _
II. Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe ; The Sibyl ;
The Horace Ode Question. By J. G. Piddington, -
III. Cross-Correspondences between Mrs. Piper and Other
Automatists. By Mrs. Henry Scdgwick,
Second Eeport on Mrs. Holland's Script. By Alice Johnson, -
A New Group of Experimenters. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, -
Sequel to the "Sesame and Lilies" Incident. By Alice Johnson, -
Postscript to the Lethe Incident. By J. G. Piddington, -
PAET LXI.
August, 1910.
General Meeting,
Presidential Address. By H. Arthur Smith, -
9 .
iv Contents^ ,
,_< (. C c.L r^ <' r' J t ' '
Eeport on tbe Jun'ot ^sittings with Mrs. Piper. By Helen de G.
Verrall. , . ,
'
.
:
i: \
J
;
Introdi^cticri, ''r ^ /, r
'
'- - - • 351
Detailed Eecord of Sittings, ------- 355
Supplement.
I. Some Recent Developments in Psychotherapy. By T. W.
Mitchell, M.D., 665
II. Review
:
Mr. Frank Podmore's " Mesmerism and Christian Science."
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., - - - - - 687
APPENDIX TO PART LXI.
November, 1910.
Officers and Council for 1910, - - - 699
List of Members and Associates, 700
Index to Vol. XXIV., 741
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LX.
March, 1910.
PEOCEEDINGS OF GENEEAL MEETING.
The 135th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
Large Hall, 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Monday,
January 31st, 1910, at 5 p.m.; the President, Mr. H.
Akthue Smith, in the chair.
A paper entitled " Seeing without Eyes," by Me. Feank
PODMORE, was read by Miss Alice Johnson.
A
2 Alice Johnson. [part
V
SUPPLEMENTAEY NOTES ON THE FIRST EEPOET ON
MRS. HOLLAND'S SCRIPT.^
By Alice Johnson.
Pro'portion of Script printed.
A CORRESPONDENT, Mr. J. Arthur Hill, asked me to state what
proportion the printed parts of the script bear to the whole
amount produced during the period dealt with in my first
Report, so that he might be able to form a rough estimate of
the proportion of evidential matter to the whole.
The script printed (which contained, as readers will have
seen, a considerable quantity of non -evidential matter) amounts
to about 65 per cent, of the whole. This may be divided
into three periods: {a) From September, 1903, to February,
1904, about 68 per cent, of the script produced is printed
(see Proceedings, Vol. XXL pp. 176-240); ih) From January
to December, 1905, about 45 per cent, of the script is printed
{op. cit. pp. 241-278); (c) From January 1st to April 15th,
1906, about 90 per cent, of the script is printed {op), cit.
pp. 279-369). It is to be noted that a large proportion of
the cross-correspondences and other evidential matter belong
to this third period.
Of the matter unpublished: (1) the greater part consists
of general reflections more or less similar to those printed in
the early part of the Report (pp. 192-219), and here and
there throughout it. (2) There are also allusions to Sir Oliver
Lodge and others of Mr. Myers's friends, a few of which
were printed. Most of these are omitted, partly as being too
personal to print, but still more because they could not in
^ See Proceedinf/s, Vol. XXI. pp. 166-391. All page references in this paper
are to this volume, in connection with which the paper must be read.
LX.] Supplementary Notes on Mrs. Holland's Script. 3
any case be regarded as evidential. Thus, though Mrs. Holland
did not know either Mr. Myers or Sir Oliver Lodge personally
(she met the latter for the first time at the end of the
period of my first Eeport), she was acquainted with some
of their writings and had come to know that they were intimate
friends. Hence she could form a pretty correct conception
of their relationship to each other. There are indeed two
or three cases relating to people whose special associations
with Mr. Myers were, as I have reason to believe, much further
beyond Mrs. Holland's ken, where the personal relationship
is hit off in a few graphic phrases, suggestive of a certain
degree of supernormal perception, such as the description of
Dr. Verrall (p. 327). But here again, it is impossible to
prove Mrs. Holland's complete ignorance of the matter, and
further, the exactness of the portraiture must be more or less
a question of opinion.
There are further occasional references, as I stated, to Lady
Mount-Temple, chiefly about matters of fact known to Mrs.
Holland, and a very few remarks about other persons known to
her or included in the circle of her own friends.
Of the matter omitted, only a very small proportion consisted
of definite statements which, if correct, might have afforded
evidence of supernormal knowledge ; so that, in considering how
far chance may account for the evidential statements which were
published, the omitted portions may practically be disregarded.
"The Eidolon"
I find that the word " Eidolon," Mrs. Holland's use of
which is discussed (pp. 215-218), occurs in a quotation from
the Iliad in a paper by Mr. Myers " On recognised Apparitions
occurring more than a year after death " in Proceedings S.P.E.,
Vol. VI. p. 64. In his discussion there of the true nature
of a " ghost " two lines from the Iliad are quoted, with
Dr. Leaf's translation of them :
" There is some soul and
wraith even in Hades, but there is no heart in them," eidolon
being rendered as vrraith. The next paragraph contrasts
Homer's view of the condition of the dead with the famous
passage from Plotinus about the shade of Herakles, cpioted
again in Human Personality, Vol. II. p. 290. The word
4, Alice Johnson. [part
" Eidolon " does not, I think, occur in Human Personality,
which Mrs. Holland has read, so that it is interesting to find
it in this the first important paper published by Mr. Myers
on phantasms of the dead, in the Proceedings which she has
not read. This additional fact does not make her use of
the word any more evidential of the influence of Mr. Myers,
since there are of course many other books in which the
word is used in the same sense ; it only adds somewhat to
the appropriateness of the incident in connection with the
Myers control.
Compare Mr. Piddington's note on Mrs. Verrall's use of
the same word in her script of March 25, 1907, below,
p. 17.
Quotations identified.
(p. 260) Poem signed " L. 0." Two correspondents have
drawn my attention to the fact that the two last lines of this
poem (which is signed with the initials of Laurence Oliphant) :
" When the Invisible grows to fulfilment
The Woman soul leadeth us upward and on,"
are apparently a translation of the last part of the Chorus
Mysticus at the end of Faust, Part II., which is as follows :
Das Uuzulangliche,
Hier wird's Ereigniss ;
Das Unbeschieibliche,
Hier ist's gethan ; ...
Das Ewig-Weibliche
Zieht uns hinan.
Bayard Taylor's translation of these lines is as follows
Earth's insufKciency
Here grows to Event;
The Indescribable
Here it is done
The Woman-Soul leadeth us
Upward and on !
LX.] Supplementary Notes on Mrs. Holland's Script. 5
Thus it appears that the last line in the automatic poem is
quoted from Taylor's translation, while the previous line (which
is repeated four times in the poem) seems like a loose composite
rendering of the previous four lines of the Chorus Mysticus.
Neither Taylor nor the script gives a quite literal translation
of these four lines, but the script is rather further than Taylor
from the original. The whole of the automatic poem is not, I
think, founded on Faiist ; there are indeed certain superficial
resemblances between it and the last scene in Faust ; but its
central conception is much more appropriate to Laurence
Oliphant.
(p. 291) Script of Feb. 28th, 1906. "The Shameful
Hill" (viz., Majuba Hill).
Mr. Andrew Lang tells me that this phrase is taken from
a poem of his on General Sir Ian Hamilton at Majuba, one
line in which is
" The mists crept o'er the shameful hill."
References to Mr. Baden Noel.
In regard to the phrase, "was I a drone" (p. 322), a
correspondent points out to me that " drone " is an anagram
for " Kodon," which confirms my view that the passage in
which it occurred was intended to relate to Eoden Noel.
As to the passage " Percival. Roden Noel—Settle—Seattle
Seittle—Cornwall—where the one Ion" street seemed to lead
directly to the blue sea" (p. 324), Mr. Noel's daughter
writes that he was much in Cornwall with Mr. Percy Addleshaw,
who says :
Eoden often called me "Percival" and often said that "Percy"
was an absurd contraction of the name. The word " Settle " or
"Seattle" is, I imagine, "Wrinkle," where he did stay with me
for a considerable time, and there is a street of the nature you
describe. It leads to the edge of the cliff, and there is a path
from the edge down which he used to go to bathe.
Miss Noel remarks that the description of her father that
follows this passage in the script :
" Clear eyes under a broad
brow—a shock of grey hair that was still thick" (p. 324),
6 Alice Johnson. [part
is not very accurate. " His hair was very thin latterly,
though curly, and it was hardly grey." My own recollection
of the one occasion on which I saw him is that his hair was
then decidedly thick and curly, as shown in the portrait
prefixed to his Collected Poems.
As to the words :
" Gary—Carew—Fowey. The Duchy "
(p. 350) which I associated with Eoden Noel, Miss Noel
observes that to his poem " Fowey " in the collected edition,
p. 435, there is a note: "Carew says that Fowey etc."
A Latin Passage in Mrs. Verrall's scrvpt.
Mr. Andrew Lang kindly sends me his interpretation of a
Latin passage in Mrs. Verrall's script of March 21st, 1901,
quoted on p. 379. By punctuating the Latin somewhat
differently from what Mrs. Verrall had done, he arrives at
the following translation :
" Oh, if you cannot interweave, keep
on pertinaciously writing. Ponder all that you know. Soon
will come the inviolate light of the Sibyl, etc." ^ This brings
out more clearly what Mrs. Verrall and I took to be the
intention of the passage, as referring to my theory of cross-
correspondences.
Sovic Cmwnients on Professor Gardiner's Peviciv.
In the Joicrncd of the American S.P.P. for November, 1908,
appeared an able and discriminating analysis and criticism of
my Eeport by Professor H. Norman Gardiner, who writes, how-
ever, under a misapprehension as to certain matters of fact
which have an important bearing on the evidence and which
I wish therefore to re-state.
First, Professor Gardiner assumes that the possibilities of
leakage of information in Mrs. Holland's direction were much
greater than was actually the case at the time her script was
produced. With the two or three exceptions mentioned below,
the whole of her intercourse with the S.P.E. (of which she is
^Mr. Lang punctuates the passage thus: "0 iiexere si nequis, pertinax
scribas. Omne scituni perpeiicie, mox adveniet lux chalcidica inviolabilis."
The original script of this passage contains no capital letters and no
punctuation points, except the period after the last word quoted.
LX.] Supplementary Notes on Mrs. Holland's Script. 7
not, and never has been, a member) was carried on with me,
and with me only. Almost all this intercourse was in writing;
I preserved, of course, everything she wrote to me, often without
even acknowledging it. I wrote to her comparatively seldom,
and when I did so, generally kept copies of the whole of my
letters. But in any case I always kept complete verhatim
copies of any statements of fact I made to her, or of any
questions I asked her about her script, (since questions may
always be suggestive), or of any remarks made about persons
connected with the S.P.E. who might be alluded to in the
script. The parts omitted to be copied consisted simply of
occasional references to her own affairs, encouragement to her
to go on writing, and expressions of gratitude for the trouble
she took to help in the experiments, etc.
I saw her four times only during the period in question
Mrs. Verrall saw her twice only, on both occasions in my
presence ; Mr. Piddington saw her once only, and that in my
presence ; and Mr. Feilding (who at that time knew practically
nothing of the scripts) met her once not in my presence.
These interviews no doubt influenced the scripts produced
subsequently to them ; but as I noted fully all the topics of
conversation and facts mentioned, (Mr. Feilding having told
me of what occurred on the occasion when he met Mrs.
Holland), I know and have mentioned in my Eeport all the
statements of any definiteness in the script that can have
been derived from them.
Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Verrall have corresponded with each
other directly only on the two occasions mentioned in my
Pieport (pp. 328-9 and 364), where practically the whole of
the correspondence is given. I have also seen all the corre-
spondence—some three or four letters in all—that have passed
between her and Mr. Piddington and Mr. Peilding up to the
present date (January, 1910).
This comprises the whole of Mrs. Holland's intercourse with
any members of the S.P.E. who had any acquaintance whatever
with the experiments, or any intimate knowledge of the
Society's general work. I believe in fact that she met no
other members of the Society at all, except Sir Oliver Lodge
at a later period (see p. 348). The effect of her meeting
with Sir Oliver Lodge is described—with, I think, the most
8 Alice Jolmson. [part
ample allowance for any information that could have been
derived from it—on pp. 348-359.
This being so, the words used by Prof. Gardiner in speaking
{Journal of the American S.P.R., p. 598) of "her more intimate
initiation into the affairs of the S.P.E. and acquaintance with
its personnel" and still more in saying (op. cit. p. 611) "Mrs.
Holland did not know Dr. Hodgson, but she had met a
number of persons who did," give a very misleading impres-
sion of the actual state of the case.
I fully agree with Prof. Gardiner that the various " per-
sonations " in the script, however realistic and however closely
they resemble the persons represented, cannot be treated,
strictly speaking, as of any real evidential value. My view
of this was, I think, made clear in my report. The persona-
tion of Dr. Hodgson is somewhat more impressive than the
others, because the materials for it within Mrs. Holland's
knowledge were apparently far more scanty than in the other
cases, but it is impossible to state positively that they were
entirely lacking. The most striking points in the Hodgson
control utterances are, I think, the cryptic mark "K 57"
which was found to correspond with marks used by Dr. Hodg-
son in some rough notes, and the name of •' Q ", which was
correctly given (pp. 30-4-310). Prof. Gardiner asks "Why
assume that that name, while the same as, was intended to
refer to, Dr. Hodgson's '
Q '
? If . . . some other Christian
name had been used, would it not have been possible among
the vast mass of Dr. Hodgson's papers, to have discovered
something which might be interpreted as an equally striking-
connection ?
" The reason why I think this name in Mrs.
Holland's script refers to " Q " is that it occurs three times
in connection with Dr. Hodgson and never in any other con-
nection, and that it is the name of a person associated in a
very special manner with him.
Prof. Gardiner suggests a much more serious possibility of
" leakage " in his criticism of the cross-correspondence " Ave
Eoma Immortalis." I may remind readers that this consisted
in allusions in Mrs. Verrall's scripts of March 2nd, 4th, and
5th, and Mrs. Holland's of March 7th, 1906 (Pteport, pp.
297-303). Of this, Professor Gardiner writes:
" "We may surmise, indeed, that the evidence is not all in.
LX.] Supplementary Notes on Mrs. Holland's Script. 9
\ye may suspect, for example, some hint in correspondence
between Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Holland or Miss Johnson and
Mrs. Holland during the interval between Mrs. Verrall's first
script on March 2 and Mrs. Holland's script of March 7 ; Miss
Johnson we may believe was '
discreet,' but discretion is a
relative term when portions of the script of one automatist
are being sent to the other for the discovery of pertinent
incidents."
As to any hints " in correspondence between Mrs. Verrall
and Mrs. Holland," no correspondence whatever was taking
place between them at this time, and none took place during
the whole period of my paper, except on the two occasions
mentioned above.
As to any possible hints in my own correspondence with
Mrs. Holland, I had not myself seen Mrs. Verrall's scripts of
March 2nd, 4th and 5th, until some time after Mrs. Holland's
script of March 7th was produced. No indiscretion of mine,
therefore, however flagrant, could have given her hints con-
cerning them. I may add that if I had committed any such
indiscretion, I should certainly have mentioned it in my Eepoi't,
as I have mentioned all circumstances known to me that have
any bearing on the evidence ; for no one could fail to see that
if Mrs. Holland had seen or heard anything of Mrs. Verrall's
scripts before she wrote her own, the whole evidential value
of the case would have been destroyed.
Professor Gardiner's main criticism of my theory of cross-
correspondences is to a considerable extent vitiated by his
failing to take into account the order in which the events
occurred. In his discussion of the " Ave Eoma Immortalis
"
cross-correspondence he says that the two automatists were
" experimenting for cross-correspondences at the time," and
again, " there is at least the fact that both Mrs. Holland
and Mrs. Verrall had at this time the thought of cross-
correspondences in mind." But, as stated clearly in my
paper, one reason why stress was laid on this case was
that at the time it occurred, no one—as far as I have been
able to discover—had ever thought of the notion of cross-
correspondences. The experiments between Mrs. Holland and
Mrs. Verrall were started in the hope of obtaining some
evidence of telepathy between them (p. 250), and I think that
10 Alice Johnson. [part
a good deal of such evidence was afforded. It was hoped that
they might produce veridical statements ahout each other (and
this occurred) or that identical or closely similar phrases might
appear contemporaneously in both scripts. That this was in
their minds is shown by the phrase in Mrs. Verrall's script
of April 11th, 1906: "There is an effort to have the same
words this time," and Mrs. Holland's remark :
" I can't help
believing that we shall be tuned into accord some day and
register the same messages" (pp. 363-4). This is a kind of
experiment between automatists that had been planned by Mr.
Myers in his life-time (p. 371) and is what was apparently
attempted in the cases recorded by Mr. Piddington (p. 372).
The notion that a statement in one script might be intended
to complevicnt a statement in another came to me just after
all the experiments recorded in my first Eeport. Soon after-
wards I mentioned my theory to Mrs. Verrall and then to Mrs.
Holland, to both of whom it came as an entirely novel idea.
It is certain that neither of them had it consciously in mind
at the time of the experiments, nor had any of the persons
who were interested in their scripts.
Since that time the idea has become familiar to them and
has no doubt influenced their scripts, so that it is a factor to
be reclioned with in the future.
It may, however, be argued that Mrs. Verrall's subliminal
consciousness had really evolved the idea some time previously,
though supraliminally she had never become aware of it. In
that case, the cross-correspondences might conceivably have been
produced by telepathy from her mind. With this argument
and with some of my later critics who have upheld it I deal
in the discussion on the theory of cross-correspondences at the
end of my second Eeport on Mrs. Holland's script below.
LX.] Supplementary Notes on " Concordant Automatisms!' 11
SUPPLEMENTAEY NOTES ON "A SEEIES OF
CONCOEDANT AUTOMATISMS."
By J. G. PiDDINGTON.
Ereata et Corrigenda.
p. 54.^ Second line. Eor " make " read " makes."
p. 83. 3 lines from bottom of page. For "the second of
these three " read " the last of these three."
p. 91. 6 lines from bottom of page. For " Desdemona not
that is wrong " read " Desdemona no that " etc.
p. 134. Last line but one of first paragraph. For " Myers^
"
read " MyerSp."
p. 274. Fourth line. For "my wood" read "my mood."
p. 288. Ninth line. For "hands" read "hand."
„ Seventeenth line. For "April 15" read "April 17."
(p. 34.) The words " This witness is true " occur, as the
Eev. C. A. Goodhart informs me, in St. Paul's Episfcle to Titus,
I. 13. The comments which I wrote under the misapprehension
that " This witness is true " is not a quotation from St.
Paul must be modified accordingly.
" My Star."
(pp. 67-8.) On Feb. 27, 1907 (see p. 337), MyerSp
mentioned " My Star " in connexion with the cross-corre-
spondence "Browning, Hope and Star"; and on March 6
{p. 340) "George Pelham " explained that "My Star" was a
poem of Browning's which Myers had had on his mind " because
1 All page references in this paper, except where otlierwise indicated, are to
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXII., in connection with which tlie paper must be
read.
12 J. G. Piddington. [part
it was one of his test experiments with a lady in the body to
whom he refers as V."
Athougli, of course, I searched the scripts of the automatists
for allusions to My Star, I failed to discover any. But it
happened that an acquaintance of Mrs. Verrall's, Miss S., on
reading the Eeport, though not looking for references to iiy
Star, came independently to the conclusion that the words
" androsace, Carthusian, candelabrum " in Miss Verrall's script
of Feb. 17, 1907 (p. 08), were allusions to that poem, which
runs thus
All that I know
Of a certain star
Is, it can throw
(Like the angled spar)
Now a dart of red,
Now a dart of blue
Till my friends have said .
They would fain see, too,
My star that dartles the red and the blue !
Then it stops like a bird ; like a flower, hangs furled :
They must solace themselves with the Saturn above it.
What matter to me if their star is a world 1
Mine has opened its soul to me ; therefore I love it.
It was Miss S.'s recollection of the Alpine flower Androsace
as resembling a constellation of bright pink stars, of which one
here and there had faded to blue, that suggested " My Star " to
her ; for she took the word " Androsace ", followed in the
script by the drawing of an arrow-head and the words " many
together ", to refer both to the flower and to " Now a dart of
red, Now a dart of blue ". The other two words, " Carthusian^
candelabrum ", are both names of flowers, the first being the
name of a Dianthus (Carthusianorum) and the second that of
an Acanthus. Many Dianthuses have a candelabrum-like inflor-
escence, and Acanthus flowers might be described as " hanging
furled ", so that these words also have a certain appropriateness
in connexion with the poem. Miss S., however, interpreted
" candelabrum " not as a flower but as an attempt to introduce
the notion of a prism, and thereby to represent " the angled
LX.] Su2oiolementary Notes on "Concordant Automatisms." 13
spar " of the poem. As it happens, when Miss Verrall, before
being acquainted with Miss S.'s conjectural interpretation, was
asked what the word " candelabrum " in her script of Feb. 1
suggested to her, she replied at once: "One of those old-fashioned
chandeliers with glass prisms." Possibly " candelabrum " might
be taken to contain a double reference : that is to say, a
reference both to " iiower " and to " angled spar ".
The word " dart ", which occurs twice in the poem and a
third time in the form " dartle ", would be represented in the
script by the drawing of the arrow-head ; nor is it, I think,
any objection to this interpretation that this drawing of an
arrow-head should thus have to perform the double function
of representing " dart " and also one of the elements of the
triple cross-correspondence " arrow " (see Proc, Vol. XXII.
pp. 77-86).
Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 3, 1907 (see p. 67) is clearly
connected with the one just discussed. This earlier script
contains both the word " star " and a drawing of a star, and
ends with the drawing of a bird and the word " bird ",
suggesting the phrase in the poem " Then it stops like a
bird ". The later script also contains the word " star " and
a drawing of a star, followed by the words " that was the
sign, she will understand ".
''
Star " is therefore prominent in
the scripts, as in the poem.
I am not prepared to endorse Miss S.'s interpretation ; but
I think it certainly deserves consideration.
(pp. 82-83.) An Analysis of Mks. Verrall's "Arrow"
Script (Feb. 18, 1907).
I believe I have discovered the clue to some obscure
associations of ideas in Mrs. Verrall's script of Feb. 18, 1907.
If my solution of the puzzle is right, it supports the view
expressed in my paper (pp. 83-85) that this script was the
result of an attempt on the part of the scribe to get the word
" arrow " written. In considering the analysis which follows,
the reader must, however, make allowances for my lack of
literary skill, which has made me represent in too downright
and definite terms the subtle stages of a mental process of
extreme complexity.
14 J. G. Piddington. [part
" do no:" The scribe tells the automatist to " do a W ", i.e.
the last letter of " arrow ". (Cf. the remark of Hodgsoup on
Feb. 19, 1907: "After that I saw w written I know"
(p. 78).^
" iVb." The scribe says that " ew " is wrong.
" Alcmhert " 1 take to be the result of the scribe's first
attempt to get the whole word " arrow " written. The want
of success is recognised by the scribe who says " No " after
Alembert.
From the fact that " Alembert " was immediately followed
by " Mont alban " and " Mont auban ", I think we may infer
that the name " Montalembert " was vaguely present in the
scribe's or the automatist's consciousness. I suspect that,
if this were so, it w^as the village (near Melle, in the
department of Deux Sevi'es) and not the well-known writer of
that name that was being thought of, for the train of ideas
seems to be concerned at this i^oint with names of places, and
not with names of people.
Mont alian or Mont auhan. " alban " and " auban " repre-
sent the result of the scribe's second and third attempts to
get " arrow " written. This time, though only one, the initial,
letter is right, the right number of letters is given.
Mont Alban, the French form of Mons Albanus, i.e. the
hill of the city of Alba (Longa), whose name is derived from
alha, meaning " white ", suggests to the scribe " Mont auban
i.e. the French town of Montauban in Tarn-et-Garonne, which
was founded on the site of a Eoman station called Mons
Alhanus.
" Alembert ", " Mont alban " and " Mont auban " introduce
the idea of French.
" The white hill." These words show that the scribe or the
automatist was thinking of the original significance of Mons
Albanus, the hill of the White City.
At this point the scribe stops trying to get the woirl " arrow
"
written, because he suddenly realises that certain associations
of ideas, aroused in his mind by what has appeared in the
script, could be so utilised—if he could but get the automatist
to share them—as to lead on to an idea closely and frequently
allied with " arrow ", and that this in turn might lead to
getting " arrow " itself expressed as well. By which I mean
LX.] Supplementc^y'i 'Nptfi'\4n>rGo\icbifdt^ 1
that the appearance pf. thq French words (" Alembert ", "Mont",
"alban", and " aiiban ",); the: foim iof^' ^Ke - woitls' " alban " and
" auban ", and the idea of whiteness suggested by these two
words, had brought to his mind Yillon's lines, which speak of
a v:hitc queen and close with the word " antan "
La royne Blanche comme ung lys
Qui chaiitoit a voix de sereine
Berthe au grand pied, Bietris, AUys,
Harembourges qui tint le Mayne
Et Jehanne la bonne Lorraine
Qu' Anglois bruslerent a Eouen,
Oil sont-ilz, Vierge souveraiue ?
Mais oil sont les neiges d'antan 1
that these lines had provoked the thought of Jeanne d'Arc
(" Jehanne la bonne Lorraine "), and finally that the place-name
Arc had suggested arc in the sense of " Bow ".
From this point onwards to the end, then, I conceive that
the scribe no longer tries to get the ivord " arrow " directly
written, but tries instead to make the automatist seize the
French word " arc ", in the hope that this word may suggest
" bow " to her, and " bow " in turn provoke the idea of
" arrow ".
But to go back a little. " Blanche de Lys " is followed by
the words " or some such name—but it is all only symbolic ".
These words may only mean that " Blanche de Lys " is a
mistake for " la royne Blanche comme ung lys " ; but I think
they may also mean that it is not the name of the " Queen
white as a lily " which is wanted, but another name ; and
anyhow they imply that it is a name that is wanted.^ And
" hut it is all only symholic " I take to mean that, even were
the name Jeanne d'Arc written, it would not be the real
^ llr. J. Arthur Hill, who independently suggested that the script con-
tained an allusion to Joan of Arc due to an association of ideas with "arch"
and "arrow", points out that " de Lys" was the name under which Joan
of Arc"s family was ennobled after her death. If the scribe was thinking
generally of the verses in which come the words " la royne Blanche comme
ung lys", and particularly of Joan of Arc, "Blanche de Lys" (note that
"Lys" is written with an initial capital) may be accounted for as a
"portmanteau" resulting from a fusion, which was also a confusion, of the
two ideas.
16 /% II /^i, 0.l]^Mc/in(jt'Qfi'lfCl [part
objective (arrow) and would only indicate symbolically a word
that was waijtred :
(r.i?. Imeaning be^j) . io orde^ to lead up
to the real objective." ' . .. c , , .
Now to continue my analysis of the rest of the script
If, as I suggest, the scribe was trying to approach " arrow
"
Old " Jeanne d'Arc ",
" a?'c ", and " bow ", it explains not only
the drawing of the two bows back to back which immediately
follows the allusions to Villon's lines, but also the repeated
stress laid in the sequel upon the word " Arch " and the
words beginning vv'ith a r c h ; for arc in French, like arciis
in Latin, means both a bow and an arch. The scribe, it
will be observed, is aware that though the word " Arch
obsesses him, it is not the word he wants :
" There has been
great confusion here, and I do not think anything has been
accurately said." The probably undesigned use of the word
" accurately ", which contains the letters arc, helps the scribe
to introduce other words containing the same three letters,
namely, " accurate " and " aclcuranda ".
To me it seems certain that the scribe—whether that be
a part of the automatist's consciousness or an external mind,
or a mixture of the two—knew that the word wanted was
ctrc. The automatist appears to have vaguely apprehended the
French word cere (although she did not write it), for both
meanings of it are expressed in the script : the meaning
" bow " by the two bows drawn back to back, and the mean-
ing " arch " repeatedly in the last part of the script. That
she emphasised the second meaning, and not the first, may
have been due to her having been put on to a wrong scent
by an association of ideas between the word " arch " and the
name " Archipiada ", which occurs in this same poem of
Villon's, though not in the passage where Jeanne d'Arc is
mentioned.
LiTEEARY Personation.
(pp. 227-9.) It may be remembered that in Mrs. Verrall's
script of April 3, 1907, MyerSy leads up to the idea of
" wings " by a quotation from Lucretius, which in the original
has no reference to wings, but into a poetical paraphrase of
which Frederic Myers had introduced the words " with wings
unfurled."
LX.] Supplementary Notes on " Ooncordcmt Automatisms." 17
I believe this coincidence is not accidental, and that it forms
one of a good number of cases of what—ignoring the question
of how far such coincidences may contribute towards a proof
of identity—we may call " literary personation " of Frederic
Myers, by not only MyerSy but also Myers^y and ]\IyerSp.
Appended are some of these parallel instances
(1) Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 131-136, where MyerSp approaches
the name Plotinus by first mentioning names clearly connected
therewith in Human Personality.
(2) id. ih. p. 135, where Myersp connects Plotinus with St.
Paul and Crossing the Bar, just as Prederie Myers had connected
them on p. 290 of the second volume of Human Personality.
(3) id. lb. pp. 252, 253, and 260, where Mrs. Verrall's
script of March 25, 1907,—a script which undoubtedly pur-
ports to be inspired by Myers—displays connexions of thought
manifested by Frederic Myers ^ in a paper published in Proc.
Vol. VI. p. 6-4 and in Human Personality, Vol. II. p. 290.
(4) id. ih. p. 113, where MyerSy leads up to the idea of
the external calm of nature by quoting the title, " Faery lands
forlorn ", of one of Frederic Myers's poems in which this idea
is emphasised.
(5) id. ih. pp. 61-62 and 68, where MyerSy and Myers^y
produce anagrams in automatic script. This incident should
be compared with the following extract from Frederic Myers's
article on The Daemon of Socrates {Proc. Vol. V. p. 53 2):
It may be remembered that one of the pieces of evidence which
I cited in order to show that ivritten messages were not always the
mere echo of expectation, was a case where anagrams were automati-
cally written, which their writer was not at once able to decipher.
[The reference is to Proc. Vol. II. p. 22G.] Following this hint, I
have occasionally succeeded in getting anagrams tilted out for myself
by movements of a small table, which I alone touched. . . . The
anagrams—or rather jumbles of letters forming a short word —which
I have myself obtained, have been of the simplest kind. . . . This
is a kind of experiment which might with advantage be oftener
repeated ; for the extreme incoherence and silliness of the responses
thus obtained does not prevent the process itself from being in a
high decree instructive.
^ Cf. Mrs. Holland's use of the word Eidolon, see above, pp. 3-±.
B
18 /. G. Piddington. [PAllT
(6) id. ib. pp. 62, 75 (text and foot-note), 307-11, 326
and 410. In view of the important part played by Browning's
AU Voglcr and " Music " in two inter-related communications
of Myersv {i.e. Mrs. Verrall's scripts of Dec. 17, 1006, and
Jan. 28, 1907), and by AU Voglcr and the word "Music" in
the responses to the Latin message made by MyerSp, the follow-
ing extract from one of Frederic Myers's papers on Tlic Sublimincd
Consciousness {Proc. Vol. YIII. pp. 343-4) is of interest:
There exists among men a mighty complex of conceptions which
lie apart from, —some say beyond,—articulate speech and reasoned
thought. There is a march and uprising through ideal spaces which
some hold as the only true ascent ; there is an architecture which
some count as alone abiding,
Seeing it is built
Of music, therefore never built at all,
And, therefore, built for ever.
Whether considered in relation to its development in the race, or
to its activity in the individual, Music resembles not so much a
product of terrene needs and of natural selection as a subliminal
capacity attaining to an accidental manifestation independently of
the requirements or of the external stimuli of the supraliminal self.
We know the difficulty of explaining its rise on any current theory
of the evolution of human faculty. We know that it is like some-
thing -discovered, not like something manufactured ; —like wine found
in a walled-up cellar, rather than like furniture made in the
workshop above. And the subjective sensations of the musician
himself accord with this view of the essentiall}^ subliminal character
of the gift with which he deals. In no direction is " genius " or
"inspiration" more essential to true success. It is not from careful
poring over the mutual relations of musical notes that the master-
pieces of melody have been born. They have come as they came
to Mozart, —whose often-quoted words I need not cite again, —in an
uprush of unsummoned audition, of unpremeditated and self-revealing
joy. They have come, as to Browning's Aid Vof/ler, with a sense of
irrecoverable commingling of depths of soul and heights of heaven.
(7) id. ib. p. 299, where in a script of Mrs. Verrall's full
of allusions to Death is introduced a quotation from the Acneid,
—Manibus date lilia plenis—which, together with its context,
had clearly been a special favourite of Frederic Myers's. (Cf.
LX.] Supplementary Notes on " Concordant Auto-niat isms." 19
Essays Classical, p. 116, text aud foot-note-, p. 117, text and
foot-note\ and p. 176.)
(8) id. ib. p. 251, where MyerSp apparently led up to the
announcement of " Harold " as the subject of a cross-correspond-
ence experiment by first giving a paraphrase of some lines from
Frederic Myers's poem Harold at tvjo years old.
(9) See Mrs. Sidgwick's paper below, p. 186, where a com-
bination of topics made by MyerSp—•" Exile, Moore, Harp,
Orpheus and Eurydice "—appears in Miss Verrall's script with
the addition of " willow '"
and " lute " : significance attaching
to the addition because in Frederic Myers's Essay on Greek
Oracles is a passage combining allusions to " Orpheus and
Eurydice"', "lyre" and "willow tree" {Essays Classical, p. 54.)
Another instance, and a striking one, occurring in Mrs.
Piper's trance, will be found in connexion with the " Lethe
case in my paper below, pp. 128-133, and the list might be
considerably prolonged ; but I think I have quoted examples
enough to show that the presence in the conununications of
MyerSp, MyerSy and Myers^y of associations of ideas once
familiar to Frederic Myers is not accidental, and that they are
introduced—often with considerable delicacy and subtlety—for
the purpose of suggesting the action of his personality.
More interest attaches to the literary reminiscences of MyerSp
than to those of MyerSy and Myers^v ;
for, while Mrs. Verrall
is familiar with Myers's works, and Miss Verrall has some
acquaintance with them, and lioth are classical scholars, Mrs.
Piper's acquaintance with Myers's writings is scanty, her
literary interests are small, and she has no classical knowledge.
(pp. 107-172.) The Connexion between "In Memokiam "
AND avTO<i oiipapo? ukv/j-wv.
It was the occurrence in Mrs. A^errall's script of March 6,
1907 (see Proc. Yo\. XXII. p. 115) of a quotation from
Section XL of In Mnnoriam that first suggested a connexion
between aJro? ovpavog aKVfxwi' and its context (Plotinus,
Enneades V. 2-3) on the one hand and Mcmoriaiu on the
other. An Associate of the Society, Miss W. B. Hammond,
has pointed out how appropriate it is that the quotation
should have come from this particular Section, inasmuch as
20 G. Piddington. [part
reference is made in it to three of the conditions—calm of
earth, sea, and air (see Proc. Vol. XXII. p. 126)—which
Plotinus {loco citato) says are essential to ecstatic communion
with the Divine. Thus
" Calm and deep peace on this high wold "...
" Calm and still light on yon great plain "...
" Calm and deep peace in this wide air "...
" Calm on the seas, and silver sleep,
And waves that sway themselves in rest "...
It seems possible, then, that not only were Sections XCIV.
and XCV. of In Memoriavi, as Mrs. Verrall suggested (see
Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 118-122), influenced by the Plotiaian
passage, but that Section XL was also.
Furthermore, a comparison of Sections XI. and XII. with
Sections XCIV. and XCV. seems to me to show that the
parallelism between the passage from the Pnncades and In
Memoriani is more extensive than Mrs. Verrall supposed.
Plotinus taught that before communion with the Great Soul
could be attained not only must nature be at peace, but the
soul likewise must be " collected into calm." Now in the
trance described in Section XII. this last condition is lacking
for, though there is calm of a kind—the calm of despair
in the poet's heart, he is at the same time filled with " wild
unrest " (Sections XV. and XVI.). Hence, though he seems
to himself to leave the body and hover about the ship that
bears his friend's corpse homewards through distant seas, there
is no true Vision : the experience is purely subjective ;
nothing
is contributed to it, as in genuine ecstasy, from outside ; it
involves no contact with another mind. It is only in the
later trance, described in Sections XCIV. and XCV., when all
the Plotinian conditions are fulfilled : when, that is to say, not
only nature is at peace but the poet's " spirit is at peace with
all" as well, that communion with the Divine Soul and with
the spirit of his friend ensues :
"it seem'd at last
The living soul was flash'd on mine.
And mine in this was wound, and whirl'd
About empyreal heights of thought,
And came on that which is. . .
."
LX.] SuiTplementary Notes on " Concordant Automatisms." 21
(pp. 116, 145 and 238.) Mrs. Verball's Script of March
11, 1907.
I remarked (p. 116) that the language of this script (quoted
on p. 145) is reminiscent of the last stanza of F. W. H. Myers's
Stanzas on Mr. Watts Collected Works. There are, besides,
Wordsworthian touches in it, as comparison with two passages
in Wordsworth's Prehide, Book I, " One summer evening ... a
trouble to my dreams " and " Ye Presences of Nature . . .
work like a sea ?
", will show. It probably contains as well
reminiscences of the following lines from another poem of
Myers's, The Renewed of Youth
" Or one from Plato's page uplifts his head
Dazed in the mastering parley of the dead,
Till at dark curfew thro' the latticed, gloom
What presence feels he in his lonely room.
Where mid the writ words of the wise he stands
Like a strange ghost in many-peopled lands,
Or issuing in some columned cloister, sees
Thro' the barred squares the moon-enchanted trees ;
Till, when his slow resounding steps have made
One silence with their echoes and the shade,
How can he tell if for the first time then
He paces thus those haunts of musing men
"
The phrase " the lonely hills," which occurs in tlie script,
is Wordsworthian also
The silence that is in the starry sky,
The sleep that is among the lonely hills.
Song at tlie Feeist of Brougham Castle.
Phrases indicating Cross-Coreespondences.
(pp. 174, 176, 177.) I maintained that such phrases as
" I said ", " he said ", " they said ", were used in the waking-
stage of Mrs. Piper's trances to indicate that the word or
words thus " said " were the subjects of attempted cross-
correspondences. In support of my view I was not able to
bring forward much evidence ; but that my conjecture was
22 ./. G. Piddington. [part
right has been amply proved by Mr. Dorr's recent sittings in
America (see, e.g., below, pp. 104, 105), which contain dozens of
absolutely conclusive instances of these phrases, and especially of
" I said ", being used not only in the waking-stage, but in the
trance-script as well, with reference to cross-correspondences.
And this frequent usage was not due to any suggestion of
mine (or, for that matter, of any one else's), as neither Mr.
Dorr nor Mrs. Piper was aware of the interpretation I had
put upon it.
(p. 182.) Mrs. Vekrall's Sciupt of March 20, 1907.
As pointed out above (p. 21), Mrs. Verrall's script of
March 11, 1907, probably contains reminiscences of Words-
worth's Prelude. The phrase, " the Evangelist is oiir patron ",
in her script of March 20, 1907, among a series of references
to St. John's College, Cambridge, is also probably reminiscent
of a line in Book III. of the Prelude, in which Wordsworth,
speaking of his life at Cambridge, says :
" The Evangelist
St. John my patron was." Dr. Hodgson—whose acquaintance
with the English poets was extensive—often used to express
his pride at having been a member of the same college as
Wordsworth. Hence it is appropriate that a reminiscence
of this particular line of Wordswortli's should appear in a
script which I was led for quite other reasons to attribute to
Hodgsouy.
(p. 261.) Mrs. Holland's Script of March 27, 1907.
This contained the words :
Peter is the second one—
On March 25, 1907, Mrs. Verrall had written a script
which opened with the word Clavigcr. For reasons set forth
on pp. 253-6 of my paper I took the epithet " Claviger " in
the sense of Club-bearer to allude to Heracles, and in the
sense of Key-bearer to allude to Janus and St. Peter.
I am inclined to see in Mrs. Holland's " Peter is the
second one " a reference to the second Key-bearer of Mrs.
LX.] Su23plementavy Notes on " Concordant Automcttisms." 23
Verrall's script. Only 48 hours separate the two scripts,
and Mrs. Holland's was written on a day of the week,
Wednesday, on which connexion with Mrs. Verrall's was
specially aimed at (see pp. 206-7, 225, and 291). More-
over, while Mrs. Verrall's " Claviger " script refers to
" shadow " and indicates that it is the subject of a cross-
correspondence ; Mrs. Holland's " Peter " script contains the
word " Shadow " twice. Accordingly if " Peter " is taken as
an allusion to " Claviger ", these two scripts show two points
of contact at least. And they may show more, for, if my
interpretation of the group of automatic writings discussed
in Section XIX. of my paper is right, they both furnished
several contributions to the Concatenation of Ideas. See
further the cross-correspondence Janic/dam in Miss Johnson's
paper below% p. 204.
(pp. 265-268.) Mrs. Holland's Script of April 8, 1907.
I pointed out that the allusions contained in this script
to Leah and Eachel, and Martha and Mary, as alternative
types of opposite temperaments, were almost certainly borrowed
from Dante, partly from Convito IV., 17; 85-111, and partly
from Purgatorio, Canto XXVII. This theory as to their
source was strongly supported by the fact that in Cantos
XXVII. and XXVIII. of the Purgatorio are to be found
grouped together several of the topics which emerged about
this time in Mrs. Verrall's script and Mrs. Piper's trance.
In a foot-note to p. 267 I drew attention to the fact that
Mrs. Holland, who frequently (I might have said, usually)
recognises and points out the source of literary allusions
and quotations contained in her script, did not know the
source of the allusions to Martha and Mary, and Leah and
Eachel. At the time of writing I supposed that Mrs.
Holland must at some time or other have read Pa.rgatorio,
Canto XXVII., and either Convito IV., 17; 85-111, or a
quotation of it in a commentary on the Purgatorio passage
a'nd that .she had subconsciously retained and reproduced
recollections of them, although they had passed out of her
conscious memory. The following statement, however, made
by Mrs. Holland on April 9, 1909, in response to my
24 J. G. Piddington. [part
enquiries, makes it very difficult to maintain this supposi-
tion :
My knowledge—or rather, my ignorance—of Dante is that of the
man in the street. I have always intended to read the Bivina
Commedia, if only in translation, but have never done so. When
I was in [Italy] eight years ago, I bought a little velUmi-covered
Commedia, and found it far too difHcult for my budding Italian.
The lady who gave me lessons made me read Tasso with her.
I am fairly familiar with the Vita Nuova because of Rossetti's
beautiful translation ; but I do not even know the scheme of the
Commedia. It will be simplest to set down the little I know of
it: Virgil is Dante's guide through the Inferno, and over its gate
is written "All hope abandon, ye who enter here." Of course I
know the Paolo and Francesca story ; and some Dore illustrations
seen long ago dealt horribly with the " sea of thick ribbed ice,"
the sinners head downward in flames, and the enchanted tree
that bled and moaned when a branch was broken. Dante meets
Beatrice ultimately, but I do not know where. I cannot remember
anything else.
When I was at •
last month I glanced through a translation
of the Commedia to see if I could find the " Leah and Eachel
passage, but I could not. I chanced upon the " sevens " passage,
which interested me, as Miss Johnson had told me of a reference
to it in the script [see Miss Johnson's paper, p. 241], and I am
certain I never read the passage before. My father was saying
lately it was disgraceful of us not to possess a translation of
Dante.
This statement may be supplemented by an extract from
a letter addressed to Miss Alice Johnson by Mrs. Holland
on April 8, 1909 :
This morning came a note from Mr. Piddington asking about
my knowledge of Dante. I shall have to confess my ignorance.
My father was saying just the other day that it was rather
shocking we have no translation of Dante. " Should we read it
if we had?" asked I. "Well, no"; and there we left it.
Lx.] SuiDplementary Notes on "Concordant Automatisms." 25
(pp. 215-220). Mrs. Holland's Script of April 16, 1907.
In this script, likewise, there appears an allusion to a
literary passage unknown to the automatist.^ The allusion
is made in the words "Lucus(?) To iiy to find Euripides
Philemon"; which, as explained in detail on p. 217, clearly
relate to Browning's Aristophanes' Apology. " Euripides " was
mentioned by Myersp in a context which strongly suggests
that it was meant to be a cross-correspondence, and anyhow
Euripides figured prominently in two of Mrs. Verrall's scripts.
A triple cross-correspondence of a simple and direct type
was accordingly created by the appearance of the name
Euripides in the three scripts. The allusion to Browning's
Aristophanes' Apology, however, both strengthened the coinci-
dence and made it more complex and less direct ; because the
names Euripides, Lukos {i.e. " Lucus ") and Philemon point to
the verse-translation of the Hercules Furcns incorporated in
Aristophanes Apology, and Mrs. Verrall's two " Euripides
scripts (March 4 and 25, 1907, see pp. 213-4) both explicitly
refer to the Hercules Furens of Euripides. A striking point was
therefore made by the allusion in Mrs. Holland's script to
Browning's poem, which would have appeared to be dragged in
superfluously, had Mrs. Verrall's script, like Mrs. Piper's, men-
tioned " Euripides " only, and not the Hercules Furcns as well.
Yet though the reference in her script to Aristojjhanes'
Apology is clear, it would seem not to have emanated from
Mrs. Holland's mind. Early in November 1907 Miss Johnson
wrote to Mrs. Holland, and, without explaining why, put this
question to her :
" Have you read Aristujjhanes Apiology ?
On November 24, 1907, Mrs. Holland replied as follows:
I have not yet attempted to read Aristophanes' Apology. It and
Red Cotton Night Cap Country and the person whose name I forget
who worked in distemper [i.e. Pacchiarotfo], are three peaks in the
Browning range I still wait to scale.
It is of course conceivable that in casually turning over
the leaves of her Browning Mrs. Holland may have noted
and have subconsciously remembered and afterwards reproduced
-'With this and the preceding case the " Roden Noel'' incident described
in Proc. Vol. XXI. pp. 316-327 should be compared.
26 ./. G. Piddington. [part
in her script the names, Lukos, Euripides and Philemon. But,
if this is tlie true explanation, I would remark that her
retention and reproduction of these three names were singularly
fortunate ; for they seem nicely calculated to fix the precise
reference which was required to bring about a complex
cross-correspondence. Euripides and Philemon without Lukos
would have suggested the two Greek dramatists of those names,
rather than l-5rowning's Aristo-phancs Ajjology. Philemon and
Lukos alone without Euripides, while suggesting Browning,
would not have produced the triple cross-correspondence on the
name Euripides. Euripides and Lukos alone without Philemon,
while fixing the reference to Euripides' Hercules Furens, would
not have brought in Browning's verse-translation of the Hercides
Furens ; whereas part of the complexity, as I think, of
the cross-correspondence, consisted in the fact of one script
referring to Euripides' play and of another script referring to
Browning's translation of the play.
On April 22, 1908, a year after the allusion to Browning's
Aristophanes Ap)ology in Mrs. Holland's script, came what
must, I think, be admitted to be an allusion to the same poem
in Mrs. Piper's trance by Myersp. In order to show what
led up to the allusion a few extracts from sittings previous to
that of April 22, 1908, must first be quoted:—
Extract from record of sitting with Mrs. Piper held on
Apiril 13, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)i
G. B. D. Then another [cross-corresponding] message, which I will
speak of now to prepare you for it, is "Atlas."
Globe (Hand draws circles.) Globe.
G. B. D. Good. I see you remember. See if you can also recall
the tale of Hercules and Atlas, and tell it to me later.
(Hand makes gesture of assent.)
On April 14 and 21, 1908, Mr. Dorr reminds MyerSp that
" Atlas " is be given as a cross-correspondence, and that he
^For an account of Mr. Dorr's sittings see papers below, passim.
LX.] Supplementary Notes on "Concordant Automatisms." 27
wants Myersp to tell him about the story of Atlas. The
next reference to the subject was as follows
Extract from record of sitting loifJi Mrs. Piper held on April
22, 1908.
(Present : G. B. Dorr.)
(G. B. D. goes through the list of cross-correspondences
that have been arranged, and on coming to "Atlas" re-
minds MyerSp that the story of Atlas is still to be told
him.)
(MyerSp communicating.)
He
G. B. D. Best not take it up now ; it would interfere with the
messages.
Oh yes it's partly myth.
Mrs. Verrall has written a few verses from Browning which
I, Myers, gave her recently from Euripides. Where she
has selected the verses, the words appeal to me and
describe one of our messages here.
G. B. D. Can you tell me what play it was from wliich Mrs. Yerrall's
verses were taken
Let me think it over—. Pallas Pedestal hair.
G. B. D. You had best not try and tell me now, but take more time
about it. [G. B. D. apparently thought that " Pallas
Pedestal hair " was an attempt to explain which play the
verses were taken from. But the}' are really an unmis-
takable recurrence to subjects mentioned at the sitting
of April 1.3, 1908. Note by J. G. P.]
No, I am only telling you
(G. B. D. interrupts, and reads a few lines here and there
from Browning's translation of the Hercules Furens. On
his reading the lines where Hercules' plucking of the
golden apples in the garden of the Hesperides is described,
the hand wrote :)
I am listening carefully —Apple—correct. She [i.e. Mrs.
Verrall] quoted it in answer to apple.
(G. B. D. finishes his reading from the Browning translation.)
28 J. G. Piddington. [part
Mr. Dorr's contemporaneous note on this incident is as
follows :
" The reference to a translation by Browning from
Euripides, or from the Greek plays at all in fact, is interest-
ing, for I did not know that he had made any such until I
looked it up at the sitting ... in the book of Greek Ode
translations which I had brought with me to it. Finding
there a translation by Browning from the Hcrctdes Furens I
glanced it through, and read a few lines here and there to
see if the control would identify the ones referred to ; but
nothing was identified, unless it were the lines in which
Hercules' coming to the Hesperides and the plucking of the
golden apples is described."
Myersp, it will be noticed, said that the lines from Brown-
ing, written by Mrs. Verrall, " describe one of our messages
here " ; and then identified the lines as those referring to the
apples plucked by Hercules in the garden of the Hesperides
and added, " She quoted it in answer to apple ".
IsTow this was all quite consistent, for on March 23, 1908,
Myersp had chosen " apple " as a cross-correspondence, and on
April 6, 1908, had claimed to have given "apple" to Mrs.
and Miss Verrall.^
We find then that, while in April, 1907, Mrs. Holland's
script completes and elaborates a trijjle-correspondence on the
subject of Euripides and the Hercules Furens by an allusion to
Browning's Aristophanes' Ajjology ; in April, 1908, MyerSp
claims to have brought about a cross-correspondence on the
subject of " apple " by making Mrs. A^errall write " a few verses
from Browning which I gave her from Euripides " ; the con-
text showing that he meant thereby Browning's translation of
the Hercules Fttrens, which is embodied in Aristophanes'
Apology. Neither Mr. Dorr nor Mrs. Piper was in any normal
way aware that "Euripides" or the "Hercules Furens" was the
subject of a cross-correspondence ; and neither had seen or
been told about Mrs. Verrall's scripts of March 4 and 25,
1907, or Mrs. Holland's script of April 16, 1907.
Only twice was Euripides mentioned in the course of Mr.
Dorr's sittings: first, in the passage quoted, on April 22,
1908, and a second time in the waking-stage of the trance
^See Mrs. Sidgwick's paper, pp. 190-3, for a reference to the golden apples
of the Hesperides in Miss Verrall's script and to this whole incident.
LX.] Su2^plementary Notes on ''Concordant Automatisms." 29
of May 4, 1908, when the name only was uttered discon-
nectedly. And out of some 70 or 80 cross-correspondences
arranged for at Mr. Dorr's sittings MyerSp claimed to have
given Mrs. Verrall only one other quotation from Browning,
and that was on May 8, 1908, when he said he had given
her " Grow old along with lue," which is a line from JRahhi
hen Ezra (see Miss Johnson's paper below, p. 223).
That MyerSp should have brought up the subject of Brown-
ing's translation of the Hercules Furcns just after Mr.
Dorr had made a reference to Hercules and Atlas is, I think,
interesting in view of the suggestion put forward in my paper
(Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 257-8), that Atlas might be impli-
cated in the references to Hercules and Prometheus in Mrs.
Verrall's " Euripides " and " Hercules Furens " scripts.
I know that some people, who have no doubts as to the
reality of telepathy, nevertheless hold that, though an idea
may be impressed from outside on an automatist's mind, the
form in which it is expressed in the automatist's script is
not determined by the external agency, but solely by the
automatist's own peculiar mental habits. Thus, in the first of
these two cases, while they would readily agree that the
abstract idea underlying the references to Leah and Rachel,
and Martha and Mary, was impressed on Mrs. Holland's mind
by the agency which impressed cognate ideas on Mrs. Piper's
and Mrs. Verrall's minds, they would argue that the form in
which Mrs. Holland's script clothed it was determined by Mrs.
Holland's own recollections of two Dante passages. That the
form in which an idea is expressed in a script is very often
thus determined, I do not for a moment doubt ; but I see no
grounds whatever for supposing that it invariably is. If tele-
pathy is a fact, what is to prevent a percipient receiving an
idea in a particular concrete form hitherto unknown to him,
provided that this novel form can be communicated by means
of a combination of words or other symbols already familiar
to him ? When, then, a script contains a quotation or an
allusion to a passage in literature which we have good reasons
for thinking was unknown to the automatist, and when, as in
these instances, there is evidence to show that the automatist is
a good telepathic percipient; when she has, moreover, given ample
30 J. G. Pidd'mgton. [part
proofs of candour and accuracy, no proofs of reluctance, and
many of readiness,—nay, of eagerness—to reveal all her normal
sources of knowledge, why need we conclude that the quotation
or allusion was merely a revived memory rather than a message
impressed upon the automatist ab extra ?
If these were the only appearances in script or trance-
utterances of literary allusions apparently unknown to the
automatist, it might be hazardous or premature to claim them
as anything more than revivals of submerged memories ;
but,
as we shall see later (in the papers by myself and Mrs. Verrall
below, pp. 39-150, jmssm), they do not stand alone.
(pp. 296 and 304.) "Six Tykannus."
With regard to the words " six . . . Tyrannus," " semper
— — — — — Tyrannus "'
uttered in the waking-stage of Mrs.
Piper's trance of April 17, 1907, Miss W. B. Hammond points
out tliat they are clearly intended ibr "Sic semper Tyrannis," the
motto of the State of Virginia. She adds :
" These words were
spoken by John Wilkes Booth when he shot President Lincoln,
April 14, 1865. The date, which few Americans would
forget, might have something to do with the appearance of
this quotation in the trance of April 17."
It is worth remarking that Mrs. Piper gave these words in
the same context as Thanatos (Death), which formed the subject
of a cross-correspondence with Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Verrall,
and they seem to reinforce and emphasise her mention of
Death. Mrs. Holland's contribution to the same cross-corre-
spondence was also found by Miss Johnson (see her paper
below, p. 221) to be more complete than I had represented it.
Miss Hammond also tells us that " United we stand, divided
we fall" (words spoken in the trance of January 2, 1907:
see Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 316-317) is the motto of another
State.
LX.] Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper in 1908. 31
FUETHER EXPERIMENTS WITH MRS. PIPER IN 1908.
Introduction.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Verrall and
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
In the spring of 1908 a series of 21 sittings in Boston with
Mrs. Piper was carried out by Mr. G. B. Dorr, a Vice-President of
the Society for Psychical Research, he being himself the sole
sitter throughout. It is with certain results of this series
of sittings that the following three papers deal.
Mr. Dorr was a friend of Dr. Hodgson's, and had had
many previous sittings with Mrs. Piper. On this occasion
his object was twofold. In the first place he desired to
continue the experiments in cross-correspondence with other
automatic writers on the lines of the English experiments
in 1906-1907, described in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXII.,
with a modification of the conditions introduced by two new
factors : («) the other automatists were wholly ignorant that
cross-correspondences were being attempted, or even that sittings
were being held at all ;
ih) the sitter was not in communica-
tion with any of the other automatists, and had no access
to the scripts they produced, so that thought-transference
from the sitter was throughout eliminated as' a possible cause
of any interconnexions which might exist. In the second
place he tried the very interesting experiment of " reviving
the literary memories " of the trance-personalities, with a view
to obtaining statements that might help to solve the problem
of the identity of those personalities.
The papers that follow, by Mrs. Verrall and Mr. Piddington
respectively, deal with the second of the above mentioned
32 Mr.'^. SidgivicJc, 3f)'s. Verrall, and J. G. Piddington. [part
classes of experiment—Mrs. Verrall's giving a general con-
spectus of the evidence and Mr. Piddington's dealing mainly
v/ith a remarkable special case. In the third paper, by Mrs.
Sidgwick, the cross-correspondences and interconnexions between
the automatists are discussed.
It is hoped that for students of Mrs. Piper's trance utter-
ances the cases described and the extracts quoted from the
sittings give substantially all that in the present series of
sittings (which if printed in full would run to over 200 pages)
can be said to throw new light on the nature of the intelli-
gence at work. Without describing every incident falling
under either of the above heads, great care has been taken to
give, as far as possible, a fair general impression both of the
degree of success attained in the whole series of experiments
and of the extent and nature of the failures, and we have been
careful also to omit nothing that bears on any experiment
selected for full description. Moreover, the complete records
will of course be preserved.
As in other cases of Mrs. Piper's trance, of which accounts
have recently been published, the communicating intelligence
calls itself " Myers " or " Hodgson " or " Eector," the latter
professing as usual to act as amanuensis, though " Myers
and " Hodgson " also at times write directly. In the waking-
stage, as before, Mrs. Piper speaks in pro'prid persond, repeating
what she hears or describing what she sees. Neither the
spoken utterances of the waking-stage, nor those written during
the deeper trance, seem to remain in Mrs. Piper's normal con-
sciousness when she has returned to her ordinary waking life.
What psychological facts underlie the drama; whether the
personalities who appear to take part in it are merely phases
of Mrs. Piper's consciousness ; how far they are in telepathic
communication with other minds, either of living persons or
of persons no longer in the body ; and if they are, whether
there is any truth in the claim that intelligences other than
Mrs. Piper's are actively and deliberately concerned ;
and,
in any case, what are the relations of the personalities to
each other ;
—all these questions which recent evidence about
automatism has brought so prominently forward in our Pro-
ceedings are again raised by the present series of sittings.
And we think it will be generally admitted that these
LX.] Further Experiments ivith Mrs. Piper in 1908. 33
sittings furnish an important contribution to the accumulating
evidence in which answers to these questions must be
sought.
It is hardly necessary again to remind the reader that in
giving, e.g. the name MyerSp or MyerSy, or even Myers by
itself, to the communicating intelligence, we are not doing any-
thing so question-begging as to assume that that intelligence
is Frederic Myers. We are merely giving it for brevity and
convenience the name which it gives itself, adding a suffix to
indicate the automatist concerned. Whether its account of
itself can be accepted at its face value depends on its cre-
dentials, and these are mixed. That Myersp is not Frederic
Myers as we knew him, with all his memories and associations
of ideas and modes of expression intact, is clear from in-
ternal evidence, both by excess and defect. Some of the
associations of ideas and modes of expression (see Mrs. Verrall's
paper, pp. 79, 80) are natural in Mrs. Piper but not in the
supposed communicator,^ and some of the confused and erro-
neous statements would have Ijeen quite impossible to Frederic
Myers in the full possession of his faculties. There is then
unquestionably at least some degree of personation—conscious
•or unconscious. On the other hand there is knowledge shown
which, so far as can be ascertained, had never been in the
mind either of Mrs. Piper, or of the sitter Mr. Dorr, or of
other living persons with whom there is evidence of telepathic
communication, but which was almost certainly possessed by
Frederic Myers. The high-water mark of this kind of evidence
is reached, so far as the present sittings are concerned, in the
" Lethe " incident described by Mr. Piddington. And not only
was the knowledge shown in this case almost certainly pos-
sessed by Frederic Myers, but the arrangement of it, fragmentary
though it be, fits in well with his associations and ways of
looking at things. This kind of evidence certainly points to
^ There is one incident, outside the experiments, worth mentioning in this
•connexion. At the first sitting of the series (March 9th, 1908) Myersr made a
spontaneous attempt, savouring very much of guesswork, to recall the occasions
when Frederic Myers had met !Mr. Dorr. In the course of this attempt an
allusion to Cambridge (where by the way Mr. Dorr had not visited Mr. Myers) is
scarcely expressed as Frederic Myers would have expressed it. Myersp said "I
wish you could remember my showing you the students' liall and our walk
<icross the little bridge over the river."
C
34 Mrs. Sidgwick, Mrs. Verrall, mid J. G. Piddington. [part
the intelligence of Frederic Myers being in some way or other
behind, or concerned with, Myersp.
The successful cross-correspondences described in Mrs. Sidg-
wick's paper are interesting and important, but, as will be
seen, they are not of a kind which adds weight to the claim
that a third intelligence has actively intervened, since, so
far as we can see, telepathy between the two automatists
concerned would sufficiently account for the facts.
It is important to observe that the two numbers of the
S.P.E. Proceedings which deal with cross-correspondences were
not published till after the conclusion of these sittings with
Mrs. Piper. Part LV., Miss Johnson's report on Mrs. Holland's
script, appeared in June 1908, and Part LVII. (Vol. XXII.), Mr.
Piddington's report on the experiments with Mrs. Piper, appeared
in October 1908. Mr. Dorr had received a general account of
the line taken in the English experiments with Mrs. Piper, but
he had not seen the record of the sittings, and knew nothing
in detail about the results.^ Neither Mrs. nor Miss Verrall
knew anything about Mr. Dorr's sittings till long after their
conclusion. It was only when Mrs. Verrall was shown the
record of these sittings in October 1908, that she had any idea
that communications from MyerSp had been obtained or aimed
at, after Mrs. Piper's return to America in the summer of
1907.
We have for convenience given a list of the sittings with
their dates, and references to quotations from them. This is
intended to enable the reader to trace the chronological sequence
of topics dealt with in the papers, should he wish to do so.
The amount of matter in these sittings unconnected with the
two kinds of experiments with which these papers deal, is
apart from discussion with the controls about arrangements
for sittings, etc.—very small And what there is, is for the
most pai't neutral and unevidential in character ^
—uninstructive
to those who already know, as readers of the Proceedings-
abundantly do, what a sitting with Mrs. Piper is like.
^ For an account of communications on this subject with Mr. Dorr, see Mr.,
Piddington's paper, note A, p. 136.
- An exception to this has been referred to in a foot-note to the preceding;
page.
LX.] Further Experiments tvith Mrs. Piper in 1908. 35
List of the sittings with Mrs. Piper ivith xohieh this Report deals,
giving the elates on which they were held, the headings
under which they are referred to, and the pages where they
arc ([noted.
1908.
March 9. The whole of the record of this sitting, so far as
it is concerned with the two kinds of experiments
discussed in this paper, is quoted on pp. 171-7
a propos of cross-correspondences " Neptune,"
"Troy," "Exile."
It is also referred to in the Introduction, p. 33
(foot-note).
And is referred to in connexion with " Virgil's
Aeneid," pp. 61-3.
And in connexion with " The Horace Ode Question,"
p. 153.
March 10. Aeneid, pp. 64, 65, 67, 68, 145.
The Sibyl, p. 145.
The Horace Ode Question, pp. 153, 154.
Cross-correspondence: "Neptune," p. 178.
March 16. Aeneid, pp. 67, 68, 69, 71-3, 145.
The Sibyl, p. 145.
The Horace Ode Question, p. 155.
Cross-correspondences: "Neptune," p. 178; "Troy,"
p. 182.
March 17. Aeneid, pp. 53, 74, 77.
The Horace Ode Question, p. 155.
Cross-correspondences :
" Neptune," p. 179; " Troy,"
p. 183; "Apple," p. 192.
March 23. The Sibyl, pp. 89, 146.
The Lethe Incident (Cave, Iris), pp. 87-9.
Cross-correspondences: "Troy," pp. 183-4; "Exile
and Moore," p. 186; " Pharaoh's daughter," pp.
184, 189 ;
" Apple," p. 192.
March 24. Ajax and Ulysses, p. 52.
Parthenon, p. 56.
The Lethe Incident (Cave of Sleep, Iris, Ceyx),
pp. 90-5.
36 il/r.s. Siclgwick, Mrs. Verrall, and J. G. Piddington. [part
March 24:. The Sibyl, pp. 93, 146.
Cross-correspondence: "Neptune," p. l79.
March 30. Ajax and Ulysses, p. 53.
Cyclops, Centaurs, etc., p. 54.
Parthenon, p. 57.
Aeneid, p. 81.
The Lethe Incident (Ceyx, Janus, Echo and Nar-
cissus, Orpheus and Eurydice), pp. 95-7, 104-5.
The Sibyl, pp. 96, 146.
Cross-correspondences: "Neptune," pp. 179-80; "Exile
and Moore/' p. 186 ;
" Pharaoh's daughter,"
p. 189; "Palm branches," p. 196.
March 31. Agamemnon, pp. 47, 52.
Ajax and Ulysses, p. 53.
Cyclops and Centaurs, p. 54.
Parthenon, p. 57.
The Horace Ode Question, p. 157.
The Lethe Incident and 0vidian Allusions (Echo and
Narcissus, Orpheus and Eurydice), pp. 105-6.
The Sibyl, p. 147.
April 6. Agamemnon, pp. 47, 52.
Ajax and Ulysses, p. 53.
Parthenon, p. 58.
Acneid, p. 69.
The Horace Ode Question, p. 157.
The Lethe Incident (Ceyx, Hyacinthus, Pygmalion),
pp. 97, 106-7.
The Sibyl, p. 147.
Cross-correspondences: "Neptune," p. 180; "Palm
branches," p. 196.
April 7. Agamemnon, pp. 48, 52.
Ajax and Ulysses, p. 53.
Parthenon, p. 58.
The Lethe Incident (Ceyx, Hyacinthus, Pygmalion),
pp. 97, 107-9.
Cross-correspondence: "Neptune," p. 180.
April 13. Agamemnon, pp. 48, 51-2.
Cyclops and Centaurs, p. 55.
Aeneid, p. 69.
Lx.] Further Experiments tvith Mrs. Piper in 1908. 37
April 13. The Lethe Incident (Pygmalion, Hyacinthus), p. 109.
April 14. Agamemnon, pp. 49, 51-2.
Ajax and Ulysses, p. 53.
Cyclops and Centaurs, p. 55.
The Lethe Incident (Hyacinthus), p. 110.
Cross-correspondences: " Neptune," p. 180; ''Apple,"
p. 192.
April 21. Agamemnon, pp. 49, 51.
Tavern Club Motto (first mention of), pp. 78 (foot-
note), 222.
The Horace Ode Question, p. 157.
The Lethe Incident (Hyacinthus), pp. 110-12.
Cross-correspondences :
" Neptune," p. 180; " Exile
and Moore," p. 186; "Apple," p. 193.
April 22. Shelley, pp. 43-4.
Cyclops and Centaui's, p. 55.
The Horace Ode Question, p. 15 8.
The Lethe Incident (Hyacinthus, Cave of Sleep),
p. 112.
Cross-correspondence: "Apple," pp. 191-2.
April 27. Comus, pp. 45, 197.
Cyclops and Centaurs, p. 55.
The Lethe Incident (Hyacinthus), p. 113,
May 4. Comus, pp. 45, 46, 197.
Cyclops and Centaurs, p. 55.
The Lethe Incident (Cave of Sleep), p. 113.
Cross-correspondence: "Harp," p. 188.
May 8. Comus, p. 197.
The Lethe Incident (Hyacinthus, Ovid), pp. 113-14.
Cross-correspondence: "Seven," pp. 194, 223.
May 12. Comus, p. 197.
Cross-correspondences: "Harp," p. 189; "Seven,"
pp. 195, 224.
May 13. Comus, pp. 197-8.
Cross-correspondence: "Harp," p. 189.
May 18. (Not referred to at all in the text.)
May 26. The Horace Ode Question, p. 159.
Cross-correspondence: "Apple," p. 193.
38 Mrs. Siclgwick, Mrs. Verrall, and J. G. Piddington. [part
EXPLANATION OF ABBREVIATIONS AND TERMS.
(a) Used in Mrs. Piper's Trance-Scri'pt.
E,. = Rector, a Control of Mrs. Piper.
Light =a Medium; and also some kind of
luminosity by which a medium is
supposed to be surrounded, and by
means of which the spirits profess to
effect their communications.
(b) Used in this Report.
G.B.D. =Mr. G. B. Dorr.
Scribe =^the personality which purports to be the
author or inspirer of a piece of auto-
matic script.
Waking-stage =the process of coming out of trance,
during which Mrs. Piper speaks, but
does not write.
Myersp =the personality that calls itself "Myers"
in Mrs. Piper's trance.
Myersy = the personality that calls itself " Myei'S
"
in Mrs. Verrall's script.
MyersjiY =the personality that calls itself "Myers"
in Miss Verrall's script.
Myersii — the personality that calls itself " Myers
"
in Mrs. Holland's script.
and so on with the other personalities.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pipers Trance. 39
I.
CLASSICAL AND LITEEAKY ALLUSIONS IN
MES. PIPEE'S TEANCE.
By Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
As has been said in the Introduction, this paper deals with
the second of the two classes of experiments carried out by
Mr. Dorr, namely, the attempt to "revive the literary memories"
of certain trance-personalities. His object was to obtain state-
ments showing classical or literary knowledge such as might
be possessed by the persons claiming to communicate, but not
by the medium. The method employed was to ask questions
or to submit small problems of translation from Latin, after
hrst stimulating the interest of the trance-personalities in the
subjects introduced by conversation and by reading aloud
passages from authors known to have been familiar to the
persons supposed to be communicating. In the first instance,
a fortnight before these sittings began, Mr. Dorr had asked
Hodgsoup to translate " veni vidi vici " and " arma virum-
que cano," these two very familiar Latin phrases being-
chosen for their familiarity. This Hodgsoup professed himself
unable at the sitting to do ; but at the first sitting of this
series, March 9th, he asked to have the words repeated, and
said that he had brought Myers to help in their translation.
From this time it was with Myersp mainly that these experi-
ments were continued, and it was chiefiy the memories of
Frederic Myers that the sitter attempted to revive, though
Hodgsonp was apparently present throughout and contributing
to the result.
The experiment was novel and ingeniously devised. It was
clearly worth trying to obtain from the trance-personalities—
40 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
whatever they might be—evidence of knowledge palpably not
attainable by Mrs. Piper. On the assumption, suggested 1:
y
the English experiments/ that the trance-personalities had access
to the memories of Frederic Myers, it was possible that
evidence might also be obtained of knowledge not possessed
by the sitter. In any case it was likely that in the course
of this new type of experiment, fresh facts might be obtained
bearing on the obscure problems of personality presented by
the trance-phenomena. That in all these three directions
valuable results were obtained, and that fresh material has
been added for the examination of psychical researchers by
the ingenuity and labour of Mr. Dorr, it is the object of the
present paper to show.
That tlie results are not capable of exact classification
or brief exposition is partly inherent in the nature of the
phenomena, but is partly also due to defects in the method
of experimentation, which further experience may remove
or diminish. It is probalile that in any future attempt
to revive the memories of a supposed communicator, fewer
questions will be asked and more scope will be given for
spontaneous statements arising after reference hj the experi-
menter to topics once familiar. In this, the first set of
experiments, too many topics were presented at a time to the
control. A further element of complexity was introduced by
the simultaneous effort at experiment along another line—the
so-called cross-correspondences—though it is to be noted that
the two often worked in together, and that a topic produced
by the attempt at revival of memory was chosen by the
control as the subject of successful transmission.- It is certain
that on the mind of the reader the first effect of the great
number of subjects introduced by the experimenter is bewildering
in the extreme, and perhaps the control should not be credited
with more faculty for keeping them disentangled than is pos-
sessed by the student of the record. Careful reading of the
record shows meaning and connexion in statements at first
sight unintelligible, and this suggests that, iinder conditions
improved by the experience of these sittings, clearer results
might 1)6 obtained.
iSee Proceedings S.P.K., Vol. XXII. pp. 108-172; 397-407.
2 See Mrs. Sidgwick's paper, pp. 177, 182, 186.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper s Trance. 41
The method pursued by Mr. Dorr was as follows : During
the trance he suggested questions on literary or classical topics
as subjects of messages to be transmitted, or asked what
associations they had for the control. He did not press for
an immediate answer, and never misled the control or laid
traps. Throughout, his conduct was that of a friend trying
to evoke memoiies dormant or forgotten, and he made this-
intention abundantly clear to the trance-personalities. It was.
his habit, after the first six sittings of the series, at the
beginning of the trance to read over the utterances of the-
preceding waking-stage^ and to invite comment by the respond-
ing hand on the disjointed sayings of the voice. This practice
arose first from references being made by the trance-personalities
to statements uttered in the waking-stage of the previous
sitting. Sometimes the hand explains the spoken words,
sometimes corrects them, sometimes misinterprets them ; on
some occasions the hand disowns all recollection of the words,
uttered by " the spirit of tlie light as she returned." In the-
course of the sittings the waking-stage tended to increase in
length and importance. The relations Ijetween the waking-stage-
and the trance proper would in themselves furnish material
for a separate paper, and discussion of them must be deferred
till the reader has some acqiiaintance with the actual results
achieved, whether by hand or voice.
It is difficult within the limits of this paper to deal with
the mass of detail presented in the record of the 21 sittings
between March 9th and May 26th, 1908. ISTor is it possible
to summarise the results, or to classify them as good, bad, or
indifferent. The important point to discover in the case of
each item of knowledge shown by the responding intelligence
is not whether the information given is correct or incorrect,
but of what type it is. A partially incorrect answer to a
particular question may somethnes give indications of under-
lying intelligence, whereas a verbally accurate statement ma}'
^
The waking-stage is the name given, as readers of Vol. XXII. will remember
(p. 29), to the intermediate stage when Mrs. Piper is passing out of trance
into a normal condition. During this period there is no writing, but phrases
more or less disjointed are spoken. The phrases are of three types: some
claim to be the verbatim repetitions of utterances by the "spirits", others to
be Mrs. Piper's paraphrases of those utterances, and the rest to be Mrs.,
Piper's remarks in propria persona.
42 Mrs. A. W. VerraU. [part
sometimes be due to an accidental acquaintance with the
contents of a book of reference, or even to chance. It has
therefore seemed best to select some typical cases for presen-
tation, and to leave the reader to form his own judgement.
Before attributing the statements to a third unknown
intelligence, it is necessary to eliminate two known intelli-
gences, the minds of medium and sitter. The knowledge
demanded is for the most part beyond the medium's range,
and it is comparatively easy to exclude her agency. Account
must of course be taken of any information acquired either
directly or inferentially from Mr. Dorr's questions or remarks,
all of which, I need not say, are included in the record. It is
more difficult to exclude the mind of the sitter as a contribu-
tory cause. 'No student of the now voluminous records can
fail to recognize that there have been instances of direct
thought-transference from the sitter,^ and we must also allow
for changes of tone and other involuntary indications."' In
judging of the sitter's knowledge, we have to reckon with the
subliminal, as well as the supraliminal memory, and therefore
we must suppose that a good deal of the classical information
shown by the control may have been at one time accessible
to Mr. Dorr and stored in his subliminal memory.^ Even in
^See, for instance, Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXII. p. 436.
- Some such cases are noted by Mr. Dorr. On the general question of
thought-transference from the sitter, Mr. Dorr, in a letter written on
November 16th, 1909, sums up as follows the impression derived from a long
experience of sittings with Mrs. Piper: "My experience with the Piper
trance does not lead me to believe that the trance-consciousness—whatev^er it
may be—is able to tap my mind for facts or thought, except what I express
in some way to the normal sense perceptions, by word or tone or movement.
I have fairly strong grounds for thinking that it . . . rarely if ever gets
subliminal impressions from my mind. . . . With other sitters I have seen
instances of what I call its clairvoyant faculty shown remarkably now and
then . . . but this does not seem to me so much reading the sitters' minds
as seeing things in some way associated with them—as though it had a
faculty of seeing their environment, as it were.''
^In answer to an enquiry from me, Mr. Dorr sends me the following note
as to his classical reading: "I dropped Latin and Greek at eighteen, at the
end of my second year at Harvard ; I have never read Greek since, and
scarcely any Latin—none for a long time. Virgil I read the first three or
four books of at school—I mean of the Aeneid—and none since ; no Ovid, and
very little Horace. My Greek reading was still more limited than my Latin,
and I have forgotten my Greek, alas, quite thoroughly . . . Translations of
LX.] Classical and Literary A Ihisions in Mrs. Piper s Trance. 43
the case of tlie medium, we must allow for a similar extension
of knowledge, especially if an interval elapses between the
question and the answer. I am not suggesting the interven-
tion of " the useful book that knows." But it is not safe to
assume that no trace of what has been said to the trance-
personalities reaches Mrs. Piper's normal mind,'- and a vague
recollection might suffice to draw her attention to a particular
suliject, and so focus her recollections or increase her informa-
tion before the next sitting. The longer the interval between
the first question and the final answer, the more chance there
is of hints being; obtained from Mr. Dorr's manner as to
whether the statements correspond with his expectations. On
the other hand, it will be seen in some cases that the
responding intelligence was misled by the sitter's misunder-
standing or ignorance. Hence the importance of response at
the same sitting in which the question is put. This does
not usually occur. The general object lieing what I have
described, the experimenter's main desire, as he pointed out,
was for satisfactory and complete rather than for immediate
replies, though he recognised the value and importance of
these. But in some cases, at least part of the answer was
produced in the course of the sitting or in the waking-stage.
Indeed on one occasion, which I proceed to describe, the
response was complete and immediate.
Case I. Shelley.
On April 22nd Mr. Dorr read ten lines from Shelley's
translation of the C'l/clojys of Euripides, selected from a book
which he had brought with him to the sitting, namely Mr.
A. W. Pollard's collection of translations, called Odes from
the Greek Dramatists.
Mr. Dorr brought the books that he used with hiui to
the sittings in a hand-bag, and only took them out after
the Classics I have hardly read at all. I have been in Greece, once and too
briefly ; in Italy, in earlier years, a good deal." See also Xote A of Mr.
Piddington's paper below, pp. 141-2.
^ This is specially likely to be the case in the waking-stage, where the
medium is passing into a normal condition and may perceive and remember
indications of approval or dissatisfaction.
44 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Mrs. Piper had gone into trauce. During the trance Mrs. Piper's
liead is turned away from the hand which writes, and there-
fore also from the sitter who is placed on her riglit, and her
eyes are closed. Mr. Dorr however took care, even though
her eyes seemed closed, to turn away from her the page, if
open, or the back with the title upon it, of any book used
during the sitting. Mr. Pollard's Odes he obtained from the
Athenaeuin Library at Boston, an old Club Library to which
Mrs. Piper had no access. The book is not one which she
could have readily found in the places open to her, nor would
she be likely to have ever come upon it in her reading.
It has no associations with Mr. Myers, and would not there-
fore on that around have attracted the attention of Mrs.
Piper had she accidentally come across it. It is, however,
within my personal knowledge that the book was known to
Mr. Myers ; I remember his talking with me of the book and
of its editor about the time of its production in 1890.
Extract from Sitting of April 22nd, 1908.
(Myersp communicating.)
G. B. D. (reads) One with eyes the fairest
Cometh from his dwelling,
Some one loves thee, rarest,
Bright beyond my telling.
In thy grace thou shinest
Like some nymph divinest.
In her caverns dewy :
All delights pursue thee.
Soon pied flowers, sweet-breathing,
Shall thy head be wreathing.
You read well.
O. B. D. Now see if you can tell me whose verses these are that I
have just read you. It's a. translation from the Greek.
I will read them over to you once again. (Reads again.)
Did he write Ode to the Skylark 1
G. B. D. Yes, that is splendid, quite wonderful I think.
Thank you. If I am not Myers, whom [sic] am 1 1
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pipers Trance. 45
There can be no question liere of accident. Tnless Mrs.
Piper knew and recognized Shelley's translation, in which, as
will have been noticed, no name occurs distinctive of its
origin, the infoi'mation came from the sitter's mind or from a
third intelligence. It is interesting to note that even here,
where the knowledge shown is unmistakably correct, no attempt
is made to give the name of the writer, Shelley. He is
described by naming another of his poems. Many parallel
cases suggest that special difficulty is found in giving proper
names.-"-
Case II. Comus.
The next illustration also deals with English literature. ]\Ir.
Dorr had found in general talk that ]\Irs. Piper knew nothing
of Milton's but Paradise Lost, and he had for some time
intended to read from Comus. The opportunity occurred on
April 27th, 1908, when immediately before the conclusion of the
trance proper, he read a few lines from the opening of Comus
without saying anything as to whence the lines were taken,
or who was the author. Shortly afterwards, just before the
conclusion of the waking- stage, these words were spoken as
from MyerSp :
" I had it in my mind that you were going
to read me about Comus. See those pretty little children."
It is clear that Myersp recognized the passage read. It is
moreover evident that the succeeding words " pretty little
children " are not inappropriate in recalling the circumstances
of the production of Covins, which was written for perform-
ance by the young children of Lord Bridgewater.
The appropriateness of this allusion was not recognized liy Mr.
Dorr, nor apparently by the trance-personality communicating on
May 4th. On that day when Mr. Dorr read over to jMyersp the
utterances of the preceding waking-stage, after the mention of
" Comus," MyerSp wrote :
" Milton." Then Mr. Dorr said,
'•'
At
the end she said '
See those pretty little children.' " To which
MyerSp replied, " I was thinking of my own dear ones." -
iSee below, pp. 48, &1, 68.
- Mr. Myers's o-\vn children -were three in number, a sister and two brothers,
like the Egerton children. Earlier in the waking-stage, before the allusion to
Cormis, the names of Mr. Myers's three children had been spoken by Mrs. Piper.
46 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
If I am right in thinking that the original combination of
Comus and children is due to a recollection of the circum-
stances which produced Milton's poem, this affords an
illustration of what I have above described as misinterpretation
l)y the hand of what was spoken in the waking-stage.-^
Further slight indications were given of knowledge of
Milton's Comus—e.g.
" tempted her with wine " emerged on
May 4th—but the most interesting point in the allusions to
Comus is of a different kind, namely, its connexion by Myersp
with Mrs. Sidgwick's name. This is described in Mrs. Sidg-
wick's paper (p. 197).
Case III. Agamemnon.
My third illustration is from classical literature. I give the
whole incident in detail, as it is short, and moreover illus-
trates several characteristics of these sittings. On March
31st Mr. Dorr announced to MyerSp that he would read to
him something written by Mr. Ernest Myers. He then read
a translation of the invocation to Zeus from the Agamemnon
of Aeschylus, IL 160-183. The translation is published in
Mr. Pollard's Odes, and it was from this book that Mr. Dorr
read. The lines are quoted below and the reader will see that,
as Mr. Dorr noted at the time, there is nothing in them to
suggest either the name of Agamemnon or his story.
Agamemnon, 11. 160-183.
Zeus, whosoe'er lie be, if this name please his ear,
By this name I bid him hear
Naught but Zeus my soul may guess.
Seeking far and seeking near.
Seeking who shall stay the stress
Of its fond and formless fear.
Yov He, who long ago was great,
Filled with daring and with might,
Now is silent, lost in night
And the next that took his state
Met his supplanter too, and fell, and sank from sight.
Tor further illustrations see below, pp. 51, 82.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pijoer's Trance. 47
Zeus Victorious liail we then,
Zeus that leadeth souls of men
Thus his deep decrees ordain
To Wisdom's goal o'er the drear road of Pain.
In sleep there doth before the heart instil
A grievous memory of ill,
Making the unwise wise against his will.
So unto Man, in kind compulsion given,
Falls the high grace of Gods from awful tin-ones of Hea\'en.
Extract from sitting of March '?>\st, 1908.
G.B. D. (reads above lines.)
(Myersp communicating.)
Splendid, I recall.
G. B. D. Now I want you to try whether you cannot give me later, in
the waking-stage perhaps, the name of the old Greek
play from which these lines are translated. You must
have been familiar both with the play itself and with these
lines of your brother's while you were here. (Hand bows
assent.)
Wakiwi-stage.
(Very low whispering not caught.)
Agamemnon. . . .
It's a dark place we're coming into. Why do we come into
it at all ? Hodgson says " Troubles and trials, and the
better you go through them, the better your [life] here
and if you don't develop, it's your own fault. He said
he'd sing of the Odes for you."
Extract from sitting of April Qth, 1908.
(G, B. D. going through utterances of waking-stage.)
G.B. D. She then told me Hodgson said "Troubles and trials, etc."
Yes he was sending the light back to its earthly body [i.e.
they were messages in the waking-stage to Mrs. Piper's
'returning spirit^].
48 . Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
G. B. D. She said he'd sinsr of the Odes for rae. AVhat Odes does he
mean ?
Do you recall who wrote three plays 1 (A word resembling
Achilles, but imperfectly spelt, is now written.)
G. B. D. Spell it.
A E—wrote three. Something you read to me brought it to
ni}'^ mind.
G. B. D. Try and give me the name presently. Your speaking of the
three plays has brought another question to my mind ;
there was a famous Greek play which was called in
Latin Nubes, etc.
[Aristophanes' play called the Birds was also mentioned by
the experimenter. Note Inj M. de G. V.]
JVahing-stage.
Achilles, no ... . Achylus wrote three plays .... Sad
pronunciation ! not right ! . . . . I can't think. (Tries
name again and fails.)
Extract from sitting of April 7fh.
JVakinr/siage.
Achylus that is right .... He says no. Well, friend, I
know what I am thinking. •
•
Extract from sitting of Aioril loth.
G. B. T). Now I want to read you something and see if you can tell
me who wrote it.
(Reads again Mr. E. Myers's translation of Agamemnon, 11.
160-183.)
(MyerSp communicating.)
I'll tell her.
JFaJcijig-stage.
Ernest wrote it. Oh Zeus ! Ernest wrote it, ti-anslated
it . . . my brother.
LX,] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pipers Trance. 49
[Later a fresh attempt was made by Mrs. P. to get the name
of Aeschyhis, but without better success than previously.
iVote hij M. cle G. V.]
wrote.
Extract from sitting of April 14:th.
(Hodgsoup communicating.)
(After reference to Aristophanes' play of the Birds.)
Agamemnon—king.
JVaking-stage.
Agamemnon—king Aeschylus (To Mrs.
P.) "I have told you that twenty times and you have
just got it."
He said I was a good girl, because I said it properly ....
Mr. Myers keeps holding it up. Crane long neck.
He says, my friend in the body ought to know about it.
Ernest wrote about it.
Jove
Extract from sitting of April 21st.
G. B. D. (Going through waking-stage.) In what connexion was it
that you spoke of Agamemnon the king 1
(Myersp communicating.)
You asked me who he was, as I understood it
G. B. D. You spoke the other day, in the waking-stage, of some
old writer who wrote three plays, three plays related
together in a single story, as I understood you to mean.
I want you some time to tell me who that writer was,
and what plays these were, if you can. (Hand signifies
comprehension and assent.)
G. B. D. Then she said " Aeschylus." And then, as said to herself,
" I have told you that twenty times and you have just
got it "—' He said I was a good girl because I said it
properly.'
Isn't that strange '?
I did compliment her when I understood
the clear pronunciation [of the] word.
D
50 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
G. B. D. 'Crane etc' 'Ernest wrote about it.'
I think there is some confusion here. Myers's answer that
'
Ernest wrote about it ' was in reply, I think, to a poem
you read about Zeus.
G. B. D. The word Jove did follow it, but I could catch nothing
more.
Before commenting in detail on these extracts, it will be
desirable to form an opinion as to the associations which the
passage read by Mr. Dorr would have for a classical scholar.
I take it that the thought of such a scholar would be :
" The
translation is from the invocation to Zeus in the great Chorus
—the -TTuOei fxdOo? Chorus—of the Agaviemncm" and, for the
benefit of an enquirer not familiar with Greek, he might
add that the Agamemnon was written by Aeschylus, and was
the first of a Trilogy, or group of three connected plays,
of which this Aeschylean Trilogy is the only extant specimen.
What does MyerSp say ? A minute or two after the ques-
tion has been put, the first word audibly spoken in the waking-
stage by Mrs. Piper -is the name Agamemnon. A week
later, during the review of the utterances in the waking-stage,
MyerSp tries to give the name of an author of whom he was
reminded by something read to him by the sitter. This
author is described as one who wrote three plays ; the name
resembles Achilles, but begins AE. Further attempts to give
this name end in its successful production in the waking-stage
of April 14 after, though not immediately after, the words
" Agamemnon king."
These points are clear and unmistakable. There are others
less clear, but interesting and suggestive. Thus in the remarks
quoted as from Hodgsoup in the waking-stage of March 31st,
I am disposed to see allusions to iraQei /ulu6o9, and to the
Choral Ode read from Pollard's Odes, in the words :
" Troubles
and trials, and the better you go through them the better
your [life] here—He said he'd sing of the Odes for you."
That this is the intention of the p)hrase, " Sing of the Odes,"
is probable from the fact that the mention of this phrase on
April 6th at once leads MyerSp to think of Aeschylus. The
application of " troubles and trials," etc., to the -TrdOei juaOo?,
LX.] Classical and Literary A llusions in Mrs. Pij^er's Trance. 51
" wisdom acquired by suffering," is not certain. There is no
doubt that the words are explained by the control on April
6th, and were probably understood at their utterance by the
" spirit of the light," as advice to Mrs. Pip)er.^ If my view
is correct, and the original remark was meant as an allusion to
the Choral Ode, we have here another instance of a failure
on the part of the writing hand to understand the full meaning
of the spoken words.-
As showing the persistence in the trance of an association
of ideas that has once occurred, we may note a statement on
April 14th. On April 6th Mr. Dorr had passed from the
mention of " three plays " to questions about two plays of
Aristophanes (not mentioning the author's name), the Clouds
and Birds. This association persisted with the control, for on
April 14th a reference to the play of the Birds is im-
mediately followed by the words " Agamennion king," and in
the waking-stage of the same day an allusion to " Crane " is
interpolated between the successful attempt at " Aeschylus
and the statement that the translation was by Ernest Myers.
That the connexion between the Birds and the Agaviemnon
was not intended is the view of Myersp on April 21st. He
definitely dissociates the " Crane etc." from the following
words. Here, then, the communicator appears to have a
clear grasp of the situation and to be able to disentangle the
disjointed sayings of the waking-stage, without, however,
attempting to account for them.
On April 13th, the answer to his question not being then
complete, Mr. Dorr read over again the translation, without
naming the translator. His intention was " to see whether
the recollection of the lines themselves, whether as read
previously or from former memory, was clear enough to
identify them as their author's." The result was the im-
mediate production in the waking-stage of the answer to this
question. Similarly, a fortnight earlier, the answer to the
first question had been produced in the first utterances of the
waking-stage. The cases differ essentially in evidential value,
the required answers being normally known in the one case
^For similar instances of personal application combined with veridical state-
ments, see below, p. 81.
^See above, p. 46.
52 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
and not in the other. But both cases iUustrate the close
C(jnnexion between trance proper and waking-stage, and show a
desire to reply at the earliest possible moment to tire question
put by the experimenter.
To enable the reader to judge at a glance how far the
answer of MyerSp corresponds with that of my supposed
classical scholar, I place the statements in parallel columns,
printing in brackets words representing what had been already
mentioned by the experimenter, or could be inferred from the
passage read
Classical scholar Myersp.
Translation from [Ernest translated it] Apr. 13.
Invocation to Zeus in 0 [Zeus] Apr. 13.
Great Chorus— He'd sing of the Odes. Mar. 31.
-jradei judOo? Chorus of [troubles and trials etc.] Mar. 31.
Agamemnon by Agamemnon Mar. 31.
Aeschylus who wrote Aeschylus Apr. 6, 7,13,14.
Trilogy. wrote three plays Apr. 6.
Here is no accident. Either Mrs. Piper knew and recog-
nized the passage, or the explanation must be sought in the
knowledge of the sitter, or in a third intelligence, or in a
combination of these two. The reader must judge which
hypothesis is probable. My own view, as has been seen, is
that something more than thought-transference from the sitter
is required to account for the facts.
It is time to turn to the failures. There are very few
instances of persistent error as distinct from confusion—of
cases, that is, wliere the only correct statements ai'e such
as could have been derived from the medium's knowledge,
or inferred from indications given by the sitter. The following
are the only cases I have found
Case IV. Ajax and Ulysses.
In the waking-stage of March 24th these words were
spoken :
" I am the power that they say of Ajax. I
do not know what it means at all." On March 30th, in
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pipei's Trance. 53
repeating these words, Mr. Dorr added :
" Who was Ajax, can
you tell me ?
" To this he received from the controls,
Hodgsonp and Myersp, who were both apparently concerned,
the reply :
" Greek god, yes, I understand ; old Ajax. I said
to the spirit [i.e. to Mrs. Piper] I am not going to release
you until you repeat all for me. I will hold you, I will
hold you in my power, the power of Ajax."
These words appear to be sheer nonsense. Ajax was not
a Greek god, neither was he old, nor had he any special
power. Nor is anything contributed by the reference to the
subject in the waking-stage of the next sitting, March 31st:
" Ajax—Ulysses—took them in a boat and then went across ;
he would not be outdone." It is true that there is in
Homer a close association between Ajax and Ulysses, but
there is no association with a boat. The first emergence of
" Ulysses " and the " boat " was earlier in the same sitting,
when in answer to a question about the Greeks and Persians
the control wrote :
" Didn't Ulysses take them in a boat
across ?
" The ignorance about Ulysses seemed as great as
about Ajax, and is the more remarkable in that on March
17th, during a talk about Acnnd I., Ulysses was quite correctly
associated with the Wooden Horse.
On xipril 6 th Mr. Dorr, reviewing the words of the waking-
stage, asked whether the control had any association in his
mind between Ajax and Ulysses. But, in spite of this lead,
the only reply was :
" Power," and in the waking-stage of the
next day, April 7th, Ajax and Ulysses were definitely
separated. The remarks about both only add to the mistakes:
" Ajax's power, the power of Thor, Tor he pronounces it," and
again :
" They say Minerva was angry with Ulysses and he
never recovered—so he died. So the story goes, and he
knows the story." The story is not known to me. No
light was thrown by the review of the waking-stage on April
13th, either on Ajax or Ulysses, nor by the statement in the
waking-stage of April 14th, " Ulysses was so grieved that he
died." Mr. Dorr renewed the attempt to obtain further
information about Ajax at the sitting of April 21st, l^ut
nothing further was said by the controls.
As has been said, the above statements seem entirely
without meaning, and I only hesitate to describe them as
/
54 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
sheer nonsense in view of the fact that in some other cases,
notably in the gronp of allusions to Lethe, described by Mr.
Piddington, the possession of a clue has enabled the student
to see sense in what at first reading seems mere disjointed
drivel.-^
Case V. Cyclops, Centaurs, etc.
In the case just related the errors are left uncorrected,
but in the case next to be described the complete confusion
shown at first is cleared np in the course of the sittings.
Help was no doubt derived from indications of dissatisfaction
on the part of the sitter, and the knowledge shown is, at
best, elementary. The gradual disentanglement, however, is
interesting to watch.
The suggestion by Mr. Dorr, on March 30 th, of the
" Winged Horse " as a subject for a message to transmit to
other automatists, seems to have produced a vague recollection
of most of the fabulous monsters of Greek legend—Medusa,
the Chimaera, the Minotaur, the Centaurs, the Sphinx, and
the Cyclops.^ The control says :
" What was the name of the
half-dragon man ?
" and rejects Mr. Dorr's suggestion of the
Sphinx. On March 3ist the subject reappears, when the
control says :
" Do you recall my reference to a mythological
subject half-man ?
" The sitter hereupon suggested that
Minotaur might be the word, though, as his note subsequently
added said, it was equally likely that the Centaurs were
1 Since this paper was in type a possible clue has been suggested to me.
Ajax, though not a god, was a being closely akin to a god, and possessed of
peculiar power, a Greek "Hpws (hero-divinity). As Hero of Salamis he received
veneration and worship, and in that aspect he might well be called a god.
Herodotus indeed names Ajax among " the gods" to whom {Tolai deolai) after the
defeat of the Persians three Phoenician triremes were dedicated by the successful
Greeks. The other two "gods" were Poseidon and Athena (Herod. VIII. 64
and 121). The connexion of Ajax with the island Salamis, familiar to readers
of Herodotus and Sophocles, may lie behind these confused references.
^ For the benefit of readers unfamiliar with these monsters, I may say that
by means of the Winged Horse, sprung from the blood of the snaky-tressed
Gorgon Medusa, Bellerophon slew the winged Chimaera, compounded of horse,
dragon, and goat. The Minotaur is half-man, half-bull ; the Centaurs half-man,
half- horse; the SjMnx is a winged figure half- woman and half-lion, and the
Cydo-ps a one-eyed giant.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 55
intended. The control very judiciously committed himself only
to the four letters common to the two woi'ds, t a u r.
Most of the above monsters, familiar to the sitter, were
alluded to in the waking-stage of April 13th : "He had an ox's
head and a man's body . . . Centaurs. Sphinxes . . . woman's
head and a lion's body
;
" and when the subject came up on
April 14th in reviewing the preceding waking-stage, Mr. Dorr
drew attention to the confusion, and asked Myersp to recall
the Centaurs clearly, if he could. The attempt to do this
seems to have produced a confusion between Centaurs and
Cyclops, for after drawing an object described as a Centaur
on April 22nd, the hand reached out and touched the sitter
on both eyes, and then upon the centre of the forehead,
where it pressed heavily. This suggested to Mr. Dorr a
creature with a single eye in the centre of his forehead, and
the hand assented to this ^dew. Later in the sitting, when
Mr. Dorr proposed Cyclops as a message for transmission, the
hand drew again the figure which it had described earlier as
a Centaur, and the confusion still persisted in the waking-
stage, as is shown by the words :
" Cyclops — —•
— head,
sn'akes . . . Cyclops had one eye in his forehead ... I
did tell him, but he doesn't understand ' Cyclops was
Centaur, no, that's mixed ' Half-head half-body ; tell him
that. Say snakes from the head."
On April 27th, during the trance-writing, confusion between
these creatures is mentioned by Mr. Dorr, and admitted by the
control. In the waking-stage the first words caught are
" Had a wicked face," which the comment on May 4 applies
to Medusa. Later in the waking-stage of April 27th, a protest
against the supposed confusion is made in the words :
" Don't
you think I know the difference between Cyclops and Centaur?"
and on May 4th, when these words are read to Myersp, he
clearly distinguishes between them in the words :
" One eye.
Half-horse and man." Henceforth the distinction is maintained.
But it will be noted that by this time much help had probably
been derived from the indications given by the experimenter.
56 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Case YI. Parthenon.
I have related the above case at length because, if it stood
alone, it would make against the intervention of a third
intelligence. It suggests the tentative and gradual acquisition
by some one starting with very little, if any, actual knowledge
of facts known to the sitter. It does not suggest the revival,
amid difficulties of expression, of memories once familiar,
which is in my view suggested by some other incidents. In
this respect it differs, for instance, from the following case,
where a transition is made from definite errors—not however
at all likely to be due to guesses by the medium—by gradual
stages to a statement involving a knowledge almost certainly
exceeding that consciously possessed by the sitter.
Extract from sittimj of Marcli 24:th.
(The control to-day is apparently K. H. throughout, F. W. H. M.
being indicated as present and occasionally speaking.)
[In the part of the sitting immediately preceding the following
extracts, G. B. D. had asked questions about Aphrodite,
Poseidon and Plotinus ; his last remark is
:J
G. B. D. Best leave it until another time. I would like to have him
think it over and tell me later what he can about the
character of Plotinus's writing.
Oh yes ; all right.
(After a moment's pause)
Parthenon.
G. B. D. Is that Parthenon ?
Yes. (Word follows whose reading is not clear, but which,
in view of what comes later, is probably an attempt at
"Athena"). Pallis. What did you say that made me
think of it? Aphrodite and her Greek name.
[At this point Eros is suggested by the sitter as a cross-
correspondence message and some discussion takes place
about ^ws.—Note by M. cle G. V]
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 57
Who was Athea— he says Palks Athea. Athene. (G. B. D.
reads this word aloud) Yes Myers said it.
(In waking-stage of same day.)
.... Venus chamber Pallas —Parthenon.
Extract from sitting of March 3 0th, 1908.
(Gr. B. D. going through utterances of waking-stage.)
G. B. D. The Light next said "Pallas" "Parthenon." Tell me the
meaning of the word Parthenon, what its significance is.
Yes certainly. Venus chamber. (G. B. D. reads as above ;
hand listens, and then writes :)
Not exactly.
Inhab— bride.
G. B. D. What are you trying to exjsress now?
Answer Parthenon. (Two straight parallel lines now drawn.)
Walk.
G. B. D. Is this an answer to my question about Parthenon ?
I know but I am a little confused over your various Cjuestions.
Extract from sitting of March 31st, 1908.
(G. B. D. having mentioned in a non-classical connexion a
marble statue, the hand writes "like Pallas Athene,"
which leads G. B. D. to speak of a statue at Athens and
another elsewhere by a famous sculptor whose name he
asks the control to recall.)
I'll think it over a little ;
perhaps it will bring it to my mind.
Best leave these awhile and I'll recall them. . . . Virgin.
G. B. D. Why do you write that?
Just came to my mind.
G. B. D. Is that an answer to a question ?
Yes. Parthenon. Just this moment came to me.
G. B. D. That is first-rate. That is exactly what I wanted to get.
Extract from waking-stage of same day.
. . . Parthenon, Virgin's chamber.
58 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Extract from sitting of A23ril 6th, 1908.
M'^aking-stage.
Came a knocking at my chamber door. Virgin's chamber
Off with you—Mr. Myers piped up and said, suggested
chamber door.
Extract from sitting of April 1th, 1908.
(G. B. D. going through utterances of waking-stage.)
G. B. D. "And there came a knocking at my chamber door."
And I came to this beautiful life.
G. B. D. I thought the words were a memory of poetry from this
life.
Yes. Poe.
My eyes my beautiful •—•
— rapping rapping.
G. B. D. Then she said " Mr. Myers piped up."
Oh isn't that funny. I must say it sounded familiar.
G. B. D. " Mr. Myers piped up and said, suggested chamber door."
Isn't that too funny for words. ,
Eecapitiilating the above, then, we note that the word
" Parthenon " was spontaneously produced on March 24th, and
connected with " Pallas Athena." In the waking-stage of the
same day the nnintelligible words " Venus chamber " preceded
the repetition " Pallas Parthenon." When Mr. Dorr read the
utterances of the waking-stage, he did not mention " Venus
chamber," which he seems to have connected with preceding
words referring to a question about Eros. But he asked for
the meaning of the word Parthenon or its significance. The
word represents two Greek words : the accusative case of
Parthenos, " a virgin," and the nominative case of Parthenon,
which means " maidens' apartment," and is usually employed
in that sense in the plural. In the singular it is used of the
Maiden's chamber, namely, the Temple of Athena Parthenos at
Athens.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper s Trance. 59
The attempt to give the meaning of the word Parthenon
produces again the unintelligible " Venus chamber," which,
however, does not satisfy the control, who corrects it to
" Inhab—bride," words which seem to approximate to the ideas
suggested by Parthenon. The parallel straight lines and the
word " walk " remain unexplained, and the control recognizes
his own confusion.
On March 31st further reference to Pallas Athene produces
from the control the word " virgin," which he definitely states
is " an answer to " Mr. Dorr's question about the meaning of
Parthenon. This answer satisfies the experimenter, his intention
having been not to obtain a specific translation of the word
into English, but to find out whether the control understood
that the name was due to the fact that Athena was the
virgin goddess. But the control utters in the waking-stage of
the same day the words " Parthenon virgin's chamber," which
give the second meaning of the Greek word, and thus complete
the answer to Mr. Dorr's question. It is noticeable that this
completion is produced after the sitter has accepted, as
" exactly what " he " wanted to get," the fii'st answer " virgin."
I am disposed to see in the original " Venus chamber " an
attempt at the " virgin chamber " ultimately given, and the
interest of this case lies partly in the fact that the informa-
tion given exceeds that consciously demanded by the sitter.
The later references on April 6 th and 7th appear to me
to show the influence of Mrs. Piper's own knowledge. Poe's
poem of the Raven is a familiar one, and the combination of
a virgin's chamber and a statue of Athena produces a
recollection of " the pallid bust of Pallas " above the " chamber
door." This recollection leads to other memories of Poe, for, as
Mr. Dorr points out, it is probable that the words " my eyes
my beautiful " on April 7th are reminiscences of Annabel Zee.
" And the stars never rise but I feel the bright eyes
Of my beautiful Annabel Lee."
Case VII. Virgil's Aeneid.
Now we come to the most perplexing of all the topics, the
most difficult to deal with and to make intelligible to any
60 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
but a classical reader. It cannot, however, be omitted, for it
is crucial. The first words, anna virumque ccmo, from the
first book of the Aeneid were given by the sitter as a test
for translation by the control two weeks before these sittings
began. This poem, therefore, formed the first subject of his
attempt to revive the memories of the control and to elicit
information. It was a good choice. A personality claiming
to have access to the memories of Frederic Myers ought to be
able to show a knowledge of this poem not only beyond
anything attainable by the medium, but considerably exceeding
the knowledge of the sitter. This I believe to have been the
case. Amid much error and confusion we get indications,
as I tliink, that the increasing knowledge shown is due to the
revival of once familiar memories, and not to the acquisition
of information, or to the development of suggestion from the
sitter. The only question is whether the knowledge indicated
is distinctive enough to be attributed to a particular source.
To save time and space, I condense the record where I can,^
and to make the position as clear as possible, I quote and
translate the opening lines of tlie poem.
Arma virumque cano, Troiae qui prinnis ab oris
Italian! , fato profugus, Lavinaque venit
Litora, multum ille et terris iactatus et alto
Vi superum, saevae memorem Junonis ob iram,
Malta quoque et hello passus, dum conderet urbem,
Inferretque deos Latio, genus unde Latinum
Albanique patres, atque altae moenia Eomae.
Musa, mihi causas memora, quo numine laeso,
Quidve dolens, regina deum tot volvere casus
Insignem pietate viruni, tot adire labores
Impulerit. Tantaene aniniis caelestibus irae ?
Urbs antiqua fuit, Tyrii tenuere coloui,
Karthago, Italiam contra Tiberinaque longe
Ostia, dives opum studiisque asperrima belli
Quam Juno fertur terris niagis omnibus unam
1 Full extracts of some parts of the sittings concerned will be found in Mrs.
Sidgwick's paper, pp. 171-8, and in Mr. Piddington's, pp. 92, 93, 145, and these
will enable the reader to check my summaries.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pijyer's Trance. 61
Posthabita coluisse Samo ; hie illius arma,
Hie currus fuit
Arms and the hero I sing, who first from the shores of Troy,
exiled by fate, came to Italy and the Lavinian coasts ; much way-
worn was he by land and sea through the might of the gods to sate
the unforgetting wrath of fierce Juno. Much stricken too in war, till
he should build him a city, and bring his gods to Latium, whence
came the Latin race, the fathers of Alba, and the walls of lofty
Eome.
Muse, tell me the causes, for what outrage to her godhead, or
suffering what smart, did the queen of gods drive a hero, renowned
for goodness, to pass through so many mischances, to undertake so
many labours. In heavenly hearts can such anger be 1
There was an ancient cit}^ occupied by Tyrian colonists, Car-
thage, set against Italy and the Tiber's mouth but far away, rich in
resource and hardened in war's rough arts ; this city Juno is said to
have preferred for her dwelling to all the earth, even Samos coming
second. Here were her aims, here was her chariot.
The words Arma vinimque cano were given to Hodgsonp on
February 25th, 1908, for translation. On March 9th, at the
first, namely, of this series of sittings, Hodgsonp announced that
he had brought Myersp to help, and asked to have the words
repeated.-^ The first attempt to translate this phrase goes beyond
the actual words given, though probably hardly beyond the
knowledge of most educated persons. The literal translation
is " Arms and the man I sing " ; the translation given by
MyerSp is "I sing of the feats of the exile, who by fate;"
he adds the words " Troy," " arms," and " Juno," and further
shows knowledge that the exile wandered and came to the
shores of Italy. Thus, though we have only an actual trans-
lation of the words viricm . . . cano . . . qui . . . fato profugus,
knowledge is shown such as would be derived from the context
of the next three lines {anna, Troiac, Italiam, vcnit litora,
Junonis). Moreover the phraseology of the actual translation
given is not what one would expect from Mrs. Piper, nor is
^ For the full record of the part of this sitting which refers to the Aeneid
see Mrs. Sidgwick's paper below, pp. 171-8.
62 Mrs. A. W. Verrcdl. [part
it identical witli that of any version known to me.^ The word
" feats," for instance, which is quite appropriate, does not occur
in any translation which I have consulted.
Mr. Dorr then asked for the name of the exile, or of the
poem, and in reply obtained many attempts at the word Aeneid,
unmistakable but not correct, thus : "Enoid^—Eid—I did not
get all tlie letters in—Eiod—Einid—not quite but near enough
Eind. . .
." And even after the sitter had spoken the word
at the control's request, the repetition by the hand was, " Eiane
Aenid." The name of the author was asked for, but not
remembered " at the moment " ; a repeated request for the
author's name produced what looks like a confusion with Homer,
corrected into a personal statement: "Blind—I am not blind
or deaf but I hear with difficulty."
The spontaneous introduction in the course of this sitting
of the name Jimo is a good point (see 1. 4), and the word
" god " which immediately follows Juno recalls the vi superum
of the same line. But in answer to Mr. Dorr's question as
to what Juno did with regard to Troy and the exile, we have
a series of incorrect statements showing clearly that the part
played by Juno in the story of Aeneas is completely misap-
prehended. The exile, called Teusis (?) or Torius, wandered
and thought he was lost, but was redeemed and saved by
Juno. Again, the control speaks of Juno's love for the exile
and v olunteers " the incident of Juno and her saving Torius
as a proof of memory. The placing together of the words,
" Exile," and " Saved by Juno " as successive messages to be
used for transmission may have enq^hasized the original mis-
conception. But in spite of Mr. Dorr's recognition of the
mistake about Juno's action, and even after the trance-
personality had remembered or guessed that Juno was the
owner of the "injured form" (1. 27) asked about by the sitter,
the mistake still persists. It is not corrected till the next
day, March 10th, and then only after a strong hint from Mr.
Dorr.
^The translations consulted by me are those of Dryden, Beresford 1794,
Syinmons 1817, King 1847, Rhoades, W. Morris, Clayton, Mackail, Conington,
and Fairfax Taylor, besides several editions containing translations of particular
phrases.
^ The 0 is not clear.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pijjer's Trance. 63
Perhaps the best evidence of a real acquaintance with the
poem is found in the spontaneous introduction in this sitting,
March 9th, of the name Neptune. This follows immediately
upon the repetition by Mr. Dorr of five phrases chosen for
transmission as messages for cross-correspondence, thiis
G. B. D. Troy, the city in flames, exile, saved by Juno, the face in
flame.i
Yes. Neptune.
G. B. D. What about Neptune 1
ft
I thought it would fit in splendidly. As it all goes in.
(Pause.)
G. B. D. Are there any other names belonging to this that you can
give me 1
You see it comes back to my memory by degrees.
Eeaders of the Aeneid will remember the famous passage
where the storm sent upon Aeneas by Aeolus at Juno's request,
is calmed by the appearance of Neptune {Aen. I. 125). It is
therefore appropriate that the name Neptune should be at
once introduced among reminiscences of the first Aeneid. The
name is repeated with emphasis by MyerSp when the cross-
correspondence messages are again enumerated, and later in
answer to a suggestion from the sitter not to " try to connect
things together unless they come to yon so," Myersp replies
" Like Nejjtuner
No definite reminiscences can be traced in the later remarks
at this sitting about " her love of the exile and she restores
him," and " built, she built a,—she goes up with her love the
exile." But in view of what follows in subsequent sittings
I think it possible that we have here a first emergence of Dido
and her part in the poem.
At the risk of seeming fanciful I hazard conjectures to
account for the incorrect or unexplained statements above
described. At the first reading neither Torius nor Teusis
^ Of these five phrases, face in flame was suggested by Mr. Dorr before these
sittings began ;
Troy and exile were spontaneously suggested by Myersp on March
9th, city inflames and saved hy Juno were added at the sitter's suggestion.
64 Mrs. A. W. Verrcdl. [part
conveyed any meaning to me, but Mr. Piddington suggested that
the word which appears as Torius or Tarius ^
may be intended
for Troius, the inversion of two letters l^eing not uncommon
in Piper script. Aeneas is called Troius in the first book
(I. 596). The followers of Aeneas are called throughout the
poem indifferently Trojans, Teucrians, and Dardanians, from the
names of three heroes of the race, Tros, Teucer, Dardanus.
If Torius recalls Troius, perhaps Teusis is aimed at Teucer.
Again, the mistake about Juno is perhaps explicable if we
suppose a confusion between two passages very familiar to
classical readers, in the first Acncid and the fifth book
of the Odyssey!^ In both the hero, after much wandering,
is lost in a god-sent storm and saved by the interposition of
a god. In Odyssey V. Odysseus is saved by Ino from the
storm sent by Poseidon (Neptune). In Aeneid I. it is by
Neptune that Aeneas is saved from the storm roused by
Juno's wratli. Possibly the similarity of the names Ino
and Juno may have aided the confusion. That there was
confusion in the trance between Homer and Virgil is clear,
for though the name of the poem is said to be Acncid, a
repeated request for the name of the poet produces in the
word " blind " an unmistakable allusion to the writer, not
of the Aeneid, but of the Odyssey.^
On March 10th Mr. Dorr read from Fragments of Prose
and Foetry (p. 6) the eighth line of Acncid I. and the pre-
ceding and following paragraphs as follows
On my sixth birthday my father began to teach me Latin ; and a
few months later he gave me the First Aeneid of Virgil with an
interlinear translation. The scene is stamped upon my mind ; the
ante room at the Parsonage with its floor of bright matting and its
^ The first vowel is doubtful, but at least once is plainly o.
2 The storm in the Odysse;/ is the prototype of Virgil's storm. See, for
instance, Conington's notes on Aeii. I. 85: "See Horn. Od. V. 295"; Aen.
I. 102: " Virg. continues to imitate Horn. Od. V. 313 fol."; Aen. I. 124,
" Ulysses in the Odyssey (V. 382) is saved, etc., etc.".
^In the waking-stage of April 21, in anotlier connexion, the words were
spoken "Odyssey—Homer—blind," showing that, at least on that day, the
control was not ignorant of the well-known fact that the blind poet Homer
was the author of the Odyssey.
Lx.] Classical and Literary A llusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 65
glass door into the garden, through which the flooding sunlight came,
while I pored over the new revelation with awe-struck joy ;
Musa, mihi causas memora, quo nnmine laeso —
I can recall the reverent emotion v/ith which I hung on the
rhythm of that majestic line. The invocation of the Muse came to
me as absolutely real and new ; and the quo numine laeso suggested
m3'steries of divinity on which I dimly feared to dwell. Not
Aeneas himself felt his own piety with such emotion as I felt that
insignem pietate vinim;—but the task of carrying gods into Latium,i
and especially the keeping of Juno's carriage at Carthage ^ were
incomprehensible by my childish Christianity.
jSTo evidential value is claimed for the subsequent mention
by ]\IyerSp of the names occurring in these paragraphs.
But they may have helped the reminiscences of the poem
which emerged immediately as follows : ......
Extract from Sitting of March 10th, 1908.
(Myersp communicating.)
I recall so well the emotions which first stirred within me,
the poem as I translated it, the exile and his wanderings,
his power and his warriors.
Also Dido—-feast—calm waters by Neptune.
(Here followed a drawing of a trident not at first recognised
by the sitter. After its recognition Myersp continued)
I remember something about his father.
G. B. D. AVhat was his father's name 1
Let me think. (Pause.) Very odd and rather long. (Another
pause.)
Juno was angered.
G. B. D. Why ? , .
Powerful not to be angered.
^Aen. I. 6. -Am. I. 17.
E
66 •
Mrs. A. W. Verrall. - [part
G. B. D. Can you tell me anything about either the father or the
mother of the exile or about the cause of Juno's anger?
I am thinking, thinking, friend about—Walls of Rome—fire
and flee. Africa. She did not wish to be overpowered.
G. B. D. Who?
Juno—Juno.
G. B. D. What was the cause of Juno's anger?
Repeat once more slowly.
G. B. D. (Repeats c|uestion.)
Oh I understand—she got Dido to listen.
G. B. D. Did Juno take part in the siege of Troy to help the city
or against it?
Preserve it.
G. B. D. Is that your answer ?
No, I ask if that is your question.
[The impression I got however was that '
preserve it ' was
really intended at first for the answer. Note by G. B. D.]
G. B. D. Yes.
No, she destroyed because she did not wish a better city
than her own. Africa Africa.
G. B. D. What led her to take part?
Aeneas was a Trojan and he builded the wall and city,
which angered Juno and she helped destroy it. This
caused Aeneas to flee.
G. B. D. But what was the original cause of all this? What first led
to it?
Love.
G. B. 1). Who wrote the old Greek poem about Troj' ?
Odessey?
G. B. D. Who wrote it ?
'
i
Homer.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 67
G. B. D. But the Odyssey was not the poem that told about the
destruction of Troy ; there was another.
Illiad. I remember don't confuse me.
G. B. D. What led the gods to take part ?
Juno was in power and did not wish a finer city.
G. B. D. But are you not confusing the old Greek story with that
of the exile Aeneas?
(The hand assents.)
Yes ! I have to clear up one thing first I think.
Further remarks were made on March 16tli and at later
sittings. I think it will be easier for the reader to follow if
I divide the above statements into groups and deal in order
with the various topics, including later allusions. Five points
emerged on March 10th, in the passage above quoted, viz.:
(«) Dido.
(b) Feast.
(c) Calming of sea by Neptune, and Trident.
(d) Aeneas' father.
(c) Cause of Juno's anger.
{a and h) It will Ije convenient to take together a and b.
Besides the two above-quoted mentions of Dido, the name
emerged again on March 16 th, when a question about the
three women concerned in the judgement of Paris elicited the
words, " Dido, Juno, and—(pause)." In the waking-stage of
March 16th a group of allusions to the Aeneicl emerged,
supplementary to the statements of March 10th. Thus:
Carthage she did not wish [it] to be more beautiful
than hers —Neptune calmed the sea for Aeneas — —
don't you hear me? Mr. Myers is whispering in one
ear and I am trying to get it out at the other. Set
to watch and spy on Aeneas —she sent her to watch
Aeneas —and then to feast him.
G.B. D, Who?
goddess !
Dido—she fell in love—why does he talk so much ? I don't
know the words.
68 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
The allusions to Dido on March 10th though not distinc-
tive, are fairly appropriate ; Dido gave a feast in honour of
Aeneas, and was " got to listen." ^ The connexion on March
16th of Dido with Juno and the judgement of Paris is of
course sheer nonsense.'-^ In the waking-stage of March 16th,
though the sentences are not clear, it is obvious that the
episode of Aeiieas' reception by Dido underlies the Awious
phrases. Dido's love for Aeneas is too familiar to be of
evidential value. Readers of the Acncicl will remember the
description of the feast at Carthage {Aen. I. 637, etc.) and
the meeting between Aeneas and Dido, arranged by the
goddess Venus, who sent the queen to watch the progress
of her new city and Ijrought Aeneas to the same spot {Aen. I.
340, 446, 494, 496, etc.). The phrases "set to watch and
spy on Aeneas " and " she sent her to watch Aeneas " are
not, however, accurate accounts of what occurred.
(c) The name Neptune emerged at once on March 9 th,
but the description of his action appears for the first time
on March 10th. The original introduction of the name, the
statement that it was appropriate, the emphasis with which
it was repeated, and the allusion to his calming the waters,
are entirely spontaneous. So too is the introduction on March
10th of the trident. The trident is, no doubt, naturally asso-
ciated with Neptune, but it is particularly appropriate in
connexion with the early part of the first Aeneid, as it is by
the power of the trident^ that Neptune claims the right to
calm the seas (Aen. I. 138).
(d) Again it is appropriate that an attempt to recall the
Aeneid should produce an allusion to Aeneas' father, especially
to any one just reminded by the passage read from Fragments
of the pietcis which made Aeneas insignem virum.'^ Here as
elsewhere there is difficulty about giving the name, Anchises.
^If the "she " who got Dido to listen is referred to its preceding grammatical
subject, Juno, this statement is incorrect. But I believe that the words "she
got Dido to listen " constitute a new point and do not refer to what has preceded.
The point is clearer in the waking-stage of March ]6th.
2 Great confusion was caused in my opinion by the failure of the sitter to
understand the object of the control. See below, p. 70.
•Tor successful cross-correspondences on Neptune and his trident see Mrs.
Sidgwick's paper, p. 177.
^ The passage contains no allusion to Aeneas' father.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 69
The words " very odd and rather long " seem to come from
Eector rather than fx'om Myersp.^ Some approach to the name
is made on March 16 th"' when, after Mr. Dorr has asked, in
quite another connexion, if the control can tell him who
Charo7i was and what he did, Myersp replies, " I remember
father, if I understand the name." The sitter evidently saw no
point in this remark and replied, " No, you have not got it
yet." But MyerSp persisted :
" Oh I am thinking of Aeneas'
father," and then produced an illegible word terminating with
the right sound, '
seas'
Readers familiar with the Acneid will see at once why the
name of Charon should recall the father of Aeneas. For it is
on his visit to his father in Hades that Aeneas uses the
services of Charon. The visit to Hades, described in the
sixth Aeneid, is the centre of the wliole poem. In the waking-
stage of March 30th, the first word uttered is " Anchises,"
and when this is read to the control on April 6 th the
description, " Aeneas' father," is added. In the waking-stage
of March 31st the name emerges again, immediately after the
name Icarus,^ and the last mention of the name is on April
13th, when in the waking-stage the words "Anchises'
funeral " were spoken just before allusions to disciis throwing.
As the reader will remember, the funeral games of Anchises
form the subject of the fifth Aeneid. The group of allusions
therefore to the father of Aeneas is appropriate throughout.
(e) From the father of Aeneas, MyerSp passes to the wrath
of Juno, whom he describes as powerful and not to be
angered,—a phrase possibly reminiscent of saevae memo7'em
Junonis oh iram, " on account of the unfoi'getting wrath of
stern Juno " (Aen. I. 4), though sufficient had been said on
this subject on March 9th to justify a guess that Juno was
powerful and angered. Something, however, beyond a guess
appears, I think, in the subsequent statements. After the
mention of the walls of Eome and Africa, MyerSp adds that
1 See Mr. Piddington's paper, p. 145.
^ For record of such of the statements on March 16th as concern the topics
(d) and (e), see below, p. 71, where it has been placed in order not to interrupt
the narrative.
5 See Mr. Piddington's paper, p. 148, for an explanation of the association of
these two names.
70 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Juno did not wish to be overpowered. This at once recalled
to my mind Juno's speech (Acn. I. 37-49) and the reference
(Aen. I. 15, 16) to Juno's special love for Carthage. One of
the motives of Juno's action, as represented by Virgil, was
her desire to prevent the founding of Eome, the city destined
one day to destroy her own Carthage. Thus Conington's
analysis of Aeneicl I. 8-22 runs as follows:
—"Why was it.
Muse, that Juno so persecuted so pious a hero ? Juno was
patroness of Carthage, which she had heard was destined one
day to be crushed by a nation of Trojan descent."
This obscurely-worded allusion by the control on March
10th, only intelligible to some one very familiar with the
poem, was not observed by Mr. Dorr. Not seeing that the
words above quoted constituted an approach to the answer to
his question, and expecting an allusion to the judgement of
Paris, he asked again what was the cause of Juno's anger.
After the irrelevant remark " she got Dido to listen," the
repeated question produced the old mistake about Juno's
action, modified, as Mr. Dorr noted, by some indication that
it failed to satisfy him. But in the course of this modifica-
tion, IMyerSp returned to the earlier point and repeated that
Juno did not " wish a better city than her own—Africa
Africa."
The next few answers repeat the confusion and error, a
confusion not perhaps surprising, seeing that the sitter and
control were not thinking of the same point. But the control
to the end maintains the view that what led the gods to take
part was that " Juno was in power and did not wish a finer
•
city."
On March 16th ^ this ]Doint is again suggested. MyerSp
asked for a repetition of the question which, in its original
form, ran :
" What was the cause of Juno's anger ?
" (March
10). Mr. Dorr repeated it in the form, "What was the cause
which led Juno to take part against Troy ?
" Obviously the
correct answer to this would have referred to the "judgement
of Paris." It is equally obvious that the sitter was not
aware that he had modified his question. But MyerSp
carefully distinguishes, and repeats the question in the earlier
and more general form, to which the answer required from a
^ See note on p. 72.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 7
student of the Aencid would be :
" Juno's partiality for
Carthage
;
" Myersp says :
" What caused Juno's wrath ?
Because she did not wish Aeneas to conquer her, l^ecause she
thought it mioiit
"
o o
Here the sitter suggested that MyerSp was thinking, not of
Troy, but of Eome, exactly what a student of the Aeneicl in
particular—as distinguished from the general cycle of legends
would have done. Mr. Dorr then introduced the subject of
the judgement of Paris, telling the control not to confuse the
old story in Homer with the story of Aeneas. To this the not
unnaturally bewildered control replies :
" I remember, let me
think it over, don't tell me. I remember it caused wrath
because of jealousy. She was jealous of—because—because it
she was not selected." In these remarks the sitter found the
unmistakable allusion to the judgement of Paris which he
wanted, and the subject was not revived. But I tlo not
think that it can be doubted liy a reader thoroughly familiar
with the Aeneid that the first attempts of the control to
explain the cause of Juno's wrath dealt not with her jealousy
of Venus, but with her partiality for Carthage ; in other
words, with the cause of her enmity not against Troy, but
against Eome.
I append the record of such parts of the sitting of March
16 th as are required to follow this comment.
Extract from Sitting of March IQth, 1908.
(MyerSp communicating.)
G. B. D. Shall I ask you some questions now to bring out your recol-
lection of the Classics 1
Yes, anything you like. Shall we first answer your previous
ones if I can 1 .
.
Do you remember the Greek name of Juno, the one that is
given her in Homer?
No, I do not at the moment.
Can you get it later 1
Perhaps I can I'll try.
72 . . Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
ti. B. D. Who was Charon 1
•
I remember Charon perfectly well.
(Name Charon not clearly written.)
G. B. D. Please spell it out.
Charon.
...
G. B. D. What did he do ?
I remember father, if I understand the name.
G. B. D. No, you have not got it yet.
Oh, I am thinking of ^neas's father.
(A word follows impossible to read.)
Wrath
G. B. D. What is that word?
WRATH
G. B. D. What does that mean ?
Juno. You said Juno, did you not 1 . .
G. B. D. But that is not the question that I asked you.
Oh let us clear up what is on ni}- mind first, then we shall
keep clear.
G. B. ]). What is on your mind ?
Juno, Eneas, wrath
G. B. 1). Was that word ^^llneas '?
Yes. What were your previous c^uestions 1 I am trying to
avoid confusion.
G. B. I). My question at our last meeting was. What was the cause
which led Juno to take part against Troy ?
What caused Juno's wrath 1 ^ Because she did not wish
Eneas to conquer her—because she thought it might
G. B. D. But you are now thinking of Rome, not Troy. Do you want
me to suggest a little more to you ?
(Hand makes gesture of assent.)
^ " What was the cause of Juno's anger?" was the form in which tlie question
was ijut at the previous sitting.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pipers Trance. 73
G. B. D. Do you remember about Paris 1
(After a moment's pause hand writes very vehemently :)
Of course I do. Tell me
G. B. D. The apple which was to be given to the fairest ?
Oh the most beautiful woman—Yes I do.
G. B. D. Who were the three women?
Dido, Juno, and (pause)
G. B. D. Do not confuse the story of ^neas with this ; this is the
old story in Homer.
I remember, let me think it over. Don't tell me. I remember
it caused wrath because of jealousy.
G. B. D. What word is that 1
Jealousy. She was jealous of—because —because it —she was
not selected. It is vague but I can recall it I think
and give some of the words to Mrs. V.
On the same day, March 16th, 1908, an attempt was made
by MyerSp to translate the line {Aen. I. 8), quoted on March
10th from Fragments of Prose and Poetry. The literal translation
runs: "Muse, tell me the causes, for godhead how offended . .
."
The translation given by Myersp runs thus :
" Oh Muse, oh what
cause—affront—cause cause, with what affront. It is in
my mind. Oh Muse with cause—cause for what affront—
can't get it exactly." The word numcn (godhead) is not
translated, and does not seem to have been understood even
after repetition. The general meaning of the line is unmis-
takably indicated, and here as in the earlier translation the-
phraseology is, as far as I know, original ; the word " affront
does not occur in any translation or edition that I have
consulted.
On March 17 th Mr. Dorr read to MyerSp Dryden's trans-
lation of the opening lines of the first Aeneid, and this,
produced several reminiscences of the poem. By this time
enough had been said at previous sittings to show plainly
what was wanted, and therefore references to obvious topics
74 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
ill the poem are of little evidential value. But some of the
references are not obvious. Thus, after the first four lines
have been read/ MyerSp notes three points as follows :
" Fleet
behind on island,—soldiers in Horse. Arrow in heel," the
first two points being plainly connected." Mr. Dorr numbers
these points as three, and notes that the second was in
answer to a question asked previously as to what connexion
there was between the AVooden Horse and Troy. The third
was introduced spontaneously, nothing having been said pre-
viously to bring it out. It alludes to the death of Achilles,
a story familiar to inany persons who have no first-hand
classical knowledge.
The interesting point is No. 1, "fleet behind on [o?- an]
island." This at once recalled to me a passage (Aen. II. 21),
describing the stratagem by which the Trojans were led to
believe that the Greeks had sailed away. The Greek fleet
was concealed behind the island of Tenedos, and the Wooden
Horse contained the only Greeks who were left behind on
the mainland. The words, est in conspedu Tenedos, notissima
fama insula, begin one of the most famous passages in the
Acneid, and follow immediately upon the description of the
Wooden Horse. The conjunction therefore of the words " fleet
behind an island " and " soldiers in Horse " is appropriate, and
plainly indicates, to my mind, a knowledge of the story
of the second Aeneid.
It is interesting to note that the allusion to Tenedos was
not at the time perceived by the sitter. This point is made
clear by Mr. Dorr's contemporary notes. Commenting on the
^The first four lines of Dryden's translation follow closely the four lines of
the original.
-I have here strictly followed the typewritten record of the sitting, where
the word "soldiers'' has a small and the first full-stop is after the word
"Horse." I have little doubt that the third word in the first phrase should
be not "on" but "an." Mr. Dorr, whose experience of the script is extensive,
writes on November 29, 1909, that, "a and o written as they are often written
in the script, not rarely need the help of the context to distinguish them . . .
and '
fleet behind on island ' is nonsense of a kind quite foreign to the general
character of what is said or written in the Piper trance." The tracing of the
original, sent to me by Mr. Dorr, leaves undetermined the vowel in the third
word ; it shows that the punctuation of the typewritten copy accurately repre-
sents the divisions between the phrases in the original script.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper s Trainee. 75
sitting of March iTtli he writes: "The first one (i.e. fleet
behind on island) I am not clear about myself, hwt have
supposed it to refer to Aeneas' leaving the ships that came
with him to the African coast behind, when he went to
Dido's court. This does not seem to be satisfactory in view
of the words used, as the ships were beached in a bay on
the mainland,^ not on an island, but I can recall no other
incident it might refer to." On April 6th Mr. Dorr adds
the following note :
" I have just come by accident, in turning
over the pages of the second book of the Aeneid, upon Aeneas'
description of how, after leaving the Wooden Horse upon the
Trojan plain, the Greek fleet apparently sailing for home re-
mained hidden behind the island of Tenedos until the
stratagem of the "Wooden Horse had opened the way for
storming the city. My note upon this written after the sit-
ting shows my total lack of recollection of this incident at
that time, for I then searched my memory to find what there
was either in the Aeneid or in Homer to which the words,
'
fleet behind on island,' could apply and recalled nothing."
This incident then appears to show not only an intimate
acqiiaintance with the Aeneid, but one beyond the conscious
possession of the sitter.
This being so, it is worth considering whether any explanation
will account for the immediate transition from this incident
to the death of Achilles, who, as the well-known story runs,
was wounded in the only vulnerable point, his heel, by an
arrow shot from the bow of Paris, but directed by the god
Apollo. To classical scholars a clue to the association of the
two incidents is given in " Tenedos," the name of the island
behind which the Greek fleet was concealed. The ancient
fame and wealth of Tenedos, noted by Virgil, were due to
the island's possessing a temple of Apollo Smintheus." The
name of the god of Tenedos, Apollo Smintheus, is rarely found
in classical literature. Twice, and twice only, does his name
occur in the extant accounts of the Trojan Epic. To the
archer god of the silver bow, lord of Chryse, Killa and Tenedos,
addressed as " Smintheus," the old priest Chryses prays for
i^e?i. I. 159, etc.
-See Conington's note on Virgil, Aeneid II. 21. "In Homer's time (//. I. 38)
the island is famous for a temple of Apollo Smintheus."
7(J Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
vengeance upon the Greeks, and the arrows of Apollo are
shot forth in answer to those prayers. The story is told in
the First Iliad (II. I. 38, 452). To this same archer god,
addressed as " Smintheus," ISTeptune appeals to slay Achilles,
and in answer to this prayer, the arrow of Paris is guided
by Apollo against Achilles. The story is told by Ovid (llet.
XII. 580), in the only passage in classical literature which
describes in detail the death of Achilles.^ •
•
Tenedos, then, the island which concealed the Greek fleet,
was a seat of the worship of Apollo Smintheus, the slayer of
Achilles, and to those possessing this knowledge the transition
from the one incident to the other is natural. But the history
of Tenedos is not " common knowledge " even to classical
scholars. Many persons familiar with Homer and Virgil might
read the disjointed utterances of the trance-personality on
March 17 without perceiving a link between the two phrases,
" Fleet l )ehind an island, —soldiers in Horse," and " Arrow in
heel." Such a link, however, does in fact exist. Here, as
elsewhere, familiarity with classical literature shows a coherence,
where a first reading found only broken fragments, by supply-
ing an association of ideas which may account for the otherwise
arbitrary juxtaposition of unconnected allusions.^
The next point requiring comment is the production by
MyerSp on this day of the phrases :
" Is there such anger in
celestial minds ? A hero for piety renowned—should suffer and
toil." These words were spoken by the control immediately after
tlie reading of lines 13-16 in Dryden's translation, as follows:
" For what offence the queen of Heaven began
To persecute so brave, so just a man
Involved his anxious life in endless cares.
Exposed to wants, and hurried into wars."
They represent lines 8-11, 3h(sa . . . ivijnderit, in the original.
The first sentence spoken by the control translates the line
^ His death at the hands of Apollo and Paris is prophesied in the Iliad
(XXII. 359) and alluded to by Virgil (Aen. VI. 57). Pindar {Pyih. III. 101)
and Horace (Od. IV. 6, 3) allude to Apollo's share in the death of Achilles^
and Euripides (Andr. 655, Hec. 387) attributes it to Paris.
-For similar cases see Mr. Piddington's paper, pp. 98-102.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pipers Trance. 77
that was to come, tantaene animis caelestihus irae ? represented
by Dryden in the couplet,
" Can Heavenly minds such high resentment show
Or exercise their spite in human woe."
It is certain that a Virgilian scholar, hearing a translation
of the words insignevi 23'ieiate vincm, tot aclirc labores iminderit,
woidd expect the words tantaene animis caelestihus irae. And
it is a remarkable proof of faniiliarity with the opening lines
of the first Aeneid to combine phrases which translate both
what has, and what has not, been read in Dryden's version.
Here, again, the translation does not reproduce any version
known to me. " A hero for piety renowned " is a perfectly
accurate rendering, and so is " Is there such anger in celestial
minds ?
" The words " should suffer and toil " accurately
represent volvcre casus and adire labores.
When the name Carthage {Ac7i. 1. 13) is read, the control
adds " Africa," and claims with justice to have uttered the
word in a preceding waking-stage. The mention of Paris
(Aen. I. 27) produces an allusion to Priam. But neither of
these connexions is beyond the range of ordinary knowledge.
Here ended the experiment connected with the first Aeneid,
though there were some further scattered references to other
books.^
It is impossible to summarise the above described refer-
ences to the Aeneid, but the four following points seem clear
(1) Considerable knowledge of the contents of the poem
was shown by the trance-personality, and a certain familiarity
with the language
(2) The knowledge shown was produced in a form sinmlating
revived memory, and was stimulated by quotations from the poem;
(3) The answers, so far from representing the expectations
of the sitter, were in some cases contrary to his belief, and
sometimes maintained persistently in spite of criticism and
contradiction
(4) The errors were not such as would be expected from
hastily acquired or superficial knowledge, but rather such as
might be due to confusion or fargetfulness.
'For one of these, see Mr. Piddington's paper, pp. 144-50.
78 Mrs. A. W. Verrcdl. [part
Here ends my examination in detail of attempts to " revive
the literary memories " of the trance-xiersonalities. One
experiment was tried with Greek ; but I do not propose
to disciTss this here, for, interesting and successful though it
was, it does not contrilxite substantially towards the problems
under consideration. The sentence chosen and repeated to
Mrs. Piper in the original was the line from the Odyssey
which Mr. Myers had expressed a desire to have " graven on
some tablet in " his memory. This wish is expressed in
the Fragments published in 1904;^ the line was engraved
upon his tomb at Keswick and upon a memorial tablet to him
in the Protestant Cemetery at Eome ; the Greek forms the
motto, and its translation the conclusion, of a commemorative
notice of Mr. Myers delivered in London by Sir Oliver Lodge
in 1901, and published in Proceedings, Vol. XVII. Under
these circumstances, if Mrs. Piper had heard the line read
or quoted, it is impossible to be sure that the sound of
the Greek would not recall its meairing. Failure to under-
stand the line would, it is true, have been very damaging to
the claims of MyerSp, so that a certain value attaches to the
completely successful result of this experiment. The method
by which the result was obtained is precisely similar to that
employed in the experiments above described. There is there-
fore no reason to distinguish between the knowledge shown
here and elsewhere ; the translation emerges in fragments,
partly in the trance-writing, partly in the waking-stage, and
is accompanied by allusions thoroughly appropriate under the
supposed circumstances.
Other topics arising in these sittings deserve careful
study.- As in the instances selected, they are of a " mingled
^ Frarpnents of Prose and Poetry, p. 48.
-I have omitted all reference to one topic which occupies considerable space
in the record, —an attempt to obtain from Hodgsonp a translation of four lines
of medieval Latin, which, on certain occasions, were printed on the Menu
card, at dinners of the Tavern Club in Boston, and would therefore have been
familiar to Dr. Hodgson. My chief reasons for this omission are :
(1) That many of the leading Latin words are either so universally familiar
(e.g. Deus), or so like in sound or spelling to English words (e.g. Taverna,
Awielorum chori, propitma) that their English equivalents could be easily
guessed :
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 79
yarn, good and ill together." But the disentangling of the
threads is a lengthy process. I will therefore here further
quote only a few cases in illustration of particular points.
Obviously a point to be looked for in an examination of
these phenomena is the effect, if any, of the medium's own
mind. It is difficult to find conclusive instances in these sit-
tings, but there are two or three cases, in addition to the
allusions above described to Poe's poems,^ where the normal
knowledge of Mrs. Piper seems to have entered into the state-
ments of the trance-personalities. Thus on April 6th Mr.
Dorr asked the controls, both Hodgsoup and Myersp being
present :
" Do you understand what Pilgrim Fathers means ?
To this came the amazing answer :
" Something about birds or
turkeys." The explanation occurred later to Mr. Dorr, and
was by him explained to the trance-personalities on April
22nd: "I have just discovered the association in E. H.'s mind
between turkeys and pilgrims, that made the Light write the
one when I spoke of the other—Pilgrim Fathers, Fast Day,
Thanksgiving and Turkey." The associations between these
four topics were probably also in Mrs. Piper's own mind ;
they
are unfamiliar to the English reader. At any rate the next
association seems more likely to be due to Mrs. Piper than to
the controls. On April 22nd, on passing into trance Mrs. Piper
whispered :
" Ship ! Three ladies on top of it." Myersp, when
asked to explain this, said^ it was " simply a recollection of
Valkyrie—recollection only." Mr. Dorr points out that the
connexion between a ship and the Valkyrie, wholly unaccountable
(2) that these words, if guessed, might give the chie to their context to anj'
one who had seen or heard the Latin verses ;
(3) that it is impossible to prove that Mrs. Piper had not at some time
seen or heard the Latin verses ;
(4) that in fact she probably had seen the first line, which is quoted in the
commemorative notice of Richard Hodgson by Mr. M. A. de Wolfe Howe,
published in the Proceedings, Vol. XIX.
Under these circumstances, and as the attempts at translation, though pre-
senting points of interest, do not afford conclusive evidence as to the knowledge
possessed by the trance-personalities, it seemed useless to describe the incident
in detail. See, however, a discussion of it in connexion with an elaborate
cross-eorrespondence in Miss Johnson's paper below, p. 222.
^ See p. 59. See also the foot-note on p. 115.
-This is perhaps another instance of the failure of the ti'ance-personalities
when using the hand to understand the utterances spoken in the waking-stage.
80 3Irs. A. W. Verrall. [part
at first sight and not traceable in the old Norse stories of
which he was thinking, may corne from some recollection of
the name of Lord Dunraven's yacht, the Valkyrie, very familiar
at one time to readers of the daily press. On May 8th, in
the waking-stage, an allusion to Longfellow's ^ poem. The Old
Clock on the Stairs, intervenes between a quotation from Words-
worth's We are Seven and from Browning's Rahhi Ben Ezra.
On this occasion the controls, when commenting on the utter-
ances of the waking-stage, repudiated all responsibility for the
allusion to Longfellow.
Another point of some interest, but requiring a paper to
itself for adequate treatment, is the persistent " dramatization
"
by means of which Hodgsoup and Myersp are distinguished.
On many occasions both controls are represented as present.
But sometimes one only is there, and sometimes, even when
both are present, only one takes part. The sitter does
not always remember, when a particular subject is under dis-
cussion, that one or other of the controls was absent or
not listening when the subject was last spoken of. But so
far as I have been able to discover, no mistake on this
point is ever made l)y the controls. One instance must
suffice. On May 8th Mr. Dorr, having asked who was con-
trolling, and received the reply, " Both, E. H. chiefly," read
four lines of Mr. Myers's translation of Aeneid VI., 146-149,
a passage descriptive of the Golden Bough, but not naming
it. The acknowledgement of the reading and question as
to its subject came from Hodgsoup. On May 12 th, both
controls being present at the sitting, Mr. Dorr read the
same four lines, introducing them with the words :
" Now I
want to read you something which I read you once before."
To this Myersp replied :
" Did you recite it to me before,
friend ? If so, I did not fully understand." This division
between the two persons may be a device to account for in-
accuracies or forgetfulness, but the persistency with which it
is carried through is in any case remarkable. No answer was
given to the question about the Golden Bough, which was put
near the end of the series of sittings. But the two or three
allusions to the subject—which show no knowledge of its
literary associations—are all made hy Hodgsoup.
^ See Miss .Johnson's paper, pp. 22.3-4.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 81
The reader will have already observed that occasionally
words required to answer the sitter's question appear in the
form of a personal allusion, or at least have a face-value
unlike the inner meaning.^ Thus the sentence, " See those
pretty little children," which, in my view, is suggested by
reminiscences of Comus, appears to refer to something quite
different. Similarly, I believe the " troubles and trials " of
March 31st to refer to a passage in the Agaviemnon, but they
take the form of an address to the medium as she comes out of
trance. A similar case is commented on by Mr. Piddington.'
In the waking-stage of March 30th occur the words, "Tell Mr.
Dorr I say my utterances echo everywhere. If that is he, I
think he will understand what I mean by echo, if that is he."
The intention here seems twofold ;
primarily to suggest cross-
correspondences—a subject likely to interest Ijoth the sitter and
the medium ;
secondarily to convey the word Eclio as part of
a series of allusions to Ovid.
There is a clear instance of the personal application of a
Vii'gilian phrase on March 30th. Here the words in the
waking-stage run, " He says tell him celestial minds. He
says such enmity in celestial minds—he says not so—there
isn't any in their minds." Clearly the first half of these
words refer to the translation of the Virgilian phi'ase already
given by Myersp on March l7tli. But the latter half applies
the phrase to the presumed situation of the controls. This char-
acteristic is far more freqiient in the waking-stage than in the
trance-writing. I have not found in the trance-script ^ any in-
stances closely parallel with those above quoted. There are
two or three playful remarks, but no cases in which a whole
sentence is apparently used for the introduction of a par-
ticular word. This is one of several points of distinction
between the methods in use in the trance proper and in the
waking-stage.
The waking-stage developed considerably in the course of
these sittings. Eeaders familiar with the trance phenomena
of Mrs. Piper will remember Dr. Hodgson's description of the
conditions.'* He says, " she frequently repeats statements
^ See Mr. Piddington's paper, p. 134. -See p. 116.
^ One is quoted by Mr. Piddington from the English sittings in 1906-7.
* Proceedinrjs S.P.R., Vol. XIII. pp. 397-401.
F
82 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
apparently made to her by the coniinuiiicators . . . as though
she was a spirit controlling her body Ijiit not in fidl possession
of it, and, after her supraliminal consciousness has begun to
surge up into view, she frequently has visions apparently of
the distant or departing communicators." In other words, in
what Mr. Piddingtoir has called the waking-stage, there is no
ostensible intermediary between the communicators and the
sitter, except Mrs. Piper herself. As the waking-stage pro-
gresses, the part played by Mrs. Piper increases witli her
returning consciousness.
In the English sittings 1906-1907, it became obvious that
some of tlie most distinctive indications of cross-correspondences
with other automatists were given in the waking-stage. In
this stage emerged, for instance, " laurel wreath," " Crossing the
Bar," "Arthur Hallam," and "Light in West." ^ In these
American sittings of 1908 the development of the waking-stage
was continued and extended. The time given to it was pro-
longed, the sentences became more coherent, and there was
an increasing consciousness shown of the general situation
and in particular of the presence of the sitter. Some of the
clearest and most definite answers to questions asked during
the trance proper were given in the waking-stage.
My first examination of these records led me to observe
how often during the reading over to the trance-personalities
of the utterances in previous waking-stages, the trance-script
failed to improve upon the trance-speech. Mr. Piddington's
study of the sittings led him to the same conclusion, and he
further noticed that on several occasions the trance-personalities,
when communicating through the hand, positively misconstrued
what had previously been communicated through the voice.
Some instances of this misconstruction have been noted above.
The following may be added to the list.
In the waking-stage of March 24th, 1908, came these words:
" I walked in the garden of the gods—entranced I stood along
its banks—like one entranced I saw her at last . . . Elysian
shores." Mr. Piddington has suggested ' that this may be an
allusion to the reunion of Orpheus and Eurydice in the Fields
of the Blest ; but whether it be or not, it does not suggest
^ Procefdiiigs S.P.R., Vol. XXII. pp. 94, 126, 269.
^ See his paper, p. 95.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. 83
what MyerSp, in the writing part of the sitting of March
30th, said it was, namely, an allusion to Venus. Venus had
been mentioned, though in quite another connexion, in the
waking-stage of March 24th, and this seems to have led to the
confusion.
In the waking-stage of March 24th, Mrs. Piper enunciated
the letters C, Y, and X, apparently dropping a letter between
the C and Y. There can, I think, be no reasonable doubt
that this was an attempt to produce the word Ceyx. When
however, Mr. Dorr, at the sitting of March 30th, asked for
an explanation, the answer he received
—" chariot "—was hope-
lessly irrelevant (see below, pp. 94-5).
In the waking-stage of April 6th^ came the words :
" Inno-
cence, Faith. He has a bird upon his hand. . . . Mr. Myers
has got Pygmalion—birds—Paradise." Later, after allusions to
other topics, came, " There were two pigeons over the door.
Came a-knocking at my chamber door. Virgin's chamber.''
Virgin's chamber is, as we have seen, an undoubted allusion
to the Parthenon,- so that the second utterance itself suggests
—and subsequent explanations on April 7th make this plain
that two pigeons or doves are associated with the Parthenon.
The first utterance seems clearly to connect " birds " with
" Pygmalion." What the meaning of either sentence is, or
whether there is any meaning, is not what we are now con-
sidering. The point is that the trance-script of April 7th
threw no light upon the words of the waking-stage of April
6 th, when in answer to Mr. Dorr's request for an explanation
of the words, " he has a bird upon his hand " (see below, p. 108)
—which belonged to the Pygmalion context—he was told that
they referred to the Parthenon.-^
On April 7th in the waking-stage, came an ob^dous reference
to the story of Hyacinthus,^ " A lily came up out of the blood."
Yet, when questioned by Mr. Dorr on April 13th about this,
Myersp says,—tentatively it is true, or perhaps interrogatively,
" It was an utterance about Prometheus."
^ See p. 107. - See above, p. 59.
^See above (p. 59) for the confusion between Venus' chamber anrl Virgin's
chamber, which may be responsible for the mention of two pigeons or doves
(Venus' birds) over the door of the Parthenon.
^ See Mr. Piddington"s paper, p. 109.
84 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
If any conclusion may be based iipon the above-described
and other similar instances, it would seem to be that, in the
waking-stage, a trance-personality sometimes either knows more
or can express himself better than when making written
communications. Mr. Piddington has drawn my attention to
three points of distinction between the phenomena of the
complete trance and those of the waking-stage :
(1) In Mr. Dorr's sittings (and with very few exceptions
this is equally true of all the other series of sittings in recent
years) the words in tlie waking-stage are represented as delivered
directly to the medium by the communicating spirits themselves,
whereas the great majority of their written communications are
represented as first delivered l)y them to Rector, and then by
his help committed to writing.
(2) Consistently with this real or pretended modus operandi,
the language of the waking-stage seems nowhere to show any
trace of Eector's influence, whereas the language of the script is
to a large degree coloured by Eector's own peculiar phraseology.
(3) Whereas Rector is never (or very rarely) uncertain
as to what has been written, the other trance-personalities are
often uncertain how much, if any part, of their messages,
delivered in the waking-stage, lias got through ; and they
appear to be often, if not always, unaware of what the medium
may have spontaneously said, wlien speaking in her own person
during the waking-stage.
I would not be understood as saying that the trance-script
never improves upon the trance-speech. On the contrary, where
progressive knowledge is shown, a later trance-script often
adds a fresh point to the utterances of the waking-stage.
What is conspicuous in a study of the record, is the greater
facility shown in the waking-stage for the production of par-
ticular points that can be briefly expressed. Names, for
instance, seem much more easily produced in the waking-
stage. The remarks of the sitter are more easily conveyed to
the controls, and long answers are better given, in the course
of the trance-writing. Communication, in fact, between sitter
and " control," whatever that word denotes, takes place more
freely then. The waking-stage seldom permits of interchange
of question and answer.
LX.] Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Pi2Jer's Trance. 85
Without pronouncing on the degree or kind of dissociation
involved in the waking-stage and during the trance-writing
respectively, it is at any rate clear that in the waking-stage
we are dealing with a personality conceiving itself as Mrs.
Piper, not as a " Eector " or a " Phinuit." This may account
for the colloquialisms, personal turns, and ambiguous phrases,
which are relatively frequent in the waking-stage. Probably
here, as in other cases of automatic phenomena where the
unconsciousness of the automatist is not complete, an allusion
so worded as not to be easily compiehensible by the automatist
has more chance of being registered.
86 J. G. Piddington. [part
II.
THREE INCIDENTS FROM THE SITTINGS:
Lethe ; The Sibyl ; The Horace Ode Question.
By J. G. Piddington.
I.
LETHE.
At the sitting of March 23, 1908, Mr. Dorr talked over various
cross-correspondence experiments and other matters which had
come up at previous sittings with Myersp and Hodgsonp.
He also read five letters to them.^
Towards the end of the sitting Mr. Dorr for the first time put
this question to Myersp :
" what does the word lethb
SUGGEST to you ?
" The answers given were in part, though not
by any means, as Mr. Dorr supposed, wholly confused ; and
Mr. Dorr, who evidently thought that the frequent change of
subject had by putting an undue strain on the attention of the
trance-personalities conduced to the confusion, apologised for
having sprung a new question upon Myersp at the end of a
fatiguinfj sitting.
I shall now quote in chronological order the various refer-
ences to the question about Lethe which were made at Mr.
Dorr's sittings. To the reader, unless he should happen to hit
on the clue to the puzzle, these extracts will doubtless seem
to be little if any better than a farrago of nonsense. It may,
therefore, help him to work his way through them without too
much impatience, if I first assure him that they contain an
unusually complete and relevant, though very far from obvious,
answer to the question put by Mr. Dorr.
'
The substance of these letters is given in Note A, p. 136.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 87
Extract from record of sitting held on March 23, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. Now shall I ask you a question ? What does the word
" Lethe " suggest to you 1
(Myersp communicating) Leaflet?
G. B. D. No, "Lethe". (G. B. D. spells word.)
Lethe. Do you refer to one of my poems, Lethe ?
^
(A word was then written, which G. B. D. could not decipher
with certainty, but which he took to be "Iliad".)
G. B. D. No, it does not refer especially to anything in the Iliad, but
it belongs to the old mythology.
Yes, yes, ah yes. I was thinking about my biography—you
referred to biography—auto—you confused me a little.
[G. B. D. had just before asked two questions based on
two different passages in the autobiographical portions of
F. W. H. Myers's Fraijments of Prose and Poetry. The
second question might have been partially answered by a
reference to Homer's Odjjssey. Note by J. G. P.]
G. B. D. Yes, it was a sudden break. I had not meant to bring the
autobiography up just then.
Winds.
G. B. D. Do not hurry on it. See if the sound recalls anything to
you, and whether you can tell me where it was
(Interrupting) Greece.
G. B. D. I will give you a clue. It was in the same region with the
Styx.
Olympus.
Greece Troy and all. Winds were all '
and
appear and to destroy and he saved them by taking
them across the river.
^ Though I have not discovered a reference to Lethe in any of Frederic
Myers's original poems, one exists in his verse-translation of Anchises' famous
speech in Aeneid VI. 7*24 et seq. [(See Essays Glassica/, p. 17-1.) As we shall
presently see, this passage in the Aeneid aifords an explanation of one of the
points in the answer given to the Lethe question {v. p. 135).
^ Undeciphered words.
88 J. G. Piddington [part
G. B. D. These last words are not clear to me.
he saves them by taking them across River—Athens
It is all clear. Do you remember Cave?
G. B. D. I think you are confused about this. I ought to have
waited until another day to bring it up, when the Light
was fresh. It was a water, not a wind, and it was in
Hades, where the Styx was and the Elysian fields. Do
j'ou recall it now"?
Lethe. Shore—of course I do. Lethe Hades
beautiful river—Lethe. Underground.
What is the matter that I do not hear better ? Is it lack
of Light 1 I think it is.
G. B. D. I brought this question up too late. Let us drop it now
and leave it until another day. Before the Light closes
there is one thing I had in mind to say which this
brings up : —Answer any questions you can the day I ask
them. (G. B. D. then explains briefly the reason for this
request.)
Oh I see. I understand, the world would say the Light
G. B. D. (interrupting) If you can answer them [i.e. questions] at all,
it is already a great deal ; but where you can answer
them during the sitting, without an interval between, it
will be better still.
Oh yes. But I was only thinking would it not be wiser to
ask questions at first ?
G. B. D. Much better, and I will try not to ask you any so late
another day. To-day the letters from England, and our
talk, took up the Light at the beginning. And now it
would be better we should stop.
I think that is what is the trouble, what makes it difficult.
(The sci'ipt has now become obscure and faint.)
G. B. D. Anything more that comes to you, say in the waking-stage.
Yes. Remember, friend, this is exhausting work—exhausting
work.
iMr. Dorr said " in tlie .subliminal". Here and elsewhere I have substituted
" waking-stage " for " subliminal '".
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Letlte. 89
Waking-stage.
Fish Mermaid Saturn ^
Hero *—Olympus
(Then followed a word which was written down as " pavia."
In response to Mr. Dorr's requests the word was
whispered several times, but never distinctly enough to
be caught with certainty.)
Sybil —• Olympus —water —Lethe —delighted — sad —lovely
mate.
Put them all together. (This was followed by inarticulate
whispering.)
Entwined love—beautiful shores. —Ask him if he cannot
hear me.
Muses. —I wrote "church" long ago [see Proc. Vol. XXII.
p. 44]. Olympus. —There's Mercury* —Love —He has
drawn a cross with ivy over it. Pharaoh's daughter came
out of the water*—Warm—sunlit—love.
Lime leaf—heart—sword—arrow
I shot an arrow through the air
And it fell I know not where.
(Mrs. Piper then puts her hands up befoie her face, palms
outwards, as though warding something off, but smilingly
like a child in play.)
Oh ! point it the other way !
G. B. D. Whom do you see ?
Lad}'. —I want to say that the walls came out, and in the
air was a lady who had no clothes on ; and in her hand
she had a hoop and two pointed things, and she pulled
a string, and she pointed it straight at me, and I thought
it would hit me in the eye. And Mr. Myers put his
hand up and stopped her. She had a hoop, and there
was only half of the hoop there. . . .
^For "Saturn'' see p. 105.
* For explanations of these words see Mrs. Sidgwick's paper, pp. 184 and 190.
90 J. G. Piddington. [part
Extract from record of sitting held on March 24, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
(HodgsoHp communicating.)
Now Myers feels a little distressed because he thinks you
did not quite understand his replies to your last question
[i.e. the question about Lethe].
G. B, D. I ought not to have brought any questions up after the
letters and the talk they led to.
No, quite riglit, but he did give you one or two replies
which he and I both fear you did not understand.
G. B. D. No, it wasn't clear. I worked over the sitting yesterday till
nearly midnight, trying to straighten things out.
I am rather glad G. [i.e. George, meaning, Mr. George B. Dorr]
to have you understand.
Let Myers explain what he thinks you did not grasp.
(Before allowing Myers to explain, Mr. Dorr first refers to
what he had said at the last sitting about questions
being answered in the trance on the same day as they
are put.)
[The control to-day is apparently Hodgson throughout, Myers
being indicated by him as present and occasionally speak-
ing. Note by G. B. D.
I think it is clear that some of the passages that follow are
to be atti ibuted. to Hodgsoup, and some to Myersp ; but I
do not think it necessary to attempt to apportion their
respective parts, as anything which Hodgsonp says about
the Lethe question he evidently says on behalf of Myersp.
Note by J. G. P.]
I wrote in reply to your last inquiry Cave—Lethe.
G. B. D. I asked him [i.e. Myers] whether the word Lethe recalled
anything to him.
He replied Cave—Banks—Shore.
G. B. D. But these last two [i.e. " Banks Shore "] were not written
imtil after I had told him it was a water.
Yes, but he drew the form—a picture of Iris with an arrow.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 91
G. B. D. But he spoke of winds.
Yes, clouds —arrow—I r i s —Cave—Mor M O R Latin for sleep
Morpheus—Cave. Sticks in my mind can't you help me 1
G. B. D. Good. I understand what you are after now.i But can't
you make it clearer what there was peculiar about the
Avaters of Lethe ?
Yes, I suppose you think I am affected in the same way
but I am not.2
^ Mr. Dorr saw that a reference was intended to the Cave of Sleep, and
why such a reference might be vaguely relevant ; but he did not grasp how
pointed and direct it really was.
- The way in which Myersp here withheld the obvious and commonplace
answer until pressed to give it by Mr. Dorr is, I think, deserving of the utmost
attention ; for the fact that in at least three other instances this same
avoidance of the trite and obvious is to be found in the communications of
Myersp creates a presumption that Myersp deliberately preferred so to frame
his messages that only study and thought would render them intelligible.
In one of these three cases (see p. 107) Myersp, wishing, as I think, to make
not a general allusion to the well-known story of Pygmalion and Galatea, but
a particular allusion to the story as told by Ovid, who gives no name to the
marble statue that came to life, at first mentioned the name " Pygmalion " only,
and did not mention "Galatea" until Mr. Dorr asked for an explanation of
"Pygmalion" (see pp. 108-9).
In a second instance (see jip. l-t6, 147), instead of answering the question
"Where did the Sibyl live?", by saying simply " Cumae ", Myersp indicated
by means of two proper names, Auchises and Icarus, a passage in the sixth
book of the Aeneid, where the dwelling place of the Sibyl is described.
In a third instance (see Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 397-407), instead of answer-
ing the question, "Which Ode of Horace entered deeply into your inner life?"
by saying simply "Horace, Odes i. 28", Myersp alluded to a poem of Frederic
Myers's containing phrases reminiscent of this Ode. Yet later developments
strongly suggest that Myersp could have given a much directer response, had
he wished, for he afterwards showed that he knew that the Ode of Horace to
which the question related contained references to Neptune and Orion (see
pp. 157, 158).
Similarly here, it is quite clear that Myersp knew the ordinary associations
with Lethe and could have answered the question quite simply ; yet he preferred
to give an indirect answer, and withheld a simple and obvious answer until Mr.
Dorr pressed for one.
In three instances out of the four, then, it was not apparently inability to
send a plain straightforward message that was the cause of the allusiveness.
Now, in discussing the form in which the answer to the Horace Ode question
emerged, I argued that it was perhaps due to a desire on the part of Myersp to
frame his answer in terms not expected by his questioner, and thus to circum-
vent as far as possible a telepathic explanation of the phenomenon (see Journal
92 J. G. Piddington. [part
G. B. D. Capital. That's as clear as can be.
Did you understand Cave"?
G. B. D. Yes, the Cave of Sleep.
(Hand bows assent energetically.)
Hoping you would understand clouds IRIS
(A bow is here drawn for rainbow, and also wavy lines.
G. B. D. asks what the lines mean.)
clouds—C L 0 U D S
Why did you not understand 1 It would have meant so
much to you. We agreed upon one word I think.
G. B. D. What do you mean 1 Do you mean we selected a word for
a message 1
No, you said if I could give you one word in reply which
would mean something it would be better than anything.
G. B. D. Let me read you some Latin verses, from Vergil, which will
tell you what I thought Myers had in mind when he
wrote Cave.
(G. B. D. then reads a few lines in Latin describing Juno's
visit to the Cave of Aeolus ; and Hodgsonp makes a con-
fused response. Thereupon G. B. D. proposes to give
him "one or two new words to work over", and
Hodgson,, replies as follows:)
Do not give me too much, George. Let us go slow so we
can take it all in. Elysian came in.
for January 1909, p. 23). This was an over-bold conjecture, perhaps; but I think
the cases quoted above go a gond way towards justifying it. And in this con-
nexion it is fortunate tliat evidence lias now come to hand tending to
show that the allusiveness, which characterises not only the answer to the
Horace Ode question but also several of the complex cross-correspondences,
may represent a deliberate plan and not an unskilful attempt to hit a given
mark ; for until it did come to hand, it was easy to argue that the allusiveness,
far from being designed, was merely due to failure on the part of the automatist
to get a direct reproduction of an idea ;
or, in other words, was but an
example of imperfect telepathy. That imperfect telepathy is the true explana-
tion of some—perhaps of a good many—instances of allusiveness I do not
doubt; but I equally do not doubt that it is not the explanation of them all.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 93
G. B. D. Yes, I spoke of that yesterday in connexion with Hades in
trying to locate Lethe for you.
(G. B. D. then reads some lines from an old verse-translation
of Aeschylus' Prometheus. He asks the controls to think
over them, and to reply later.)
Yes, I cannot possibly tell you all my thoughts at once.
G. B. D. Tell me anything that any of the questions I ask you may
bring up. Lethe for instance may bring back other
memories to 3'ou.
(Hand here makes drawings upon the paper.)
G. B. D. What does that mean ]
Flower—Banks
G. B. D. Flowery banks 1
(Hand bows assent.)
G. B. D. There is another line I should like to give you in Latin
one that is in a way related to these things : Facilis est
[sic] descensus Averni.
. . . Est Est [This looks as if the trance-personality were
querying Mr. Dorr's superfluous and unmetrical " est ".
Note by J. G. P.]
G. B D. Do you know what est means 1
Is Ls . . .
G. B. D. Do you remember where the Sibyl lived ?
I told the Light to say sybil last time.
G. B. D. Yes, the light did say Sibyl in the waking-stage.
(Various and quite diff'erent topics are then mentioned and
discussed.)
G. B. D. Now with regard to [cross - correspondence] messages, you
have done nothing since yesterday, have you, in taking
these ?
Did the Light quote Picture I made for her spirit as it
returned [i.e. in the waking-stage] ]
G. B. D. The picture of Iris ?
Yes.
94 /. G. Piddington. [part
G. B. D. Yes, she did. But I thought it was Diana. She told me
about it very clearly. Now will you tell me if you have
attempted to give here any message from other Lights, so
that I can make note of it ?
Oh yes, I will glad you asked me. I was given the lines -
by Piddington which I gave to the Light's spirit to make
you understand my meaning of Iris.
[This undoubtedly means that the words "I shot an arrow
into the air", etc., which on Feb. 25, 1907 (see Proc.
Vol. XXIL p. 81) I had suggested to Hodgsonp as a way
in which he might try to get Mrs. Verrall to write
"arrow", had been used in the waking-stage of the pre-
vious trance to convey the idea of a figure holding a
bow, i.e. Iris. A''ote hy J. G. P.]
(G. B. D. then leads the communications into other channels
and the writing part of the sitting ends thus :
—
G. B. D. Tell me whatever yovi can in the waking-stage.
I will but do not be disappointed. We have done all we
could today. Pax vobiscum, dear friend, and may God
be with you. R. H.
F. M.
Waking-stage.
(The first whispered word caught is the same as that not
understood in the previous waking - stage, whose sound
was then written down as " pavia " ; but it is still impos-
sible to catch it clearly.)
Mr. Myers is writing on the wall.
G. B. D. What is he writing'?
(Mrs. Piper is got with difficulty to repeat " C ", and then
afterwards, as though something came in between,
"YX".)
I walked in the garden of the gods—entranced I stood along
its banks —like one entranced I saw her at last. . . .
Elysian shores. . . .
Lx.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 95
[This may be an allusion to the reunion of Orpheus and
Eurydice in the Fields of the Blessed (cf. Ovid. Met. XL
61-66), in spite of its being explained subsequently as
referring to Venus. See Mrs. Verrall's paper, pp. 82,
83. Note Inj J. G. P.J
Extract from record of sitting held on March 30, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. Shall I read you my record of the [utterances made in the]
waking-stage at our last meeting 1
(Myersp communicating.) Yes, do kindly.
(G. B. D. then goes through the utterances in the waking-
stage of the trance of March 24, 1908, seriatim, omitting,
however, to ask for an explanation of the word recorded
as "pavia".) ... •
G. B. U. The next thing I heard . . . was that Mr. Myers was
writing on the wall.
Good. -
,
G. B. D. All that I could get Mrs. Piper to repeat was C-y-x.
Chariot. ; .
G. B. D. Is that the meaning of the word which he was writing ?
Yes. Pronounce the word for me.
G. B. D. I do not know the word. Won't you spell it out for me ?
Cynx—C Y N X.
G. B. D. Is that a Greek word ^
Yes. [See Mrs. Verrall's paper, p. 83.] .
.
G. B. D. I can make nothing out of it. Shall I go on with the
[record of the] waking-stage 1
Thank you.
G. B. D. " I walked in the garden of the gods—entranced I stood
along its banks—like one entranced I saw her at last."
Of whom are you speaking now'?
Venus . 1
96 J. G. Piddington. [part
[This explanation is obviously rubbish. Venus had been
mentioned in the waking-stage of March 24 in quite a
different connexion. See Mrs. Verrall's paper, p. 83.
Note htj J. G. P.]
(G. B. D. next goes over the utterances made in the waking-
stage of the trance of March 23, 1908.)
G. B. D. The first words I caught . . . were " fish " " mermaid."
I was reminded of them by Shores.
(G. B. D. then tries once more to get the word beginning
with a J),
and recorded as "pavia"; but it is not
apparently recalled, or else the question is not clearly
understood, for the following word is written, which had
not come up before :)
POMONA.
G. B. D. What is the connexion with Pomona 1
Garden. [It looks as if Pomona got dragged in owing to
an automatic association of ideas with the preceding "I
walked in the garden of the gods". If " pavia " =
papavera (poppies), " garden " and " poppies " may to-
gether have given rise to " Pomona ". Nute by J. G. P.]
G. B. D. Now let me read you some words which you told the Light
to tell me to put together.
Yes, one by one.
G. B. D. " Sybil ".
prophetess.
G. B. D. " Olympus ".
Previously answered. [No explanation of " Olympus " had
been given before ; and none was subsequently given.
Note hi J. G. P.]
G. B.'D. "Lethe ".
iliver etc.
G. B. D. " delighted ".
Delighted my heart to read it when in your life.
[This seems to imply that a passage in literature is in the
thoughts of the trance-personality. Note by J. G. P.]
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 97
G. B. D. "sad ". Why sad ?
Because of its effect.
G. B. D. " Lovely —mate—entwined love ".
We walk together, our loves entwined, along the shores. In
beauty beyond comparison with Lethe. Sorry it is all
so fragmentary but suppose it cannot all get through.
G. B. D. Then came the picture of Iris which you showed the Light
and which she described to me as real.
Yes, that was to answer your question.
G. B. D. But I see no connexion between Iris and Sleep, or Lethe
rather.
No, only Iris shot an arrow into the clouds and caused a
rainbow. ... It brought it to my mind simply.
Extract from record of vjords spoken in the waJcing-siage
of the trance of April 6, 1908.
.... He keeps saying something about CYX. Facilis
[i.e. Facilis descensus Averni. See p. 93].
Extract from record of sitting held on Ap>ril 7, 190S.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. Let us take up [the record of] yesterday's waking-stage and
go over it together " He keeps saying some-
thing about CYX."
(Myersp communicating.)
SCYXCSYX.
G. B. D. You cannot get the word now, can you 1
(Hand makes gesture of dissent.)
WaJdng-stage.
Mr. Myers says : " No poppies ever grew on Elysian
shores."
G
98 J. G. Piddington. [part
The main part of the answer given to the question about
Lethe consists of allusions to a passage in Ovdd's Metamor-
jyhoses, but preceding these allusions are two isolated words,
" Olympus " and " Sibyl ", which do not belong to the Ovidian
part of the answer. As they need but a few words of com-
ment, it will be convenient to deal with them before entering
on the long explanations and comments which the remainder
of the answer will necessitate.
In "Olympus" I can trace no meaning.^ It occurred first
among the preliminary and muddled attempts to give an
answer ; a second time, thrice repeated, in the waking-stage
of March 23, 1908, and a third time in the waking-stage of
March 31, 1908, in a sentence of which it was the only dis-
tinguishable word (see p. 106). On March 30, 1908, in response
to an enquiry of Mj'. Dorr's, Myersp said that an explanation
of " Olympus " had been given previously ;
but, if so, I have
failed to find it, and I do not believe that any was given.
The word "Sibyl", however, is intelligible and appropriate.
Mr. IDorr, it must be remembered, did not originally ask what
Lethe was, but what it suggested ; and Lethe might well
suggest the Sibyl of Cumae to a Veigiliau scholar (which
Myersp professes to be), for v/hen Aeneas, as described in the
sixth book of the Aeneid, saw the river of Lethe flowing by
the Elysian Fields and the souls about to return to earth
drinking of its waters, he was in her company. That this is
the right explanation is rendered the more probable by the
fact that Myersp later on answered two other questions by
means of allusions to two other incidents told in the sixth
book of the Aeneid {v. pp. 145 and 147). "Olympus" and
" Sibyl " being thus disposed of, I pass on to the remainder
of the answer.
The only point which Mr. Dorr saw in the answers to his
question was the allusion to the Cave of Sleep, which he
thought was probably due to an association of ideas between
the oblivion produced by the waters of Lethe and the oblivion
of sleep. In November, 1908, Mrs. Verrall went carefully
through the records of Mr. Dorr's sittings, and—though she
1 See, however, p. 327 for an explanation of "Olympus" discovered too late
for insertion here.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Letlie. 99
found a good mauy instances where answers given in the
trance to questions on literary and classical subjects, which to
Mr. Dorr had seemed vague or meaningless, were really indica-
tive or suggestive of real knowledge—she failed to trace any
coherence in the answei-s given to the question about Lethe.
Another classical scholai', Mr. Gerald Balfour, when he read
through the records, likewise saw no sense in these answers.
Nor did I, when I first considered them. But I was struck by
the way in which Myersp and Hodgsoup at the sitting of March
24, 1908, spontaneously repeated, amplified and emphasised the
answer given to the Lethe question on the previous day ;
and
showed themselves apprehensive of its not having been under-
stood, and confident of its relevancy. When confidence of this
kind is exhibited by the trance-personalities it is usually well-
founded. Accordingly I thought it worth while to search for
passages in classical authors which might throw light on the
matter; and by good luck came on a passage in the eleventh
book, hitherto unknown to me, of the Metamorphoses of Ovid,
which explains and justifies the main part of the answers given
in the trance. In this book Ovid tells the story of the trans-
formation of Ceyx, king of Trachin, into a kingfisher, and
of his wife, Alcyone, daughter of Aeolus, into a halcyon. I
append what is partly a summary and partly a literal trans-
lation of the passage in question.
Summary of Ovid, Metamorphoses XL 410-748.
Ceyx, in order to consult tlie oracle about the fate of liis brother
Daedalion who had been changed into a hawk, starts on a voyage
to Clares ; but is shipwrecked on the way and drowned.
Meanwhile, Alcyone, who sorely against her will has been left
behind at home, in ignorance of her husband's death importunes the
gods and especially Juno for his safety. But to make supplication
on behalf of one who is dead is an unholy act, and so unacceptable
to Juno ;
who, in order that her temple may no longer be polluted
by the prayers of Alcyone, bids Iris, the messenger of the gods,
"seek speedily the drowsy court of Somnus \_i.e. Sleep], and order
him to send to Alcyone a vision, in the form of the dead Ceyx, to
reveal the sad truth." Thereupon " Iris clothes herself in raiment
of a thousand hues, and, imprinting her bended bow upon the sky,
100 J. G. Piddington. [part
seeks, as bid, King Sleep's abode that lies hidden beneath a cloud.
Near by the Cimmerians' land is a cave with deep recess, a hollow
mount, the home and sanctuar}' of slothful Sleep, where neither at
dawn, nor noon, nor eve can Phoebus enter in. From out the
ground reek mists and murky fogs, glimmering in a doubtful dusky
light. . . . Beasts there are none, nor flocks, nor branches waving
in the breeze ; and never outcry of human voice awakes the echoes.
It is the home of silent rest. Yet [the silence is not absolute, for]
from the foot of the rock issues the stream of the water of Lethe,
and as the wave glides purling through the stream among the
babbling pebbles, it invites sleep. Before the cavern's entrance
abundant poppies bloom and herbs innumerable, from the juice
whereof Night brews sleep. . . . No watchman on the threshold
stands ; but in the centre is a couch, . . . whereon lies the god
himself [i.e. Somnus] with limbs in languor loosed." . . . Iris enters
the cave, irradiating it with the colours of her apparel, delivers her
message to Somnus, and quickly departing returns to the heavens
along the rainbow-path by which she came. From among his
thousand sons, Somnus chooses Morpheus, whose special gift it is to
mimic the form, visage, gait and speech of man, to execute the task
that Iris has enjoined. Morpheus flies to Trachin, and appears in
the form of Ceyx to Alcyone, who thus learns her husband's fate.
Overcome by despair Alcyone goes down to the sea to drown her-
self, and as she stands upon the shore the body of a drowned man
is washed up close to her. She recognises it as her husband's corpse,
and flings herself into the water. In the act of falling she is trans-
formed into a halcyon. The gods take pity on her sorrow, and after
a time transform Ceyx into a kingfisher ; and thus Alcyone rejoins
her beloved mate. " For seven tranquil days in winter-time Alcyone
sits broodinij on her nest as it floats on the face of the waters. Then
lulled is the wave of the sea ; and Aeolus guards and confines the
winds, and secures a calm surface for his daughter's brood."
Let me now compare the allusions in the trance with Ovid's
story :
Trance. Ovid. Met. XI.
March 23.
(1) Cave. (1) Cave of Sleep.
(2) Vision of female figure (2) Iris with her bow (the rain-
with half a hoop. bow).
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 101
(3) " Sad lovely mate. En-
twined love."
March 24.
(4) " Cave —banks —shore
—Flower banks
Clouds.
(5) " Iris —Morpheus
Latin for sleep
[i.e. Somnus].
(6) C yx and appai-ently
a letter lost between
c and y.
March 30. C y n x.
April 6. C y X.
April 7. S c y X, c s y x:
(7) March 23. ) Word re-
March 24. V corded as
March 30. ) " pavia."
April 7. "Mr. Myers
says no poppies ever
grew on Ely sian shores "
a remark which susr-
gests (1) that they grew
on some other shores
(2) that this was not
the first mention of pop-
pies in the trance
which it was not, if
" pavia " =papavera.
(3) of. 11. 733-8, especially the
words miserahilis—moe-
sto—rostro—dilectos artus
amplexa, and the whole
story (11. 410-748) gener-
ally for the passionate
love of Ceyx and Alcyone.
(4) Ante fores antri foecunda
papavera fiorent Innu-
meraeque herbae (11.
605-6).
Tecta suh nube latentia, (1.
591). Nebulae . . . ex-
halantur (11. 595-6).
(5) Iris—Morpheus—Somnus.
(6) Ceyx.
(7) Papavera (1. 605) i.e. the
poppies which grew before
the entrance of the Cave of
Sleep, and consequently
by the banks of the Cim-
merian river of Lethe.
102 J. G. Piddington. [part
The references in the trance to " cave ",
" flower banks ",
"clouds" and "poppies" show that the recollections of the
trance-personality were not confined to the general outline of
the story of Ceyx and Alcyone, but extended to details of
the story as told in Ovid's Metamorphoses, and especially to
details there closely connected with the river of Lethe.
The first attempts on March 23, 1908, to answer Mr. Dorr's
question are hopeless muddles ;
though possibly the irrelevant
references to " wipds ", " Troy " and a "river" betray how the
mind of the trance-personality was struggling towards a rele-
vant recollection. Though the name of Aeolus had not been
actually mentioned, Myersp had at previous sittings (see
Mrs. Verrall's paper, pp. C3-6S) spontaneously made an allusion
to the storm which Aeolus at Juno's bidding let loose from
the Cave of the Winds in order to overwhelm the fleet of
Aeneas, who was " carrying Troy and her household gods
into Italy " (Verg. Aen. I. 50 et seq.). Confused thoughts
of "winds", "Troy" and "river" may have aroused memories
of the Cave of Aeolus and of how Juno and Aeolus tried
to thwart Aeneas' escape from Troy ; and these memories
in turn may have awakened a recollection of a story into
which a daughter of Aeolus^ {i.e. Alcyone), Juno, the Cave of
Sleep and the river of Lethe enter. Whether this was so or
not, it is at any rate noteworthy that when after the pre-
liminary muddles a relevant recollection did emerge, it was
heralded by the words "It is all clear", and that these words
were emphasised by being underlined. »
Neither Mrs. Piper nor Mr. Dorr had read any Ovid.- Ac-
cordingly, if Mrs. Piper's own memory furnished the reminis-
cences of the Ceyx and Alcyone story displayed in the trance,
or if she obtained them telepathically from Mr. Dorr, our next
step must be to enquire what book or books other than Ovid
could have supplied Mrs. Piper or Mr. Dorr with the details of
the story given in the trance. I think we may with confidence
^Alcj'one is twice called Aeolis, i.e. daughter of Aeolus, by Ovid. See
3fet. XI. 444 and .573, and cf. 11. 747-8.
-The evidence for this statement will be found in Note B. (pp. 138-42)
where I have placed it in order not to interrupt the main narrative.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 103
dispense with sci'utiuisiug classical dictionaries of the ordinary
kinds, for though doubtless they would all su6 voce "Alcyone"
give the main outlines of her story, and though some might
(though so far I have not come across any that do) suh voce
" Lethe " refer to Ovid's description of its source, it is most
unlikely that suh voce "Alcyone" the}^ would mention Lethe
or the Cave of Sleep, or that sub voce " Lethe " they would
mention Ceyx and Alcyone.
We must look rather to the kinds of books which would be
likely to reproduce the Ceyx and Alcyone story in consider-
able detail, and which at the same time are likely to have
come within the range of Mr. Dorr's or Mrs. Piper's reading.
In dieither of Hawthorne's Wonder Books are Ceyx and
Alcyone mentioned, nor is there any allusion to the Cave of
Sleep. In Kingsley's Heroes the story of Ceyx and Alcyone
is briefly, and in Frederick Tennyson's Daphne and Other
Poems diti'usely, told ; but in neither is there the slightest
allusion to Iris, Somnus, Morpheus, the Cave of Sleep, the
river of Lethe or poppies : that is to say, to any of the dis-
tinctive details of Ovid's version which wei'e reproduced in the
trance. The story is also very briefly and baldly told in
Wordsworth's Greece; but here again are none of the details
peculiar to Ovid's version. Chaucer in The Dethe of Blaunche
the Duchesse- tells the stor}' of Se3's (i.e. Ceyx) and Alcyone at
considerable length ;
but, though he borrows largely from
Ovid, he makes no mention of Lethe and its poppies, and
Juno's messenger is given no name and is spoken of as " he ".
Spenser (Canto I. of The Faerie Queene) has borrowed several
of the details of his " House of Morpheus " from Ovid's
desci'iption of the Cave of Sleep ; but Lethe is not named, nor
are poppies, and there is no reference whatsoever to Iris or
Juno, or to Ceyx and Alcyone. From none of these books
then could the knowledge shown in the trance have been
derived.
I know of two books only, other than Ovid, from which
Mrs. Piper or Mr. Dorr could have derived the details of the
Ceyx and Alcyone story as given in the trance. These two
books are Bulfinch's The Age of Fable and Gayley's The
Classic Myths in English Literature : the latter, as stated on
104 J. G. Piddington. [part
the title-page, being "based chiefly on Bulfinch's Age of
Fable ", and being, in fact, an enlarged and modernised edition
of it.
•
Neither Mrs. Piper nor Mr. Dorr had, until I mentioned it
to them, ever heard of Gayley's book. Mrs. Piper affirms in
the most positive manner that she had never read, seen or
heard of Bulfinch's book.^ Mi'. Dorr, however, had read Bul-
finch as a boy (see note B, p. 141), and consequently, if the
allusions in the trance had been confined to t'le Geyx and
Alcyone story only, he might, in spite of the fact that he
retains no recollection of it and failed to recognise the allu-
sions to it in the trance, be regarded as the source from
which Mrs. Piper telepathically deiived her knowledge. »
But the allusions in the trance were not confined to the
story of Ceyx and Alcyone. Allusions to other Ovidian
stories followed them, and were combined with them and with
each other in such a way as to leave no reasonable doubt that
the person responsible for this combination was reproducing
his recollections of a combination of stories peculiar to Ovid.
The evidence for this statement is to be found in the
appended group of extracts from the records :
References to Echo and Narcissus ; Janus ; Saturn ;
AND Orpheus and Eurydice.
Extract from record of ivords spoken in the waking-stage of
the trance of March 30, 1908.
Janus. I can't hear him. Tell my friend I said
Janus. He will understand Laughing winds.
I love the beautiful Echo. Walking through the forest
Echo greets me everywhere. Narcissus smiles at my
feet, and I am surrounded by love. His shepherds
watch over me Janus.
G. B. D. Have you taken Janus [i.e. as a cross-correspondence mes-
sage] 1
(Head nods in assent.)
iSee Note C, pp. 142-4.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 105
Saturn Saturday Tell Mr. Dorr, I say my
utterances echo, echo everywhere, if that is he. I think
he will understand what I mean by echo, if that is he.
Orpheus and Eurydice. It reminds me of them. He
says it. Tell him I stand here. I say I am a warrior
bold. I make everything out of my head. I consult
the gods who rule. The power is my own. Janus. I
get a laughing echo, music.
Extract from record of sitting of March 31, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. There were two great statues by the same sculptor [Pheidias],
the most famous in Greece : the one at the Parthenon of
which we have been speaking ; the other stood elsewhere
in a famous place, and I want to see if you cannot
recall where it stood.
(Myersp communicating.)
I'll think it over a little. Perhaps it will bring it to
my mind. Best leave these a while and I'll recall them
Virgin.
G. B. D. Why do you write that ?
Just came to my mind.
G. B. D. Is that an answer to a question 1
Yes. Parthenon.! Just this moment came to me. [The
Parthenon is so called because it was sacred to Athene
Parthenos, i.e. Athene the Virgin.]
G. B. D. Tiiat is first-rate. That is exactly what I wanted to get.
Yes, it came to me as you said
G. B. D. jSIow to add one word more about the statue. The place
where the other statue stood was one which was very
famous in Greece from the games held there.
Races. (Not read at first.) RACES MARATHON.
' See Mrs. Verrall's paper, pp. 5(3-59, for discussiou of these allusious.
106 G. Piddington. [part
G. B. D. jSTo, now you are getting confused. (The subject was then
dropped.)
G. B. D. Now, I have just recalled from 3'esterday's waking-stage that
you spoke of " echo " repeatedly. Was that a [cross-corre-
spondence] message'?
Yes. From Mrs. [Holland] and as I [in error for " my "]
own utterances to the spirit of the Light reminded me
of what I had written there [i.e. at Mrs. Holland's] a few
days ago I brought it here to you. " Echo, Echo every-
where !
" And I wrote, " As I wandered through wood-
land paths Echo greeted me and Narcissus sprang up
about my feet." You will receive this era long.
Waldng-stage.
He's gone and got a block, and it looks like red
and brown. He's holding it up for me to see the colour
of it. Light. Make it on the other side of Euroses (?)
(Here came several indistinguishable words, of which the
only one caught was Olympus.)
Eurydice. Morpheus and Eurydice. [Mr. Dorr notes as
follows :
" Orpheus and Eurydice came through clearly in
the waking-stage of March 30, 1908; so that this seems
plainly due to confusion in repeating." But see p. 118.]
References to Hyacinthus; Pygmalion.
Extract from record of words spoken in the waking-stage of
the trance of AjjrU 6, 1908.
Discobolus, Discus hit me. Ask him to interpret it for
me
Amor. Elysian—happy, say
Dei amor. (Inaudible words) and rises
He keeps saying something about Cyx.
Facilis [i.e. Fcicilis descensus Averni, v. p. 9.3],
G. B. D. What?
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 107
That's all
Innocence. Faith. He has a bird upon his hand. You
don't get anything clear at all. Mr. Myers has got
Pygmalion birds Paradise. Ask him if he doesn't
understand the fragmentary way in which I am getting
the sjDirit [i.e. the spirit of Mrs. Piper] to interpret my
meaning
There were two pigeons over the door. " Came a knocking
at my chamber door." Virgin's Chamber [i.e. an obvious
allusion to the Parthenon]. Off with you. Mr. Myers
piped up and said—suggested " chamber door ". . . .
Extract from record of sitting of April 7, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. Now let us take up [the record of] yesterday's waking-stage,
and go over it together. The first word I caught was
"Discobolus".
(Myersp communicating.)
I said to her [i.e. Mrs. Piper], go and say Discobolus in
answer to Paces etc. You asked me about games.
(The hand draws a line in circles on the paper, and then
reaches out and touches G. B. D.'s hand, and makes a
circling movement imitative of discus-throwing.)
G. B. D. The next words I caught were " Discus hit me. Ask him
to interpret it for me ". Now it would be much better
that Myers should interpret this for me himself, and tell
me who threw the discus and whom it hit. This would
be good, for I did not know it myself when he said it.
(Rector, or perhaps Hodgsoup, communicating.)
He [i.e. Myers"] did.
G. B. D. ,What?
Know it and he will explain it for you.
G. B. D. Do you remember whose victory it was [that was announced
by Pheidippides] 1
(MyerSp communicating.) Yes, Greek.
108 J. G. Piddington. [part
G. B. D. And over whom ?
Trojans you mean"? (Pause, during which G. B. D. remains
silent.)
PERSIA.
G. B. D. Good. Now can you tell me where it was they fought 1
Do you remember Athens, and the (word not fully legible).
G. B. D. Write that word again. I want to get it clear.
M A R A T H O R N.
G. B. D. Almost right, but not quite. Try again.
THORN T H 0 N. No R. T H O N.
Do you remember disk 1 (Hand makes circular movement.)
And spear wrestling. (Hand makes imitative move-
ments.)
G. B. D. By " wrestling " you mean struggle 1
Yes, exactly. It is exactly what I mean. Marathon
G. B. D. Then " He has a bird upon his hand ".
I said it. Birds had reference to Parthenon. Doves Refer-
ence. Birds and Chamber. I cannot listen too long.
G. B. D. Shall we stop reading the [record of the] waking-stage '?
(Hand dissents.) Finish.
G. B. D. "Pygmalion'"?
Greek play.
G. B. D. Tell me more about Pygmalion later.
[Here as elsewhere, for reasons explained in Mrs. Verrall's
paper (pp. 82-84), I prefer the original spoken utterance
in the waking-stage to the subsequent written explanation
in the script. I believe that "Innocence—Faith —birds
and Pygmalion " were meant to be associated together in
the waking-stage of April 6, and that these associations are
intelligible. But it would take me too far afield to
explain why. Note hy J. G. P.]
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 109
Waking-stage.
Pygmalion and Galatea. Struggle. Tell him
struggle. He will know what I mean. And peace at
last. Don't you remember the lamentations of Galatea 1
Sad—happy in time A lily came up out of
the blood. Don't you remember the flower that grew
out of the droD of blood ?
I am going away. I see a light—a light. I see a cross
and a man with sandy hair. Why, Mr. Myers, where
did you come from? I thought I would try and speak
for you, if I could hear from your side.
Oh ! I had a beautiful time. Oh ! I had a beautiful time.
I did not want to come back any more.
Mr. Myers says :
" No poppies ever grew on Elysian shores."
I thought I had ether on my nose, and when they took it
away I came right back.
(Trance ends.)
Extract from record of sitting held on April 13, 1908.
(Present : G. B. Dorr).
G. B. D. (going over the record of the waking-stage of the trance of
April 7, 1908). Then she said "Pygmalion and Galatea.
Don't you remember the lamentations of Galatea ?
(Myersp communicating).
" Pygmalion " again and again she called.
[These are possibly references to W. S. Gilbert's play, Pyg-
malion and Galatea. Note by J. G. F.]
G. B. D. Next she said that " a lily came up out of the blood. Don't
you remember the flower that grew out of the drop of
blood?" I want you to tell me some other time what
flower this was and whose was the blood.
(The hand questions :) It was an utterance about Prometheus
[See Mrs Verrall's paper, p. 8-3].
G. B. D. No ; it belonged to some other story, I think.
I'll tell her as she returns [i.e. in the waking-stage].
110 J. G. Piddington. [part
Wahing-stage.
. . . . Discus hit him—killed him. Quoits.
Extract from record of sitting held on April 14, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. Now there is another thing that was said in the waking-
stage which I would also like to follow up: "The flower
that sprang from a drop of blood." Whose blood was it,
and what was the flower 1
(Myersp communicating) Lily.
G. B. D. Take that off" too [i.e. to think over], and tell me later. [This
was, of course, a pretty strong hint that G. B. D. thought
the answer " lily " was wrong. Note by J. G. P.]
Extract from record of luaking-stage of trance held on April
14, 1908.
.... And there grew out a lily
Extract from record, of sitting held on April 21, 1908.
(Present : G. B. Dorr.)
(MyerSp communicating). Good morning, friend. Hyacinthus.^
G. B. D. Good. Now what about Hyacinthus ?
Blood. Just come to me. Was it not Apollo who hit
Hyacinthus \
G. B. D. First-rate ! Now what did he hit him with %
Quoit.
G. B. D. It could not be better.
Thank you.
1 Of. Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 169-170 for a similar instance of an important
name—Plotinus—having been shot out by Myersp the moment he began to
communicate.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. Ill
[Mr. Dorr contemporaneously notes as follows :
" This subject is
one brought up by the Myers control in a previous waking-stage,
in which he told the Light to say '
Discus hit me '. Nothing had
been previously said by me to suggest the subject, nor was it in
my mind ; in fact I had forgotten the story, and only found out
who it was that was referred to by looking up the references
under '
Discus ' in a Latin dictionary. Since then I have asked
from time to time, to keep the matter in recollection, who it was
that was hit by a discus. But nothing has come of it till now, nor
has the name of Hyacinthus till now come up in any way, nor that
of Apollo, in connexion with this story."
In order to understand the present position and the subsequent
developments it must be explained that Mr. Dorr had not under-
stood the reference to the Hyacinthus story contained in the words
"a lily came up out of the blood". He took them to refer to the
story of the flower that sprang from the blood of Ajax ; and neither
at this point, nor at any later period of the sittings did he realise that
they were a correct allusion to the flower that sprang from the blood
of Hyacinthus. Note hj J. G. P.]
G. B. D. I want to give you another [cross-correspondence] message
to take off" with you before we part :
''
The Cave of
Sleep."
Morpeus [sic], yes. Good.
G. B. D. Now the [cross-correspondence] message which I had in mind
to send to-day has just come back to me :
" Hyacinthus."
Blood. Hyacinthus Lilly Lyly not a lady's name but a
flower.
G. B. D. If you are going to take it as a message, try and get the
letters right. L-i-l-y.
LYLY
G. B. D. No, not quite right yet.
LILY. Yes, I hear you now, Good.
G. B. D. And you remember what shed the blood ?
Quoit. (Hand reaches out and touches G. B. D.'s head to
signify that the quoit hit Hyacinthus on the head.)
112 J. G. Piddington. [part
G. B. D. And don't forget what you have just told me about Apollo
in connexion with this.
He hit Hyacinthus.
G. B. D. Now there is one other thing that I want you to recall if
possible in connexion with that story. One of the Winds
loved Hyacinthus and was jealous of Apollo, and it was
he that blew the quoit so that it hit Hyacinthus.
Yes, I remember.
G. B. D. Now I want you to see if you cannot tell me presently who
that Wind was : what his name was.
(Hand starts as if to write.) '
G. B. D. No, don't try to answer it now. I'd rather you took it off
with you and thought it over.
Exto'cict from record of sitting held on April 22, 1908.
(Present : G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. (Recapitulating the various cross-correspondence messages
which have been arranged) " Hyacinthus
with its associations of the Lily that sprang from his
blood, the discus that killed him and Apollo who threw
it. [It might naturally be inferred from these words
that Mr. Doit had at this point come to realise that the
association of a lily with Hyacinthus was correct. Such
an inference, however, would be wrong ;
for, as Mr Dorr
in response to my enquiries informs me in the most
positive manner, he was simply here following the lead
of Myersp who had at the previous sitting connected a
lily with Hyacinthus. Note by J. G. P.] " The Cave of
Sleep ", given yesterday, with the name of Morpheus
associated with it and the river Lethe, the river of for-
getfulness. [Here again it must be understood that, in
associating the Cave of Sleep and Morpheus with Lethe,
Mr. Dorr was simply following the lead given by MyerSpj
and that he did not understand the real reason for the
association. Note by J. G. P.]
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 113
Extract from record of sitting held on Ajvil 27, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. (recapitulating list of cross-correspondence messages) " Hya-
cinthus." Remember that the hyacinth is a flower that
people grow still in their gardens ; this may help you in
giving it.
(Myersp communicating.)
We thought of that.
[Mr. Dorr was and remained under the impression that the
flower that sprung from the blood of Hyacinthus was the
modern hyacinth. Note hy J. G. P.]
G. B. D. Now tell me some time, if you can, about Galatea.
(Hand assents.)
Wahing-stage.
.... Galatea, bound.
Extract from record of sitting held on May 4, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
G. B. D. (going over list of cross-correspondences) " The Cave of Sleep
"
(MyerSp communicating.)
I wrote Harp, [The reader should refer to Mrs. Sidgwick's
paper, pp. 186-9, in order to see why this suggests in an
indirect way that the " Cave of Sleep " was connected in
the mind of the trance-personality with the Orpheus story.
Note hy J. G. P.]
Extract from record of sitting held on May 8, 1908.
(Present: G. B. Dorr.)
(G. B. D. goes over the various cross-correspondence messages
which it has been arranged the controls should be
trying to convey to Mrs. Verrall, Miss Verrall and Mrs,
Holland. He talks a little about each one, and suggests
literary and other associations connected with them with
a view to impressing each message clearly on the
memory and imagination of the trance-personality.)
H
114 J. G. Piddington. [part
G. B. D. " Pegasus " seems to me a good message ; it relates itself to
all sorts of things in literature, and it is the symbol of
genius and of the Muses. . . . Ovid wrote about him too,
and Horace "Hyacinthus" seems to me
a good message too, with its old poetic legend and its
relation to our modern gardens in the flower that sprang
from his blood and that still bears his name
And that too is a story Ovid tells.
(Myersp communicating.) Capital.
G. B. D " Cyclops " ought to make a good message, with the
one eye you have described to me so graphically, and
with the part he plays in Homer's Odyssey. . . .
I remember well OVID [Up to this point in this sitting
G. B. D. had mentioned, in connexion with the cross-
correspondence messages, Horace, Homer and Aristophanes
as well as Ovid. It should be noticed that out of the
four classical authors Myersp remarks on Ovid only. A^te
hj J. G. P.]
It will be observed that in the foregoing extracts Mj^ersp
mentioned three classical stories : those, namely, connected with
the names of Orpheus and Eurydice, Pygmalion, and Hyacin-
thus. It will further be observed that Myersp did not explain
why lie referred to Orpheus and Eurydice and to Pygmalion
whereas, though he cannot be said to have definitely explained
why he referred to Hyacinthus, he nevertheless said enough to
let it be seen why he was led to do so. Thus on March 31,
Mr. Dorr asked where a certain statue stood ; and gave a
clue to the right answer by saying that the place where
this statue stood was famous for its games : meaning thereby
Olympia. Myersp at once replied, " Races Marathon." This
curious reply represents, I cannot doubt, an approach, by way
of a very modern association of ideas, to the right answer,
' The knowledge here shown by Mr. Dorr of the fact that the stories of
Pegasus and Hyacinthus are treated of by Ovid was acquired only after references
to them had first been made by the trance-personality. These references led
him to look up Pegasus and Hyacinthus in works of reference, and it was in
this way that he obtained his information.
LX.] Thi'ee Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 115
Olympia.^ At the next sitting on April G, the word "Discobolus
"
(" discus-thrower "), which was distinctly stated to have been
given with reference to the place famous for its games where
the statue stood, may be regarded as representing a second
approach to Olympia by means of an allusion to discus-
throwing ; for discus-throwing was one of the events of the
pentathlon, and the pentathlon was first introduced at Olympia.
That this is the right interpretation is rendered practically
certain by the fact that the reference to the discus on April 7
was accompanied by references to two other events in the
Olympic pentathlon, spear-throwing and wrestling: "Do you
remember disk ? and spear—wrestling ".
But meanwhile, the attempt to express Olympia having first
of all suo-crested disciis-throwino;, discus-throwing in turn had
reminded Myersp of a story—that of Hyacinthus—of which
the throwing of a discus forms a prominent feature ; for the
word "discobolus" on April 6 had been immediatel}' followed
by the first of several allusions to the Hyacinthus story,
namely, "discus hit me".
Since the discus figures in a good many classical stories, it
might be thought that a reference to any one of these stories
would have served the trance-personality's purpose just as
well as the one actually mentioned. And so, no doubt, it
would, had the ol)ject been merely to show acquaintance
with the meaning of "discobolus". But, as we shall presently
see, this particular reference to the Hyacinthus story seems to
have fulfilled a collateral purpose which reference to none of
the other stories would have done (v. pp. 117-20).
Connexion between the Foregoing References.
I will now proceed to explain what in my view occasioned
the references to Orpheus and Eurydice and to Pygmalion, and
1 There was, of course, no such connexion in classical times as there is
nowadays between Marathon and the Olj'mpic Games. The intrusion of this
unscholarly, and hence inappropriate, association of ideas in the communica-
tions of MyerSp may perhaps be accounted for by supposing that Mrs. Piper
failed to record in writing the word Olympia, with which nevertheless her
mind had been impressed ah extra, and recorded instead a word associated in
her own mind with Olympia, viz. "Marathon."
116 J. G. Piddington. [part
how they throw light on the source from which the knowledge
of the Ceyx and Alcyone story was derived.
The question about Lethe, it will be remembered, was put
on March 23, and the answer to it—consisting of allusions to
the story of Ceyx and Alcyone as told in the eleventh book
of Ovid's Metamorplioses—^was begun on the same day and
practically completed by March 24. On March 30 Myersp, in
the waking-stage, after saying " Janus ", which, for reasons to
be explained presently, I take to be an allusion to an Ovidian
passage, speaks of Echo and Narcissus ; then mentions Janus
again in conjunction with Saturn, and, almostly directly after-
wards, suggests by a play on the word " Echo " that the
preceding "Echo and Narcissus" is a cross-correspondence;
next says that "it", i.e. apparently "echo", reminds him of
Orpheus and Eurydice ; and finally mentions both " Janus
and "Echo" again in consecutive utterances. On March 31
Myersp explains to Mr. Dorr that his utterances " to the spirit
of the Light ", i.e. his utterances in the waking-stage, reminded
him that he had written about Echo and Narcissus through
Mrs. Holland.
The connexion of thought between these utterances becomes
at once intelligible, if we assume that " Janus " and " Saturn ",
" Echo and Narcissus " and " Orpheus and Eurydice " are all
Ovidian allusions: Janus and Saturn to Fasti 1. 1-294; Echo
and Narcissus to Metamorphoses IIL 339-510; and "Orpheus
and Eurydice" to Metamoriohoses X. 1-77 and XI. 1-66. The
Ovidian reminiscences evoked by the question about Lethe had
recalled other Ovidian allusions, of which Myersy and MyersH
had made, or had tried to make, use : namely, the allusion to
Janus under the title of claviger in Mrs. Verrall's script of
March 25, 1907 (see below, p. 124, and Proc. Vol. XXIL
pp. 253 et seq.), and an allusion to Echo in Mrs. Holland's
script which had not emerged at this time but which did
emeige later ;^ and they also recalled Ovid's version of the
Orpheus and Eurydice story. But while Myersp explains why
he was reminded of Janus and Narcissus,—that is, he claims
them as the subjects of cross-correspondences,—he does not
explain why he was reminded of Orpheus and Eurydice.
^
This case will be dealt with later by Miss Johnson.
Lx.] Tliree Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 117
In the waking-stage of April 6 two more Ovidian reminis-
cences emerge: to Hyacinthus in the words "Discus hit me",
and to Pj^gmalion. So we get explanations of four out of
six references in all made in the trance to stories told by
Ovid : namely, of those to Ceyx and Alcyone, Janus, Echo
and Narcissus, and Hyacinthus. Of the remaining two,
Orpheus and Eurydice, and Pygmalion, no explanation was
vouchsafed.
The tenth book of Ovid's Metamorphoses opens with the
death of Eurydice, and Orpheus' descent into Hades in quest
of her. Ovid then goes on to relate how Orpheus in his
sorrow retires to Mount lihodope, and there sings of the rape
of Ganymede ; of the death of Hyacinthus and of the fiower
that sprang from his blood ; of the transformation of the
Cerastae into bulls ; of the Propoetides changed into stones ; of
Pygmalion's statue changed into a living woman; of Myrrha;
of Venus and Adonis ; and of Atalanta and Hippomenes. This
completes the tenth book.
The eleventh book opens with the death of Orpheus and his
reunion with Eurydice in Elysium. It will thus be seen that
the tenth and eleventh books are very intimately connected by
reason of Orpheus and Eurydice being a common subject of
each. Now the eleventh book contains, besides the death of
Orpheus, the story of Ceyx and Alcyone. I think, then, that
it is clear that the references made in the trance to Orpheus
and Eurydice, to Pygmalion and also to Hyacinthus, are reminis-
cences of the tenth and eleventh books of the Metamorphoses,
and not reminiscences of classical dictionaries, or of popular
collections of classical myths, or of Bulfinch's Age of Fable,
or Gayley's Classic Myths ; for although in these two latter
books all the stories in question are mentioned, they are not
in any way held together by any common bond, as they
are in the Metamorphoses, but appear disconnectedly, and
without anything being said to suggest a connexion between
them.^
^ In Bulfinch's Age of Fahle the stories appear in the following order:
Hyacinthus, Ch. VIII., pp. 91-93;
Pygmalion, Ch. VIII., pp. 97-99 ;
118 G. Piddington. [part
Moreover, the form of the allusions made in the trance to
these stories affords evidence partly of a jjositive and partly of
a negative character in favour of the hypothesis that Ovid's
text or a literal translation of it, and not any work of refer-
ence, was the som'ce on which Myersp drew.
On the positive side are the persistent references to " lily
"
in the Hyacinthus allusions. In Ovid lilies are in two different
ways associated with Hyacinthus. Thus, first:
Ut si quis violas riguove papaver in horto
Liliaque infringat fulvis haerentia virgis,
Marcida demittant suhito caput ilia gravatum,
Nee se sustineant, spectentque cacumine terram
Sic vultus moriens jaeet.
[As violets or poppy in a well-watered garden, or as lilies
clinging to their yellow stalks, that some hand beats down, of
a sudden wither, hang their burdened heads, and droop and
earthwards gaze, so sinks the dying head (of Hyacinthus).]
Then, secondly
Ecce cruor, qui fusus humo signaverat herham,
Desinit esse cruor, Tyrioque nitentior ostro
Flos oritur, formamque capit quam lilia, si nan
Purpureus color his, Ojrgenteus esset in illis.
[Lo ! the blood that had streamed upon the ground and stained
the grass is blood no longer ;
brighter than Tyrian purple a
flower springs up, and takes the shape that lilies have, albeit
its hue is purple while theirs is silver-white.]
Secondly, the " portmanteau ",
" Morpheus and Eurydice ",
which occurred in the waking-stage on March 31, is, I think,
Ceyx and Alcyone, Ch. IX., pp. 100-108;
Orpheus and Eurydice, Ch. XXIV., pp. 254:--259.
In Gayley's Clasnc Myths the stories appear in the following order
Hyacinthus, Ch. X., pp. 120-121.
Pygmalion, Ch. X., pp. 167-170.
Orpheus aiid Eurydice, Ch. XII. , pp. 185-188.
Ceyx and Alcyone, Ch. XIV., pp. 194-196.
Five other stories taken from the tenth and eleventh books of the Meta-
morphoses are summarised in The Age of Fable and in Classic Myths, but no
reference to any one of them was made in the trance.
For the order of the stories in Ovid see foot-note on p. 131.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 119
more like an automatism produced by familiarity with a con-
text which embraces both the Orpheus and Eurydice and the
Morpheus stories, than a confusion between two names of like
terminations ^ ; for " Orpheus and Eurydice " had been articulated
without difficulty the previous day, and, besides, there is no
other sign of confusion between the Orpheus and the Morpheus
stories. Thirdly, the details spontaneously given in the trance
all accord with Ovid's versions.
Lastly, though occurring in a different connexion, there is a
passage in tlie sitting of May S, 1908 (quoted on p. 114) which
suggests that Myersp was aware that he had been utilising
reminiscences of Ovid in his communications; for when Mr.
Dorr mentioned Homer, Aristophanes, Horace and Ovid in con-
nexion with various cross-correspondences, it was Ovid's name
alone which elicited comment: "I remember well OVID." And
this comment, made just after Mr. Dorr had spoken of the
Cyclops, came at a particularly appropriate point, because the
Cyclops is a subject of frequent recurrence in Ovid ;
though
nothing said by Mr. Dorr, who, on the contrary, spoke of
Homers Cyclops, suggested any connexion between the Cyclops
and Ovid.
On the negative side, it appears that no knowledge of details
not contained in Ovid is spontaneously shown by MyerSp.
Thus, the first spontaneous reference to Pygmalion was to
Pygmalion only, which accords with the vex'sion in Ovid, who
gives no name to the statue that came to life ; whereas in other
versions of the tale, and in Gayley's book, and in some of
the Classical Dictionaries, her name is given as Galatea.-
Moreover, when Mr. Dorr asked about a detail not found in
Ovid, but to be found in Bulfinch, in Gayley, and in most
Classical Dictionaries, i.e. the name of the wind that blew
the quoit against Hyacinthus, —no answer was given.
I regard it, then, as established that the allusions in the
trance to the Cave of Sleep, etc., Orpheus and Eurydice,
Pygmalion, and Hyacinthus are reminiscences of the tenth and
1 Cf. the significant "portmanteau" " sphear " —a compound of spear and
sphere—in Mrs. Piper's script of Feb. 4, 1902 (Proc. Vol. XX. p. 215).
-It was only when Mr. Dorr asked for an explanation of "Pygmalion" that
Galatea was mentioned. See foot-note on p. 91.
120 /. G. Piddington. [part
eleventh books of Ovid's Metamorphoses. And I consider that
the references to Orpheus and Eurydice and to Pygmalion were
introduced in order to indicate the source of the allusions to
Iris, Cave of Sleep, Morpheus, Ceyx, etc., which constitute the
answer to the Lethe question.^
Later on (see pp. 129-32) I shall suggest a reason why the
Orpheus and Pygmalion stories were mentioned rather than
any of the other stories contained in Metamorphoses X. and
XL, to indicate the source of the answer given to the Lethe
question.-
^ I do not think that the allusions to Hyacinthus were introduced primarily
to serve this purpose. I believe it was the question about the statue that
evoked them. At the same time I believe they would not have been evoked,
unless Myersp had already been set thinking of the tenth and eleventh books
of the Metaynorphoses by the question about Lethe. Or, to put it in another
way : if the question about Lethe only had been asked there would have been
no reference to Hyacinthus ; and if the question about Lethe had not been asked,
and only the question about the statue, there would equally have been no
reference to Hyacinthus. It was the combination of questions which recalled
the Hyacinthus story.
^ It may occur to the reader at this point to enquire what warrant, if any, I
have for grouping the references to Orpheus and Eurydice, Pygmalion, and
indirectly those to Hyacinthus, with the references to the Ceyx and Alcyone
story.
No positive indication was given in the trance that they were to be thus
grouped ; but three considerations can be adduced in justification of the
synthesis.
First, these references, though detached, emerged in close chronological
sequence : namely, Ceyx and Alcyone on March 2,3 and 24 ; Orpheus and
Eurydice at the next sitting on March 30; "Morpheus and Eurydice" at the
next sitting on March 31 ;
Hyacinthus and Pygmalion at the next sitting on
April 6. That is to say, no sitting was allowed to pass without a fresh reference
being made to stories contained in the same part of the Metamo7~phoses as
contains the story of Ceyx and Alcyone.
Secondly, the context of each reference suggests either a connexion between
it and the subject of Lethe, or between it and one of the other references.
Thus, after Morpheus had been mentioned on March 24, and Orpheus and
Eurydice on March 30, came the words "Olympus, Morpheus, and Eurydice"
on March 31. Since "Olympus" (though I do not know why) had, like
"Morpheus", been clearly connected with the answer to the Lethe question,
this odd combination of the three names suggests that some link existed in the
thoughts of the trance-personality between his answer to the Lethe question
and the Orpheus and Eurydice story.
Again, the first reference to the Hyacinthus story ("Discus hit me") and
the first reference to Pygmalion were made in the same waking-stage ; and the
latter occurred in a context embracing three words, " Elysian ", " Cyx ", and
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 121
Did Mrs. or Miss Verrall know Ovid's
Metamorphoses X. and XL 1
Now although neither Mrs. Piper herself nor Mr. Dorr was
acquainted with Metamorphoses X. and XI., a considerable
number of other living persons must have been ;
and to the
minds of an}^ one or more of them Mrs. Piper may have had
telepathic access. Yet so indeterminate a possibility it would
be unprofitable and, indeed, impracticable to discuss. But let
us restrict the field of possible candidates for the post of
telepathic agent to those classical scholars, between whom and
Mrs. Piper a comparatively regular and systematic supernormal
TOtpport is known to have been established. So far as I know,
the only persons whom this description would fit are Mrs. and
Miss Verrall.^ It becomes, therefore, desirable to ascertain if
they possessed the requisite knowledge.
Mrs. Verrall, writing on March 19, 1909, thus describes the
extent of her acquaintance with Ovid's works :
This is my reading :
Fasti, Books I. II. and III., I lectured on in 1881 to a class at
Newnham College ; so I knew them well then.
Heroidum Epistulae I read about 1896 with a class of children.
Not another word have I read except under compulsion : e.g. when
passages have been set in unprepared translation papers. And I
read the death of Eurydice about four years ago, because my husband
and a friend had views on Virgil's account of that, and I com-
pared it, when lecturing on the Virgil, with Ovid. But I hate Ovid
beyond words, and I have never read a line that I could avoid.
Mrs. Verrall, then, believes she has not read the Cave of
Sleep passage in Ovid ; and an additional I'eason for thinking
" Facilis " (v. p. 106), all associated, though for different reasons, with the Lethe
question.
Thirdly, the juxtaposition {v. p. 109) of "a lily came up out of the blood",
and "no poppies ever grew on Elysian shores", suggests that the two subjects
to which these phrases relate were associated in some way in the thoughts of
the trance-personality.
^ Since Mrs. Piper appears to have occasionally acquired information tele-
pathically from me, it should be stated that my first acquaintance with the
tenth and eleventh books of the Metamorphoses dates from a good many months
after the conclusion of Mr. Dorr's sittings.
122 J. G. Piddington. [PAET
that she had no acquaintance with it is furnished by the fact
that when she went over the records of Mr. Dorr's sittings,
with tlie special object of elucidating obscure points in the
classical allusions, she failed to make head or tail of the refer-
ences to the Cave of Sleep, Iris, Morpheus, etc.
Miss Verrall, writing on April 12, 1909, gives the following
account of her knowledsje of Ovid :
Generally speaking, I am not at all familiar with the works of
Ovid. As a child I read school texts containing selections from the
Fasti and Meturiiorplioses. I have also read the Heroidmn Epistulae
and some parts of the Tristia.
The book of selections from the Metamorphuses contained nothing
from Books X. and XL, except Book XL, 11. 89-192.1 I am almost
certain that I have never read any other part of these books unless
it were some passage set for unseen translation.
Though it is possible that Mrs. Verrall or Miss Verrall may
have come across the Cave of Sleep passage in an unseen
translation paper, it is not likely ; for when I drew their atten-
tion to it, it was new to both of them, and neither was aware
that any writer—ancient, medieval or modern—had ever located
the source of the river of Lethe in the Cave of Sleep. This
piece of mythological topography is, I believe, peculiar to Ovid,
and is not reproduced in any of the classical dictionaries which
I have consulted.^ And in this connexion I may as well add
that Ovid's description of the Cave of Sleep is not one of
those hackneyed passages familiar to all classical scholars.
Moreover, even if we were to assume, notwithstanding Mrs.
and Miss Verrall's statements, that one or both of them had
known the Ceyx and Alcyone story, and that from their minds
it passed telepathically into Mrs. Pijjei-'s, this would still leave
Mrs. Piper's knowledge of the Pygmalion and the Hyacinthus
stories unexplained ; and it is surely hardly credible that Mrs.
or Miss VeiTall can at one time have read all these three
Ovidian stories and since forgotten having done so.
^ The stories told in this passage, viz. how Bacchus granted Midas the power
of turning everything he touched into gold, and of how a pair of ass's ears
was bestowed on Midas as a punishment for his having preferred Pan's pipes to
Apollo's lyre, have no connexion with the Ceyx and Alcyone story.
"It is mentioned incidentally in Bulfiuch and in Gayley ; and I am informed
that it is given in Roscher's new and unfinished German Lexicon.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 123
It does not, then, seem likely that Mrs. Piper can have drawn
the knowledge shown in her trance from either Mrs. or Miss
Verrall.
Discussion of the part played by MyerSp in this Case.
So far I have looked for the source of the answer given
to the Lethe question in the minds of the living. The pro-
fessed source, however, is the mind of a dead man, Frederic
Myers. From this source for some years past there have pur-
ported to come series of communications through Mrs. Verrall
and Mrs. Holland, as well as through Mrs. Pipei-. There has
been a considei-able amount of coincidence in the content and
character of these three seiies of communications ; but if they
really are in some degree the product of one and the same
mind, we might reasonably expect them to show similarity or
identity of content or character and of method and manner of
presentment as well.
I pi'opose, then, next to discuss whether the method by
which MyerSp answered the Lethe question is marked by any
feature distinctive of the communications of Myersy and Myersy.^
In connexion with the Lethe question Myersp mentioned
certain disjointed words, names, or phrases, which in their dis-
iointed state conveyed no intelligible answer. Nor was a.i\y
intelligible answer deducible from them until two literarv
passages—J. erieicZ VI. 703-723, and Metamorphoses X. and XI.
—were discovered, wherein these verbal fragments are incor-
porate, and whereby they can be blended into coherent unity.
Now, since the phenomena of Myersp, Myersy and Myers^,
claim to emanate from one and the same source, it was appro-
priate that Myersp sliould convey his meaning by this method ;
for the same method had been four times employed already
in communications, which, though unsigned, thei'e is good
reason for assigning in two cases to Myersy and in two to
Myersjj. If a second example of the same method being used
^ If an affirmative answer can be given to this question, it will afford an
additional reason for thinking that the knowledge of the Metamorphoses
manifested in the trance was not derived from Mrs. Piper's memories, but
reached her mind in some supernormal manner.
124 J. G. Piddington. [part
by Myersp, described on pp. 144-50, is included, it makes six
instances in all ; and in all six instances this distinctive device
is probably to be attributed to a " Myers " control.
And let it not be supposed that the three automatists con-
cerned, Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Holland, and Mrs. Piper, borrowed this
plan of code-signalling literary passages from each other,
at least in any normal manner. On the contrary, each
gave an example of it in her phenomena without having
seen or been informed of the parallel examples elsewhere.
Moreover, none of the automatists suspected that any such
cryptic device was in operation ; it being in each case left,
as was the scheme of complex cross-correspondences,' for a
student of the phenomena to discover. Besides which, the
automatist did not, except in one of the six instances, con-
sciously know that an allusion had been made in her script
to a literary context.
The meaning of these ratlier obscure abstract statements will
become clear when read in the light of the concrete facts on
which they are based.
The first instance occurred in Mrs. Verrall's script of March
25, 1907 {v. Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 252 et seq.) in connexion
with the word claviger. The discoveiy that this word is used
in Ovid, Fasti I. in two different senses and connexions, gave
a clue to the meaning of the script as referring to Janus, and
also threw light on a script of Mrs. Holland's, that of April 8,
1907, and on an utterance in Mrs. Piper's trance of the same
date {id. ib. pp. 253-7, 265-9, 271-2).
The second instance occurred in Mrs. Holland's script of
April 8, 1907, which refers to Martha and Mary and Leah and
Rachel {id,, ih. pp. 265-8). Here, when the literary source
of this part of the script was discovered, its context was
found to embrace various topics which were being indepen-
dently mentioned about this time in Mrs. Piper's trance and in
Mrs. Verrall's script.
The third iustance is furnished b}' Mrs. Verrall's script of
April 8, 1907 {id. ih. p. 271), which contains a quotation from
Tennyson's Maud. This quotation formed a simple cross-
correspondence with Mrs. Holland's script of March 27, 1907
i.See Proc. Vol. XXI. p. .377.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 125
{id. ib. p. 261), inasmuch as the latter also contained a quota-
tion —though not the same quotation—from Maud ; but between
the unquoted context of Mrs. Verrall's quotation and the theme
of another script of Mrs. Holland's (that of April 8, 1907, just
mentioned) which was illustrated by allusions to passages in
Dante's Convito and Purgatorio, a far more striking cross-
correspondence was involved :
—more striking, because the sub-
ject of it, the identification of opposites, being far more removed
from the commonplace is less likely to appear about the same
time in two different scripts than are different quotations from
a well-known poem, and less likely still to appear in two
different scripts of the same date.
The fourth instance, Mrs. Holland's reference to Browning's
Aristophanes' Apology in her script of April 16, 1907 {id. ib.,
p. 215), has already been described in detail in my Supple-
mentary Notes above, p. 25.
The fifth instance is the one under discussion, where, by
tracing to their literary source various disjointed words and
phrases connected in Mrs. Piper's trance with the Lethe ques-
tion, we have been enabled to make sense out of what at
first sight appeared to be nonsense.
In the sixth instance, described in detail below on pp. 144-50,
the discovery that the two names Icarus and Anchises mentioned
together in Mrs. Piper's trance are both embedded in a passage
in the sixth book of the Aeneid led to the further discovery
that fi^om this particular passage an apt answer could be
supplied to a question put to Myersp by Mr. Dorr.
Myersp, Myersy, and Myers^, all three, then, adopted the
same distinctive method. I speak of it as a "method", because
I believe it to be due to design ; but if objection be taken to
the term, " feature " can be used instead. I call it " distinctive ",
because I believe it to be peculiar to these three manifestations
of a " Myers " control, or at any rate to the group of "spirits"
associated with it.^
^ I may remark in passing that it was quite appropriate for Myersp, who had
a year before spontaneously introduced the subject of "halcyon days" (see
Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 10.3-7, 110, 112, 131, 140 and 163), to display in his
answer to the Lethe question acquaintance with a passage in classical literature
where the origin of halcyon days is told.
126 /. G. Piddington. [part
So far we have dealt with these references to literary
passages only as evidence for the employment of a common
method by Myersp, Myersy and Myersu. But let us now shift
our point of view, and consider whether behind these passages,
selected primarily, no doubt, because of their immediate relev-
ance to the subject-matter of the communications to wliich they
belong, there may not lurk an ulterior or secondary significance.
If A, B and C, whose circumstances, education, mental
endowments and pursuits are dissimilar, were independently
of each other set the task of illustrating different topics or
answering different questions by means of allusions to literary
passages, in all probability the literary sources of the passages
selected would be too wide and too promiscuous to be covered
by the knowledge of any single one of the three. Similarly,
if, instead of relying on their own literary taste and know-
ledge, all alike employed a fourth party, X, to do their tasks
for them, though certain passages selected by X might happen
to be known to one or two or all three of them, no single one of
them probably would know all X.'s passages. Moreover, on the
assumption that X selected the passages without reference to the
individual literary attainments of A, B and C, it would be just
as likely that some of the passages which, e.g., A might not
know, should occur in the set selected for him by X, as in either
B's or C's set. Obviously, however, all the passages in all tliree
sets would be within tlie range of X's reading, and would
probably be to some extent symptomatic not only of his in-
tellectual but of his emotional bent.^
The phenomena of our three automatists present an analogous
case. In each instance a topic has been illustrated or a ques-
tion answered in their scripts or trance-speech by means of
allusions to passages in literature ; and in each instance not
the automatist herself but a fourth party, Frederic Mj^ers, is
represented as responsible for the selections.
Let us see if the result in this actual case accords with what I
have assumed to be the probable result in my imaginary case.
1
If among my readers are any schoolmasters who have been led to suspect
that behind the Latin Prose or Verse of their pupils, A, B and C, lurks a
common author X, the line of argument which I am here pursuing ought to
appeal to them.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 127
For convenience of reference I tabulate the passages.
No. of ^. ^ , .
, Literary Passage. Automatist.
instance. ^ ^
(1) Ovid. Fasti I. Mrs. Verrall.
/(2a) Dante. Convito IV. 17: 85-11. Mrs. Holland.
1(26) ,, Purgatorio. Cantos XXVII. and „
XXVIII.
(3) Tennyson. Maud. Mrs. Verrall.
(4) Bi"owning. Aristophanes' Apology. Mrs. Holland.
r(5c6) Ovid. Metamorijhoses X. and XL Mrs. Piper.
1(56) Vergil. Aeneid VI. 1-123.
(6) Vergil. Aeneid VI. 703-723.
In the third instance only did the automatist consciously
know and recognise the passage. In the first instance she had
once been familiar with it, but had since forgotten it. In the
remaining instances the automatist concerned denies having
ever consciously known the passages.
To Mrs. Verrall (1), (3), (56) and (G) and the substance of
(2a) and (26) were, or had at one time been, known ; (4) was
unknown, as were all the passages grouped under (5a) with the
exception of the Orpheus and Eurydice passage :
To Mrs. Holland (3) was known, and (56) and (6) must be
assumed to have been known ; the rest were unknown.
To Mrs. Piper all the passages except (3), which I shall
assume she did know or might have known, were unknown.
To all the three automatists collectively one passage only, (3),
was known.
To none of the automatists were all the passages known.^
1 For Mrs. Verrall's ignorance of the Ovid passages, except tlie Orpheus and
Eurydice ones, see p. 12J . As regards Browning's Arintophanes' Apolor/y
Mrs. Verrall, in a letter dated June 5, 1909, states that to the best of her
belief she had never read it before the allusion to it appeared in Mrs.
Holland's script, and she gives detailed reasons for her belief. She had never
read the Convito, but she had read in ISSl an edition (A. J. Butler's)
of the Purgatorio, which contains a note in the appendix to the effect
that Martha and Mary, like Leah and Rachel, are types of the Active and
Contemplative Life. The substance of Convito TV. 17. 85-111, must accord-
ingly be assumed to have once been known to her.
Mrs. Holland, in a letter dated June 7, 1909, infoi-ms me that she has never
read Ovid's Fasti, and had never even heard of it ; that she had never read
128 J. G. Piddington. [part
A Comparison of MyerSp with F. W. H. Myers.
The question now arises whether in the answer given by
MyerSp to the Lethe question there was anything appropriate
to the personality whom Myersp claims to be.
We may first consider whether all the passages just
referred to were known to Frederic Myers. The Tennyson
and the Vergil passages certainly were ; and it is scarcely
necessary to state that a man whose knowledge of Dante
can have been surpassed by few of his English contemporaries,
excepting professed Dante scholars, knew the closing cantos
of the Pttrgatorio ; but if any reader desires proof I would
refer him to Esmys Classical, pp. 173-176, and to the motto
of The Implicit Promise of Immortality in The Renewal of
Youth, p. 46.
I can produce no such definite evidence that Frederic
Myers knew Aristophanes A^oology ; but that he was familiar
with Bi'owning's poems is established by two passages in his
writings, Science and a Future life, pp. 163, and 167-8; and
in view of this fact, and of the further facts that he was a
personal friend of Browning's, and was deeply interested in
classical subjects, the presumption that he was acquainted with
Aristophanes Apology is very strong.
Neither in regard to the particular passages from Ovid's
Ovid's Metamorphoses, thougli she had heard of it; and that "years ago" she
" scampered through a translation of the Aeneid'", but has no recollection of the
sixth book. For the evidence as to Mrs. Holland's ignorance of the Purgatorio
and Convito passages and of Aristophanes' Apology see pp. 24 and 25.
For Mrs. Piper's ignorance of Aristophanes^ Apology see Proc. Vol. XXII.
pp. 41.5-16 ; and in a letter addressed to me on June 26, 1909, she categorically
states that she has never read it. In the same letter she writes :
" I know-
nothing about Dante nor anything he wrote, and very little more about
Browning." As regards the Aeiieid she writes on August 7, 1909, as follows :
"I have never read Vergil's Aeneid. I could not read it if I wished.
Alta [her daughter] says it is written in Latin, and I could not read Latin
possibly. I do not undei-stand or read Latin, have never seen a translation,
and am not in the least familiar with it." For Mrs. Piper's ignorance of
Ovid see pp. 138-41. Mr. Dorr, moreover, satisfied himself by personal enquiries
that Mrs. Piper's knowledge of the Classics is practically nil.
Incidentally it may be noted that the automatist whose knowledge included
the greatest number of the passages was the one whose education, pursuits
and interests resembled the most closely those of Frederic Myers.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 129
Fasti and Metamorphoses, can I produce definite evidence that
Frederic Myers was familiar with them ; but the following
extract from the autobiographical part of Fragments of Prose
and Poetry (p. 17) is evidence of his familiarity with Ovid's
works generally :
That early burst of admiration for Virgil of which I have already
spoken was followed by a growing passion for one after another of
the Greek and Latin poets. From ten to sixteen I lived much in
the inward recital of Homer, Aeschylus, Lucretius, Horace, and Ovid.
Myers, who was singularly modest concerning his literary
attainments, would not have so expressed himself, had he not
meant to imply that his knowledge of Ovid was out of the
common.
Yet even if it be granted that all the passages had actually
been within Myers's knowledge, that fact alone, though
striking, leaves something to be desired ; for coming as they all
do from classics, ancient or modern, collectively or singly they
must be within the knowledge of many living persons ; and so
it is possible that the automatist might have derived them
telepathically from one or more of these persons. The case
would therefore gain in impressiveness if traces could be
detected in the choice of the passages, or in the coroments
that accompanied them, of some bias characteristic of Myers's
mind or temperament.
Such traces I believe to exist ; and I will do my best to bring
them out, after first warning the reader not to expect all the
passages to be significant or to be equally significant, for pro-
bably the predominant factor determining the choice of them
was a desire to allude to contexts relevant to the immediate
subject of the communications.
In the first place, all the authors from whose works the passages
come —Ovid, Dante, Tennyson, Vergil, and Browning —were,
with the possible exception of the last, the objects of Myers's
special admiration or aff'ection ; and two of them—-Vergil and
Tennyson—of his veneration also.
In the second place, three out of the four stories told in
Metamorphoses X. and XI. to which Myersp alluded, are the
subject of allusions in three consecutive stanzas of one of
I
130 J. G. Piddington. [part
Frederic Myers's poems; and the order in which the allusions
emerge in the trance and in the poem is the same.
The allusions in question were to Iris, Orpheus and. Eurydice,
and Pygmalion. They emerged—and emerged spontaneously
in that order in the trance : Iris on March 23 and 24, Orpheus
and Eurydice on March 30, and Pygmalion on April 6.
The subject of the third stanza of Frederic Myers's Stanzas
on Mr. Watts Collected Works^ is the picture entitled The
Genius of Greek Poetry, with its " rainbow forms that span the
sky "
; the subject of the fourth stanza is the picture entitled.
Orpheus andj Eurydice; the subject of the fifth stanza is the
picture entitled The Wife of Pygmalion.
It is true that the direct reference in the third stanza is
to The Genius of Greek Poetry ; but there is as well, I think,
an implicit collateral allusion to Watts' Pris. To make this
clear I will quote the first four lines of the third stanza
Yet oftenest in the past he walked,
With god or hero long gone by,
Oft, like his pictured Genius, talked
Witli rainbow forms that span the sky.
In The Genius of Greek Poetry a symbolical human figure is
gazing at the forces and phenomena of Nature as they pass
embodied in God-like forms before his eyes. B}' far the most
prominent of these forms is a rainbow which stretches nearly
across the whole picture. A classical scholar looking at this
picture and knowing its title could hardly fail to be reminded of
Iris, the rainbow goddess, by the " rainbow-form " ; and if, like
Frederic Myers, this scholar were at the same time an enthusi-
astic connoisseur of Watts' work, he would almost inevitably
be reminded of his Iris. I think, therefore, that in Frederic
Myers's mind the goddess Iris and Watts' picture Iris were
associated with Tlie Genius of Greek Poetry ; and this pro-
bability is heightened by the words in the third stanza
Oft, like his pictured Genius, talked
With rainbow forms that span the sky.
Besides the broader meaning which they bear, these two lines
mean, I take it, that Watts dealt not once onl}^ in The Genius of
'See Frafiments of Prose and Poetry, p. 190.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 131
Greek Poetry, but in others of his paintings too, e.g. in his
Iris and JJldra, with the subject of the rainbow. Granted the
correctness of this interpretation, we get, then, in successive
stanzas of Myers's poem an implicit allusion to Iris, a reference
to Orpheus and Eurydice, and a reference to Pygmalion.
The order in which these three subjects emerge in the poem
and in the trance is not the order in which they emerge in
Ovid's Metamorphoses ;
(nor, it may be added incidentally^ in
which they ai"e to be found in Gayley's Classic Myths or in
Bulfinch's Age of Fable). If it had been, the natural inference
would have been that Myersp and Frederic Myers alike (and
Bulfinch and Gayley likewise) had simply followed Ovid's
order. If any significance attaches to the coincidence, it lies in
the fact that the order adopted in the trance agrees not with
Ovid's arrangement 1 but with that adopted in Frederic Myers's
poem.
But since, ex hypothesi, the Iris story was necessarily men-
tioned first in order in the trance, and since there were con-
sequently only two possible orders in which the other two
stories could follow it, the coincidence in the order of arrange-
ment is by itself not worth attention. It becomes noteworthy
only because it supplements the coincidence in the choice of
subjects : of which chance will hardly seem a satisfactory
explanation when the large number of different combinations of
three stories tvhich might have been formed from the tivo
books of the " Metamorphoses " is taken into account.
I do not believe that it is the kind of coincidence which
Mrs. Piper could consciously or subconsciously have concocted ;
for, even if she had read the poem (which she had not-),
^ The references to Iris, Orpheus and Eurydice, and Pygmalion occur in the
following order in the 3Ietamorphoies :
—
Death of Eurydice and Orpheus' descent iuto the Underworld, Mel. X. 1-85,
Pygmalion and the Statue, Met. X. 243-297.
Death of Orpheus and his reixnion with Eurydice, Afef. XI. 1-66.
Iris (Ceyx and Alcyone story), Mel. XI. 410-748.
"Mrs. Pi^jer wrote to me ou July 28, 1909, as follows: "I have not yet
seen Fragments, of Prose and Poetry. I asked my father-in-law to get me
a copy. He later told me he would have to send to England for it. Since
then I have not even thought of it, and he too must have forgotten it, as he
has never mentioned it to me." It was the references to it in Proc. Vol.
XXII. (see pp. 109-110) which made Mrs. Piper wish to read Fragments.
132 J. G. Piddington. [part
I do not believe that she possesses the classical scholar-
ship requisite to detect the indii'ect allusion implicit in the
third stanza to Iris, or the allusions to Orpheus and Eurydice
in the fourth, and to Pygmalion in the fifth. ^ Meanwhile,
it is precisely the kind of delicate coincidence which might
be expected to occur, if the communications of Myersp are
influenced by the mind of the author of Stanzas on Mr.
Watts Collected Works.
A critic might here remark :
" But how about the allusion
to the Hyaciuthus stoiy ? Y(ju seem to have overlooked the
fact that in spite of this being one of the stories contained
in Metamorp]Loses X. and XI. to which Myersp referred, there
is no reference to it in the poem on Watts' pictures. Had
Myersp referred to Iris, Orpheus and Eurj^dice, and Pygmalion
only,l grant the coincidence would have been striking; but he
leferied to the Hyaciuthus story too, and that just spoils the
coincidence."
If it had proved to be the case that the Hyaciuthus story
was dragged in merely for the same purpose as the Orpheus and
Eurydice and Pygmalion stories —namely, to serve as a clue
to the source of the allusions to Iris, Cave of Sleep, Morpheus,
etc.—this criticism would liave considerable force ;
but, as
previously explained (v. pj). 117-20), the Hyaciuthus story was
introduced, and effectively introduced, to serve a quite distinct
purpose.
Incidentally I would call attention to the fact that neither
Ovid, Watts nor Fredeiic Myers gave a name to the wife of
Pygmalion ; and that Myersp first mentioned Pygmalion only,
and did not mention Galatea until asked to explain " Pygmalion
"
by Mr. Dorr, who evident!}' thought that Myersp was merely
firino- off classical reminiscences at random and without
method. If, as I have suggested, MyerSp was thinking of Ovid's
Metamorphoses, of Watts' picture, and of Frederic Myers's
stanzas on Watts' pictures, it is intelligible why, in the first
spontaneous reference, Pygmalion only was named.
In the third place, it was appropriate to represent Frederic
'
In the poem neither Eurydice nor Pygmalion is named ; and Orpheus is
called "The Thracian" simply.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 133
Myers as remembering and utilising in his communications the
stories of Ceyx and Alcyone and of Orpheus and Eurydice.
The theme of both stories is ad jinem servatos amores and
the happy reunion of two lovers, " after long grief and pain
in another state of existence; and, as must be apparent to any
careful reader of Myers's poems, this was a theme very near
indeed to his heart; and the Orpheus and Eurydice story
had evidently taken great hold upon him.^
Moreover, any one familiar with Myers's writings will recognise
that passages in classical literature which concern some inci-
dent of a mystic or "supernormal" kind had a special attraction
for him. I do not base this statement on the frequency of
references to such passages to be found in places whei'e they
would be expected, that is to say, in writings directly dealing
with "psychical research," but upon the frequency with which
they occur in his articles on classical and general subjects. An
incident of a supernormal kind, Alcyone's "veridical" vision of
her husband's death, enters into Ovid's story; and the story of
Orpheus and Eurydice is full of mysticism. It was, then, I
say, appropriate that Frederic Myers should be represented as
remembering these two myths and utilising them in his
communications.
" No Poppies ever grew on Elysian Shores."
In conclusion, I propose to discuss a phrase uttered in the
waking-stage of April 7, 1008, because, if it can really bear
the meanings I read into it, it cannot have been coined
in the mint of Mi-s. Piper's mind, but must have issued from
the mind of a scholar versed in mysticism and symbolism.
The phrase I mean is :
" Mr. Myers says no poppies ever
grew on Elysian shores" (p. 109). It was preceded by some
sentences in which Mrs. Piper spealcs about herself in the first
person
I am going awaj-. I see a light. I see a cross and a man with
sandy hair. Why, Mr. Myers, where did you come from 1 I tliought
^See Feror Ingenti Circiimdata 2\octe and Stanzas on Mr. Watts'' Collected
Wo7-ks in Fragment.'^ of Prose and Poetry, pp. 136 and 191 ;
Essays Classical,
pp. 53-54, and 140-141 ; and The Renewal of Youth, pp. '224-5.
134 J. G. Piddington. [part
I would try and speak for you if I could hear from your side. Oh
I had a beautiful time ! I did not want to come back any more.
These sentences had been immediately pi'cceded by a reference
to the Hyacinthus story :
A lily came up out of the blood. Don't you remember the flower
that grew out of the drop of blood ?
Now these words obviously do not belong to the sentences
spoken by Mrs. Piper in propria persona; but were certainly
meant as a message sent to Mr. Dorr by Myersp. We get, then,
after eliminating Mrs. Piper's own remarks, in consecutive
utterances by Myersp conjoined references to a lily and to
poppies.
The primary meaning of " No poppies ever grew on Elysian
shores " I take to have been this :
" Error underlies the classic
legend which made flowers emblematic of oblivion grow in
the Elysian fields, for the dead do not forget their life on
earth." i
But it was also, I suggest, a comment prompted partly by a
comparison of Vergil's with Ovid's description of Lethe and partly
^ There are several other instances where Myersp or Hodgsoiip has given
just the same kind of allegorical twist or personal application to a subject
originally mooted in a litei'al or non-personal connexion. Four illustrations
will suffice :
(1) In the waking-stage of the trance of April 17, 1907 (v. Froc. Vol. XXII.
pp. 295-6) between repeated utterances of the word " Tyrannus " (doubt-
less intended as a cross-correspondence) was inserted the remark: "Mr.
Hodgson says there are no tyrants over here."
(2) In the waking-stage of the trance of April 29, 1907 (v. Proc. Vol. XXII.
pp. 279-SO) two references to Dante's Inferno were followed by the
comment: "There's no Inferno here."
(3) On May 1, 1907 (v. Proc. Vol. XXII. p. 405) Myersp after making an
unmistakable allusion to two lines in Aht VogJer : "the wonderful
Dead who have passed through the body and gone. But were back once
more to breathe in an old world worth their new" adds the comment
"I have returned to breathe in the old world, which is not, however,
better than our new."
(4) On March 17, 1908 (see above, p. 81), Myersp had given "Is there such anger
in celestial minds ?" as a translation of Aeneld I. 11. In the waking-stage
of March 30, 1908, an echo of this rendering—" He says, tell him '
Celestial
minds.' He says 'such enmity in celestial minds""—was followed by
the comment: "He says 'Not so: there isn't any in their minds.'"
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 135
by a comparison of the " Lethean poppies " of the Georgics
with the poppy-less Lethe of the Aeneid. In Metamorphoses XL
the river of Lethe issues from the Cave of Sleep near the
Cimmerians' land, and before the Cave grow poppies; whereas in
Aeneid. VI. the river of Lethe flows by the Elysian fields, and,
though the scenery of the river is described, no mention is
made of poppies—an omission the more noticeable because in
the Georgics (TV. 545) Vergil applies the epithet " Lethean " to
poppies. No matter whether this omission was intentional on
Vergil's part or not, it is exactly the kind of omission which a
Vergilian scholar with mystic leanings and interested in
symbolism might seize upon.
Whatever the reader may think of this interpretation, he
will, I hope, at least admit that the phrase implies knowledge
of the fact that both Elysium and poppies have been asso-
ciated with Lethe ; for what else, unless it were knowledge
that poppies were a Lethean flower and that according to one
vei'sion of the story Lethe was an Elysian river, could have
provoked the comment that " no poppies ever grew on Elysian
shores "
There remains a small point to which I would draw the
attention of those readers only whose interest goes beyond the
purely " evidential " side of the phenomena.
Into the four stories—Lethe, Orpheus and Eurydice,
Pygmalion, and Hyacinthus—mentioned by Myersp, poppies or
lilies, or poppies and, lilies, enter in one way or another.
For the connexion of poppies with Lethe see Ovid, 3Iet. XL
605 and Vergil, Georg. IV. 544.
For an indirect connexion of lilies with Lethe see Verofil,
Aeneid VI. 708-9, where the souls that crowd about its banks
are compared to bees swarming round white lilies.
For the connexion of poppies with the Orpheus and Eury-
dice story see A^ergil, Georg. IV. 544, where Aristaeus is told
to ofl'er Lethean poppies to Orpheus to placate his wrath.
For the connexion of lilies with Orpheus and Eurydice see
the Orpheus and Eurydice of G. F. Watts (18G9), in which a
lily lies at the feet of the swooning Eurydice.
136 J. G. Piddington. [part
For the connexion of lilies with the Pygmalion story, see
Ovid, Met. X. 262, where Pygmalion makes gifts of lilies to
the marble statue ; and Watts' picture, Tli,e Wife of PygmaUoUy
in which lilies are introduced as symbols of her purity.
For the connexion of lilies and poppies with Hyacinthus,
see Ovid, Met. X. 190-1 and 212 (quoted on p. 118).
I am not for a moment suggesting that Myersp intended to
bring out in his communications the odd fact of the intrusion
of poppies and lilies into all these stories. Nor do I contend
that he was even conscious that the coincidences existed,
although the juxtaposition of allusions in successive utterances
to the lily that grew out of the blood, and to the poppies
that never grew on Elysian shores, rather suggests that he
may have been. But I do put forward the conjecture that the
lilies and poppies were one of the associations which led him un-
consciously to group these four particular stories, rather than
any others, from the tenth and eleventh books of the Metamor-
phoses. At the same time I readily admit that poppies and lilies
are so regular a part of the Roman poet's floral stock-in-trade
that chance is, perhaps, a sufficient explanation of the coinci-
dences ; which it could hardly be, had i-arer flowers been the
subject of them.
Note A.
Letters read at the sitting of March 23, 1908. (See p. 86.)
These five letters were as follows: (1) A letter addressed to
Mr. Dorr by Sir Oliver Lodge, enclosing (2) a letter addressed
to Sir Oliver Lodge by myself; (3) a letter addressed by me
to Mr. Dorr ; (4) a letter addressed to Mr. Dorr by Miss Alice
Johnson ; and (5) a letter addressed b}^ me to Hodgsoup.
There was nothing in (1) or (2) that need concern us here ;
that
is to say, neither conveyed information which affected the
evidential value of anything written or spoken in the trance
subsequently. In (4) Miss Johnson explained that it was difficult
to reply definitely and promptly whether cross-correspondences
had been successful or not until there had been time to study
carefully Mrs. and Miss Verrall's and Mrs. Holland's scripts, as
the corresponding messages in these scripts sometimes came
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe. 137
out in very allusive fashion ; and she quoted as an illustration
the case of " Giant and Dwarf " (see Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 87-94).
In my letter to Mr. Dorr I asked him to send all records to
Miss Johnson instead of to me, and to read a letter, which I
enclosed, to the Hodg-son control. This letter I must quote, as
it convej^ed both to Mr. Dorr and to the trance-personalities
information, which they had not possessed before, of some of
the results of the English series of sittings in 1906-1907. The
object of the letter was to pacify Hodgsoup, who was im-
patiently demanding to be told whether cross-correspondences
which he and MyerSp had been trying had succeeded or not.
Dorr has told me what you have been saying lately about
cross-correspondences. We will do our best to let you know
when your experiments succeed, with as little delay as possible.
But I do not think you realise in the least the difficulties of
collating the various scripts. To do this takes a long time and
much careful study. What is said or written through this
Light (Mrs. Piper) is plain and straightforward ; but what Mrs.
Verrall, Miss Verrall, and especially Mrs. Holland, write is
nearly always of an exceedingly cryptic character, and only hy
prolonged and patient study can the meaning be extracted.
Let me give you an example : It is only a few days ago that I
have at last traced a positively amazing series of cross-corre-
sponding messages between this Light, Mrs. Verrall and Mrs.
Holland. It has taken nearly a year to discover it. This was
a series of corresponding messages worked by you and Myers,
and I think Sidgwick also, on the subject of the identification
of opposites—a subject connected with the ai'Tos oi'pai'us a/ci'/xaji-
business. The v/hole thing is now perfectlj' plain, ^ and you
have scored an immense success. But if you had asked me
even a few weeks ago if "Light in West," "Dante's Inferno,'"'
"Aphrodite," "I wander lonely as a Cloud," and "Daffodils"
{i.e. some of the messages given through this Light which
formed part of this series) had been successfully reproduced by
the other Lights I should have said "No" imhesitatingly
whereas now I see that they uvre reproduced, though in an
^ The general scheme was plain to me at the time, but various points included
in my published account of the incident—among others the connexion of
Janus and Prometheus, and the meaning of the names Leopold, Silvia, and
Harold —I had not grasped at tlie time when this letter was written.
138 J. G. Piddington. [part
exceedingly allusive fashion. The allusiveness of which I speak
is, I imagine, partly the result of your own intentions, but it
is also, I am sure, partly the result of the action of the Lights'
own minds.
Sometimes a cross-correspondence is quite easy to trace straight
off, e.g. " Laurel wreath " ; but this is rare. Most of the best
ones are traceable only after long study. So I a.sk you to
work on with both faith and patience. Be assured that every
single word that comes from you or Myers or the others will
receive our attention. Bear in mind, too, that Mrs. Holland,
through whom you have succeeded in sending some of the very
best things, lives at a great distance from us, as does this
Light [i.e. Mrs. Piper] also ; and all this causes much delay.
Whatever you do, do not be discouraged ;
you have suc-
ceeded far beyond our hopes. Peg away, and bear always in
mind that our silence does not mean want of interest.
Note B.
Mrs. Piper's ignorcmce of Ovid,. {See p. 102.)
On March 29, 1909, Mr. Dorr, at my suggestion, put to Mrs.
Piper the questions, and received from her the answers, recorded
below. The I'ccord was made at the interview, and the ques-
tions were asked exactly as noted. At the time when Mr.
Dorr interrogated Mrs. Piper he did not know my reasons
for having these questions asked, and at my suggestion he put
them in such a way as to convey the impression that they had
reference to subjects which had been mentioned not at his own
sittings but at the sittings held in England in 1906-07.
G. B. D. What do you know about Morpheus 1
Mrs. p. I do not know anything about Morpheus. (Pause.) I can-
not at the moment tell you who Morpheus was. It does
not convey anything to me. (Another pause.) That is
really all I can say.
G. B. D. What do you know about the Cave of Sleep 1
Mks. p. About the Cave of Sleep ? I do not know anything about
it. Nothing! (Pause.) Is there such a place as the
Cave of Sleep, Mr. Dorr ?
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 139
G. B. D. I do not know myself.
Mrs. p. Well, I'm sure I don't ; I never heard of it.
G. B. D. Have you ever read any collection of classical stories ?
Mrs. p. What do you mean by collection of classical stories 1
G. B. D. Well, such as Kingsley's Heroes, for example.
Mrs. p. I have read sorne stories of Kingsley's. llie Back of the
North Wind for instance or was that George
MacDonald's 1 Which was it who wrote The Hack of the
North Wind?
G. B. D. What do you know about Iris 1
Mrs. p. You mean about the plant ? Didn't you ask me about that
once before 1 I think I know as much as people generally
do about plants; I don't know more than that about it.
[G. B. D. had asked this question in the spring of 1908, some
time after the sitting in which the name came out—with
the result of getting a similar confusion with the plant's
name.]
G. B. D. Does the name Ceyx (Ce-yx) suggest anything to you ?
Mrs. p. No, it is all Greek to me !
G. B. D. It suggests nothing to your mind ?
Mrs. p. No, I have never heard of it before, I do not know what
it means. I could not answer that to save my life. Is
that a trick question'?
G. B. D. No, just something that has come up in connexion with the
work in England. I do not know what the word means
myself.
G. B. D. Do you know what the rainbow was called by the Romans ?
Mrs. p. No, I haven't any idea. I could not answer it at all. I knov/
very little of such things. (Pause.) No, I can't remem-
ber ever having heard it spoken of before.
G. B. D. Have you ever read any translation of Ovid ']
Mrs. p. No.
140 J. G. Pidclington. [part
G. B. D. Think a moment.
Mrs. p. No, I have never read any. 1 don't know who Ovid is ;
the name says nothing to me.
Two days later, on March 31, 1909, Mr. Dorr wrote:—
Mrs. Pipei' has just written me, regarding your question
about Iris, that she does recall a picture of some sort
once given her—a print or something of the kind
called " Iris the Cupbearer." She wanted me to tell you
this.
The following extract from a letter addressed to me by Mr.
Dorr, on May 22, 1909, may be suitably appended :
Last spring, when these writings were going on, I went over
the subject of books, without telling them what^ I wanted
otherwise than generally, with both Mrs. Piper and her
daughters ; and I made sure then they had no books
bearing on [classical subjects] in their apartment, and
that Mrs. Piper had read none, so far as her own state-
ment is to be relied upon. And apart from this, the
inherent improbability of her past reading having fur-
nished her with memories enabling her trance-consciousness
to construct what came in the sittings seems to me con-
clusive in the matter ; and would seem so, I think, to any
one out here [i.e. in the United States] familiar with the
little interest in or knowledge of such subjects that
exists among folks here.
Of course, neither this nor any search at [Mrs. Piper's]
apartment, nor any statement made [by Mi's. Piper],
would have any convincing weight in a discussion of the
question of possible deliberate deception. But this could
not have taken place unless the trance-state and the normal
state supplied each other luith memories and material mutually:
that is, unless our whole conception of the depth and
oenuineness of the trance-condition has been erroneous,
and unless Mrs. Pipei', and her daughters too (almost of
necessity), have carried out a wonderful piece of deception,
taking us all in like children from Myers and Hodgson
on.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Ltthe. 141
And again :
With regard to Mrs. Piper's past memories being the source,
she affirms most stronglj', and her daughters bear her
out in it as strongly too, that she has never read along
these [i.e. classical] lines at all, and has no slightest know-
ledge of the subject. This I am almost certain must be
so, too, from the improbability of it —a point which I
can better appreciate, as an American, than you in
England. People do not read these things out here.
Dorr's ignorance of Ovid. (See x>.
102.)
Writing on March 8, 1909, I put the following questions to
Mr. Dorr, without explaining my reasons for doing so :
(a) Have you read much oi- any Ovid 1
(6) If you have read any, with which of his works are
you most familiar ?
(c) Have you read Ovid in a translation ; or have you
ever read any collection of classical or mythological
tales, which you think may have been taken from
Ovid ?
Mr. Dorr's reply, which he wi'ote owt before interviewing
Mrs. Piper on March 29, 1909, was as follows :
—
I have never read any Ovid at all, as it happens, unless
it were last spring in looking up the references in
the sittings after tlwj had come. Ovid was not used
in the school courses here when I was a boy, and I
read but little Latin at the University—Livy, Cicero,
and Plautus mainly, and a few odes of Horace. The
only collections of Greek mythological tales which I read
as a boy were those contained in Thomas Bulfinch's
book for children and Kingsley's Heroes. The Heroes was
read to me when I was a very young child ; the
Theseus story in them is the one that I recall the best
and that made the strongest impression on me at the
time. The Bulfinch tales I read somewhat later, though
still when a young boy; but they never interested me
as did his Age of Ckivalrij and Legends of Charlemagne,
142 J. G. Piddington. [part
and I doubt if I ever could have repeated much from
them. Of Ovid as Ovid I know really nothing at first
hand.
On learning that the Cave of Sleep story was contained in
Bulfinch's Age of Fable, Mr. Dorr obtained a copy of the book,
and after looking it through, wrote me as follows:
The book seems little familiar in its stories to me now, —
unlike other books that interested me more when I was
a child, and whose every incident still comes back to me
as I turn the pages over. The one part of it that I
remember well is the Norse stories at the end. I doubt
my ever having read the others wholly through, for
much seems new to me.
Note C.
Mrs. Piper's ignorance of Bulfinch's and Gayley's hooks.
(See p. 104.)
The statements reproduced in Note B satisfied me that neither
Mr. Dorr nor Mrs. Piper was acquainted with Ovid. As, how-
ever, the Ovidian version of the story of Ceyx and Alcyone is
outlined in Bulfinch'a Age of Fable and Gayley's Classic Myths,
it was obviously desirable to enquire whether Mrs. Piper
possessed a copy of, or had at any time read, either of these
books. Accordingly, Mr. Dorr, acting on ray suggestion, called
upon Mrs. Piper, and, before mentioning either book, asked her
permission to go through all the books at her flat. This per-
mission Mrs. Piper most kindly gave ; and Mr. Dorr there and
then made a thorough search. He found no copy of Bulfinch
or Gayley, nor did he find any book even i-emotely bearing on
classical myths. He then asked Mrs. Piper if she had ever read
either the Age of Fable or Classic Myths, and received in reply
an emphatic negative, Mrs. Piper at the same time assuring
him that she had never even heard of either. Her daughters,
Alta and Minerva, had both heard of the Age of Fable. The
former had occasionally consulted it at school, but she had
never possessed a copy of her own, and she had never brought
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: Lethe. 143
home the school copy, which it was forbidden to remove
from the school. Neither Mrs. Piper, nor her daughters, nor
Mr. Dorr had ever heard of Gayley's modernised edition of the
Age of Fable.
These statements of Mrs. Piper's to the effect that she had
not read any Ovid, and was not acquainted with Bulfiuch's
and Gayley's books, carry great weight with me, who from my
personal intercourse with her have acquired confidence in her
integrity and scrupulous candour; and I believe they will carry
equal weight with all who know her. Personal impressions
of this kind cannot, however, be expected to carry much weight
with people not acquainted with Mis. Piper. They may be
more impressed by the fact that, in the course of the long
period —extending now over nearly a quarter of a centuiy
during which Mrs. Piper has been under the scrutiny of experi-
enced observers, no slur has ever been cast on her veracity.
I say "veracity" advisedly, for it seems to me that this is
more probably a question of veracity than of accuracy of
memory. Had the references in the trance been to the Ceyx
and Alcyone story as told in Metamorphoses XI. only, I could
have believed that Mrs. Piper, straying at some time or other out-
side her ordinary range of reading, had lighted on and cursorily
glanced through this particular story, and since lost all con-
scious recollection of it. But the references in the trance do not
stop at the Ceyx and Alcyone story. They extend to three
other stories contained in the same or in the preceding book
of the Metamorphoses, where, however, they do not follow one
another consecutively, but are separated from each other by
other stories intercalated between them. So I cannot think
that a casual glance through Metamorphoses X. and XL could
have supplied even the subconsciousness, still less the subcon-
sciousness of a non-classical reader, with such systematised
memories as those apparently exhibited in the trance. If, then,
Mrs. Piper ever did read the tenth and eleventh books of the
Metamorphoses, I think she must have read them with too
much attention to have allowed her to forget that she had
done so.^
^ Mrs. Piper tells me she has an excellent memory, and her daughters bear
out her statement.
144 J. G. Piddington. [part
Moreover, it must not be lost sio-ht of that the knowledo-e
of Ovid's Metamorphoses manifested in the trance is not an
isolated instance of the manifestation of classical learning. The
problem is by no means so simple a one as that. Classical
knowledge was shown again and again in the trance—and some-
times, as in the Lethe case, in immediate response to questions
—which could not have been extracted from the Metamorphoses
(see Mrs. Verrall's pajier above). If the knowledge of the
Metamorphoses is to be attributed to Mrs. Piper's recollections,
it is to be inferred with practical, if not with absolutely
logical, certainty that her memory likewise supplied these
other non-Ovidian references or a large part of them. And it
could only have done that, if Mrs. Piper has a fairly exten-
sive acquaintance with classical literature. I cannot prove
that she has not ; but I am quite certain that no one who
knows her will believe that she has.
IF.
THE SIBYL.
In the waking-stage of the trance of March 23, 1908, the
word "Sibyl" had been uttered (see p. 89); and this led Mr.
Dorr to ask Myersp at the next sitting (March 24, 1908) where
"the Sibyl" (meaning thereby, the Cumaean Sibyl) lived. This
question was never explicitly answered ;
but I believe that
certain disjointed utterances in the waking-stage were meant
to convey an answer to it, and to convey it by means of an
allusion to a Vergilian context, just as the question about
Lethe was answered by means of allusions to Vergilian and
Ovidian contexts.
Appended in chronological order are the relevant passages
fiom the records, either quoted in full or summarised,
explanatory comments being introduced where necessary.
As stated elsewhere (see Mrs. Verrall's paper, p. 59), a good
part of Mr. Dorr's early sittings was devoted to trying to obtain
from MyerSp evidence of acquaintance with Vergil's Aeneid.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: The Sibyl. 145
Thus on March 10, 1908, Mr. Dorr read the Sth line of Book
I:
Musa, rnihi causas memora, quo numine laeso,
and Myersp ga,ve a pertinent reply by saying that it reminded
him of " Eneas [sic] exile . . . Also Dido feast calm waters by
Neptune", this being followed by the drawing of a trident;
and then spontaneously Myersp added :
I remember something about his father.
G. B. D. What was his father's name 1
Let me think (pause). Very odd and rather long.i (Another
pause follows, and no further attempt to get the name is
made.)
Then on March 16, 1908, Mr. Dorr put another question to
Myersp, and was answei'ed as follows:
G. B. D. Who was Charon 1
I remember Charon perfectly well. . . .
G. B. D. What did he do 1
I remember father, if I understand the name.
G. B U. No, you have not got it yet.
Oil, I am thinking of Aeneas's father.
Aeneas had not been previously mentioned at this sitting,
though several subjects connected with the first book of the
Aeneicl had been.- The answer given by Myersp—which must
refer not to the first but to the sixth book of the Aeneid—
was quite intelligible and intelligent ; for when Aeneas, guided
by the Sibyl, descended to the Underworld and came to the
banks of the Styx, Charon at first refused to ferry him across,
until appeased by the Sibyl's words :
' " Aeneas of Troy ....
goes down to meet his father in the deep shades of Erebus.
If the sight of such affection stirs thee in nowise, yet this
bough {i.e. the Golden Bough] thou must know." '
Aen. VI.
403-7.
On March 23, 1908, Mr. Dorr asked MyerSp what the word
Lethe sucraested to him. With the answer oiven to this
1 The words after "think" are probably a comment interjected by Eector.
-See Mrs. Verrall's paper above, pp. 69, 71-3.
K
146 J. G. Piddington. [part
question we are already familiar (see pp. 87-9). Part of it, as
will be remembered, was cootained in the following utterances
made in the waking-stage of the trance of March 23, 1908 :
Hero —Olympus — Pavia (?) — Sibyl — Olympus —water—Lethe —
delighted —sad lovely mate. Put them all together. Entwined love
beautiful shores—Ask him if he cannot hear me. Muses—I wrote
Church long time ago—Olympus—There's Mercury.
As explained by Mrs. Sidgwick {v. ]). 184), " Hero " and
"There's Mercury" are probably allusions to Wordsworth's
Laodamia. For " Olympus " see below, p. 327. " I wrote
Church," etc., is a reminiscence of an old cross-correspondence
experiment (v. Proceedings, Vol. XX.II. p. 45). The remain-
der, excepting "Muses", forms part of the answer to the
Lethe question.
With regard to these utteiances two facts should be noted
(1) that Sibyl was not first mentioned by Mr. iJorr, but was fii-st
spontaneously mentioned by a trance-personality; (2) that this
first reference to the Sibyl was closely followed by a reference to
the Muses, to whom likewise no previous reference had been
made.
This reference in the trance to the Sibyl led Mr. Dorr to put
the following question to Myersj, at the next sitting, held on
March 24, 1908 :—
G. B. D. Do 3'ou remember where the Sibyl lived ?
I told the Light to say sibyl last time.
G. B. D. Yes, the Light did say "Sibyl" in the waking-stage.
Mr. Dorr did not, however, wait for an answer to his ques-
tion, but passed on at once to another subject.
The next reference to the Sibyl was made on March 30,
1908, while Mr. Dorr was reading over the record of the words
uttered in the wakiuo-.statje of March 23, 1908. When the word
" Sibyl " was read out, Myersp wrote " prophetess " (see p. 96).
The first word audibly spoken in the waking-stage on this same
day, March 30, 1908, was " Anchises". It was the right answer,
and was, I take it, meant as the answer, to the question asked by
Mr. Dorr on March 10, 1908 :
" What was his [i.e. Aeneas's]
father's name ?
LX.] Three Incidents from tJie Sitting.'^ : The Sibyl. 147
Thus two of Mr. Dorr's questions had been answered ;
but so
far no answer had been given to the question :
" Do you remem-
ber where the Sibyl lived ?
" I find the answer to this third
question in the utterances made in the waking-stage of the trance
of March 31, 190S, from the record of which I now quote:
Agamemnon. [This, the first audible word, was a correct answer to
a question asked a few moments earlier during the writing part of
the sitting. See Mrs. Verrall's paper, p. 50.]
Sibyls—Muses—Graces. (Then came references to various other
subjects.) . . .
Muses, Muses (followed by three words not caught) and Phyllis.
His Mary and Phyllis —Icarus—Anchises.
"His M&vy and Phyllis" refers to a subject which has not the
remotest connexion with what preceded or with what followed it.
It will be noticed that on March 23, 1908, "Sibyl" and
" Muses " had been mentioned close together. This time not the
singular " Sibyl " but the plural " Sibyls " is conjoined with
" Muses," and with ''
Graces " as well. I think that the trance-
personality wished to convey that he knew that there were
more than one Sibyl (although the form of Mr. Dorr's question
had rather implied that thei'e was only one) ; and that he
knew of other groups of feniale legendary characters besides
the Sibyls. When the " Muses " crop up a second time neither
Sibyls nor Graces are mentioned in the record. The names
may have been spoken and not heard ; but anyhow the
fact remains that when the words (" Icarus Anchises ") which
I regard as implying knowledge of where the Sib^d lived did
emerge, they had been immediately preceded, except for the
clear-cut interpolation " His Mary and Phyllis ", by the word
" Muses," which had twice previously been conjoined with
" Sibyl " or " Sibyls ".
The last extract from the records which bears on the subject
is taken from the sitting of April G, 1908 :
G. B. D. (reading over to Myersp the record of the waking-stage of
March 31, 1908) Next slie [i.e. Mrs. Piper] said "Icarus"
and then "Anchises".
(MyerSp communicating.)
They are memories, produced by your refreshing my memory.
148 G. Piddington. [part
In order to explain why I think the words " Icarus Anchises
"
indicate knowledge of the Sibyl's habitation, I must summarise
the opening passages of the sixth book of the Aeneid.
Summary of Aeneid VI. 1-123.
Aeneas on his arrival at Cumae at once seeks the Sibyl's cave,
which adjoined a temple that Daedalus, the father of Icarus, had
built and dedicated to Apollo after his escape from Crete. On the
doors of the temple Daedalus had depicted the tragedies that had
befallen the house of Minos, and had twice essayed to portray
thereon the fate of his own son, Icarus ; but in vain, for grief had
paralysed his hands.
As Aeneas gazes on these scenes, the Sibyl accosts him. After
she has spoken, Aeneas implores her to guide him through the
Underworld to meet his beloved father, Anchises, face to face. He
tells her how he had rescued Anchises from Troy ; how Anchises
had shared his wanderings and sufferings ; and that it was Anchises
who had besought and enjoined him to seek the Sibyl's aid.
It is in this Verffiliau context that I find the kev to the
puzzle. For my part I cannot suppose either that the con-
junction of the names Icarus and Anchises in the waking-
stage of the trance of March 31, 1908, was fortuitous, or that
it was not intended as a reference to this passage. I have
failed to trace any other episode in classical literature wherein
Anchises and Icarus figure together ; and at any rate the
combination, if not unique, must at least be very rare, as
there is nothing in tlieir legendary careers likely often to
bring them to a literary focus.
Why, though, should the question have been answered in
this very indirect manner ? Possibly because the trance-per-
sonality could not remember the word "Cumae", just as at
first he could not remember the name " Anchises ". But more
probably the answer was thus deviously conveyed, in order to
avoid the obvious : as was done, I believe, in other instances
(cf the answer to the Lethe question, especially note on p. 91,
and Journal for January, 1909, p. 23).
Even a person of no classical learning might casually have
heard of the Sibyl of Cumae, but, casually, is hardly likely to
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings: The Sibyl. 149
have picked up and retained such knowledge of detail as
appears to be involved in the mention of Anchises and Icarus.
But what purpose was to be served by avoiding the obvious?
The simple answer would have been " Cumae '":
an answer known
to Mr. Dorr, and also to other people, e.g. Mrs. and Miss
Verrall, with whom at one time or another Mrs. Piper has
been apparently in telepathic raiyport. Had, then, Myersp
simply answered " Cumae ", and if that answer were tliought
to be beyond the range of Mrs. Piper's normal knowledge, it
would have been attributable to telepathy between the medium
on- the one hand and Mr. Dorr, or, say, Mr.s. or Mi.ss Verrall,
on the other.
But from Mr. Dorr's mind it seems very unlikely that the
allusive answer " Anchises Icarus " was derived, for he never
saw any meaning in it, although he devoted much thought to
the records. And the same is true of Mr.s. Verrall, who studied
the records most carefully and thoroughly, and w^hose classical
knowledge is far wider than Mr. Dorr's.
It seems hardly necessary to add that it was dramatically
most appropriate to represent Frederic Myers as answering in
a fashion which suggests a minute acquaintance with a pa.ssage
in the Sixth Book of the Aeneid.
The remark made by MyerSp on April G, 190S, about the
names Anchises and Icarus deserves attention. It may, perhaps,
be only the kind of vague generality likely under the circum-
stances to possess some degree of relevancy ; but it has proved
to be so singularly apposite that I think it indicates some
real comprehension of the true inwardness of the phenomenon.
I understand Myersp to have meant by it something of this
kind: "First, your question about Charon reminded me of
Aeneas's meeting with Anchises in the Underworld ;
next, your
question about Lethe reminded me of how Aeneas and Anchises,
accompanied by the Sibyl, watched the souls about to be
reincarnated di'inking of the waters of Lethe ; this iti turn
reminded me of how Aeneas and the Sibyl were warned by
Charon that they were come to 'the land of Shadows, of Sleep,
and Slumberous Night'; (and incidentally this reminded me of
Ovid's description of the Cave of Sleep and the River of
Lethe). So that, when you asked me where the Sibyl lived,
150 J. G. Piddington. [part
my recollections of the sixth book of the Aeneid had been so
much refreshed that I was able to recall that Anchises and
Icarus come into Vergil's description of the Sibyl's Cave."
Ill-
A PRELUDE AND A SEQUEL TO THE HORACE ODE
QUESTION.
Ill my paper on " A Series of Concordant Automatisms " in
Proceedings, Vol. XXII. (written in the course of 1907 and
1908 and published in October, 1908), I discussed (pp. 397-
407) the answer made by Myersp to a question about an Ode
of Horace put in the course of the sittings with Mrs. Piper
in 1907. I have since become aware that allusions to the
Ode in question are made by Myers^ in some of Mrs. Verralbs
earliest scripts in 1901 ; and further that references to an
Ode of Horace spontaneously made by MyerSp in 1908 seem
to support the interpretation which I placed on the answer
to the Horace Ode question given by MyerSp in 1907. The
relations between these various communications, and between
them and Frederic Myers's thoughts when alive, seem to me
important ; and I accordingly propose to set out the various
facts involved briefly in chronological order, and then to discuss
them in more detail.
On Dec. 31, 1884, Frederic Myers addressed a letter to Dr.
A. W. A'errall, in the course of which he said that the first
six lines of Hor. C. I. 28 had " entered as deeply as almost
any Horatian passage into " his " own inner history " (see Proe.
Vol. XXII. p. 400). He did not, however, explain why this
particular Ode had " entered into his inner history ".
Mrs. Verrall read this letter at or about the time of its
receipt.
On Jan. 17, 1901, Frederic Myers died.
A few weeks after his death, Mrs. Verrall for the first time
developed the faculty of writing automatically, and much of
her script purports to emanate from him.
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings : Horace Ode Question. 151
Mrs. Verrall's script of March 5, 1901—the iirst piece of
intelligible script she ever wrote—contains an allusion to the
fifth iine of Hor. C. I. 28 ; her script of March 12, 1901,
contains, besides quotations from two other Odes of Horace, an
allusion to the medieval Latin phrase adscri'ptus glclae, which
has been used as a rendering of eiTapovpo<;, a word occurring
only in Odyssey XL 489 ; her script of March 15, 1901,
after a reference to a book, bids her " reject the verses which
I wrote in my presumption " ; and her script of April 27,
1901, to which is appended one of the regular signatures of
MyerSy, bids search be made for " the book ", again alludes to
the phrase ccdscrijjtus gkhae, and immediately afterwards to the
fifth and sixth lines of Hor. C. I. 28.
These four scripts all show points of contact with each other,
and undoubtedly belong to the group of Mrs. A^errall's scripts
which purport to be inspired by Frederic Myers. Here I
have drawn attention to a few points only in them ; but
later on I shall quote them in full and discuss them in some
detail.
In October 1904, Mrs. Verrall for the first time read in
Fragments of Prose and Poetry two poems of Myers's : Imvior-
tality and On a Spring Morning at Sea. Pmmoiiality had
been published before, first in 1870, and again in 1875 ; but
Mrs. Verrall is quite positive that she never read it till 1904,
and had never seen the early volumes of Myers's poems in
which it originally appeared. On a Spring Moryiing at Sea was
published for the first time in 1904.
On January 1, 1907, Mrs. Verrall, while going through
an accumulation of old correspondence, came across the letter
addressed by Frederic Myers to Dr. Verrall on Dec. 31, 1884.
She had not read it since the beginning of 1885 and had
forgotten all about it ; and the allusions in her early scripts
to Hor. C, I. 28, though in one case recognised by her, had
not provoked in her mind any conscious recollection of it.
The discovery of the letter in January 1907 led her to ask
me to put the following question to Myersp : "Which Ode of
Horace entered deeply into your inner life ?
" ; and this ques-
tion I put at the sitting with Mrs. Piper held on Jan, 23,
1907 (v. Proc. Vol. XXII. p. 3 97). From the time of the
discovery of the letter until April 10, 1908, Mrs. Verrall was
152 J. G. P'idclington. [part
under the impression that the reason why Hor. C. I. 28 had
entered deeply into Frederic Myers's inner history was that
it contained an allusion to reincarnation (id. ib. p. 407).
On April 17, April 29, May 1 and May 6, 1907 (see Proc,
Vol. XXII. pp. 369, 377, 379-381, 386-7), Myer-Sp gave answers
to the question about the Ode of Horace, which a twelvemonth
afterwards (April 25, 1908)^ I interpreted as meaning that
allusions would be found in Frederic Myers's poem Immor-
tality to an Ode of Horace, and that this Ode was the one of
which the first six lines had " entered as deeply as any
Horatian passage into his inner history ".
After pointing out certain verbal resendDlances between Hor.
C. I. 28 and Immortality, I went on to suggest that Myers
might have found in Hor. C. I. 28, and especially in the
first six lines of it, an expression of the sentiment which
forms the main theme of Immortality : namely, dread of an
aimless and unprogressive existence in the after-life. By way
of illustrating the interpretation which I thought Myers might
have put upon Hor. C. I. 28, I quoted, in Englisli, bhe lines
from the Odyssey (XL 488-491), in whicii occurs the word
eirdpovpo^, which some commentators render by adscriptus
glehac. -
Between Feb. 25 and May 26, 1908—that is, partly before
and partly after I had tliought out and committed to writing
the interpretation of the answer to Mrs. Verrall's Horace Ode
question summarised above and given in detail in Proc. Vol.
XXII. pp. 397-407—Mr. G. B. Dorr had a series of sittings
with Mrs. Piper in America, and in the course of them read
to MyerSp passages from the writings of Frederic Myers, and
also passages from classical authors, for the purpose of dis-
covering what response MyerSp would make to these sti7mdi.
Mr. Dorr knew hardly anything about the results of the
sittings given by Mrs. Piper in England beyond the fact that
some success had been obtained in the cross-correspondence
experiments ; he had seen none of the records, and was
unaware that any question about an Ode of Horace had been
have been able to fix the exact date b}' reference to niy contemporaneous
correspondence with Mrs. Verrall.
"Tlioiigh well aware of this rendering of the word, I deliberately adopted
the other rendering, "above ground".
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings : Horace Ode Question. 153
put to Myersp. I proceed to show in detail what seem to
me to be references in these sittings to Hor. C. I. 28, to
the above-named passage in the Gdyssey, and to the poem
Immortality.
On March 9, 1908, Mr. Dorr read the first four words of
Vergil's Aencid to Mj^ersp, who translated them, and spon-
taneously gave the names "Juno" and "Neptune" in relevant
connexion with them. It was then arranged that " Neptune
should be the subject of a cross-correspondence experiment
with Miss H. Veri'all (see Mrs. Sidgwick's paper, pp. 175-7).
On March 10, 1908, Mr. Dorr read to MyerSp Aeneid I. 8,
Musa, viihi causas racmora, quo nuriiinc lacso, and MyerSp in-
cluded among the associations aroused in his mind by these
words " Dido—feast—calm waters by Neptune " : an answer
which suggests that he recognised the source of the Latin
words, and that he was thinking particularly of the escape of
Aeneas and his fleet from the storm which Neptune had
calmed, of his arrival at Carthage and of his hospitable recep-
tion by Dido (see Mrs. Verrall's paper, p. 68).
A few minutes later Mr. Dorr read to MyerSp the follow-
ing words from Fragments of Prose and Poetry: "From
ten to sixteen I [i.e. Frederic Myers] lived much in the
inward recital of Homer, Aeschylus, Lucretius, Horace, and
Ovid."
As the name Horace was spoken, the hand wrote
Ode to i motalty imortality
.... Ode Horace to MortaHty,
This reply—which naturally conveyed no meaning to Mr.
Dorr—I regard as affording some confirmation of the
correctness of my conjecture that the words, " Do you
remember immortality?"—written by MyerSp on April 17,
1907, in connexion with the question about an Ode of
Horace—were intended as an allusion to Frederic ]\Iyers's
poem Immortality (see Proe. Vol. XXII. p. 398). Anyhow
it is clear that MyerSp remembered the question asked
a year before, and his answer to it. Mr. Dorr then went on
to read some more passages from pp. 17 and 18 of
Frarjonents, the last sentence read being this :
" It was the
life of about the sixth century before Christ, on the isles
154 J. G. Piddington. [part
of the Aegean, which drew me most." As these words were
read Myersp wrote :
A Hfe iiuvnqjlete.^ Oh ! it is all so dear. I recall so well my
feehngs, my emotions, my joy?, my pain and much pain. Oh ! I
am transported back to Greece. I recall it all. I am transported—
I remember before my marriage all my imaginations, my pain, my
longing, my unrest. I lived it all out as few men did. I drank,
as Omar Kyam [sic], life and all its joys and griefs. And never
was it complete. A disappointing—long, dreary longing for a fulfil-
ment of my dreamed of joys. I found it here and only here. 'Men
may come and men may go but I go on for ever.' I shall be
delighted to complete my memories of Homer, Horace and Vergil
until you are satisfied that I am still one among you, not a fantasy
but a reality.
This emotional outburst, it should be observed, is closely
associated with " memories of Homer, Horace and Vergil ", and
not with the other classical autliors, Ovid, Lucretius and
Aeschylus, mentioned in the passage read from Fragments ;
and into it is introduced a quotation from Tennyson whereby
the trance-personality proclaims his own immortality.^
MyerSp then enumerates the cross-correspondence experi-
ments on which he is at present engaged, namely,
" The city in flames, a face in tiames, exile, Troy, Juno,
Xeptune " ; and then immediately asks Mr. Dorr to select " a
line from Horace " lor the purpose of a fresh experiment. Mr.
Dorr selected instead a Vergilian line ; but the point I wish to
be noted is that MyerSp makes his request for a Inie from
Horace immediately alter writing "Neptune'', and soon after
speaking of having found the consummation of happiness in
his present life and there only.
On March 16, 1908, after MyerSp had made a reference to
Juno and Aeneas, Mr. Dorr asked him who Charon was, and
MyerSp replied that he was " thinking of Aeneas's father " : a
reply which suggests knowledge of the sixth book of Acncul,
^The italicised words represent words underlined in the original script.
-The whole passage should be compared with what was said by Myersp on
May 1, 1907, (see Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 379 and 403) in connexion with his
answer to the Horace Ode question, where, as here, emphasis is thrown upon
the comidetioii of happiness in the next life and on the inferiority of life on
earth to the after- life.
LX.] Three Incidents from the Sittings : Horace Ode Question. 155
where Aeneas' vision of the Underworld and his meeting with
his father, Anchises, is described (see above, p. 145). All the
utterances in the waking-stage were reported as from Myersp,
and ran as follows :
... I am not a phantom nor unreal—Carthage— She did not
wish [it] to be more beautiful than hers. Neptune calmed the
sea for Aeneas My soul is in a flame. All God's pro-
phecies have been fulfilled. Nothing in Iliad or Odyssey can compare
with my soul raptures, but they are all in tune with it. Vivi et
vivias [so recorded] with my best love. . . . Vivi (pronounced
" veevee ") et vivias [so recorded].
Here again MyerSp insistently proclaims the reality and joy
of his present state of existence ; he is no phantom, no e'l^oAov,
not one of a throng of joyless ghosts such as peopled the
Underworld of Homer, or of A^ergil, or of Horace.
Achilles.
On March 17, 1908, Mr. Dorr read to Myersp the following
lines from Tennyson's Vastness, which Frederic Myers had
quoted in his essay on " Tennyson as Prophet " in Science
and a Future Life (pp. 152-3) :
Many a hearth upon our dark globe sighs after many a vanish'd
face,
Many a planet by many a sun may roll with the dust of a vanish'd
race.
Raving politics, never at rest—as this poor earth's pale history
runs,
What is it all but a trouble of ants in the srleam of a million
million of suns ?
MyerSp in reply, after first saying it " sounds like one of
my quotations from Swinburne rightly recognises it as from
Tennyson ; and then immediately writes " Achilles ", adding,
" You brought him to my mind when you were reading
Homer." Mr. Dorr asks, " AVhat about Achilles ?
" and Mj'erSp
iMrs. Verrall has suggested some very plausible reasons why Myersp, if
he possessed the memories of Frederic Myers, should have attributed these
lines to Swinburne, but I will not enter into them here.
15G J. G. Piddington. [part
answers :
" Why, I recalled it when you were questioning me.
Could you read more ?
"
Although Mr. Dorr entirely foiled to see any relevance
either in the allusion to Achilles, or in the request for more to
be read, I think it was extremely significant that an intelli-
gence representing itself as that of Frederic Myers should
connect Tennyson's VaMness with Achilles.^ In Odysscjj XI.,
when Odysseus enters the Underworld, he meets Achilles, who
asks " how durst thou come down to the house of Hades,
where dwell the senseless dead, the phantoms of men out-
worn ?
" Odysseus answers him in consolatory words, which
draw from Achilles this response :
" Nay, speak not comfort-
ably to me of death. . . . Rather would I live on ground
[or, " as a serf attached to the soil," i.e. eirapovpo<i — adscriptus
glchac] as the hireling of another . . . than bear sway among
all the dead that are no more."
This passage—one of the most famous in ancient literature
—would almost inevitably be recalled to a classical reader
by the whole thought, and especially by one of the concluding
stanzas of Tennyson's Vastncss :
What is it all, if we all of us end but in being our own corpse-
coffins at last,
Swallow'd in Vastness, lost in Silence, drown'd in the deeps of a
meaningless Past ?
These lines, though not read by Mr. Dorr, actually form part
of what is quoted from Vastness in " Tennyson as Prophet "
and the fact that they are there quoted suggests that when
Myersp asked Mr. Dorr to " read more " he may have meant
that if he read the remainder of the quotation the clue to
the connexion of thought with Achilles would be revealed.
If this is the right interpretation of the mention of Achilles,
it would seem as if the " Myers " of Mrs. Piper's trance here,
and the "Myers" of Mrs. Verrall's scripts of March 12 and
April 27, 1901, through the phrase adscripttis glebae, both
made allusions to the passage in the eleventh book of Odyssey,
where the meeting of Odysseus with Achilles in the Under-
world is described.-
1 There is no allusion to Achilles in "Tennyson as Prophet".
2 This passage is at least twice referred to iu Myers's writings : Essays
Classical, p. 172, and Essays Modurn, p. 159.
]-X.] Three Incidentsfrom theSittings : Horace Ode Question. 157
Orion.
In the waking-stage of the trance of March 31, 1908, were
uttered the words " He says you remind him of Orion " ; the
context leaving it doubtful whether " He " meant MyerSp or
Hodgsonp.^
It was Mr. Dorr's practice at that time to read over to the
controls, usually at the next sitting, the record of the utter-
ances made in the waking-stage of a previous trance, in order
to obtain comments on them or corrections or expansions or
explanations of them from the controls. Thus on April 6,
1908, Mr. Dorr asked Myersp about the mention of Orion in
the wakinsr-stage of March 31 :
G. B. D. The other day she [i.e. Mrs. Piper speaking in the waking-
stage] said that R. H. [i.e. Hodgson] said I reminded
him of Orion. I thought that probably that had some
reference to some message.
(MyerSp communicating) Most certainly it did. I have given
it through Mrs. V. [i.e. Mrs. Verrall] several times.
" Orion's head " is what I wrote.
["Orion's head" may refer to one or both of two things.
It may refer to Aeneid X. 763-767 : "Vast as Orion when,
with planted foot, he cleaves his way through the vast
pools of mid-ocean and his shoulder overtops the waves,
or carrying an ancient mountain-ash from the hilltops,
paces the ground and hides his head among the clouds
'
(caput inter nuhila condit) ; or to the story (not, however,
to be found in classical literature) of how Artemis,
challenged by Apollo to hit an object far out at sea,
aimed and struck it, only to find that it was the head
of Orion, whom she loved. }soie hj J. G. I'.j
On April 21, 1908, in the waking-stage, came another and
disjointed reference to Orion, as follows :
" Orion, son of
Neptune."
^ Mr. Dorr took "He" to mean Hodgsonp. I tliiuk it more likely that
Myersp was meant, as the next utterance, which deals with a difl'erent topic,
is preluded by "Hodgson said", as if to denote a change of speaker. But
the point is not material, as Mj'ers and Hodgson are always represented in
these sittings as in close co-operation.
15S J. G. Piddington. [part
On April 22, 1908, Mr. Dorr asked Hodgsoiip if anything
liad been said about Orion during the English series of sittings
with Mrs. Piper. Hodgsonp replied, correctly and with
emphasis, " No ". Mr. Dorr then asked Myersp for his com-
ments on the utterances made in the waking-stage on the
previous day. When the words, " Orion, son of Neptune,"
were read out, MyerSp at once wrote :
" Do you recall an Ode
of Horace's ?
" Mr. Dorr replied :
" I do not know my Horace
well, and I recall none in special at the moment. Why do
you ask me ?
"
MyerSp then said :
" Because you ought to
know that I am Myers by my giving all such proofs."
To Mr. Dorr these remarks of Myersp must have seemed
hopelessly irrelevant,^ as indeed they must have seemed to
any one who did not know both that a year before a
question had been asked of MyerSp about an Ode of Horace,
and to which of Horace's Odes this question related. As a
matter of fact, as we know, the question asked a year
before related to Hor. C. I. 28 ; and this is the only Ode of
Horace's in xohich Neptune and Orion, are hath vientioned.
But before discussing this, the culminating point of the
episode, I had better first describe the last references to it in
Mrs. Piper's trance.
Last References to the Subject in the Trance.
Early in May 1908 I wrote to Mr. Dorr and asked
him to read the first six lines of Hor. C. I. 2S in Latin
to MyerSp. I did this in entire ignorance that anything had
been said at Mr. Dorr's sittings about Orion and Neptune
for I had seen the records of the sittings of March 9 and 10,
1908, only, and these I had but hastily scanned.
I did not tell Mr. Dorr why I wanted him to read these
1 Except in so far as the words "Orion, son of Neptune " sliovved knowledge
of one of the various versions of Orion's parentage.
-The words "Ode to imortality '', written at the sitting of March 10,
1908, in connexion with the mention of Horace's name, hail conveyed nothing
to my mind wlien I read them on March .30, 190S, for the first time; and I
doubt if I noticed them at all, for whea on April '25, 1908, I interpreted
the phrase used by Myersp on April 17, 1907, " Do you remember immor-
tality?" as referring to Frederic Myers's Immortality, it revived no recollection
of the words "Ode to imortality ".
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings : Horace Ode Question. 159
lines to MyerSp, and though Mr. Dorr knew the source of
them he did not reveal it or give any hint of it to MyerSp
when he read them at the last sitting of the season on
May 26, 1908.
After Mr. Dorr had read the first six lines the hand
wrote :
ODE Odes, Beginning of end. Myers. Odyssey. (After a
pause) Do you remember a book Onar ? (G. B. D. No, I recall
none which has that name.) I understood it when in the body.
That " ODE Odes " meant an Ode of Horace's is shown by
the following extract from the sitting of December 13, 1908.
G. B. D. You remember our reading certain things together before
the Light closed for the summer rest"?
(MyerSp communicating.) Yes, your last reading to me was
one of Horace's Odes and pleased me greatly. It gave
me courage to go on.
Mr. Dorr read the lines again to MyerSp on March 1, 1909,
but they elicited no response ; and here for the present, and
probably for good, the matter stands.
It will be observed that, on May 2 6, 1908, MyerSp, after
" ODE Odes " had been written, added " Odyssey." Now at
the sitting of May 1, 1907 {Froc. Vol. XXIT. p. 381) the
following had occurred :
(Present: Mrs. Sidgwick.)
(Myersp communicating)
I went over those Odes very careful!}'
and remembered one in particular
which I loved very much
Odes yes it was.
(Rector communicating)
sounds like Odessus
E.M.S. "Odessis"?
yes.
Odesesis
Odesia
160 /. G. Piddington. [part
E.M.S. " Odesia" ?
'
yes like it
(Myersp communicating)
I do not think I ever told you before.
Odesu
Odesie
E.M.S. " Odyssey "1
yes
Better not it quite.
E.M.S. Let us leave it for next time.
Good
In my comments on the Horace Ode question {Proc. Vol. XXII.
pp. 403-4:) I took the words " Odessus Odesia," etc., to be
unsuccessful attempts on the part of Rector to re- write the
word " Odes," and I treated the incident as a good example of
Eector's readiness to accept misleading suggestions. Now, in
the new light thrown on the subject by Mrs. Verrall's early
scripts and Mr. Dorr's sittings, I am disposed to regard the
words " Odessus Odesesis Odesia Odesu Odesie " written on
May 1, 1907, and the "Odyssey" of May 26, 1908, as
attempts to connect Odysseus and the Odyssey with Hor.
C. I. 1^8. I see no meanins; in "beginning of end."
I suspect that the " book Onar " means the Ruhaiyat of
Omar Khayyam, to which Myersp referred on March 10, 1908,
when speaking of the incompleteness of happiness in this life
{v. p. 154), and to whicli other references have been made at
various times in Mrs. Piper's trance. It was appropriate
enough that the reading of the first six lines of this Ode
should suggest an association of ideas with Omar's Song, whose
burden, says FitzGerald, "
—if not '
Let us eat '
—is assuredly
'
Let us drink, for To-morrow we die !
'
"
Summary and Eeview of the earlier and later Answers
TO THE Horace Ode Question.
Let us now first consider how Myersp answered the Horace
Ode question in 1907 and then how in 1908 he amijlified
and added to his original answer.
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings : Horace Ode Question. 161
In 1907 MyerSp conveyed his answer by means of allusions
to Frederic Myers's poem Immortality and to two lines in
Abt Vogler
. . . the wonderful Dead who have passed through the body and
gone,
But were back once more to breathe in an old world worth their
new
these lines being followed by the comment that though he
had returned to breathe in the old world it was " not better
than our new" (see Froc. Vol. XXII. pp. 369, 379-380).
There is a possible two-fold point in alluding to these two
lines : they can be taken to indicate knowledge of the reference
to the reincarnation of Pythagoras in Hor. C. I. 28, and they
can be taken to intimate that the gloomy forecasts in Hor.
C. I. 28 and in Immortaiity of what existence after death
might prove to be, were not justified by the reality.
Besides this, unless it is mere confusion, there would
appear to have been a confused attempt to connect the Ode
of Horace with Odysseus or the Odyssey.
In 1908, Myersp was led to mention Neptune in con-
nexion with Vergil's Aeneid, not once, but frequently ; and
the subject of Neptune was further emphasised by its being
chosen for a cross-correspondence experiment (cf. Mrs. Sidg-
wick's paper, p. 177). The stress thus undesignedly thrown
on Neptune provoked apparently in the mind of MyerSp an
association of ideas with Orion. At first it seemed as if this
association of Orion with Neptune was due solely to a revived
memory of an out-of-the-way mythological story, according to
which Orion was Neptune's son; but later (viz. on April 22,
1908, see above) it was made evident that it was due to a
memory of an Ode of Horace's. What Ode was not stated,
but in only one Ode of Horace's C. I. 28—are Neptune and
Orion both mentioned, and that Ode is the Ode which formed
the subject of the question put to MyerSp in 1907. No help
could have been given by the experimenter, Mr. Dorr, towards
the identification of the Ode for the very good reason that
he knew nothing whatsoever about the test question put in
1907, and even if he had known about it, he would not have
known what the right answer to it was.
L
162 J. G. Piddington. [PAKT
In addition to this, the mention by MyerSp of Achilles in
connexion with a quotation from Tennyson's Vastness on March
17, 1908, and of the Odyssey in connexion with the first six
lines of Hor. C. 1. 28 on May 26, 1908, seems to confirm,
or at any rate to present very striking coincidences with, the
interpretation of the first answer given in 1907 to the Horace
Ode question (see Proc. Vol. XXII., pp. 398-406), which I first
thought out on April 25, 1908. The mention of Achilles
made on March 17, 1908 seems like an anticipation as well
as a confirmation of my interpretation, as does likewise the
insistence with which, in the communications of March 10 and
March 16, 1908, MyerSp claims that his life is no phantasmal
one but real, and that his joy is fulfilled.^
The note of almost triumphant assurance with which MyerSp
explained to Mr. Dorr why he had asked him if he recalled
an Ode of Horace's—" because you ought to know that I am
Myers by my giving all such proofs" (p. 158)—suggests that
Myersp felt assured that he had succeeded in getting through
a first-rate piece of evidence, and he certainly cannot have
acquired this assurance from any sort of indication furnished
by Mr. Dorr.
Mrs. Vekeall's Early Eeferences to the Horace Ode.
I must now deal in detail with the four early scripts of
Mrs. Verrall's which I have so far only summarised.
Mrs. VermWs script of March 5, 1901.'-
(«) Evie Myers counsel gear neu I save trouble cant
keep evie vely ten yet come nomeu et ego cum multis
at omnibus ne tristia munera [spelt "nunera"] fiunt nee
^ These anticipations by Myersp of conjectural interpretations put forward
in my paper On a Series of Concordant Automatkma do not stand alone. Two
other incidents that occurred at Mr. Dorr's sittings seem to me to be of the
same kind ; but I cannot discuss them here. If the coincidences are not
accidental, and if they are to be explained by telepathy between the living,
it must have been I who drew on Mrs. Piper or Mr. Dorr, not Mrs. Piper
who drew on my mind.
2 This and the three other scripts Iiave ah-eady appeared, either in whole or
in part, in Proc. Vol. XX. The versions there given contained some omissions
and one or two slight errors. The former have been supplied, and the latter
corrected in the versions given here.
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings: Horace Ode Question. 163
ipse postridie morgeiistern opus rosea angelica notabilis
semper vivo paullatim et spice—ter ad mundum quod
ubi que
et ego et ego ne tentaveris aerias cunctiter gradu
pone sequens vestigia deum multipliciter tuus est sumptus
mihi et ridens imaginem tui crucis alteram mosse.
noli vitare quod ego tibi dicam et semper et ubique
ne semel propositum meum fregeris. mane domi dominio
videas quem tibi miltam addio —dio deo.
Mrs. Verrall's script of March 12, 1901.
{h) Attendite nunc quid asperiam tibi omine magno nec mihi
venienti adsonat glebis adscripta per dulcia resonantia
[altered apparently to " resonautis " or " resonantes "]
chorea, mox et tu audies videndum et paraudum nec
sine ofBcina paupertas egestate confirmata mansit quis
adest o loquere vocabulis concinnatis dehiscens quod
modulor magica salutatio abundat gravevirens cum majes-
tate splendidior vitro o fons possumne ante omnes lag
lacuna de stilo nihil quod attinet modo cecini carmen
ineluctabile auribus tuis satis vocanti plurimum in dies
eras ingens iterabimus aequor vale ter vale.
Mrs. Verrall's script of March 15, 1901.
(c) Commendatio unica moderatione neninem [sic] laedit.
quare resignas speciosa recinet lex talionis ulsciscendi
protervam nodulo invicem noris sed mirabilis sequitur
occupatio. biblion tibi opsequor dei gratia impigre con-
futaris massica nec sine venustate sperne elegos quos
audax composui nescio qua dulcedine captus. alter
alterum ego te si modo cont consenseris optimo dierura
procedas elusione nexis spargedulis etsi infinitis. nunc
tibi redditae partes quoad eliciet mens tua seusus. velle
posse si mihi tibi etiam. capisco auribus puris Pollux
Cappa docus ponit tigillum
Mrs. Verrall's script of April 27, 1901.
(d) Commensal in nitidillo cecinit carmen irrefragabile
scientiae. nonne audis ? ausculta aures adhibeto iam
proooraium [spelt, " pooeuium "j incipit. Fac, Die, faceto
dicto nomen nescis—sed non semper sic erit.
164 /. G. Piddingto7i. [part
Fred to Evie—The book is there look for it well
you will find it No hurr}-. tell Mrs. Sidgwick. English
is harder—Latine loquere, sed tu non potes interpretare
[sic], ascripta es glebae mente vel ingenio—o libera
animam per niaria per polum trauscurre modo cantoris
—omnia ibi plana, omnia rosea suffusa luce vel caecis
bene videntia—oculi autem tui caligine circumfusi—why
cant I go on. It seems so clear—put it down—wrapped
up—Look both of you—non alii—solae solae—under
something blue—loose low—you must stoop—to see it.
Try again. Go on—go on. Listen at night, in [s]leep
sopor prodest mortalibus—in noctibus Veritas, ^ts Tep t
avvayXio. Koi jjiova-tK-i] /xeAcoSta fivs vel /xowcratos—magUS
etiam eadem omnia—nonne vides ? M. (two drawings of
two eyes) luna, semper luna. M
Of (a) a translation of a few words only can be offered,
the rest being beyond interpretation. Thus, semper vivo :
" I
live for ever " ; JVoli vitare—mittam :
" Do not shun what I
shall say to thee both always and everywhere do not once
infringe my set purpose. Stay at home on Sunday( ?). See
whom I shall send to thee."
JVe tristia m-unera Jiunt. If fiant " be read for fitint, this
would mean :
" Let not the last sad offices to the dead be
performed."
Nc tentaveris acrias is an unmistakable allusion to the fifth
line of Hor. C. I. 28, " Aerias tcntassc domos" : a fact which
makes it not improbable that the preceding tristia vmnera is
a reminiscence of the parvci niunera of the same Ode.
The words semper vivo may be compared with the words
vivi et vivias spoken in Mrs. Piper's trance of March 16, 1908,
which seem like an attempt a,t vivo et vivas, " I live and rnay'st
thou live" {v. p. 155).
Evie vcly ten is probably an attempt at Eveleen, Mrs.
Myers's Christian name.
{h) Listen [plural] now. What shall I unfold [reading, aperiam for
asperiam] to thee with a great omen ? [Omen is frequently used in
the script when a message is given of which the meaning is to
become intelligible only in the future.] To me too on my coming
(the phrase) glebis adscripta does not sound through the sweetly
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings : Horace Ode Question. 165
echoing choirs.^ Soon shalt thou too hear [Videndum—majestate
untranslateable] More clear than crystal 0 spring ! Cannot I before
all (lag lacuna de stilo) There is nothing that belongs Just now I
have sung an ode that your ears cannot fail to grasp [satis—
dies untranslateable] To-morrow we will again try the great sea.
Farewell, thrice farewell.
glebis adscripta. The phrase adscriptus glehac means in
medieval Latin, "one attached to the soil", i.e. "a serf".
It has been used by Merry and other commentators as a
Latin rendering of the word eirdpovpoi; found only in Odyssey,
XL 489. To the best of her belief Mrs. Verrall did not
learn of this application of adscriptus glehae until August 16,
1906; when, as she noted at the time, she came across it in
a classical dictionary, and, recalling the words ascripta es glehae
in her scripts of March 12 and April 27, 1901, thought they
might be meant as an allusion to the Homeric passage.
Splendidior vitro o fons is a reminiscence of Hor. C. III.
13, 1, and eras ingens iterabimus aequor of Hor. C. I. 7, 32.
(c) [Commendatio—ocaqjatio untranslateable] Book I humour you.
By the grace of God thou art energetically confuted. Massic [neut. pi.
Apparently a meaningless reference to the Massic wine of Horace
and the Georgics.] Not without charm. Reject the verses which I
'wrote in my presumptuousness, captivated by I know not what
sweet witchery.- One another. I thee [si modo—infinitis untrans-
lateable] Now it's thy turn, in so far as thy mind shall work out
the sense. To wish is to be able. If that's true of me it's true of
thee. Capisco{1) with pure ears. Pollux the Cappadocian affixes the
seal [reading sigillavi for tigilluni\.
(d) A fellow guest in (1) sang a song that science cannot
gainsay. Dost thou not hear ? Listen. Incline thine ears then.
^ Resonantia chorea 1 take to be a mistake for rcsonantes choreas. Chorea
properly means a choral dance with music. The phrase is perhaps a reminis-
cence of Vergil, Aen. vi. 644.
-It is an interesting fact that the phrase " diikedine capitis" here used by
Myersv occurs in the eleventh book of Ovid's Metamorphoses (1. 170), which
Mrs. Verrall in 1901 had not read, and from which there is reason to believe
that the answer given by Myersp to the Lethe question was derived. Although
in her report on her own automatic writings (Froc. Vol. XX.) Mrs. Verrall
gave a long and elaborate list of quotations and literary reminiscences occurring
in them, she did not recognise " dtdcedme captus" as a quotation.
166 J. G. Piddington. [part
The prelude begins already. Act, speak, with witty jest. Thou
knowest not the name. But it will not always be thus.
Fred to Evie etc . . . Speak Latin, but thou canst not interpret
[reading, interpretari] Thou art bound to earth in mind or disposi-
tion. 0 free thy soul. Range o'er the seas, o'er the heaven, after
the fashion of the singer. There all is clear, all bathed in rosy
light, plain even for the blind to see [reading evidential But thine
eyes are shrouded in darkness. Why cant I go on etc
Not others—[you two] alone, alone [fem. pL] Under something
blue etc .... Sleep is beneficial to mortals. Truth comes o'nights
and musical melody. Mys or Musaeus. The magician even all
things the same. Do you not see. M.
The moon, ever the moon. M.
The words per maria per iiolurii transcurre are an unmistakable
reminiscence of the opening lines of Hor. C. I. 28, " Tc maris
et terrae . . . animoque rotundum Percurrisse polum morituro."
Modo cantoris literally means " after the fashion of the
singer " ; but may, I think, be fairly taken as meaning " as the
poet {i.e. Horace) has it ". The Horatian reminiscence, it should
be noted, is preceded by the phrase ascriptci es glebae.
The words omnia ibi ij/ftjiff, omnia rosea sioffusa Ince should
be compared with the words rosea angelica in (a). If both
phrases, with their respective contexts, are compared with a
poem of Frederic Myers's, called " On a Spring Morning at
Sea", published for the first time in 1904 in Fragments of
Prose and Poetry (p. 54), some curious coincidences will be
noticed. Thus, while the script has
Postridie morgenstcrn opus rosea angelica (i.e. On the morrow
morning-star optus'^ rosy angelic).
Ovinia ibi plana, omnicc rosea suffusa luce vel caecis bene
\_e'\videntia oculi autem tui ealigine circumfusi {i.e. There all is
clear, all bathed in rosy light, plain even for the blind to see ;
but thine eyes are shrouded in darkness.)
the poem runs
" And such a sight as this is, I suppose,
Shall meet thee on the morrow of thy death ;
And pearl to sapphire, opal into rose
Melt in that morn no heart imagineth ;
Opufi means "work". Opalm is the Latin for "opal".
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings : Horace Ode Qtcestion. 167
Fair as when now thine eyes thou dar'st nob close
Lest the whole joy go from thee at a breath,
And the sea's silence and the heaven's repose
Evanish as a dream evanisheth."
These four scripts are interconnected in the following-
ways :
In (a) occurs the name " Evie Myers " and an allusion to
Horace C. I. 28.
In (&) occur the words " glcbis adscripta ",
" carmen inclnct-
abilc", and allusions to Hor. C. III. 13, and I. 7.
In (c) " biUion ", i.e. " book," is mentioned.
All these points recur in (d), where " carmen irrefragcdiile
recalls the " carmen ineluctabilc " of (b) ; the words " Fred to
Evie " are followed by a reference to " the book " mentioned in
(c) ;
" AscrijJta es glebae " is followed by an allusion to the open-
ing lines of Hor. C. I. 28, a similar allusion having already
appeared in {a) ; and one of the regular signatures of MyerSy,
namely M., is twice appended.
" Fred " means F. W. H. Myers, and " Evie " Mrs. Myers.
Approximations to the phrase adscript^is glebae occur twice
first, in {b) in combination with allusions to Hor. C. III. 13,
and I. 7 ; the second time in {d) in combination with an
allusion to Hor. G. I. 28. When on the first occasion "glcbis
adscri23ta" was accompanied by an allusion to Hor. C. III. 13,
the script says :
" nihU quod attinct modo eccini carmen
ineluctabilc auribus tuis." This, I suggest, may mean, that
the allusion to Horace C. III. 13 was not to the point ;
and that the Ode to which the scribe had wanted to allude
in connexion with " glcbis adscripta " was the Ode which " I
sang but a little while back ", i.e. the Ode alluded to in («-),
viz. Hor. C. I. 28.
Mrs. Myers is referred to in {a) and {d) ; that is in the
only scripts which allude to Hor. C. I. 28. I suggest that
the reason of this may have been that Mrs. Myers possessed
a copy of the "small volume, which was published in 1870,
and has for a long time been out of print " {Fragments, p.
vi) from which Immortcdity was reprinted. The " verses
which I wrote in my presumption " and which Mrs. Verrall
is bidden to " reject ", I suggest are the poem Immortality.
168 J. G. Piddington. [part
Mrs. Myers's name is also connected with what, I suggest,
may be allusions in (a) and (d) to another poem of Frederic
Myers's : On a Spring Morni7ig at Sea. This poem was
published by Mrs. Myers for the first time in Fragments (p. 54).
Its theme is a forecast of the after-life as couleur de rose as
that in Immartality is sombre.
But with these possible allusions to On a Spring Morning
at Sea Mrs. Sidgwick's name is also connected. If the reader
will turn to Proc. Vol. XX. pp. 195-198 he will see that Mrs.
Verrall, who was at the time quite unable to interpret the
script, learnt on Jan. 1, 1905, that there was "a privately
printed pamphlet in a sealed envelope " in a box under the
drapery of the window-seat in Mrs. Sidgwick's drawing-room.
She then supposed that "the book" of her script of April 27,
1901, referred to this pamphlet. It had been given in a
sealed envelope into Henry Sidgwick's charge by Erederic Myers,
and contained among other matter the poem On a Spring
Morning at Sea : though this fact was unknown both to
Mrs. SidQwick and to Mrs. Verrall, neither of whom had seen
the pamphlet, at the time the script was produced. Mrs. Myers
naturally possessed a copy of it likewise. It did not contain
the poem Pniniortality. I suggest that there was an endeavour
made in these early scripts of Mrs. Verrall's to refer to two
different books : first to the early edition of Myers's poems con-
taining Immortality, of which Mrs. Myers possessed a copy ; and
secondly, to the privately printed pamphlet, of which both Mrs.
Sidgwick and Mrs. Myers had a copy, containing On a Spring
Morning ai Sea ; and that there was also an endeavour made
to allude to these two poems in particular, and at the same
time to Odyssey XI. 489, and to Hor. C. I, 28; the object
of this combination of allusions being to contrast the gloomy
forebodings of Odyssey XL, Horace's " Archytas " Ode, and
Myers's Immortcdity, with the roseate hopes of On a Spring
Morning at Sea, and thereby to imply that the happy and not
the gloomy prevision was the true one.
The interpretation here presented is, I admit, highly con-
jectural. If it is correct, it obviously involves the assumption
that Frederic Myers is in some sense behind Myersy, and,
I may add, Myersp also. This is the assumption which at
LX.] Three Incidentsfrom the Sittings : Horace Ode Question. 169
present seems to me to account most simply for the facts which
I have set before the reader. But I hope he will attempt to
apply other hypotheses to them ; for it is only by testing
every reasonable hypothesis that we can hope to arrive at a
true solution of the problem.
170 Mrs. Henry SiclgtvicJc. [part
III.
CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES BETWEEN MRS. PIPER
AND OTHER AUTOMATISTS.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
It falls to me to describe tlie cross-correspondences which
occurred in the course of Mr. Dorr's sittings with Mrs. Piper
in America in March, April, and May, 1908. By cross-
correspondence I mean a coincidence in the content of the
scripts of two automatists. Those I have to describe are of
a more or less simple kind,—the same ideas or nearly so in
both scripts. They do not carry out the programme of the
"Latin message" (see Proceedings S.P.R. Vol. XXII. pp. 312-
416). I shall limit myself to coincidences which are seemingly
intentional on the part of Mrs. Piper's trance-personalities.
It may be as well to note that in none of these experiments
in cross-correspondence can thought-transference between the
sitter and Mrs. Piper have intervened as a complicating
element, since he had no access to or knowledge of the scripts
of the other automatists, who were moreover separated from
him by the width of the Atlantic. Also active participation
by the normal consciousness of these other automatists was
largely excluded by their ignorance that any special set of
sittings for cross-correspondences was being held.
In a note to the first sitting of the series, that held on
March 9th, 1908, Mr. Dorr says that he last had a sitting
alone with Mrs Piper
two weeks previous to the sitting of the 9th of March [actually
on February 25th] and I then gave [Hodgsoup] the two Latin
sentences to translate, tJien if he could : Vcni, vidi, vici and Anna
virumque cano. I chose these purposely on account of their familiarity.
LX.] Cross-Correspondences. 171
[HodgsoDp] was unable to translate either during the sitting, but
memorised them, the veni vidi vici sentence especially, to take
away with him and work over. In the sitting of the 9th he
asks me to repeat them and says that he has brought Myers to
help in their translation. . . .
At this same sitting of two weeks before I gave [Hodgsonp] or
Rector, it not being clear which, a brief description of two visions,
seen by people in illness, with reference to using certain easily
visualised impressions in them in conveying messages to England,
and told the control that I spoke of it then with that reference.
The images derived from these two visions were " face in flame
and "procession."
The foUowiDg is the record of part of the sitting of
(Hodgsonp communicating.)
Hello George. I brought Myers to help out ; will you
kindly repeat that Latin for me ?
G. B. D. Veni, vidi, vici.
Once more, and again repeat in Latin.
_ (G. B. D. repeats several times over very slowly.)
I understand. I OA—I came, —let me think George—
came I saw—once more.
(G. B. D. repeats again.)
Iconquered.
G. B. D. Right.
Right—good. Now let me have your other.
G. B. D. The other Latin?
Yes, Myers is here helping me.
(G. B. D. repeats "Arma virumque cano.")
very slowly.
(G. B. D repeats again very slowly.)
I sing exile.
March 9th, 1908 :
172 3frs. Henry Sidgwick [part
G. B. D. Is that word exile 1
(Hand makes gesture of assent after pausing a moment out-
stretched as though towards an invisible personality in
the room.)
I sing of the feats—Myers said it, who by fate —I forget
etc., etc.
G. B. D. Is that " I forget " ?
Exactly, but "I sing of the feats of the exile," etc., etc.
exile. We cannot get it exactly but if we can give you
enough to make it clear that we understand that is the
best we can do possibly. ^
G. B. D. Good. Don't attempt to translate, but let me have what
memories you can.
He is glad you understand. He says Say to our good
friend, Troy.
(Letters not read at first and sense not taken. Letters
rewritten over and over again until clear.)
Troy. I'll go give that to Mrs. Verrall.
G. B. D. The word Troy 'I
Yes. And ai'iits.
G. B. D. Will you give her the words Exile and Troy 1
Yes.
G. B. D. (to Hodgsoup.) Had he better attempt any more ?
Yes.
G. B. D. Who was exiled ?
(A word written which it was impossible to read.)-
^
For a discussion of the degree of understanding shown, see Mrs. Verrall's
paper, pp. 61-64.
''Mr. Piddington suggests that this word, of which Mr. Dorr sent tracings,
may have been meant for Troius=: Aeneas (cf. Aen. I. 596). See Mrs. Verrall's
paper above, p. 6-t.
LX.] Gross-Correspondences. 173
G. B. D. What is that word ? [This was not answered, and no attempt
was made at the moment to repeat the word.]
Juno JUNO
G. B. D. Who was Juno ?
(Brief word not read.) god
G. B. D. What did Juno do with regard to Troy and exile'?
Reedemed [sic]. It is difficult to express but
(Pause)
Teusis—as he was—S—wandered and thought he was lost.
G. B. D. What was your last word 1
Lost. Do you get my idea? Juno saved—saved him.
(Word follows which is the same as word not read pre-
viously, and which again cannot be read but which looks
like Tarius. Note by G.B.D.)
He came to the shores of Italy —shores shores.
G.B.D. Shores?
Yes Italy — — — I sing of the arms and the feats of the
exile who by fate was etc., etc. No more.
G.B.D. That is all?
Yes it is all you gave me. But I remember more.
G. B. D. Will you give me what more you remember ?
Yes I remember the incident of Juno—incident
G.B.D. What is that word?
Incident—and her saving
(Same name not read before is here repeated, and apparently
quite clearly written.)
G. B. D. I can't get it. (Tries different readings.)
Not quite
174 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
G. B. D. Means name ?
Yes Exile.
G. B. D. Can you remember any names to tell me ?
Name several and he will tell you which one it was.
G. B. D. Can he give me the name of the exile himself, or of the
poem ?
Enoid. [Letter here transcribed as o is not clear.] Eid
I did not get all the letters in Eiod—Einid—not quite
but near enough. Eind.
G. B. D. Can you give me the name of the poef?
(Pause.)
0, I understand you. No, I can't think at the moment
Pronounce it for me Einid.
G.B. D. Aeneid.
Yes. E i a n e.
(Gr. B. D. spells it over.)
Aenid.
(G. B. D. repeats name again.)
I remember it so well.
G. B. I). Tell Myers he translated it. Ask him for the name of the
poet?
Blind—I am not blind or deaf but I hear with difl&culty.
G. B. D. What will you try to take to England 1
Give him a message. He has taken 'face in flame.' TROY
Exile.
G. B. D. Take as synonym for Troy—do you know what synonym
means 1
Yes indeed.
G. B. D. The city in flames. Saved by Juno.
(Ct. B. D. here repeats over slowly what MyerSp undertakes to
take to England.)
LX.] Gross-Correspondences. 175
Ver3' good. Splendid. He has already given face and flame.
(Gr. B. D. goes over the words agreed upon again.)
Yes, I understand absolutely.
(G. B. D. repeats words over once more.)
Yes, I am already working over this with Mrs. Verrall.
O. B. D. This is enough, is it not ?
Yes.
•
(G. B. D. repeats once more "Troy, the city in flames, exile,
saved by Juno, the face in flame.")
Yes NEPTUNE.
G. B. D. What about Neptune?
I thought it would fit in splendidly. As it all goes in
(Pause.)
G. B. D. Are there any other names belonging to this that you can
give me "?
You see it comes back to my memory by degrees.
G. B. D. Why was Juno interested 1
LOVE.
G. B. D. For whom.
Exile.
[G. B. D. made no attempt to correct the statement with
regard to Juno's part in the drama, but he thinks his
consciousness of the error made may perhaps have
suggested what came next.]
Remember where I am and where you are and give
allowances.
G. B. D. Do the words "her injured form" suggest anything to
your mind 1
You mean my Poem?
176 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
G. B. I). I mean the old Latin poem.
Yes. Her injured form, yes indeed. Juno.
(Some words follow which cannot be read.)
her love of the exile and she restores him. Re-
stores. Yes.
Built to save her exile who by fate—fled and she met him.
(These last words G. B. 1). read aloud and the hand banged
approval on the table.)
Yes. It is all in fragments in my memory as it comes out
here, but if I could speak with you as of old I could
quote it backwards.
O. B. D. Could you give me more through the voice 1
Not so well, as your words often —your words often
(Pause.)
She built a (pause.)
G. B. D. Are you about to write further 1
Yes, I am going to tell you how she goes up with her love
the exile — — Remember? (pause.)
I can't take more to Mrs. Verrall but I will take a
message to Helen Verrall.
G. B. D. Will you repeat again the messages for Mrs. Verrall.
Troy, Exile, City in flames, Exile, Face in flame, and Juno.
G. B. D. Is that all ?
Neptune.
G. B. D. Troy, Juno, Neptune, city in flame, face in flame—to be
given to Mrs. Verrall.
Yes—yes, this is clear; send it to Lodge.
I have written I came. I saw — — through Helen—I did
not repeat the last word yet.
G. B. D. That was not written 1 What is the last word ]
CONQUERED—but I have not yet got that through Helen.
Gross-Correspondences. 177
Have you got the others through ?
Yes — I came, I saw.
Do you mean that you have got these through already 1
I do.
I did this several days ago—before this trial. Lodge will
tell you all about it — — —
G. B. D. Had you not better stop now 1
Yes, I shall go and give my messages to Mrs. V. and
Helen.
G. B. D Good, but do not hurrij in doing so. Try and get it clearly
tliroiujh. Give it in single words or phrases as they
come. Do not try to connect things together unless
they come to you so.
Like Neptune. Y'es, I understand.
Amoii" the words here rneutioned as written or to be
written through Mrs. or Miss Verrall, jSTeptune, Troy, and Exile
afford clear cases (which I shall describe at length) of corre-
spondence with Miss Verrall's script—not with Mrs. Verrall's.
Some correspondence might perhaps be claimed in the case of
other words, but it will be more profitable to dwell on the
clear cases only.
Neptune and Teident.
It will be observed that Neptune is introduced spontaneously in
the Piper script on March 9, 1908, not through any suggestion
of Mr. Dorr's, and is spontaneously adopted as a word to be
given to Mrs. or to Miss Verrall. It comes in quite suitably,
however, among topics suggested by the first book of the
Acneicl. At the following sitting (March 10th) Mr. Dorr
again introduces the subject of the AcnrAd, and reads aloud
from Frederic Myers's autobiography the two paragraphs referring
to his first accjuaintance with the poem as a child {Fragments
LX.]
G. B. D.
178 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of Prose and Poetry, pp. 6, 7; the passage is quoted in Mrs.
Verrall's paper above, p. 64), upon which MyerSp writes:
I recall so well the emotion which first stirred within me
[incomplete word] the poem as I translated it, the Exile
and his wanderings, his power and his warriors.
G. B. D. (reads over.)
Yes. Also Dido—feast—calm waters by Neptune.
(Then follows a drawing which conveys nothing to Mr. Dorr.)
3 3 three.
G. B. D. What three?
Trydent [sic] (Drawing repeated here).i I'll tell Mrs. V. to
repeat this for me.
G. B. D. You will tell Mrs. V. "Neptune" and "Trident"^
Yes.
Again, later in the sitting, in a list of words to be given
to " far-off friends " comes Neptune, followed by an attempt ta
draw a trident and the word three.
At the next sitting with Mr. Dorr, which took place on
March 16th, is written: "Neptune has not yet got through, but
we are trying it." A few minutes later the following remarks
are made
(MyerSp communicating.)
G.B.I). What more have you got through?
Juno Neptune.
G. B. D. What did you have associated with Neptune to give with it?
(Draws a trident, adding the figure 3.) Trydent. I haven't
forgotten anything. I am extremely interested and
anxious to prove conclusively the survival of bodily
death.
In the waking-stage, after this sitting, Mrs. Piper said
" Neptune calmed the sea for Aeneas—Don't you hear me ?
1 The failure to interpret the drawing was due to the stem of the trident
not being attached to the fork. Tiie writing and drawing, it must be remem-
bered, is done without the use of the eyes.
I
LX.] Gross-Correspondences. 179
Mr. Myers is whispering in one ear, and I am trying to get
it out at the other."
Again, on March 17th, we have:
(Myersp communicating.)
I am only explaining what was given and how it
compares with what you gave me. Neptune.
G. B. D. You have written Neptune %
Yes, twice. Juno.
G. B. D. With Neptune you made a drawing ?
(A drawing of a trident is here made.)
G. B. D. Has this been drawn 1
No. Give me more time on this.
On March 24th Neptune is referred to in connexion with
the Aeneicl, and later in the sitting is stated to have been
given successfully as a " message " as follows
(Myersp communicating.)
That [Neptune] has been received by her,i and Juno by
Mrs. Holland.
G. B. D. But you have not yet drawn the Trident ?
Yes in part (drawing made here of the fork part) so much
of it. I am trying on this (upright straight line drawn)
part now.
On March 30th, again, Mr. Dorr, in going over the list
of messages, says
(MyerSp or Hodgsoup communicating.)
G. B. D. Neptune ?
(Hand makes sign of assent) and waters—blue.
^The "her"' referred to appears from the previous remarks in the script to
be Mrs. Holland under her real name (Holland, it will be remembered, is a
pseudonym). The trance-personalities (and I think Mr. Dorr) refer to the two
names as if pertaining to different persons ;
though in England the trance-
personalities had a year before been aware from what had been said to them
that the two names belonged to the same person.
ISO Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(i. B. D. Trident 1 You have not drawn this yet, have you 1
Yes, we have certainly.
O. B. D. I thought you had only drawn the trident part of it as yet.
Whole, now. (Drawing of trident made.)
Similarly, on April 6th, Mr. Dorr recapitulates messages.
<4. B. D. Neptune? (Hand assents.)
O. B. D. With trident 1
(Hand assents vigorously, and then writes:) Complete.
In the waking-stage after this sitting Mrs. Piper remarks :
He is drawing a long thing on a big white sheet ; it's a
long stick with three prongs on the top of it and
success written under it. He said hydrant.—Archimedps.
<T. B. D. Hydrant 1
More about hydrant later. —M3'ers says, I will tell you
more when the light returns.
At the sitting on the following day, April 7th, Mr.
Dorr read over to the trance-personalities his notes of the
waking-stage of April 6th, and the script makes comments.
The following is what passed about the above.
G. B. D. (reads) "He is drawing a long thing like a stick with
three prongs on the top of it, and success written
under it."
Trydent (drawing of trident follows).
G. B. D Then she said "Hydrant."
(Hand makes gesture of dissent.) Trydetit not Hydrant.^
Finally Neptune with trident is ticked off as complete with
the assent of the controls on April 14th, and again on
April 21st.
Now on February 21st, 1908, more than a fortnight before
the first mention of Neptune in these sittings with Mrs. Piper
^ This confusion is analogous to the transposition of letters wliich occasionally
occurs in the script. Possibly the transposition may have been facilitated
in this case by the tendency of the controls to spell trident with a y.
LX.] Cross- Correspondences. 181
and four days before Mr. Dorr's first reference to the Aencid,
Miss Verrall's script contained a drawing of a trident followed
by the words " Neptune's trident that completes the tale." It
is the final sentence of the script and seems disconnected from
anything else written that day, and it is the only reference
made anywhere in Miss Verrall's automatic writing to Neptune.
It seems possible that the words " that completes the tale
signify that a cross-correspondence was intended,^ but they
may equally well indicate the end of that piece of script.
No stress therefore can be laid on them, and for evidence of
the intentional nature of the coincidence we must trust to
Mrs. Piper's script. The intention there is very clear and
marked at the first emergence of the name on March 9 th.
Was its selection and emergence on that day, among other
names which reference to the Acneid might have called up,
due to a double association, to vague recollections of the
poem stimulated by a telepathic flash either from Miss
Verrall or from some source that inspired Miss Verrall also ?
It looks rather like this. That it was not more than a
rtash seems to be shown by the ignorance and confusion
subsequently displayed as to when and how and to whom the
message had been given, and the inconsistency of the state-
ments about it with each other and with the facts. Probably
these false and confused statements were for the most part
made simply because the Piper script, like other automatic
script, almost always does attempt to satisfy a questioner,
whether the true answer to the question is really known or
not. Still it must be admitted that such statements diminish
the evidential force of successful experiments, as also do
the numerous statements that this or that " message " has
successfully appeared in cases where no trace of success can
be discovered by us. In other words, if any value could be
attached to a statement by the trance- personalities that an
experiment in cross-correspondence has succeeded, or as to the
^ Compare a script of Miss Verrall's on March 16th, 1908 (quoted by Mrs.
Verrall in her paper on "A new Group of Experimenters," below, p. 297),
where the quotation of the second stanza of a two-stanza poem of Victor
Hugo's is followed by the words "The end of the story." In this case the
phrase does not occur at the end of the piece of script. The first stanza
seems to be referred to on the following July 27th in the Mac script.
3,82 Mrs. Henry SidgtvicJc. [part
time and mode of its success, the improbability of chance
coincidence would be greatly increased.
Troy and Joy.
Troy, like Neptune, is a word associated with the Aeneid,
but spontaneously written {i.e. not suggested by Mr. Dorr) at
the first sitting of the series, March 9th, 1908, in the
course of the passage already quoted ; and about it Myersp
spontaneously says, " I'll go give that to Mrs. Verrall."
It is referred to at the next sitting (March 10th) as one of
a list of " messages " agreed on, but without comment. At
the third sitting (March 16th), at the beginning of the sitting,
after the usual greetings, the following dialogue took place
(MyerSp communicating.)
*
Good morning. Peace seems to reign this morning. M.
Shall we take up where we left off? Will you repeat the
questions you gave before kindly ?
G. B. D. Do you want me to go over the messages you were to
take, or the questions I asked you '?
Both. I wish you to repeat your previous questions to me,
all those that remained unanswered. I have given Mrs. V.
Troy, Joy.
G. B. U. And joy?
Joy Joy Joy Troy.
G. B. D. Why did you write "joy?"
In making her understand Troy she misunderstood and
wrote Joy.
G. B. 1). Did you get " Troy " through too ?
Yes she finally got it right, and wrote Troy. Neptune has
not got through but we are trying it. She under-
stood flames and wrote head instead of face
I gave her my first initials F. M. so she would understand
who was writing.
Gross- Correspondences: 183
It is again stated on March l7th that "Troy has been
[written,]" and later on the same day, in reply to Mr. Dorr's
question " You wrote Troy ? MyerSp says " Yes, and joy."
At the next sitting held (March 23rd), at a certain point in
a conversation about what words have come through, Mr.
Dorr asks :
(Hodgsonp communicating.)
G. B. D. Anything else 1
We wrote wreath ^ and Joy, also Joy of the Gods.
G. B. D. Did you do this in any allusive fashion, so far as you can
tell ?
No. That is good and by itself, as we wrote archway ^ for
P[iddington] in England. Joy was written in the same
way.
G. B. D. Straight out 1
In the same way.
G. B. D. But the word archway has nothing to do with these present
messages, as I understand you.
Nothing at all. Only I am telling you we wrote it [joy]
straight out as we did archway long ago.
^ "Laurel wreath" was the subject of a concordant automatism in the Piper
sittings in England (see Mr. Piddington's paper, Vol. XXII. p. 94), and earlier
in this sitting of March '23rd the trance-personalities had referred to it. Is it
association of ideas with this, or experimental zeal, or both, that leads to the
mention of wreath here, and to its forming again part of a successful cross-
correspondence ?
- The word archway did not occur in Mrs. Piper's sittings in England. The
word " arch " and other words of which " arch " was the first syllable occurred in
Mrs. Verrall's script, as Mr. Piddington informed the Piper trance-personalities
(see his paper, A Series of Goncordant Automatisms, Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXII.
p. 80), with the suggestion that they were connected with an attempt to write
the word "arrow." That it is this that Hodgsonp here refers to is rendered
the more probable by the fact that the word and idea of arrow and also
Longfellow's line, " I shot an arrow through the air," which Mr. Piddington had
quoted to the trance-personalities in connexion with this cross-correspondence,
occur in Mrs. Piper's utterances in the waking-stage of this same day.
It is important to remember in studying these sittings of Mr. Dorr's that
when they were held neither Miss Johnson's paper on Mrs. Holland's script,
nor Mr. Piddington's paper on concordant automatisms had been published.
184 Mrs. Henry Sidgiuick. [part
In the waking-stage of this sitting the following broken
phrases were uttered
Fish —Mermaid —Saturn —^Hero —Olympus —[then a word
which was indistinctly caught hut sounded to Mr. Dorr
like pavia^] Sybil—-Olympus—water—Lethe—delighted
sad—lovel}' —mate—put them all together. [Low whisper-
ing here, not possible to catch] Entwined love—beautiful
shores—ask him if he cannot hear me. Muses—I wrote
church long time ago—Olympus There's Mercury ! —love
—He has drawn a cross with ivy over it. Pharaoh's
daughter came out of the water—warm—sunlit —love.
Lime leaf—heart—sword—arrow—I shot an arrow
through the air, and it fell I knoAv not where. [Mrs.
Piper then describes a lady with no clothes on shooting
an arrow who, as the trance-personalities explain later,
was meant for Iris. See Mr. Piddington's paper, pp. 90-3.]
Of these words fragmentarily caught, some e.c/. Olympus,
water, Lethe—are repetitions of what had been written in
the course of the sittiag. Of the rest some would certainly
be appropriate if we could suppose that the words and ideas
of Wordsworth's Laodcnnia were inhueuciug the communica-
tions. Consider especially the third stanza, which runs :
0 terror ! what hath she perceived ? —0 joy !
What doth she look on 1 —whom doth she behold ?
Her Hero slain upon the beach of Troy 1
His vital presence ? his corporeal mould 1
It is —if sense deceive her not
—'tis He !
And a god leads him, winged Mercury.
This stanza contains the words " Hero " and " Mercury " as
well as the two words '
Troy " and " Joy " previously mentioned
as havino' been transferred to Mrs. Verrall.
In any case, whatever we may think of Mrs. Piper's utter-
ance, this story of Laodamia undoubtedly influenced Miss
Verrall's script of April 20th, 1908—a month later.
Minos and Rhadamanthus and a third
Ep/iT^s j^u>^o7ro/x7ros -
' Attempts to get this word repeated or interpreted at subsequent sittings,
failed, but see Mr. Piddington's paper, p. 101.
^ Hermes, leader of souls.
LX.] Gross-Correspondences. 185
[The herald's staff, the symbol of Hermes' office, drawn here
with the words :J
the symbol of his oflfice
and the souls follow
A holly leave or something like that green and prickly a holly
wreath
Tro}' Laodamia saw a vision too.^
The word here rendered " Troy " is very badly written, but
it looks more like Troy than anything else ; and if it formed
part of a sentence in which Troy completed the sense we
should, I think, have no hesitation in so reading it. But even
if " Troy " was not actually written, the reference to Laodamia
implies it, and through the reference to Wordsworth's poem, ''joy
"
is implied also. We have further the word " wreath " - which
Hodgsonp connected with joy on March 2ord (see p. 183).
" Joy of the gods," which was mentioned by Hodgsoup in
the same connexion on March 23rd, finds its parallel in Miss
Verrall's script of April 1st, 1908, when she wrote:
The pillars of converging fire
The ministers of joy divine
Will satisfy the hearts desire
The longing for a stainless shrine.
The double arch and the flowing river ask about that.
The stream flows swiftly and the swirling eddies beat against
the pier.
Troy and Joy are mentioned at subsequent sittings with
Mrs. Piper in April, from the 6th onwards, as messages that
have been finished, but nothing more of interest was said
about them.
^ Can tliis "too" meau "as well as Alcyone''? For Alcyone's vision see
above, pp. 99-100. Mr. Piddington's paper on "Lethe" sliows that Alcyone's
story is referred to in Mrs. Piper's trance of March 23rd.
-The word "wreath" does not occur in Wordsworth's Laodamia, and it affords
therefore an independent instance of correspondence between Mrs. Piper's and
Miss Verrall's scripts. A reminiscence of Laodamia is not the sole cause of
the agreement between them.
'The word "joy" had previously occurred in Miss Verrall's script of this
period on March 5th thus: "A star in the East the pledge and symbol of
the coming day, a star of joy to those that watch. The firstfruits of the
morning Nuntius Aurorte radiis ubi dissipat umbras."
186 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
Exile and Moore.
Exile was a word spontaneously written by Hodgsonp on
March 9th, 1908, in the attempt to translate " Arma virumque
cano " (see p. I7l), but as a "message" to be given to Mrs.
Verrall it was—unlike " jSTeptune " and " Troy "
—suggested by
Mr. Dorr. On the following day (March 10th) it is again
referred to, but without remark, in a list of messages to be
taken to Mrs. Verrall. Tlie next reference is on March 23rd
(the sitting so important in connection with " Troy "). Mr.
Dorr is questioning the trance-personalities about what messages
have been taken :
(HodgsoHp communicating.)
G. B. D. Did you write " Exile " ?
Yes, long ago. It came out with Moore. MOORE.
Similarly on March 3 0th Mr. Dorr asks:
<r. B. D. Exile, which you said had got through connected with the
word Moore ?
Yes, both through.
And again at different sittings in April it is said to have
been given, and is finally ticked off as complete by Mr. Dorr
on April 21st, together with Neptune and Troy, and also
with a number of other words and phrases, of most of which
we find no trace. This is recorded as follows
(Myersp communicating.)
Now we will tur-n to messages.
(G. B. D. takes record of April 14th and reads over the
messages then declared to be finished, the hand assenting
to the list as it is read through. When the last one is
mentioned, viz., parallel lines representing Styx, the word
" Styx " is spelt correctly for the first time, it having been
previously spelt "Sticks.")
G. B. D. Now these are dove 1
Yes because they will all appear, in some form or another,
through the other Lights.
LX.] Gross-Correspondences. 187
HodgsoHp was mistaken when he said on March 23rd that
Exile had come out long ago, but on April 27th, and again
on May 16th, Miss Verrall's script quotes Moore's line "The
harp that once through Tara's halls," and on the latter
occasion also mentions Exile. The two pieces of script run
as follows :
J2ml 27fh, 1908.
An open book.
Dominus illuminatio mea.^
A golden harp—the harp that once through Tara's halls
The lute with a single string Watts' picture -
MciT/ mh, 1908.
By the waters of Babylon
the song of exile in a strange land—singing in a tongue
unknown
but the music is sweet and music is a universal language
Garay Mekon no it is useless
The harps upon the willow write that too
the harp that once through Tara's halls
a seven stringed lute the lute of Orpheus
Eurydice clamat
The first part of this second script is, of course, a reminiscence
of the 137th Psalm, which runs:
By the waters of Babylon, there we sat down.
Yea, we wept when we remembered Zion.
1 The motto of Oxford University. An open book is part of the Oxford
Arms.
-The picture by Watts which these words first suggest is the well-known
representation of Hope —a woman lilindfolded seated on a sphere, and playing
on a lute with a single string, which is an important feature in the picture.
But it is worth noting that there is a picture by Watts of Orpheus and
Eurydice, painted in 1869, and now hanging in the Watts Gallery at Compton,
in which Orpheus holds a lute with all the strings broken but one.
If Mr. Piddingtou is right in thinking that Watts' picture of Orpheus and
Eurydice was in the mind of Myersp (see above, pp. 130, 132) it would be interest-
ing to find it also alluded to in Miss Verrall's script ; and the fact that the
line from Moore leads on to Orpheus in her script of May 16th, makes it
tempting to assume the same association of ideas on April 27th. Miss Verrall
had not seen the picture of Orpheus and Eurydice in question.
188 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof.
For there they that carried us away captive required of us
a song
And they that wasted us required of us mirth,
Saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zioii.
How shall we sino- the Lord's sona;
In a strange land 1
Apart from questions of dates, it will be admitted, I think,
that the Piper trance-personalities wei"e justified in saying that
" Exile " and " Moore " appear together in the script of another
automatist, and it will probably be felt that the coincidence
can hardly be due to chance.
But further examination brings out other coincidences. In
Miss Verrall's script of May 16tli we have, combined with
Exile and the quotation from Moore, the words and ideas of
music, of harp, and of Orpheus and Eurydice. Music and harp
are naturally connected, and harp is the common idea con-
necting Exile, Moore, and Orpheus—if we admit that harp
easily leads to lute, as it seems to do in both the above
scripts of Miss Verrall's."'' Now the words " music " and " harp
"
are both claimed by Myersp as successful " messages," and as
regards " harp," Miss Verrall is named at one point as the
automatist concerned. On May 4th, when in reading over to
the Piper trance-personalities a list of words and phrases
that had been agreed on at a previous sitting as messages to
be transmitted, Mr. Dorr comes to " the Cave of Sleep with
the name of Morpheus associated with it," MyerSp immediately
writes " I wrote harp," and a drawing of a harp is made.
In Mr. Piddington's paper on the Lethe incident (see above,
pp. 104-20) it will be seen that there is a possible reason for a
connexion by the trance-personalities of Morpheus and Orpheus,
and moreover at one point in the waking-stage of March 31st
Mrs. Piper seems to confuse or combine the names, for she says
" Eurydice, Morpheus and Eurydice." I think, therefore, that
it may not unfairly be said that harp is connected in the
Piper script with Orpheus, though somewhat indirectly. Harp^
as a cross-correspondence is twice again referred to, but each
'
Willow was also an idea connected with Orpheus in classical tradition.
See F. W. H. Myers's Essays Classical, pp. 53, 54.
LX.] Gross- Correspondences. 189
time in connexion with Sappho. Thus on May 12th Mr.
Dorr asks MyerSp
O. B. D. Have you given Sappho 'I
(Mrs. Piper makes a rough drawing of a harp.)
G. B. D. Through whom did you draw this 1
Helen [i.f. Miss Verrall]. She is very clear at times, and
understands us very well.
On May 13, in the waking-stage, after something not
quite heard about celestial fields, Mrs. Piper said :
Helen, Sappho—harp I drew. I said, chain him down and
let them feed on his liver.i I said fire,! j g^id music, I
said, say Princess Sappho, at her feet a wreath of laurel.
In this last passage " music " also appears, and this is the
only place where music is definitely stated to be a subject
of cross-correspondence ; it was, however, mentioned in a
previous waking-stage (March 30), and then in more or less
connexion with Orpheus (see Mr. Piddington's paper, p. 105).
We have then in Miss Verrall's script Exile, Music, Harp,
Moore, and Orpheus, connected together ; and in Mrs. Piper's
trance four of these are claimed as cross-correspondences, while
Exile is connected with Moore, and harp and perhaps music
with Orpheus.
Pharaoh's Daughter.
It will be remembered that in the waking-stage of March
23rd, 1908 (see p. 184), after mentioning Mercury and a cross
with ivy over it, Mrs. Piper says, apparently d propos of nothing :
"Pharaoh's daus-hter came out of the water." On March 30th
Mr. Dorr reads over his notes of what was said in the
waking-stage of March 23rd to the trance-personalities, with a
view to getting explanations.
(MyerSp communicating.)
<jc. B. D. (reading) " Pharaoh's daughter came out of the water ?
"
It was written by Mrs. V. some time ago, about ten
Sabbaths. I reproduce it here for evidence.
^Prometheus, like Sappho, was one of the "messages" undertaken; but
it can only doubtfully be claimed as having had any success. "I said '' means
'•I said to another automatist.''
190 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
Here, again, there seems to be a mistake about the date, as
there certainly is about the person. Mrs. Verrall wrote
nothing about Pharaoh's daughter. Some months later, how-
ever, but before either Mrs. Verrall or her daughter had seen
the records of Mrs. Piper's script, on Sept. 6, 1908, Miss
Verrall wrote
anno domini quinque et viginti sed cur ab aliis disceditur?
non super hos sed mole supposita res efficitur. quare omnia
patiamur et laborem et vincula et ipsam mortem o domiue
servi tui te invocant.^
At the river's edge in the thickest sedge
his mother laid him down. Pharaoh's daughter the hand'
of the foe shall nurture him to be a leader of the people.
Note that there is not only the coincidence of the words
" Pharaoh's daughter," but that both in Mrs. Piper's utterances
and in Miss Verrall's script the tale is partly told in jingling
rhymes in the same metre.
Pharaoh's daughter
Came out of the water.
At the river's edge
In the thickest sedge.
I hesitated a little about mentioning this among the clearest
cases of correspondence because of the considerable interval
of time—March 23 to Sept. 6 —between the original utterance
of the words by Mrs. Piper and their appearance in Miss
Verrall's script. But the corresponding words are so definite
and, so to speak, odd—I mean, so out of the ordinary run of
subjects referred to by either automatist—that, given the
possibility of a supernormal connexion, it is difficult, I think^
to attribute the coincidence to chance.
I am disposed to iind some interest, and perhaps some
confirmation of the non-accidental nature of the coincidence
between Miss Verrall's script of September 6th, 1908, and
the Piper script, in the fact that her script of the previous
1 In the year of the Lord twenty-five, but why are others left ? not above
these, but with mass set below is the matter effected, wherefore let us
endure all things, toil and chains and death itself. 0 Lord thy servants call
upon thee.
LX.] Cross-Correspondences. 191
day, September 5 th, also shows a certain amount of corre-
spondence. The latter part of this script runs
The garden of the sun the golden apples that the dragon guarded
Who stole the apples froward mortal Hesperides three nymphs
no no go not to Lethe ^ and the river of wailing too
Upon the shore they stood and stretched their arms.
Now it is natural enough, considering the tendency of Miss
Verrall's script to refer to classical subjects, that it should
mention either the apples of the garden of the Hesperides, or
the river of Lethe ; but there is no obvious reason why they
should be combined. It is therefore interesting to find a
possible reason for their combination in both topics having
been mentioned in the sitting with Mrs. Piper on April 22nd,
1908. Mr. Dorr on that day suggested Lethe as a message
in association with Morpheus and the Cave of Sleep.- Later
in the sitting, the following incident occurred
(Myersp communicating.)
Mrs. Verrall has written a few verses from Browning which
I, Myers, gave her recently from Euripides. Where she
has selected the verses, the words appeal to me and
describe one of our messages here.
G. B. D. Can you tell me what play it was from which Mrs. Verrall's
verses were taken ?
Let me think it over—Pallas—Pedestal—hair
G. B. D. You had best not try and tell me now, but take more time
about it.
No, I am only telling you
(Mr. Dorr notes :
" The reference to a translation by Browning
from Euripides, or from the Greek plays at all, in fact, is interesting,
for I did not know that he had made any such until I looked it
up at the sitting ... in the book of Greek Ode translations which I
had brought with me to it. Finding there a translation by Browning
quotation from Keats's Ode on Melancholy.
-I liave not counted "Lethe" as an independent "message," because there
is no evidence that it was accepted as such by the Piper controls, though
Morpheus was.
192 , 3Its. Henry Sidgivick. [part
from the Hercules Furens, I glanced it through and read a few lines
here and there to see if the control would identify the ones referred to,
Itut nothing was identified, unless it were the lines in which his
coming to the Hesperides and plucking of the Golden Apple is
described." At this point Myers,, writes :)
I am listening carefully—Apple—correct. She quoted it in
answer to apj^le.
There had been no attempt in Mrs. Verrall's script nor in
Miss Verrall's to quote from Browning's translation of the
Heracles Furens. There had been, as readers of Proceedings,
Vol. XXII.i know, references to the Hercules Furens in Mrs.
Verrall's script of a year before (March 4th and 25th, 1907);
and in Mrs. Holland's script of the same period (April 16th,
1907) there had been a quotation, or rather a reminiscence of
Browning's poem, Aristophanes' A2Jology, of which the translation
of the Hercules Furens is a part. But in these scripts, of which
Mrs. Piper at this time knew nothing, there is no reference to
apple." " Apple," however, is one of the cross-correspondences
previously attempted in the set of sittings we are now dealing
with, and the reference by Mr. Dorr to the golden apple would
naturally recall this. It is therefore impossible to say whether
there had previously been any connexion intended by Myersp
between the " apple " taken as a message and the garden of
the Hesperides.
The first reference to "Apple" was on March l7th, thus:
I said garden'^ and the word apple was inadvertently written.
Again, on Marcii 23rd (MyerSp communicating).
<\. B. ]). What else have you given 1
Apple.
O. B. D. To whom?
Helen.
" Apple " is on several subsequent days included in lists of
messages taken and is ticked off as completed on April 14th
1
See Vol. XXII. pp. 210-2-20, and Mr. Piddhigtoivs paper above, pp. 25-29.
Tlie word " garden " was part of a phrase " Sj'ringa bush in mother's garden "
tliat liad been agreed on as a message.
LX.] Cross-Correspondences. 193
and 21st. There is a final reference to "Apples," apparently as
one among other messages, in the waking-stage of May 26th,
the last sitting of the series.
Number of Successes and Failures.
The correspondences I have described between " messages
taken by Mrs. Piper's trauce-personalities and the script of
other automatists, form only a small proportion of the whole
number of such " messages." If we include with them state-
ments by Mrs. Piper, in script or in the waking-stage, that
certain things have been written or drawn by other automatists,
there were about 80^ messages " during the series of sittings in
question. In the great majority of cases the trance-personalities
claim success, but in only about 2-J: ^ of them has anything
approaching justification for the claim been discovered. This is,
of course, quite in accordance with previous experience, and
so is the fact that the degree of success, where there is any,
varies "reatlv. I have described the cases which seem to me
the most successful, and we descend from them through various
degrees to the complete failures.
I called attention in connexion with the Neptune case to
the strange contrast between the exactness of the correspondence
verbally, and the erroneous and contradictory assertions as to
who has received and reproduced the message, and when she
has clone so. Neptune, which is spoken of as to be written in
the future by Mrs. Verrall, had, as a matter of fact, been
written by Miss Verrall before it was mentioned by Mrs. Piper's
trance-personalities at all ; and we have no reason to think
that it was written by any automatist we are acquainted with
afterwards. Pharaoh's daughter, on the other hand, which is
spoken of as written by Mrs. Verrall months before, is not
written till months after, and then by Miss Verrall. And
^ The number is a little indefinite, because it is sometimes difficult to decide
whether a message in which two words are linked together (as e.g. in Joy
and Troy) is to count as one or two. I have counted it as one when the
statement about the linking seems clear.
-In these 24 I include the cases to which I shall refer presently, of
•emergence in Miss Verrall's and Mrs. Holland's script after Mrs. Verrall
had studied the records.
N
194 Mrs. Henry Sidgwide. [part
Troy and joy, Exile with Moore, are neither of them written
till some day^ after it has been asserted in the Piper script
that they have got through. This same ignorance as to writer
and date, accompanied by confident assertion, appears in the
less clear correspondences as well, and success is claimed with
equal confidence in the cases where there seems to be no
correspondence at all. Erroneous guesses confidently expressed
may, as I have already said, be sometimes due to the known
reluctance of the subliminal consciousness to admit inability to
answer questions. But sometimes the assertions are made
gratuitously without any question being asked by Mr. Dorr.
With so much confusion as to date and persons it is
difficult to make any coherent theory as to the processes
involved ; and I think the matter must be left there for the
moment as one of the puzzles which seem at present to
stand in the way of a solution of the problems before us,
but which may ultimately help to furnish a clue.
It is perhaps worth noting that in the cases I have de-
scribed, with the partial exception of " Exile," the idea to be
conveyed is chosen by the Piper trance-personalities—not by
Mr. Dorr. Of the whole number of 80 "messages" about
two-fifths are initiated by Mr. Dorr, and the rest by the
Piper trance-personalities.
It may be noticed also that Miss Verrall is the partner
in these successful experiments. This is true also of the
majority of the more doubtful correspondences occurring within
six months of the Piper sittings in question. Mrs. Verrall was
much more often referred to by the Piper trance-personalities,
but her script shows very little, if any, correspondence with
Mrs. Piper's.
Connexion with Mrs. Holland's Script. ..
Mrs. Holland, as it happens, was doing very little automatic
writing during the spring and summer of 1908. She only wrote
on March 4th, March 10th, and July 23rd. There is nothing
connected with Mr. Dorr's sittings in the scripts of March 4th
and 10th. But in the course of the script of July 23rd
comes the reference to Seven, which must be read in connexion
with references by Mrs. Piper to " We are seven " on May 8th
LX.] Cross- Correspondences. 195
and 12th, and by Miss Verrall to the number seven on
May 11th. Miss Johnson has dealt fully with this episode in
her paper below (pp. 222-258), and I need not enlarge on it now.
I have not included it in enumerating the messages above only
because it was not claimed on Mrs. Piper's side as a " message
"
quite so definitely as they were. After July 23rd Mrs. Hol-
land's next script was produced on November 25th, 1908, and
on this and several subsequent days up to April 14th, 1909,
there are passages in the script that look like references to the
" messages " of Mr. Dorr's sittings—in two cases with a distinct
reference to Mr. Dorr or to Mrs. Piper.^ Before the middle of
November, however, Mrs. Verrall had read and made notes on
the records of Mr. Dorr's sittings, so that her mind had
become a possible source of telepathic information, and the
complication of the problem is increased.
In this connexion it is interesting to note that in a piece
of script produced by Miss Verrall on November 12th, 1908,
in the presence of Mrs. Verrall, after the latter had read Mr.
Dorr's records,"-^ but when Miss Verrall was ignorant of them,
two of the subjects of " messages "
—Iris and Palm branches
emerged.^ The relevant part of the script is as follows
[Drawing of the flower Iris] blue and purple and green spikes
nuntius ipse ab alio emissus haec per terras.'*
A bough of green leaves palm leaves to strew upon the way when
the time was ripe palm leaves super sethera notus ^ fame the palm of
fame that is the thought.
The references to Iris, the messenger of the gods, in the
Piper sittings will be found in Mr. Piddington's paper above,
^ These cases will be discussed in a future paper.
-Mrs. Verrall first heard of these sittings on October 18th, 1908. She first
saw the records of them some days later.
'Miss Verrall had had a reference to Iris in her script earlier, namely, on
August 17th, 1908. " The curving bow butterfly wings light as gossamer rainbow
hued Butterflies the pied meadows buttercups and daisies the million coloured
bow." Disconnected allusions to classical subjects are common in Miss
Verralts script, so that it is difficult to judge whether a reference to Iris,
such as this, five mouths after Iris had figured in Mrs. Piper's trance, should
not be attributed to chance rather than to any supernormal communication.
*A messenger himself sent by another she (or these things) through the
lands.
^Renowned beyond the heavens.
196 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(p. 89 et seq.). Mrs. Verrall had been specially occupied with
some questions about Iris, the messenger of the gods, on Nov.
11th.
The references by Mrs. Piper to palm branches are as follows
(In the walung-stage on March 30th, 1908.)
Palm branches—came out yesterday—Janus,
(and a little later)
Oh lovely ! I see rows and rows of lovely ladies —little
maidens carrying palm branches through the air.
On April 6th Mr. Dorr reads over to Mrs. Piper in
trance the record of what had been said in the waking-stage
of March 30 th.
(Myersp communicating.)
G. B. D. (reading) "Palm branches." Have you given this'?
Yes.
G. B. D. To whom 1
To Mrs. Verrall and Helen. I gave palm branches ;
you will
understand this later. I wish to acquaint you with
independent messages as they appear through Mrs. V.
you understand
You will be pleased with palm branches.
COMUS.
There is one more thing to be considered, as it may throw
light on the whole matter, and that is that there are certainly
traces in these records, apart from deliberate attempts at cross-
correspondence, of what looks like knowledge of facts or of
thoughts which were not known in any normal way to Mrs.
Piper, in or out of trance, nor to Mr. Dorr. Mr. Piddington
has referred (see p. 162) to possible connexions of this kind
between Mrs. Piper's utterances in the series of sittings under
consideration and ideas in the paper on " Concordant Automa-
tisms " which he was at the time engaged in writing. I will
here describe another instance of apparently telepathic con-
LX.] Cross- Correspondences. 197
nexion between remarks in these sittings and external
circumstances.
On April 27 and May 4, 1908, Mr. Dorr read to Mrs. Piper
in trance passages from Milton's Covins—among others the first
few lines of the address to Sabrina
Sabrina fair,
Listen where thou art sitting,
Under the glassy, cool, translucent wave,
In twisted braids of lilies knitting
The loose train of thy amber-dropping hair.
To some extent in the waking-stage on April 27th, and
in the course of the script on May 4th and May 8th, recog-
nition had been shown by the trance personalities of the
lines read being by Milton and coming from Comus ^
;
and also
a knowledge of the names Comus and Circe which Mr. Dorr
had suppressed in reading aloud.
On May 8th Mr. Dorr said:
(Myersp communicating.)
G. B. D. Can you not make one of the other Lights give the name
of Comus, or of Circe, or make some reference to the
poem—quote some lines from it perhaps 1
Yes we could say [drawing of the sun] SUN
G. B. D. Then you will take this as a message, and associate it too
with Milton, will you not ?
Yes I will. Myers.
On May 12th Hodgsonp professes to have given through
other automatists the messages Comus, Circe, and to have
drawn the sun—and on May 13th MyerSp or Hodgsoup vi^rites,
" I have been trying to get that [i.e. Circe] through with
Helen." Later in the same sitting of May 13th, after a little
discussion as to whether the trance personalities were responsible
for a drawing of the sun which had been made in connexion
with Juno by another automatist in the United States, comes
a pause, and the script proceeds
(MyerSp or Hodgsonp communicating.)
Caves, nymphs, water nymphs
1 See Mrs. Verrall's paper above, pp. 45-6.
198 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
G. B. D. What about water nymphs ?
We are working over this.
G. B. D. With whom 1
Helen and Mrs. Sidsrwick.
G. B. D. I read j^ou something about this in Comus, as you may
remember.
(Hand assents.)
We were trying to give it there when the suggestion came
from Mrs. Sidgwick for us to reproduce it here.
G. B. D. I read you " Sabrina fair, listen where thou art sitting,
Under the glassy, cool translucent wave." Perhaps this,
as a quotation, may help you to give it to the other
Lights.
We shall say Maid of the Sea—Maid of the Sea.
G. B. D. You recall my reading you the lines 1
Yes, I do very well ; it all came from this.
G. B. D. You mean that it was suggested to Mrs. Sidgwick's mind
by your own thought of it 1
. Because we were trying to quote those lines there.
G. B. D. Mrs. Sidgwick thought of them because you were trying to
give them to her?
Yes, because we were present—woods—caves—nymphs.
In the waking-stage of the same day Mrs. Piper said
And I said. Maidens fair, twining their golden locks. And
Mrs. Sidgwick said. You go back and tell that to Mrs.
Piper and then see what comes of it. That is as I
understood it, and I think she is very clear in her
enunciation.
It is clear from these passages, I think, that the trance
personalities connect with me words which Mr. Dorr imme-
diately takes to refer to Covins, and which they accept as so
referring. I may say at once that I was entirely unconscious
LX.] Cross- Correspondences. 199
of any attempt at thought-transference, and to the best of
my belief never thought of the trance personaHties or of Mrs.
Piper in connexion with Comus. At the same time I think
it is difficult to suppose that the reference to me in this
connexion was entirely accidental, because, for reasons which
I will explain presently, Comus was in my mind a good deal
about this time, and, moreover, while this is the only time I
am referred to at all by the trance personalities in this series
of sittings, Comus is, so far as I remember, the only subject
among the many touched on that could with any appropriate-
ness be connected with me.
The story is this. The year 1908 was the tercentenary
of Milton's birth and it was to be celebrated at his College
—Christ's College, Cambridge. Some of the younger members
of the University arranged to perform the masque of Comus
on the occasion. It is usual at Cambridge in the performances
of University dramatic clubs for all the parts—female as well
as male—to be played by men. On this occasion, however, they
were anxious to introduce women, and as they also wished to
be able to say that the performers were students at the
University, I was approached to ascertain whether as Principal
of Newnham College I would consent to certain students of
the College taking part. The important women's parts, it
will be remembered, are " the lady," and Sabrina the water
nymph. It was a new departure, and those who understand
the circumstances will realise that the question thus presented
to me was one of those which, without being very important,
give a great deal of trouble to those who have to decide them,
and that therefore Comus occupied my mind in a way it
certainly never did before. Exactly when the question first
came before me I cannot now remember, but it must, I
think, have been before the middle of May. The performance
took place early in July.
It certainly seems, therefore, as though events at Cambridge
in England, or at least thoughts in the minds of persons
there, did somehow affect Mrs. Piper's trance personalities in
America. It is not necessary to suppose that there was
telepathic communication with me, for others, including Mrs.
and Miss Verrall, were aware of my special interest in the
subject of Comits at that time.
200 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich [part
With this I will conclude my paper. There were, as I
have said, many failures, and there are some more or less
successful cross-correspondences which I have not described.
But, apart from those with Mrs. Holland's script, to be discussed
later, the details of these would not, I think, either add materi-
ally to the weight of evidence, or throw new light on the
processes involved.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Scrijjt. 201
SECOND EEPOET ON MES. HOLLAND'S SCEIPT.
By Alice Johnson.
Introduction.
In my first report on the automatic writing of Mrs. Holland,
which appeared in the Proceedings, Vol. XXI. (pp. 166-391),
a general account of the development of the case was given,
with a discussion not only of evidential incidents, but also of
a good many features that appeared to me instructive from a
psychological point of view. For the general psychological
character of the case then I must refer my readers to the
first report ; I propose to confine myself in this paper to
certain of the evidential or would-be evidential incidents
belonging to a period subsequent to the one there dealt with.
The period covered by this paper is a little over two years
in length, namely, from June 2Jth, 1906, to July 23rd, 1908.
During practically the whole of this period Mrs. Holland was
in India, but it happens that the first script quoted was
written while she was at sea on her way to India, and the
last one quoted was written while she was at sea on her way
back to England.
All Mrs. Holland's scripts, with any communications that
she may have to make about them, are sent to me,-^ and are
always kept locked up in my office, so that no one but myself
has access to them.
Up to Nov. 16th, 1906, Mrs. Verrall sent those of her
scripts that were written on Wednesdays to me, (that being
1 Except that during my visit to America in 1906 her scripts from July 13th
to October 31st inclusive were sent to Mrs. Sidgwick, who gave them all to
me on my return ; and Mr. Piddington has on one or two occasions written to-
iler direct to make enquiries on certain points in her script connected with
his paper on "A Series of Concordant Automatisms" in Proceedings, Vol. XXII.
202 Alice Johnson. [part
the regular weekly day for Mrs. Holland to write), and her
other scripts to Sir Oliver Lodge. After this date she sent
them all to Mr. Piddington, he being in charge of the English
sittings with Mrs. Piper which were then beginning. Except
for an interval during 1907 when Mrs. Verrall's scripts were
sent to me, Mr. Piddington continued to receive them up to
the end of 1907, from which date onwards they have always
been sent to me.
Miss Verrall's scripts, when she first began to write, were
kept by her mother. Occasionally when a script of hers
seemed likely to have evidential value, it was sent with
Mrs. Verrall's to Sir Oliver Lodge. Afterwards all Miss Verrall's
scripts were sent to Mr. Piddington from Nov. 20th, 1906,
to the end of 1907, (except for an interval during 1907
when I received them), after which date they have all been
sent to me.
Each recipient has kept the scripts locked up, as long as
they remained in his or her possession, and the whole of
both Mrs. and Miss Verrall's scripts from the beginning
have now been put into my charge and are kept in my
office.
Both Mrs. and Miss Verrall have been accvistomed to make
copies of their scripts before sending them away, and at stated
intervals they compare notes to see what correspondences, if
any, have occurred between their scripts. The dates of com-
parison are always noted and the observations and inter-
pretations made then or at any future time are always
recorded with their dates, so that the writers can always state
at any given date what knowledge of each other's previous
scripts they then possess.
In regard to correspondences between Mrs. Holland's and
Mrs. Verrall's scripts, or traces of telepathy between them, I
used occasionally, as stated in my first report, to send each
of them a copy of the other's script (always, of course,
recording the date and exactly what was sent) so that she
might tell me if anything in it referred correctly to her.
During the period covered by this paper, I sent copies of
only nine pieces of Mrs. Verrall's script to Mrs. Holland, all
written between April 18th and August 1st, 1906, and of
these only one, viz, that of June 20th,, 1906, turned out to be
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 203
connected with Mrs. Holland's. This is the script quoted below
under the Cross-correspondence entitled " Janiculum " ; but it
did not reach Mrs. Holland in India until some time after
her corresponding script (that of June 24th) was written, and
she saw no point in it when she did read it.
At different intervals I have shown Mrs. Verrall portions
of Mrs. Holland's script, but always noting when I did so.
Consequently the degree of Mrs. Verrall's knowledge of Mrs.
Holland's script at any given time is always ascertainable,
and is mentioned in my reports whenever it bears on the
evidence.
It is noteworthy that all Mrs. Verrall's scripts quoted in
the first part of this paper were written on Wednesdays, the
days on which she was trying for connections with Mrs. Holland,
as recorded by her on each occasion at the time, except the
script of Sept. 20, 1906, about which a note in her record
states that, having omitted to write the day before, she had
fixed her attention on Mrs. Holland that morning. On the
other hand, some of the connections with Mrs. Verrall appear
in Mrs. Holland's script on other days of the week.
As before, I am indebted to Mrs. Verrall for translations
of the Latin and Greek, and information about the classical
allusions, contained in her own and her daughter's scripts.
As to the question whether chance can account for all or
any of the cross-correspondences, it is obvious that the data
necessary for any exact calculation of probabilities are entirely
lacking, while a rough empirical judgment of what one might
expect to occur by chance can only be tentative and may
be quite untrustworthy. But in most of the cases which I
have here counted as cross-correspondences, the passages in
the scripts are marked out by some phrase which seems meant
to call attention to them, such as, " Eera ember the word and
the date " ; or by some device such as the repetition of a
word, or its being written in specially large letters. It is
here as if the intelligence guiding the script—whether it be
the subliminal self of the automatist or some external intelli-
gence—is putting up a signal to apprise us of its intentions
and the signal greatly reduces the probability that the coinci-
dence is only due to chance. For it would be much more
likely, say, that a passage in Mrs. Holland's script should
204 Alice Johnson. [part
accidentally resemble some passage in Mrs. Verrall's script of
the same period than that it should resemble the particular
passage to which the signal is attached. And if, as occasionally
happens, we find a signal in each script attached to the passage
resembling that in the other script, the probability of chance
coincidence is still further reduced. Signals of this kind, as
shown in the detailed account, are to be found in the following
cases
(1) "The Janiculum "
; in Mrs. Holland's script.
(2) " Yellow "
; in Mrs. Verrall's script.
(.3)
" Franz Joseph " ; in Mrs. Verrall's script.
(4) " Savonarola " ; in Miss Verrall's and Mrs. Holland's
scripts.
(.5)
" The Blue Flower "
; in Mrs. Verrall's script (?).
(6) " Sevens " ; in the scripts of Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Verrall„
Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Home.
Cross-Correspondence. , .
" Tlie Janiculum."
Mrs. Verrall, being then in Switzerland, wrote on Wed-
nesday, June 20th, 1906 :
Angiolina no stone disturbed—no line destroyed Fata Morgana
the unseizable kingdom in the sky
Sun on high summits—mist veils —then reveals the great
Eternities, the twin Eternities afar.^
The upstanding white majestic dome
On buttress borne on high
The cloudcapped towers of royal Kome
Against the Italian sky.
But I have not made her see the point of union between the
mountain and St. Peter's rock.
Upon this rock
Super banc petram
Leave it now.
'"The twin Eternities unite afar." F. W. H. Myers's Pallida Morte.
Fulura. (See Fragments of Prose and Poetry, p. 174.)
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 205
Mrs. Holland, being then at sea on her way to India,
wrote on Sunday, June 24th, 1906 :
The jagged outline of the Janiculuai black against the sunset sky.
The final renouncement of the summit of belief
" Life's night begins let him never come back to us
There would be doubt hesitation and pain
Forced praise on our part the glimmer of twilight
Never glad confident morning again
—" ^
To you the half and tion of the sentence—the sense to
be revealed.
The last phrase quoted seems clearly to indicate that a
cross-correspondence is intended.
Both scripts describe a scene in Eome, and the words
" against the sky " and " summit " occur in both. Mrs.
Verrall's script, however (which was no doubt partly inspired
by the scenery of her surroundings), clearly alludes to St. Peter's
Church on the Vatican Hill, whereas Mrs. Holland speaks of the
Janiculum. The two hills, the Vatican and Janiculum, are
connected topographically, in that they adjoin one another on
the west side of the Tiber, being both included in the regie
trans Tihcrinum of Augustus : there is, moreover, a St. Peter's
church on the Janiculum as well as on the Vatican, both
being—according to different traditions—the scene of St.
Peter's martyrdom.
Mrs. Verrall's phrase "But I have not made her see the
point of union between the mountain and St. Peter's rock
is appropriate if applied to Mrs. Holland's mention of the
Janiculum, for Mrs. Holland says nothing about St. Peter.
In his analysis of a later script of Mrs. Verrall's, that
of March 25th, 1907, in connection with the experiments
with Mrs. Piper, Mr. Piddington speaks of certain analogies
between Janus and St. Peter.- The script begins
" Claviger the bearer of the key and club. The Club and
Key—East and West."
Claviger in the sense of Cluh-hcarcr is an epithet often
applied to Hercules, who is referred to in the same script.
1 Browning, The Lout Leader.
Proceeding.^ S.P.R., Vol. XXII. p. 255.
206 Alice Johnson. [part
Claviger in the sense of Kcy-hearcr, says Mr. Piddington, seems
to be used only by Ovid in speaking of Janus, whose name
is not mentioned in the script. Janus in this passage of
Ovid holds in his right hand a staff and in his left a key
he locks up vi^ar and sends forth peace ; he is the doorkeeper
of the courts of heaven. Similarly St. Peter bears a staff as
well as a key, and he too is represented as the doorkeeper
of heaven.
Janus alone of all the gods looks with his double face upon
both the East and the West at the same time. St. Peter as
an Oriental and by tradition the first bishop of the Western
Church may also be said to represent the union of the East
and West.
At the time Mrs. Verrall wrote this later script about the
" key-bearer," she was aware of the cross-correspondence just
described between herself and Mrs. Holland when she wrote
of the Vatican and Mrs. Holland of the Janiculum, but she
had only regarded it as a slight and vague connection, con-
sisting merely in the mention of two adjoining hills. Mr.
Piddington, with no reference whatever to the early scripts,
worked out the implications in the later one, which I think
throw Iv'^X, back upon these.
Mr. Piddington now suggests (see his paper above, p. 22)
that a phrase in Mrs. Holland's script of March 27, 1907
(quoted in full in Proceedings, Vol. XXII. p. 261), "Peter is
the second one," is connected with Mrs. Verrall's of two days
earlier, meaning that St. Peter is the second Clccviger. If so,
this would seem to confirm still further the cross-correspondence
between the two scripts of 1906 with which I am now dealing.
Mrs. Verrall further points out to me that the two-headed
Janus, who sees both the past and the future, may be regarded
as a type or symbol of the " Twin Eternities " referred to
in her script.
" Twin Eternities," as mentioned above, is a quotation from a
poem of Mr. Myers's, in which it is used in a different sense,
the context being as follows
My soul in solitude her post has taken,
Between the two seas, on the narrowing bar, —
Sees on each hand the stormful waters shaken,
The twin Eternities unite afar.
LX.] Second Rejyort on Mrs. Holland's Script. 207
There 'mid faiths slain and idols shattered low,
And many a fallen friend and fallen foe,
She waits by night the flooding tides to be.
I would suggest, then, that while the main point of the
cross-correspondence consists in a comparison between St. Peter
and Janus,—St. Peter being mentioned explicitly and Janus
perhaps implicitly (through the " twin Eternities " and " the
mountain " connected with " St. Peter's rock ") in Mrs. Verrall's
script, and the Janiculum explicitly in Mrs. Holland's,—there
is also a subsidiary cross-correspondence in relation to Mr.
Myers's poem ; for the thoughts expressed in the lines just
quoted from it seem to be re-echoed in Mrs. Holland's script
in the phrase, " The final renouncement of the summit of
belief," and in her quotation from The Lost Leader. The
immediate context of this latter quotation, and the end of the
poem, is as follows
Best fight on well, for we taught him —strike gallantly,
Menace our heart ere we master his own
Then let him receive the new knowledge and wait us
Pardoned in heaven, the first by the throne !
Here we see that the Lost Leader, an instance of " idols
shattered low," is still regarded by his former followers as a
" fallen friend " as well as a " fallen foe."
Ceoss-Correspondence.
"Yellmv."
The next case is a slight and simple triple coincidence.
Mrs. Holland in India on Monday, August 6th, 1906,
towards the end of a rather long piece of script referring to a
number of different topics, writes the following words, marked
off from the rest by a space and a change in the hand-
writing :
y e 1 0 [scribbles]
yellowed ivory.
208 Alice Johnson. '
[part
Mrs. Verrall, on Wednesday, Aug. 8th, in Cambridge, writes
I have done it to-night y yellow is the written word
yellow
yellow
Say only yellow
The word " yellow " is written larger and more emphatically
each time it occurs, and is distinctly claimed by Mrs. Verrall's
script as the word that was intended to appear. Such a
claim makes it, as I have said, much less likely that the
coincidence was merely accidental.
Meanwhile Miss Verrall, who was writing at the same time
and in the same room with her mother (each taking care not
to see the other's writing) produced a script containing the
following sentence
Camomile and resin the prescription is old on yellow paper in a
box with a sweet scent ,
.
Mrs. and Miss Verrall were just then both writing on
Wednesdays with the express purpose of getting cross-corre-
spondences with one another and with Mrs. Holland. On
August 29th they for the first time compared the scripts thus
produced on Wednesdays of that August, and noted the word
" yellow " as a possible attempt at a cross-correspondence on
Aug. 8th. They did not of course then know anything about
Mrs. Holland's script of Aug. 6th.
Cross-Cokrespondencb.
"Franz Joseph and September 21st."
In the next case again Mrs. Verrall's script makes a
statement about the contents of Mrs. Holland's script.
Mrs. Holland, in India, writes on Wednesday, Sept. 12th, 1906:
Tears —idle tears ? ^ ,
.
When that great Kings return to clay
And Emperors in their pride
'
Tennyson, The Princess.
-R. Kipling, The Bw-iaL "And" slionld be "Or." .
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 209
Franz Joseph —Sept 13th to 25th —a rally on the 21st followed
by a complete and unlooked for collapse
Hepatic complications
On this script she notes
The following telegram appeared in this morning's paper—"Lon-
don, Sept. 11th. It is officially announced that the Emperor Francis
Joseph has gone to Ischl for a fortnight. He is suffering from a
slight chill.""
So this paragraph is clearly the source of the prediction in
the script.
On Thursday, Sept. 20tli,^ ]\Irs. Verrall wrote:
. . . Now say this Mrs. [Holland] had the warning more than a
week ago but may not have understood what was meant Two red
lights of danger—and surely there was a note made of the daj'
Sept. 21 —or 21st of some month was named.
But there is another message now for you, try to get the hand
[i.f. hand-writing—here the hand-writing changes] no that is not
right. It should slope more, Ijetter, narrow, and the long letters
high above the rest . . . And in this hand say Hildesheim, Klosterli
that is not right but it is a German hand that—name that is wanted
. . . Hildesbruder is more like Sept. 21 is a date something has
been hindered for this day. No more, I can't think.
This script correctly states that Mrs. Holland more than a
week before had had a warning of a supposed catastrophe to
take place on Sept. 21st, that this was somehow connected
with a person having a German name beginning with H.
(? Hapsburg), and that the catastrophe would not after all come
off on Sept. 21st. There is no indication on either side of
any supernormal knowledge of the actual affairs of the Emperor
of Austria. What is said about him in Mrs. Holland's script is
a mere guess, such as any one might have made, based on the
newspaper paragraph, so that if the prediction had been verified,
no weight could have been attached to it. Mrs. Holland is
interested in public affairs and her script occasionally, though
rarely, refers to them. But so far there has never been any-
^ A note at the head of this script reads :
" [Mrs. Holland] omitted yesterday ;
fixed attention on [her] this morning.''
O
210 Alice Johnson. [part
thing supernormal in these references. Whenever supernormal
knowledge of persons has been shown, it is always about those
in whom one or other of the controls purporting to influence
the script were personally interested, for instance, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Mr. Eoden Noel, the " Mr. Grove " mentioned in my
first Report, Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Forbes, and Professor Maitland
in the case given below (p. 217).
B. AND THE Walnut Tree.
Here knowledge seems to be shown in Mrs. Holland's script
of some trivial matters connected with Mrs. Verrall. Mrs.
Holland writes on Wednesday, Oct. 3rd, 1906 :
A chill and windy day and the leaves are whirling in ray garden
Hardly worth while for B. to sweep them up when they fall so soon
again—The big walnut has shed its leaves very early this year
On being shown this later, Mrs. Verrall wrote
On Sunday Sep. 30th and again on Tuesday Oct. •2ud and possibly
Thursday, Oct. 4 [the script having been written on Wednesday] I
looked for walnuts under the big tree in the [Trinity] Fellows'
Garden, and noted how difficult they were to find, because the leaves
had fallen thickly with the fruit.
My gardener, Bowyer, has a passion for tidying, which annoys me
much, especially when it leads to his sweeping up the leaves of our
maple trees. The leaves were finall}' swept away earlier than usual
this autumn, as we noticed when the bullfinches appeared on Nov. 20th.
Note that " B.", mentioned in Mrs. Holland's script, is the
initial of Mrs. A^errall's gardener. No particular garden is
specified in the script, but while Mrs. Verrall and Mr. Myers
were both much interested in their own gardens, which were
near together, he used also frequently to meet her and Dr.
Verrall in the Trinity Fellows' Garden.
Two or three other cases were given in my first report on
Mrs. Holland's script in which remarks about Mrs. Verrall's
garden (which Mrs. Holland has never seen) turned out rather
strikingly correct.^ By the time the one just quoted was
'See also the "pink may blossom on the trees near the drive" in the case
given below, p. 219.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 211
written, Mrs. Holland knew of Mrs. Verrall's and Mr. Myers's
tastes in this respect. It is therefore not unnatural that this
topic should be found in script much of which purports—im-
plicitly or explicitly—to be influenced by Mr. Myers, and much
of which is addressed—implicitly or explicitly—to Mrs. Verrall.
It is also possible that their joint interest in the subject may
tend telepathically to the production by Mrs. Holland of correct
statements about it.
Cross-Correspondentce.
" Savonarola."
The next case is a triple cross-correspondence between Miss
Verrall, Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Verrall.
Miss Verrall wrote on Saturday, Oct. 6th, 1906 (being
then at Bashley, Hants)
{In Latin: Let the rest be silent; a single voice of one proclaira-
ing.)i She had not seen it before but memory was strong.
Reniembei' the word and the date. Carthusians two and two
the long black robes and the candles and the images the bright
sun and the gaping crowd she will remember.
{In Greek: But few are the initiated.)-
Miss A^errall returned to Cambridge on Oct. 10th.
Mrs. Verrall on Wednesday, Oct. 10th, after her daughter
had returned home, but before seeing the latter's script, wrote
See [?] Savonarola all wrapped in black in threes and threes they
entered till the place was full. Only in the thoughts of the free
On the following day, Oct. 11th, at 5 p.m.. Miss Verrall
showed her script of Oct. 6th to her mother, who made the
following note on it
Oct. 12, 1906.
This suggests a reminiscence of something not actually seen by
H. herself The Carthusians wear white, so there ought to be other
black-robed persons in her procession.
1 Cetera sileant vox una clamantis. ^ iravpoi 5e re (iaKxoi.
212 Alice Jolmson. [pa kt
My sc[ript] of Oct. 10 seemed to us to rellect H.'s of Oct. 6.
It names Savonarola; that fits with H.'s vox damantis and iravpoi. Se
re fio.Ky^oi.
I find that Sav. led a procession round the square of S. Mark on
Xmas Day 1497. I then remembered a procession in Roinola and
looked it up. (I read li. in 1880-1882 and not since.) I find
(Vol. II., Cliap. XLIIL, Unseen Madonna) an acct. of a jjrocession
on Oct. 30, 149G, on a bright day, long lines of monks, an image
carried. Can H.'s sc. be an attempt to represent that scene 1
Mrs. Verrall also thought that the phrase in her script,
" Only in the thoughts of the free," suggested a telepathic
reflection of Miss Verrall's, " Few are the initiated."
In the procession as described in Rumola there came first
a band of Florentine youth, bearing an image of Christ, then
the Companies of Discipline ; then the monks : first " a white
stream of reformed Benedictines [probably Carthusians] and
then a much longer stream of the Frati Minori or Franciscans,
in that age all clad in grey . . . perhaps the most numerous
order in Florence. . . . And after the grey came the black of
the Augustinians of San Spirito. . . . Then the white over dark
of the Carmelites and then again the unmixed black of the
Servites. . . . [Next] black mantles over white scapularies
and every one knew that tlie Dominicans were coming. . . .
In the long line of black and white there was at last singled
out a mantle only a little more worn than the rest." The
wearer of this was Savonarola and the crowd fell on their
knees as he passed. Many other monks, secular priests, etc.,
followed, and at the end of the procession was carried a hidden
image of the Madonna.
In Miss Verrall's script " the long black robes, the candles
and the images—the bright sun and the gaping crowd " are all
appropriate to the scene in Romola, in which Savonarola
mentioned by Mrs. Verrall—was the most noted figure.
Meanwhile Mrs. Holland, on Monday, Oct. 8th, i.e. on a
date intermediate between Miss Verrall's and Mrs. Verrall's
scripts, wrote :
Ask his daughter about the dream —Grey monks of long ago
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 213
Considering how very frequently Mrs. Holland's script refers to
]\Irs. and Dr. Verrall, " his daughter " here may, I think, fairly
be interpreted as Miss Verrall, and the whole phrase suggests that
a cross-correspondence is being attempted, as is also suggested
by Miss Verrall's phrase :
" Kemember the word and the date."
" Grey monks of long ago " may then be regarded as Mrs.
Holland's contribution to the cross-correspondence.
In the procession in question, as said above, the " Franciscans,
in that age all clad in grey," played a conspicuous part, so
that between the three scripts a fairly complete outline of the
.procession seems to be given.
CliOSS-CORRESPONDENCE.
Greek Procession and Funeral.
The next case again concerns a procession, which is first
mentioned in Mrs. Verrall's script of Wednesday, Oct. ord, 1906,
written while travelling from London to Cambridge, as follows :
{In Greek : IiDpeachment at first, and then disfranchisement and
at last the penalty of death. )i
The sun shone in the north at midday {In Greek : Sing songs
of good omen, all of you) - The propomps wave their torches {In
Greek: Sing songs of good omen, all of you)
Oh tell the tale as it's told to j'ou Man is born to trouble as
the sparks fly upward. Perishing like the grass which to-day is
and to-morrow is not.
After this comes a reference to the funeral of Mr. Forbes,
(the husband of the lady with whom so many of the cross-
correspondences in Mrs. Verrall's early script were connected),
showing that the two last sentences quoted alluded to his
death. Mrs. Verrall knew of his death, and that the funeral
had been arranged for this day at midday.
The first part of the script refers also, according to her own
interpretation noted on the script at the time, to a subject
with which her mind was then preoccupied,—namely, the
procession in the closing scene of the Eumenidcs, which was
^ ei(jayye\ia to irpCoTov, elra. oe arifjla, Kal Tf\os davarov f^Tj/uia.
'-
ev4>o.p.eiTe oe -Ko.vTes.
214 Alice Johnson. [part
to be performed at Cambridge that term. The Greek line she
gives (not quite correctly^) is the last line of the play, and
the word " propomp " is from the final scene. It is the pro-
pomps who " sing songs of good omen."
She was at the time helping to arrange about the dresses
for the play, and one of her friends had, as she afterwards
heard, called that afternoon to see her about it. Throughout
this term she was going to the rehearsals and helping in the
preparations.
Mrs. Holland in India on Wednesday, Oct. l7th, 1906,
wrote as follows :
The men with staves head the procession—the lictors —About
half way comes the litter—too heavy for the slaves that bear it
Garlands—but not of triumph —What liquor do those great jars
contain What unguent that golden vase —Where is the altar for
this sacrifice
The noonday sun has dimmed the torches flare
Here then is a description of some kind of classical pro-
cession, though the introduction of lictors suggests a Roman,
not a Greek scene. The litter may possibly be a funeral
litter, for in connection with it there are " Garlands—but
not of triumph." But Miss Verrall, on reading the proofs
of this case, suggested to me that the latter part of the
script might be founded on reminiscences of Keats's Ode on
a Grecian Urn, the fourth stanza of which begins thus :
Who are these coming to the sacrifice?
To what green altar, O mysterious priest,
Lead'st thou that heifer lowing at the skies,
And all her silken flanks with garlands dresf?
This verse, like the script, contains the words, garlands, altar,
and sacrifice, and the interrogative form is characteristic in both.
The last sentence, " The noonday sun has dimmed the
torches' flare," may possibly be interpreted as a symbolic
allusion to the Uumenides, namely, to the triumph of Apollo
over the Furies, the offspring of Night, whose dwelling is in
^ TrdvTes (all) should be 7racoa|Ui' (uuiversall)').
-The part of the script here omitted relates, as interpreted, to Professor
Maitland, and is quoted below, p. 217.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 215
the nether regions, lit only by torches, and who are led off at
the end of the play in a torchlight procession down to the
cave under the Areopagus. Whether this interpretation be a
fanciful one or not, the sentence has at least a considerable
resemblance to Mrs. Verrall's phrases :
" The sun shone in the north at midday. The propomps
wave their torches,"
and the whole script seems to represent a generalised conception
of an ancient procession, possibly connected with a funeral
whereas in Mrs. Verrall's script the two topics of the pro-
cession and the funeral are separate and disconnected.
I wrote to Mrs. Holland on March 8th, 1907, saying that
her script contained a description of a procession which we
took to refer to the Eununides which was performed at
Cambridge in the autumn of 1906, and asking if she had seen
any references to the performance in the papers. She replied on
March 26th, 1907, that she had no recollection of seeing any
references to the Enmenidcs in the papers.
Cross-Correspondence.
The Blue Flower.
The next case is a straightforward and simple connection
between the scripts of Mrs. Holland and Mrs. Verrall.
Mrs. Holland on Wednesday, Oct. 24th, 1906, after a rough
drawing of a flower, writes, in a line by itself and in a rather
peculiar hand :
The Blue Flower.
Mrs. Verrall's script of the same day seems to be an elaborate
variation on this theme
The blue is to be preferred Blue is lier colour
I
Then come some verses, all on the same topic, of which I will
only quote the first and last]
Love in a mist lay dying
His heart blood stained the earth
With Cupid's arrows flying
Departed joy and mirth
216 Alice Johnson. [part
Where others see tlie flower
Bkie, in a tangled grey
He knows in Love's own bower
The god they thought to slay.
[" He " being apparently the lover. By the side of these verses is
written :]
That is the story of Love in a Mist and Love lies bleeding—the
little Love is in the heart of the misty blue veiled flower Let him
that has eyes see.
Mrs. Verrall's phrase, " Blue is her colour," may perhaps be
interpreted to mean that something' l)lue is the subject of an
attempted cross-correspondence.
The Poison Bottle.
On JSTovember 7tb, 1906, in the middle of a script treating
of a variety of topics, Mrs. Holland wrote :
On the ledge of the squarish —no oblong window is not a safe
place for that solution—Of course you cannot consider poisons
out of place in a laborator}^ —but there is not enough locking up
this one should be locked up—Towards the end of the room—to
your left—an actinic green bottle.
I took this to refer to Sir Oliver Lodge, who is not
infrequently mentioned in the script,^ and I sent it to him
for comment on February 26th, 1907, together with two other
slighter and vaguer passages in the script of two later dates.
He replied to me
The one on 7 Nov., 1906, about the poison bottle.
.
This I find is remarkably correct. My two youngest boys have
a laboratory adjacent to the house —not at the college at all—and
there they do photography, make explosives, and many other things.
The other night when we were all to<rether I asked them whether
they had a green bottle of poison in that laboratory, and the elder
said, yes. It is on the bench, quite accessible, not on the ledge of
the oblong window, but near it, and on the left. He says it has
been there nearly all the winter, and is Mercuric Chloride which
the Doctor gave him for a lotion, —not one of their own chemicals.
'
See, e.g., my first Report, pp. 207, 241, 277-8.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland'.s Script. 217
I have told him that it must be either thrown away or locked up.
He agrees that it is too accessible, since the j'ounger sisters sometimes
enter the same laboratory.
Professok Maitland.
The next case consists of apparent allusions in Mrs. Holland's
script only to the illness and death of Professor F. W. Mait-
land, Downing Professor of the Laws of England, at Cambridge.
His name, though of course well known at Cambridge and
Oxford and to scholars of Law and History throughout the
world, was probably not familiar to the general public, and
Mrs. Holland, as she afterwards told me, believed that she
had never heard of him until she read the notice of his death
in the papers. He was a special friend of Dr. and Mrs. Verrall's
also of Dr. Sidgwick's, Mr. Myers's and Dr. Myers's.
He had very delicate health and for some years had spent
the winter months in the Canary Islands. He went there as
usual at the end of the Michaelmas Term, 1906, and died there
on Dec. 19th.
On Oct. l7th, 1906, Mrs. Holland in India wrote as
follows :
[Wednesday, 12.30 p.m. Oct. 17th, 1906.]
Nina—A. A solitary cypress black against the sunset. Smooth
grass at its foot but not shaven turf—Xor guessed what flowers
would deck a grave ^
Downing
A bitter wind scourging a cold grey sea—Every few minutes
the screw is half out of water and a sickening vibration jars the
whole fabric of the ship —Cedric
The woven vesture of nights and days-— This is one of the days
that matters
" They are waiting by the sea —for the barque to beai- them o'er
—
Do not let A be seriously perturbed. This will be a slight attack
and a very brief one—A. T. iM.
[Here follows the passage quoted above on p. 214.]
'Gerald Massey ?
-Swinburne, The Triumph of Time: '•vesture'' should be "raiment."
^ Roden Noel, JJijimj :
They are waiting on the shore.
For tlie barque to take them home. . .
218 Alice Johnson. [part
" Downing " is written in a line by itself, as if to attract atten-
tion. As said above, Professor Maitland was Downing Professor
of the Laws of England, and he also lived at Downing College.
The description of the voyage may perhaps be taken to refer
to his journey to the Canary, which his friends at that time
knew was to be undertaken as usual. There was very stormy
weather the day before he started, and he was taken ill with
pneumonia on the voyage. He did not, however, travel by the
Cedric, this being a White Star American liner.
Tn regard to the misquotation from Pioden Noel's poem, it
may be noted that tlie change in the wording makes it slightly
more appropriate to Professor Maitland's circumstances at the
moment, since he was shortly to cross the sea on what turned
out to be his last voyage.
The signature " A. T. M." no doubt refers to Dr. A. T. Myers,
and I take " A." to mean Dr. Verrall, since he is generally
referred to in Mrs. Holland's script as "A. W." or "A." The
combination here of the name "Downing" with A. and A. T. M.
seems to indicate clearly the pej'son referred to, the three men
being contemporaries and intimate friends. Or at least it is
certain that the person whom Dr. and Mrs. Verrall would
associate with "Downing" College would be Professor Maitland,
since he was the only one of their friends living at that
College, and Dr. Verrall often went to Downing to see him.
It happened that he had gone on the day of the script,
bein" a little an.xious because Professor Maitland had not come
to see them on the previous Sunday, as was his usual custom.
He found him well after the slight attack which had pre-
vented his calling on the Sunday. This corresponds with the
sentence in the script, " This will be a slight attack and a
very brief one,'' whereas the general drift of the script may
be supposed to reflect Dr. and Mrs. Verrall's knowledge that
in Professor Maitland's state of health any illness was a matter
for anxiety.
All this information was supplied to me by Mrs. A^errall
a few weeks after Professor Maitland's death, the dates being
verified from her diary. I did not at the time of receiving
the script associate it with Professor Maitland at all, and Mrs.
Verrall did not see it or know anything about it until Jan.
29th, 1907. Consequently no comment had been made by
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 219
me to Mrs. Holland on the earlier script before she produced
the later one, which was written on the day of Professor
Maitland's death, Dec. 19th, 1906, as follows:
Pace. Pax—It is only in appearance that the life appears
unduly brief or all too swiftly terminated in reality the wheel had
run full circle—
"Into a darkness quieted l)y hope."^
Pink may blossom on the trees near the drive —Qui bien ayme
tard oublye.
H. December "2 1st —don't you remember'?
M.
^ .
[Tlie passages omitted refer to other topics.]
In regard to this script, it may be noted : Professor ]\Iaitland
was 56 at the time of his death.
There is a pink may tree near the drive up to the door of
Mrs. Verrall's house, which Mrs. Holland has never seen.
" H " probably means Dr. Hodgson.
"M" is ambiguous. It might mean Mr. Myers, but he is
generally designated by "P." This " M." is written in a
peculiar way, as if to indicate some new " M." If we take it
to mean Professor Maitland and " H ''
Dr. Hodgson, the sentence
"December 21st—don't you remember?" becomes significant, for
it was on Dec. 21st of this year, as Mrs. Verrall afterwards
told me, that she heard of Professor Maitland's death, whereas on
Dec. 21st of the previous year she had heard of Dr. Hodgson's
death. This date is also her birthday.
Thus, though there is no exact specification of the person
referred to, all these passages are very appropriate to Professor
Maitland's death, which took place in the night of Dec. 19th-
20th, the script having been produced at 5.45 p.m. in India,
which is equivalent to about 11 a.m. in the Canary Isles. Xews
of the death was received in Cambridge, as just said, on Dec.
21st, and it was in the papers on Dec. 22nd. The news was
^ Browning, Sordello.
220 Alice Johnson. [part
also, as I learnt later from Mrs. Holland, telegraphed to India;
but as her script earne enclosed in a letter bearing the Indian
postmark Dec. 20th, it is, I tliink, impossible that she could
have heard of it before sending the script. She told me
that she thought the date when she saw the news was Dec.
22nd or 23rd, and (in reply to a question) that she had never
heard of the Downing Professorship.
I may add that though the script of Oct. l7th quoted above
might be regarded as premonitory of the death, it resembles
most so-called premonitions in affording no evidence of any
real fore-knowledge of the future ; for all the circumstances
alluded to were known at the time to Professor Maitland's
friends, who were well aware of the precarious state of his
health.
Script of 1 0 07.
The evidential incidents in Mrs. Holland's script of this
period have already been dealt with by Mr. Piddington in
his report on the sittings with Mrs. Piper in England from
November, 1900, to June, 1907. (See "A Series of Con-
cordant Automatisms," Proceedings, Vol. XXII.) The following
is a list in chronological order of Mrs. Holland's scripts which
were quoted in whole or in part in connection with the
various cross-correspondences dealt with by Mr. Piddington.
Date of Script.
Dec. 4, 1906
Dec. 3J, 1906
Jan. 2, 1907
Jan. IG,
Mai'. 13, „
Mar. 19, „
Mai-. 27,
Page reference to
Proc, Vol. XXII.
Cross-correspondence
concerned.
p. 46
p. 33
p. 35
[>. 205
[.. 250
L). 191
pp. 225 an d 261
Apr. 1 and 24, 1907 I
pp. 291 and 290
April 8, 1907 p
A[>ril 16, ,,
Church
St. Paul and St. Petei'
Fiancis and Ignatius
Diana
Light in West
Cup
"Spirit and Angel" and
"Linht in West"
Azure and Horizon
Liiiht in West
pp. 215, 278 and Euripides, Light in West,
297 and Tlianatos
LX] Second Rejwrt on Mrs. Holland's Script. 221
Mrs. Holland's contribution to the last cross-correspondence in
this list was rather more complete than Mr. Piddington realised
at the time. Mrs. Piper gave the word Thanatos (Death)
first (not quite correctly) on April l7th, 1907,^ and repeated
it (correctly) on April 23rd and oOth. Mrs. Verrall on April
29th produced a script containing several references to death,
partly in English and partly in Latin. Mrs. Holland on
April IGth wrote as follows:
Maurice. Morris. Mors.
And with that the shadow of death fell upon him and his soul
departed out of his limbs.
The most agreeable sensation of which I was at first conscious
was that I was no longer deaf.
[This statement is signed with two initials]
1875.
" All are not taken there are left behind
Living Bidoveds tender looks to bring."-
One steep sharp ledge of ice above the grey green glacier streaked
Avitli ding}' snow—
"No sounds save at moments
The mountain bee's hum
I come oh ye forests
Ye mountains I come." ^
" Maurice " was the name of a friend of Mrs. Holland's, who
had died many years before.
The initials omitted above are those of a literary man,
unknown personally, and but little known by reputation, to
Mrs. Holland. She had not identified them, and when I first
told her whom they represented, she could not remember that
she had ever heard of him ; later she recollected the name of
one of his books. He had died about three years previously,
and I think it probable that she had seen an obituary notice
of him at the time. The date mentioned, 187"), was the year
'
See Mr. Pidtlington's note on this above, p. 30.
-E. B. Browning, Consolation.
'Matthew Arnold, Switzerland: "Parting."
No life but, at moments.
The mountain bee"s hum,
I come, 0 ye mountains I
Ye joine-woods, I come !
222 Alice Johnson. [part
in which his mother had died and also liis first wife, leaving
him one daughter. In a letter written shortly afterwards, which
is quoted in his Li/e,'^ he says :
" I liave still much left to
me. . . . There is my little girl and my sister-in-law . . . and
my own sister." The quotation that follows the date in the
script is therefore very appropriate. The second quotation is
also appropriate, as he was a noted Alpine climber; the intention,
doubtless, is to make the identification of the man still more
certain.
The idea of death is thus more prominent throughout the
script than Mr. Piddington represented it to be.
Cross-Cokrespondence.
Seve7is.
This is an elaborate case in which, not only was the subject
of the cross-correspondence " Seven," but six automatists,—namely,
Mrs. Piper, Mrs. and Miss Verrall, Mrs. Frith (a friend of
Mrs. A^errall's), Mrs. Holland, and Mrs. Home,—and another
person, making seven in all, were concerned in it.
(1) 3frs. Piper.
The following are extracts from the records of Mr. Dorr's
sittings with Mrs. Piper in America.
On April 21st, 1908, and again on April 27th and May 4th,
Mr. J3orr, with a view to reviving the memories of Hodgsoup,
had repeated to him the following set of Latin verses which
used to be printed on special occasions on the menus of the
Tavern Club in Boston.^
Meum est propositum in Taberna mori
Et vinum appositum sitienti ori
Ut dicant cum venerint Angelorum choii
Deus sit propitius isti potatori.'^
1 Tliis had been published towards the end of 1906, but I have reasons for
Vielieving that Mrs. Holland had not seen it.
-See Mrs. Verrall's paper above, p. 78, foot-note, for a discussion of this
experiment and explanation of its non-evidential character.
5 Translation. It is my intention to die at the Inn and to have wine served
to my thirsty lips, so that the band of angels may say when they come, "May
God be propitious to this drinker."
LX.] Second Report on 3Irs. Holland's Script. 223
On May 8th Hodgsonp, who had already given translations
of two or three words in the verses, spontaneously gave in
one continuous sentence the following nearly correct rendering
of the whole :
It is my habit at the inn, according to custom, when serving wine
to my thirsty lips, when the angel band comes to say " May God
be propitious to this one."
Note that jrrojmsitum (intention) is here wrongly translated
" habit " and viori (to die) is wrongly translated " according
to custom." These mistranslations are of importance in relation
to the cross-correspondence, as explained later (see p. 257).
The subject was resumed in the waking-stage of this day as
follows :
Wal'ing-Stage, May 8fh, 1908.
(The first word that becomes intelligible is " Habit ; the other
words that went with this could not be caught, but probably were
a fresh attempt ... to translate the Latin verses).
We are Seven
I said Clock ! Tick, tick, tick ! Stairs.
I said "Grow old along with me."i She wrote it, Mrs. V.
wrote it.
Ernest Saul—David. St. Paul
Light—Life—Angel band ! Toast—my toast to you !
Catch it quickly ! Oh, George, you are so slow ! What's Brown-
ing got to do with iti
The words " Clock ! Tick, tick, tick ; Stairs," no doubt
refer to Longfellow's poem The Old Clock on the Stairs. The
word " tick " does not occur in this poem, but it has the
refrain, " Forever, never, Never, forever."
" Angel band 1 my toast to you " refers to the Latin
verses.
For comments on the words " Habit " and " tick," see
below, pp. 245, 257.
^ R. Browning, Baibi ben Ezra.
224 Alice Johnson. [part
Sifting of May I2fh, 1908.
[Tlie first part of this sitting was taken up with a further
attempt to obtain a translation of the Latin verses ; then Mr. Dorr
proceeded to read over to the trance-personalities what had been
said in the waking-stage of the previous sitting :]
(i. B. D. The first thing she said was "We are seven."
Tiiat is Wordsworth, but we tvere seven in the distance as a
matter of fact.
G. B. D. Then she said " Clock, etc."
Was it confusion ^ I do not recall saying anything about
clock.
G. B. D. It evidently referred to Longfellow's poem, and it may have
come out of Mrs. P.'s own mind.
I do not know what it meant. Possibly . . .
G. B. D. The next thing she said was "(how old along with me.
Mrs. Verrall wrote it."
Mr. Myers gave it to Mrs. Verrall. Quite right . . .
G. B. D. Then she said "Ernest."
Seven of us —7 —Seven
G. B. D. Then she said "Saul" and "David."
We have been trying these experiments with [Mrs. Hol-
land] ...
G.B. D. Then she said "St. Paul."
Yes with [Mrs. Forbes] and others
An attempt to explain the message about the " Clock " was
made in the waking-stage on May :^6th, 1908, as follows:
" It was the message about the clock they gave me. Mrs.
A^'eirall said, '
Go tell Mr. Dorr the clock strikes one, and Ave
Maria.'
"
I may state at once that Mrs. A^errall did not get the
quotation " Grow old along with me," nor any reference to
a clock, in her script of this period.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 225
The cliief point in the extract from the record of Mrs.
Piper's sitting of May 12th lies in the number Seven. "We
are Seven" had been quoted on May 8th; to this is now
added the rather enigmatic phrase, " We incrc seven in the
distance as a matter of fact," which, after comparing with
Mrs. Holland's script quoted below (p. 238), I take to mean that
seven persons are concerned in the cross-correspondence. Note
also the threefold repetition of the number, which seems in-
tended to lay further stress on it :
" Seven of us—7—Seven."
(2) Mrs. VcrraU.
All Mrs. Verrall's scripts here quoted were written at
Cambridge, except that of May Sth, 1908, which was written
in the course of a journey from London to Cambridge.
On April 20th, 1908, her script referred to "the seven
hills " of Eome.^ The next one was as follows :
April 27, 1908.
[scrawl] and later too —Do not try to attend
37603
7
6
72
Try again
3
7
6
41
13 + 3 17
— 361
^ 16
495
I can't do anything but these figures They seem to be wanted
but I can't tell why.
Note that in all three groups of figures the numbers 3, 7, 6
occur, and compare with Mrs. Holland's script and dream, quoted
below.
^ She noted next day that April 21st was the date of the founding of Rome, a
date very familiar to her from her girlhood.
P
226 Alice Johnson. [part
Afaij 8, 1908.
Ask not his name that in far distant ages
Lighted the nations on the way to life
Enough to know in echoes in his pages
Foretold the ending of the earthly strife
Ask not the meaning of the note of sorrow
That sounds and echoes through the music sweet
He knew the night, he only hoped the morrow,
Longed for the beauty of the flying feet.
Blest are the messengers that bring the tidings
Lovely their feet are, lovely is their face,
Borne far aloft on oarage of their high wings
Glorious shining in majestic grace.
Not for his eyes that Vision in its glory
Not through his lips such promise is revealed
He felt the sorrow in our human story
Heard not the triumph for his ears were sealed
On the back oF this script Mrs. Verrall noted :
" Virgil, I suppose, is the name not to be asked. I had
been reading the last four or five cantos of Dante's Pargatorio.
M. de G. V. May 8th, 1908. 2.30 p.m."
The poem no doubt refers, as Mrs. Verrall observed, to Virgil,
and it seems equally clear that it was prompted by her reading
of the Purgatorio. She did not, however, notice until I pointed
the fact out to her some months later, that it is in the metre
of Mr. Myers's St. Paul (which happens to be much more
familiar to me than to her), and is closely imitated from that
poem ;
e.g. cf. the last line of her second verse with Mr.
Myers's line,
" Faint for the flaming of thine advent feet."
and note in the script the alliterations which are so charac-
teristic a feature of St. Paul.
Mrs. Piper, as stated above, in the waking-stage of May 8 th,
1908, in close conjunction with Mrs. Verrall's name, uttered
the words :
"St. Paul—Light—Life—Angel band,"
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 227
whereas the second line of Mrs. Verrall's poem in imitation of
St. Paul is
" Lighted the nations on the way to life."
" Angel band " I have already explained as an allusion
to the Latin verses read by Mr. Dorr to Hodgsoni^. This
seems to be the primary intention of the words. But
in view of the connection presently to be explained between
Mrs. Verrall's script and Miss Verrall's of May 11th, with
which, again, Mrs. Piper's is connected, I am inclined to think
there may be a secondary intention, and that the words
" Angel band " also refer to the third verse of Mrs. Verrall's
poem.
The wording of the first half of this verse is clearly derived
from Isaiah Lii. 7, How beautiful upon the mountains are
the feet of him that bringeth good tidings." But the con-
nection with Virgil and Dante implies that something more is
meant, and the further description of the messengers, as
" Borne far aloft on oarage of their high wings
Glorious shining in majestic grace,"
suggested to me the souls descending on the Jacob's ladder of
the Paradiso (see Miss Verrall's script of May 11th below);
for this was a vision not for Virgil's eyes, since he left Dante
before the latter entered Paradise.^
May 10, 1908.
I have wanted for some time to tell you of something that will
interest you greatl}^, but it is very important that Helen should know
nothing of it. It concerns her more closelj' than it does you but
you will have to wait some time to hear of it. She has got quite
a new type of thing in her writing—-it is she who will lead this
time not you—you only fill in her gaps
^ It is perhaps worth noting that "Angel " was one of the cross-correspondences
occurring in the Piper sittings in England a year before. On April 8, 1907,
Myersp said that he liad given the word " Angel " to Mrs. Verrall. Mrs.
Verrall's script of April .S, 1907, consisted of a description of angels, and on
April 28th she noted that this was probably a preliminary attempt at Dante's
Paradiso. (See Proceedinris, Vol. XXII. pp. 220, 227 and 264.) Nothing of
all this was normally known to Mrs. Piper at the time of her sittings with
Mr. Dorr.
228 Alice Johnson. [part
Mrs. Verrall told Miss Verrall on June G, 1908, of the
statement just quoted that she had " got quite a new type of
thing in her writing," and Miss Verrall said that the new thing
she had got was figures, namely, 3, 8, 7 (see below). It was
only after this that Mrs. Verrall showed her her script of
April 27.
(3) Miss Verrall
The following are four successive scripts by Miss Verrall,
all written in London, where she was then living
April 29, 1908.
The figure 3 that seems wanted.
May 4, 1908
8 eight ....
A a triangle.
Mmj 11, 1908.
{(ly A branching tree not a real tree but emblematical. Scrolls
in place of leaves.
(a) Jacob's ladder and the angels upon it What does that mean
(h) A spinning top many colours but as it spins they are blended
into one
Mark the simile
(r.) a leaf that hangs down like that and a flower
small and white I think and a sweet scent it is a
shrub—foreign —not English-—Sciola a name like that.
((/) The seven branched candlestick it is an image
—the seven churches but these not churches
seven candles united in one light
and seven colours in the rainbow too.
Many mystic sevens
all will serve
We are seven
Wlio (?) F. W. H. Myers.
'The letters in brackets are not part of the scripl", but refer to the different
topics of it, which are explained below.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Sc7'ipt. 229
On this Miss Verrall noted at the time :
" Tlie number 7
runs all through this script."
The next script, May 16th, 1908, in the midst of a passage
quoted in Mrs. Sidgwiclc's paper in connection with the cross-
correspondence "Exile and Moore" (see p. 187) contains the
P^^'''^^®' "A seven-stringed lute,"
which I regard as an echo of this cross-correspondence carried
on into another one.
Note here the figure 3 on April 29th, repeated in the form
of a triangle on May 4th, and compare with Mrs. Verrall's
script of April 27th above, and Mrs. Holland's below (p. 238).
The script of May 11th is more important. Here we have
many variations on the theme of Seven, ending with " We are
seven," which had been given by Mrs. Piper on May 8th and
was afterwards emphasised by her on May 12 th. This script
of Miss Verrall's was seen by Mrs. Verrall on June 7th,
when she identified a number of references to Dante in it,
which she and I have since worked out in greater detail.
(a) " Jacob's ladder " is first mentioned by Dante in
Paradiso, Canto xxi. (25-38).^
I saw rear'd up,
In colour like to sun-illumin'd gold,
A ladder, which my ken pursu'd in vain
So lofty was the summit ; down whose steps
I saw the splendours in such multitude
Descending, every light in heav'n, methought.
Was shed thence. As the rooks, at dawn of day,
Bestirring them to dry their feathers chill,
Some speed their way a-field ; and homeward some,
Returning, cross their flight ; while some abide,
And wheel around their airy lodge : so seem'd
That glitterancp, wafted on alternate wing,
As upon certain stair it came, and clash'd
Its shining.
And again at the end of the same Canto (128-130),
I at those accents saw the splendours down
From step to step alight, and wheel, and wax,
Each circuiting, more beautiful.
^ This and the following passages are quoted from Gary's translation.
230 Alice Johnson. [part
Compare, with this description, Mrs. Verrall's
Borne far aloft on oarage of their high wings
Glorious shining in majestic grace.
In the next Canto St. Benedict explains to Dante that this
is Jacob's Ladder
Our ladder reaches even to that clime ;
^
And so, at giddy distance, mocks thy view.
Thither the patriarch Jacob saw it stretch
Its topmost round ; when it appear'd to him
With angels laden.
(Canto XXTi. 68-72.)
It is to be noted that this ladder is seen in the Seventh
Heaven, of which it is the main feature.
(b) " A spinning top many colours but as it spins they are
blended into one."
Mrs. Verrall points out that this seems to be the " wheel
mentioned in Parcidiso x. 140 ("Thus saw I move the glorious
wheel") and further described in xii. 1-16:
Soon as its final woid the blessed flame -
Had rais'd for utterance, straight the holy mill^
Began to wheel ; nor yet had once revolv'd
Or ere another, circling, compass'd it,
Motion to motion, song to song, conjoining ;
Song, that as much our muses doth excel,
Our Syrens with their tuneful pipes, as ray
Of primal splendour doth its faint reflex.
As when, if Juno bid her handmaid forth.
Two arches parallel, and trick'd alike,
Span the thin cloud, the outer taking birth
From that within (in manner of that voice ^
Whom love did melt away, as sun the mist,)
And they who gaze, presageful call to mind
The compact, made with Noah, of the world
No more to be o'erflow'd ;
^The highest sphere, or Empyrean.
-Thomas Aquinas. ^The circle of spirits.
•The nymph Echo.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 231
These revolving circles are referred to again in Paradiso
XXVIII. Here there is a central point of transcendent brilliancy
with concentric circles round it
And over this [the sixth circle], a seventh, following, reach'd
Circumference so ample, that its bow
AVithin the span of Juno's messenger
Had scarce been held entire. Beyond the sev'uth
Ensued yet other two.
Canto XXVIII. 27-31.
Note in both these passages the association of the Wheel
with Juno's messenger (Iris, the Eainbow), and that the
rainbow is specifically referred to later in the same script
of Miss Verrall's. Note also the special association in the
second passage of the Seventh circle with the Eainbow. Mrs.
Verrall points out to me that Dante's conception is based on
Plato's Myth of Er in the BepuUic, Book x. where the
souls about to be re-incarnated see " a rainbow-coloured light,
straight like a pillar, extended from on high throughout the
Heaven and the Earth." This is the axis of the Cosmos,
passing at each end into the Spindle of Necessity, which
causes all the heavenly revolutions. The axis is surrounded
by eight concentric revolving cups or rings, on each of which
is mounted a Siren, " which goeth round with her circle,
uttering one note at one pitch ; and the notes of all the
eight together do make one melody."
This vision illustrates the astronomical theory of Plato's age,
essentially the same as that of Dante's age, which dominates
the whole of the Paradiso} The eight circles or whorls repre-
sent the seven planets surrounded by the fixed stars. " The
.seven planets by their movements were supposed ... to give
forth sounds corresponding to the notes of the Heptachord. . . .
Later it was held that the circle of the fixed stars had also
a note of its own, and a '
harmony ' or '
mode ' resulted like
that of the Octachord."' Cf. Mrs. Holland's " Tlien an octave
struck the answer" below, p. 241.
^See the discussion of tlie Myth of Er in J. A. Stewart's The Myths of Plato,
pp. 139-169.
^ Bepiiblic of Plato, edited by J. Adam, Vol. II. p. 452; note on Pep.
167 B.
232 Alice Johnson. [part
(c) " A leaf that hangs down." Mrs. Verrall tells me that
there is a flower called " Jacob's ladder " described in Bentham's
British Flora, p. 304, a book very familiar to Miss Verrall.
In the illustration of this, a long pinnate leaf is drawn as
bent over at the top and the number of leaflets shown hang-
ing down is seven, as in Miss Verrall's script. Her description,
however, does not seem to apply to this plant (Polnnonium
caernhuim), and at the time she and her mother were inclined
to think the Jessamine was meant. This has normally seven
leaflets in each group, though occasionally the end one is sub-
divided. In any case, the primary intention of the script was
probably to give another example of Seven.
(d) " A branching tree not a real tree but emblematical " is
the beginning of a topic, which is interrupted in the script
by the mention of Jacob's Ladder, etc., and resumed at the
words :
—" The seven-branched candlestick ; it is an image—the
seven churches; but these not churches, seven candles united in one
light and seven colours in the rainbow too. Many mystic sevens."
There seems here first a reference to the Mosaic seven-
branched candlestick (see Exodus xxv. 31-40), leading on to the
seven golden candlesticks of St. John's vision :
" The seven
candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches
{Bcvelation I. 20). ISut, says the script, the candles really meant
are not those that symbolise the seven churches, but certain
candles that are associated with the seven colours of the rainbow,^
which is not the case with either of the Biblical seven candle-
sticks. The connection of the rainbow with these candles,
followed by the phrase " Many mystic sevens," seems to me to
show that the reference is to the Pitrgatorio, Canto xxix.
In this Canto, Dante's vision of the Procession of the Car
is described. First, he sees, as he thinks, seven trees, but
these on nearer view turn out to be seven tapers of gold,
which, as they move onwards, leave behind them trailing pen-
nants of light of the seven colours of the rainbow. Then come
the twenty-four Elders and the ibnr mystic Beasts of the
Apocalypse ; followed by seven nymphs (representing the seven
^Froni the point of view of exact science, there are not, of coirrse, seven colours
in the spectrum, but an indefiiiite number. Nevertlieless the popular view that
the rainbow is composed of seven colours is so widespread and longstanding that
it is naturally adopted for literary purposes.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 233
virtues) who surround the Car, and seven sacred writers
following it complete the procession.
Miss Verrall's script seems to specify only the first part of
this procession, namely, the seven golden candlesticks with their
rainbow-coloured lights, which, as the script says, are not an
image of the seven churches, for they are interpreted variously
by commentators as symbolising the seven sacraments, or the
seven gifts of the Spirit.
It appears then that the individual topics of the script of
May 11th, may have been largely, if not wholly, derived from
sources familiar to Miss A^errall ;
c.//. the many-coloured spinning
top from Plato's Rqniblic, and " Jacob's ladder and the angels
upon it," and " the seven-branched candlestick " from the Bible.
But the reason why I take the script to refer to Dante is that
the topics which appear to be combined in it in a purely
random manner are actually found combined in Dante, and, so
far as I know, nowhere else ; while similar or associated references
to Dante occur in the scripts of the other automatists.
Mrs. and Miss Verrall's Knowledge of Dante.
It may be convenient to interrupt the narrative at this
point in order to remind the reader what allusions to Dante
had already appeared in the scripts and to what extent they
had been identified.
Miss Verrall had on March 10th, 1907, obtained the name
" Geryon " in a table-tilting experiment (see Mr. Piddington's
Eeport, Proc. Vol. XXII. p. 248).
Mrs. Verrall on April 28th, 1907, had interpreted two
scripts of her own, April 3rd and 6th, 1907, as referring to
the Furgatorio and Paradiso (op. cit. p. 264).
Mrs. Holland, in her script of April 8th, 1907, had mentioned
the Paradiso, and Martha and Mary and Leah and Eachel {op.
cit. p. 265).
On April 29th, 1907, Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage spoke
of the " Inferno . . . Dante's Inferno . . . There's no Inferno
here," after the sitter (Mrs. Verrall), had mentioned Dante to
her during the sitting {op. cit. pp. 162-5 and 279). Myersp
on this occasion said that he had "iven the name to Mrs.
Verrall in connection with his answer to auro? ovpapog aKvfj.u)v.
234 Alice Johnson. [part
The other references were connected by Mr. Piddington with
the complicated cross-correspondence " Light in West."
Thus the allusions to Dante had hitherto been extremely
scanty, and were not generally known at all, since Mr.
Piddington's report was not published until October, 1908.
It was on February 15th, 1908, that Mr. Piddington first
learnt that the passage in Mrs. Holland's script about Martha
and Mary, and Leah and Piachel, was to be traced to the
Purgatorio, and this threw light on the other Dante allusions.
In March, both Mrs. and Miss Verrall saw the first draft of
the two sections of Mr. Piddington's paper dealing with the
cross-correspondences Light iyi West and Euripides, which in-
clude this topic. Miss Verrall had never read any Dante,
either in Italian or English, and did not look up the references
or make any further investigation. Mrs. Verrall, on the other
hand, during the first week in May was reading the Purgatorio
in connection with Mr. Piddington's paper, and had finished it
on May 8th, the day when the first item of this cross-
correspondence of Sevens came out in Mrs. Piper's trance, and
when she herself wrote the script quoted above.
It may therefore be supposed that her preoccupation with
the Purgatorio had some telepathic influence in causing Miss
Verrall (who was living in London at the time and did not
know that her mother had been reading Dante) to refer to it
in her script three days later. But whereas the references
dealt with by Mr. Piddington (and therefore probably most in
Mrs. Verrall's mind) were to the 27th and 28th Cantos,
Dante's vision of the Procession, to which Miss Verrall's script
alludes, is in the 29 th Canto.
None of the other automatists concerned in this cross-
correspondence knew that allusions to Dante had occurred in
any of the scripts, except that Mrs. Holland knew that the
Paradiso had been mentioned in her own script of April 8,
1907, though she was not aware that Martha and Mary and
Leah and Eachel in that script were derivable from Dante.
(4) 3£rs. Frith.
Mrs. Frith is a member of the Society and a friend of
Mrs. Verrall's, who has practised automatic writing for some
little time. She sometimes gets " messages " in her script for
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 235
Mrs. Verrall, purporting to come from Dr. Hodgson, whom
she had never known, except by name. There have been a
few indications of supernormal connection between her script
and Mrs. Yerrall's.
In February 1908 Mrs. Verrall tried an experiment with
her, sending a contemporary note of it in a sealed envelope
to be kept at the S.P.R. rooms.
After having been told of this experiment by Mrs. A^errall
for the first time on Dec. 31, 1909, I opened the envelope
on Jan. 7, 1910, and found that it contained the following
enclosure
Copy of question.
Feb. 14, sent to Mrs. Frith. In view of Mrs. Piper's success
in answering Mrs. V.'s question about the meaning of and associa-
tions conveyed by 3 Greek words,i I should like to try a similar
experiment here.
Can E. H. say what are his associations with the words :
" Climb the Mount of Blessing."
Answer.
Quotation from Tennyson's Ancient Sage in last Xmas greeting
sent by R. H., wh[ich] arrived after I heard of his death in Dec./05.
No one knows of this expt. but my Sec[retary] and she does not
know the answer nor to whom I put the question.
M. de G. v.—Feb. 14, 1908.
The context of this quotation from The Ancient Sage is as
follows :
And lay thine uphill slioulder to the wheel,
And climb the Mount of Blessing, whence, if thou
Look higher, then—perchance—thou mayest—beyond
A hundred ever-rising mountain lines.
And past the range of Night and Shadow—see
The high-heaven dawn of more than mortal day
Strike on the Mount of Vision !
So, farewell.
Mrs. Frith did not recognise the quotation and only learnt
its source accidentally in December, 1909. She could not
then remember that she had ever read The Ancient Sage ; but
^ ai'riis ovpavhs aKv/jLuiv. See Proceedings, Vol. XXII. pp. 107-172. —A. J.
236 Alice Johnson, [part
it is of course possible tliat she liad seen either the poem itself
or passages quoted from it, and had forgotten it. In any case
it is clear that the next script but one ^
which she produced,
and which purported to come from Dr. Hodgson for Mrs.
Verrall, was influenced either by reminiscences of the poem or
by ideas suggested by the phrase " Climb the Mount of Bless-
ing." This script was not produced till June 11th, 1908, and
much of it is in verse, such as the following
Then are you drawing nearer to the plane
The plane of blessing and the promised land
Up through the many furrows of the land
The unyielding rock the hot and scorching sand
Rise weary traveller till the rest is won
I have been there, been there at morn and even
And I have found the track for which I yearn
The path of peace, the blessed road to Heaven
The spark celestial there afar doth burn.
There may I rest may rest in sight of heaven
Pisgah is scaled the fair and dewy lawn
Invites my footsteps till the mystic seven
Lights {sic) up the golden candlestick of dawn.
It can hardly be doubted that Mrs. Verrall's question
formed the jyoint dc reph'c of the first part of this script, but
the last four lines seem connected with the allusions to
Dante in Miss Verrall's script.
" Pisgah is scaled " is, of course, a Biblical reference
{Deuteronomy ill. 27). Just as Moses from the top of Pisgah
saw the Promised Land, but was not allowed to enter it, so
Dante's Virgil is not allowed to enter Paradise (see Mrs.
Verrall's script of May 8th above). I take Pisgah, then, to
be the Biblical equivalent of the Mount of Purgatory whicli
Dante had to scale before his entrance into the Earthly
Paradise on its summit. It is this Earthly Paradise to which
the end of the script seems to refer. (See Purgatorio, Cantos
XXVIII. and XXIX.) Here Dante wandering through the forest
sees Matilda on a liowery lawn on the other side of the
'
She wrote some automatic verses in Marcli, purporting to come from Dr.
Hodgson, but tliese had no connection with Mrs. Verrall's question.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 237
narrow stream of Lethe, which he passionately desires to
cross. He is not yet permitted to do so, but moves on in
the .same direction with Matilda, facing the east, till he sees
a brilliant illumination, the coming dawn, in the midst of
which appear the seven golden candlesticks, heralding the
Procession of the Car
So beautiful
A car, ill Rome, ne'er graced Augustus' pomp,
Or Africanus' ; e'en the sun's itself
Were poor to tliis.
{Purgatorio, xxix. 110-113.)
As explained above, the " mystic seven " is the whole note
of this vision of Dante's, and the connection of Mrs. Frith's
script with Miss Verrall's of May lltli seems clear.
Mrs. Verrall's question about " Climb the Mount of Blessing
"
cannot, I think, be held to account for these apparent allusions
to Dante ; ibr it is clear from the whole tenour of the
Ancient Sage that Tennyson in writing of the " Mount of
Blessing " and the " Mount of Vision " had no particular
mountains in view, but was speaking in a purely mystical
sense of his own experiences and aspirations.^
As to the telepathic agencies that may have influenced Mrs.
Frith's script, it is to be noted that Mrs. Verrall saw Miss
Verrall's corresponding script—that of May llth^—for the first
time on June 6th, and next day noted the references to Dante
in it. On June 10th she wrote to Mr. Piddington about it,
and it was on June 11th that Mrs. Frith's script was produced.
Mrs. Verrall asked Mrs. Frith by letter on August oOtli
whether her script suggested a literary reminiscence to her,
and she said, no. Mrs. Verrall also ascertained that she had
not read more of Dante than a few cantos of the Inferno.
On more explicit enquiries being made later, Mrs. Frith wrote
(March 10th, 1909): "I know a few scraps of Italian, but
beyond two or three well-known quotations from Dante, I
have never read a word of him in either En"lish or the
original, often as I have meant to do so."
This script of Mrs. Frith's, though written on June 11th
1908, was not seen by Mrs. Verrall until July 18th. On
1 See the references to this poem in his Life, Vol. I. p. 320 and Vol. II.
p. 319, "The whole poem is very personal, etc."
238 Alice Johnson. [part
the two following days, Mrs. Verrall noted the Dante allusions
in it and its resemblance to Miss Verrall's script of May
11th.
(5) 3Irs. Holland.
The script about to be quoted was the only one produced
by Mrs. Holland between the dates March 10th and November
25th, 1908. It was written while she was at sea, on her
way from India to England. In her letter to me enclosing
the script was also enclosed the following account of a dream,
noted by her at the time. I may mention that she very
rarely tells me anything about her dreams, so that the fact
of her relating it shows that it made an unusually strong
impression on her.
July 15th, 1908.
Last night I dreamt that I was in a large bare room—rather like
a studio. . . .
Some one showed me an old note book—or diary—in which was
written in a small neat hand :
"Since in 1872 a dear friend chose as a sign by which
to communicate with me the figure 6, I, in my turn,
will try, in the time to come, to send the figure 6,—
simply the sign of 6."
I'or comments on this dream, see below, p. 245. The script
enclosed with it was as follows
Thursday, July '23rd, 1908. At sea.
There should be three at least in accord and if possible Seven
The Lady and the learned lady and the maiden of the crystal and
the scribe and the professed scribe —and the two new comers
what could be better than that"!
Take this for token
"Green beyond belief."
A certain sense of humour lacks in this? No not the garden
The view from the house in an aspect of evening
Not only on the ocean may the Green Ray appear
Note in the dream and script the numbers 6, 3, 7, and
compare with Mrs. Verrall's script of April 27th, 1908, quoted
above, p. 225.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 239
At the time I received this script, I knew nothing about
the occurrence of Sevens in the scripts of the other automatists
quoted above, but I interpreted the Seven who should be in
accord respectively as : Mrs. Forbes, Mrs. Verrall, Miss Verrall,
Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Frith and Mrs. Home. The
reason why I took " the two new comers " to be Mrs. Frith
and Mrs. Home was because I had lately heard from Mrs.
Verrall that she had got some interesting writing from Mrs.
Frith (she did not tell me what) and I had myself lately
received from Colonel Taylor a report of Mrs. Home's trance
utterances in which I had found some apparently veridical
matter. It will be seen that six out of these seven auto-
matists are concerned in this cross-correspondence, Mrs. Forbes
alone makiuo no contribution to it.
The statement that there sliould be seven in accord may be
compared with Mrs. Piper's remark " We were seven in the
distance as a matter of fact," see above, p. 224.
I also felt sure at the time that "Green beyond belief" and
" the Green Eay " had some special meaning, partly because of
the repetition of the word " Green " and also because in both
phrases the writing was rather larger and more widely spaced
than in the rest of the script. I thought therefore that some
cross-correspondence was being attempted, and hoped to discover
it later.
On hearing from Mrs. Verrall on November 18th, 1908,
that she had found a connection between the scripts of Mrs.
Piper, Miss Verrall and Mrs. Frith, in regard to Sevens and
to various mystic sevens mentioned in the Purgatorio, Canto
XXIX., I looked up the last Cantos of the Purgatorio to
see if they contained any marked reference to Green, and found
what I took to be such in Canto xxxi. Dante is drawn over
the river of Lethe by Matilda and presented to four of the
nymphs who surround the Car.
And then they led me to the Gryphon's breast,
Where, turned toward us, Beatrice stood.
" Spare not thy vision. We have station'd thee
Before the emeralds, whence love, erewhile,
Hath drawn his weapons on thee." As they spake
A thousand fervent \\ishes riveted
Mine eyes upon her beaming eyes, that stood,
240 Alice Johnson. [part
Still fix'd toward the Gryphon, motionless.
As the sun strikes a mirror, even thus
Within those orbs the tvvyfold being shone
For ever varying, in one figure now
Reflected, now in other.
Purgatorio, Canto xxxi. 112-123.1
On this passage, in which the eyes of Beatrice are compared
to emeralds, there are copious notes by the commentators,
who quote interesting passages from a number of old poets
extolling the beauty of green eyes. The Ottimo Commento
remarks :
" Dante very happily introduces this precious stone,
considering its properties. . . . The emerald is the prince of
all green stones ; no gem nor herb has greater greenness ; it
reflects an image like a mirror. . .
." Cf. Mrs. Holland's
" Green beyond belief—the Green Eay."
Throughout the whole poem, as well as in the Convito,
there are of course constant references to the eyes and the
smile of Beatrice (" It is by the eyes and smile of Beatrice
says A. J. Butler in a note on this passage, " that Dante is
carried forward and instructed in Paradise.") But this phrase
about the emeralds is, I think, the one touch of personal
description of her in all Dante's works.
The highly mystical passage in which it occurs is full of
the idea of shining : her beaming eyes {occhi rilucenti), and
the mystic " twyfold being " (the type of Christ—the combination
of the divine and human natures) who shines {raggiava—a word
which has the same root as rag) reflected in her eyes, as the
sun is reflected in a mirror.
For Mrs. Holland's knowledge, " which it would be more
descriptive to call ignorance," of Dante, see Mr. Piddington's
paper above, p. 23-4.
'
Disser : "Fa che le vi.ste non rispariiii,
posto t' avem dinanzi agli smeraldi,
oikV Amor gia ti trasse le sue armi."
Mille disiri piii che fiainma caldi
strinsermi gli occhi agli occhi rilucenti,
che pur sopra il grifone stavan saldi.
Come in lo specchio il sol, non altrimenti
la doppia fiera dentro vi raggiava,
or con uni, or con altri regginienti.
(Lines 115-12.3.)
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 241
I had an interview with Mrs. Holland on November 24th,
1908, and asked her if she attached any meaning to "Green
beyond belief" and "the Green Eay." The only suggestion
she could make was that the Green Eay might refer to what
is said to be sometimes seen in sunsets at sea. Just as the
sun is sinking below the horizon, a vivid green ray may
appear for a moment. She had heard of this, but had never
seen it herself.^
I then told . her very briefly of the cross-correspondence
under consideration, mentioning my interpretation of the seven
automati.sts referred to in her script, and saying that Mrs.
Piper, Miss Verrall and " the two new comers " were involved
in it, that it included allusions to the Procession of the Car
in the Purgatorio, and that I interpreted her " Green Eay "
to refer to the eyes of Beatrice.
Mrs. Holland was much interested in this case, and what I
then told her undoubtedly influenced the next piece of script
she produced (on November 25th), of which I will now quote
only the opening sentence :
"Then an octave struck the answer.'^
She recognised this as a quotation from P)rowning's " A
Toccata of Galuppi," but neither she nor I saw any point in it.
The quotation was repeated, with an additional underlining,
in her script of January 20th, 1909, which opened thus:
Resolute persistence
"Then an orMre struck the answer."
I think this is intended as a sort of finishing touch to the
cross-correspondence. An octave contains, of course, seven
notes, one of which is repeated, with a new and completing
element, as the eightli. The phrase has a certain interest as
being possibly a reference to the harmony of the celestial spheres
referred to above, p. 231.
(6) Mrs. Home.
Mrs. R. Home is a member of the Society, who has long
been actively interested in psychical research. She has had a
^ Sir Oliver Lodge tells me that this is probably a physiological, rather than
a physical effect, since sudden changes of brightness, like a flickering light,
are known to produce a sensation of colour.
Q
242 A lice Johnson. [part
private family circle for many years, to which she had admitted
Colonel Taylor, who has kept careful records of all the experi-
ments.
On July 24th, 1908, Colonel Taylor and only one other
friend, Miss H., being present, a " Myers control," who had
often appeared before, purported to speak through Mrs. Home,
who was in the trance condition, Colonel Taylor taking notes.
The words spoken were as follows :
Seven times seven and seventy-seven
Send the burden of my words to others.
(MissH. To whom shall we send 1)
Souls that labour for your earthly wisdom
Send no names.
(MissH. May we say the message is from a teacher?)
.No. . . . Several wait to hear. Some say they do not
mind the name ; others seek only. Omnia vincit.
(Colonel Taylor. Shall I send this to Miss Johnson, or to Mrs.
Verrall ?)
Miss Johnson likes it better ;
you can help better through
her.
'
Accordingly, Colonel Taylor sent a copy of his record to
me three days later. At the time of this sitting, neither he
nor Mrs. Home knew anything whatever of any of the un-
published scripts of the other automatists, except that there
had been a slight coincidence between an earlier trance-
utterance of Mrs. Home's and one of Mrs. Verrall's scripts.
I think the phrases :
" Send the burden of my words to
others," and " Several wait to hear," clearly indicate that a
cross-correspondence is intended, and the subject of this can
be no other than the opening words, " Seven times seven and
seventy-seven." Besides the reiteration of the number Seven,
there is here a possible reference to Dante's vision of the
Procession of the Car, for this procession consists of seven
sevens ;
namely, the 7 golden candlesticks, the 24 Elders and
4 Beasts, the 7 nymphs and the 7 sacred writers. It may
also be held to refer to the fact that seven persons are con-
cerned in the cross-correspondence, each of them giving the
number seven.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Scri'pt. 243
As with some of the other factors in this cross-correspond-
ence, the phrase itself is probably of Biblical origin, being, I
take it, a mis-recollection of St. Matthew, xviii. 21, 22.
(" How oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive
him ? till seven times ? Jesus said unto him, I say not unto
thee, Until seven times, but. Until seventy times seven.")
(7) Mr. Piddington's " Posthumous Letter."
It was not until November 18th, 1908, that I heard from
Mrs. Verrall that she had found a cross-correspondence of
Sevens, with various Dante allusions, in the scripts of Mrs.
Piper, Miss Verrall and Mrs. Frith. I then concluded that
the Sevens in Mrs. Holland's and Mrs. Home's scripts quoted
above belonged to the same cross-correspondence, and I told Mr.
Piddington briefly of this on November 19th. On November
27th he questioned me further about it; we went thoroughly
over all the scripts or copies of scripts in my possession, and
I told him all the details of the case, in so far as they were
known to me at the time. He then told me that the subject
of a "posthumous letter" which he had written in July, 1904,
and had himself sealed and given into my charge as Secretary,
was variations on the theme of Seven.
Afterwards he explained to me that the reason why he
had not told me this when I first mentioned the cross-corre-
spondence was that he thought it an important matter, and
therefore did not wish to act in a hurry about it ; he was not
sure whether the coincidence with the subject of his letter
was accidental or not ; and if he concluded on further con-
sideration that it was not accidental, he was not sure whether
to tell me about it, or to say nothing, on the chance of fresh
developments occurring in the scripts. Before coming to see
me the second time he had made up his mind that if, on going
fully into the matter of the scripts, he concluded that the
connection between them and his letter was not accidental, he
would then tell me about the latter.
He had written it in my room at the S.P.R. offices on
July 13th, 1904; I was present at the time, but no one
else, and he of course took precautions to prevent my acci-
dentally seeing what he was writing. He then sealed it up
244 Alice Johnson. [part
himself and gave it into my charge and I put it away in a
certain locked drawer in the office with other letters of the
same kind, where it had been kept ever since. There seems
therefore no possibility that any one but Mr. Piddington
could have known anything of its contents. We now
(November 27th, 1908) examined it carefully to see that the
seals were intact and opened it together.^ The letter is as
follows
20 Hanover Square,
London, W., Uth Jul//, 1904.
If I ever am a spirit, and if I can communicate, I shall endeavour
to remember to transmit in some form or other the number
SEVEN.
As it seems to me not improbable that it may be difficult to
transmit an exact word or idea, it may be that, unable to transmit
the simple word seven in writing or as a written number, 7, I
should try to communicate such things as :
" The seven lamps of
architecture," "The seven sleepers of Ephesus," "unto seventy times
seven," " We are seven," and so forth.
The reason why I select the word seven is because seven has
been a kind of tic with me ever since my early boyhood. I would
walk along the street to a rhythm formed by counting 1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7. Though never superstitious, I also have already," in a play-
ful kind of way, regarded 7 as a, or my, lucky number. Often,
playing golf at Woking, I count the number of carriages on passing
trains, and if a train passes composed of 7 cariiages not counting
tlie engine, I regard it as a lucky omen, and pretend to think
that it means that I shall win my match.
I have purposely cultivated this tic, of which I have never spoken
to anybody, as I think it likely in the event of survival that the
memory of it, having by practice been frequentlj^ revived in my
lifetime, may survive the shock of death.
J. G. Piddington.
It will be seen that while the main theme of this letter is the
same as one theme of the cross-correspondence, there are certain
differences of detail. Neither " the seven lamps of architecture
"
'It is to be Tmder.stood that the proofs of this paper have been submitted
to Mr. Piddington, so tliat all statements relating to him are practically
first-hand.
-So written in the original. No doubt "always" is meant.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 245
nor " the seven sleepers of Ephesus " are to be found in any
of the scripts. On the other hand, " seventy times seven " is
very similar to Mrs. Home's " Seven times seven and seventy-
seven ;
" and " We are seven " occurs both in Mrs. Piper's and
Miss Verrall's scripts. But there is nothing about the seven
railway carriages,—which Mr. Piddington regards as the most
characteristic point in his letter,—in any of the scripts,
while the Dante allusions which are conspicuous in three of
the scripts (Mrs. Verrall's, Miss Verrall's and Mrs. Frith's)
and possibly to be found in the three others (Mrs. Piper's,
Mrs. Holland's and Mrs. Home's) are entirely absent from the
letter. Nevertheless I think the coincidence too marked and
detailed to be put down to chance.
The probability that it did not occur by chance is considerably
strengthened by a comparison with Mrs. Holland's dream of July
14th-15th, 1908, given above, p. 238, in which a number is
mentioned as the subject of a posthumous communication. It is
true that the number given in the dream was 6, whereas Mr.
Piddington's number is 7, but that any number at all should
be chosen for such a purpose seems to me a very unlikely
thing to guess.
The coincidence is further strengthened' by the use of the
uncommon word iic, in the sense of mentcd hcdjit, in Mr.
Piddington's letter, whereas Mrs. Piper in the waking-stage of
the sitting of May 8th, 1908 (see above, p. 223), uses the
words Hcdnt and Tick in close connection with " We are Seven."
I have already explained the immediate origin of these words
in Mrs. Piper's trance : viz. that " Habit " was part of an
attempt to translate the Latin verses quoted to her by Mr.
Dorr ; while " Tick " was suggested by a certain poem of
Longfellow's, the thought of which seemed to have come
spontaneously into her mind. But I believe that there was
also a deliberate intention to produce through these words a
connection with Mr. Piddington's letter.
In any case it appears that Mr. Piddington completes the
Seven who, according to Mrs. Holland's script, should be in
accord.
246 Alice Johnson. [part
Earlier Eeferences to the same Topic.
In considering this section, it is important for the reader to
bear in mind the dates at which the references in the scripts
were recognised, as well as the dates when they were written.
I quote them in the latter order.
In January, 1910, when Mrs. Verrall was reading the first
proofs of this paper, it struck her that the date of Mr.
Piddington's letter (July 13, 1904), was one on which she
had produced a scri^^t of some interest,—she could not remember
on what subject. She looked up this script and found that
it was as follows
July 13, 1904. 11.15 a.m.
[After some nonsense Latin and Greek words :]
But that is not right—it is something contemporary that you
are to record—note the hour—in London half the message has come.
I have long told you of the contents of the envelope, Myers'
sealed envelope left with Lodge [Here follows a statement as to the
contents of this envelope, quoted in full in Mrs. Verrall's report on
her script, Proceedings, Vol. XX. pp. 424-5 ; also a similar statement
about a sealed envelope left by Professor Sidgwick. The script
continues :]
I don't know what you want more—why can't you act on this ?
You ask more and more tests and it is hard to see why.
Helen could probably give the contents of the envelope too if
you want confirmation. Tell her to write down a reference and
see what she puts. We will try to give it her to-day. Some one
will speak of it to her—will that do for you, o skeptics ! Surely
Piddington will see that this is enough and should be acted upon.
F. W. H. M.
The whole episode of the references in Mrs. Verrall's script
to Mr. Myers's sealed envelope is given fully in her report
{o'p. cit. pp. 299-301). Several references to the subject had
occurred in February and March, 1903, also one in April
and one in August of the same year. After August 18, 1903,
the subject was not mentioned again till it recurred in the
script of July 13, 1904, just quoted. When once resumed,
it was referred to several times again.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Rolland's Scri'pt 247
Mi'S. Verrall naturally saw no other significance in this
script beyond its description of the sealed envelope,—with
which her mind had been much occupied,-—and following out
its instruction, she asked her daughter ^ next day to " write
down a reference," without, of course, telling her anything
about her own script. On the following day, July 15th, 1904,
Mrs. Verrall being out of the house at the time, Miss Verrall
wrote automatically as follows r
Mother has made a mistake the letter is in the second drawer
but she wiU not find it what she expected
Driving round the pond
{In Latin : Doubtless among the dead you will see all the future)
that is wrong {In Latin: you will perceive)^
{In Latin : There will not be among the living any mind but the
empty storm of it.
Aen VI 383
1 The whole is lacking)
In the Maderana thai an accident
Enough F. W. H. Myers
The first paragraph of Mrs. A^'errall's script applies appropri-
ately to what Mr. Piddington was doing at the time ; her
script was produced at 11.15 a.m. and his letter was written
during the middle part of the same day,^ the exact hour not
having been recorded. It is significant that the script says
" In London half the message has come," for Mr. Piddington's
letter only contains one main topic (Seven) of the cross-corre-
spondence, the other main topic (Dante) being absent from it.
But Mrs. Verrall, as I have said, attached importance only to
the statement about the sealed envelope, and ignored the first
^ " Helen " (Miss Verrall) had only been mentioned in the script 15 times
previously to this occasion, and was not then in the habit of writing auto-
matically, though she had done it a few times, beginning in the spring of
1903.
- This script was among those sent at the time, as stated above, p. 202, to
Sir Oliver Lodge, on the chance that it might turn out to be of evidential value.
Scilicet in functis videbis omne f uturum (that is wrong) spectabis.
Non erit in vivis auimi nisi vana procella Aen VI 383. deficit omne.
find from my diary that he was at the S.P.R. rooms during the late
part of the morning and early part of the afternoon, and he believes that he
wrote the letter before lunch.
248 •
Alice Johvson. [part
paragraph of her script, which is separated by a space from
the rest, as if to indicate that it referred to a different subject.
The first sentence of Miss Verrall's script reads like a con-
fused attempt to correct Mrs. Verrall's misapprehension :
" Mother
has made a mistake ; the letter is in the second drawer, but
she will not find it what she expected." This may perhaps be
taken to refer to Mr. Piddington's letter (which was actually in
the top right-hand drawer of a cabinet consisting of two columns
of drawers with a set of pigeon-holes on the top) ; or it may
refer to the fact that Mrs. Verrall's script, as was afterwards
found, had not stated correctly the contents of Mr. Myers's
sealed envelope.
The line in the Acneid referred to by Miss Verrall is, trans-
lated literally,
Grief from his sad heart ; he is pleased at the land called by his
iiame.i
The line is the last of two describing the pleasure of Palinurus
when the Sibyl tells him that a tomb shall be erected to him
in Italy and that the place shall bear his name for ever. The
name " Palinurus " means " backward (or, returning) breeze,"
and there seems to be some connection between this name
and the word procella (storm-wind) in the script. The whole
intention of the Latin phrases seems to be to mark an opposi-
tion between the potency of the dead and of the living
"Among the dead you will see all the future;" "There will
be no mind (breath) among the living but an empty storm-
wind." This may be compared with Miss Verrall's script of
August 6th, 1907, quoted immediately below: "Doubtless he
himself will seem to have transferred this." If " he himself
be interpreted as the living experimenter, Mr. Piddiugton, the
script in both cases would seem to claim that the success of
the experiment would be due not to his agency, but to the
influence of some other mind planning the whole scheme.
In the absence of any context, the exact meaning of the
phrase " deficit ovine " (translated above, " The whole is lacking ")
must be doubtful, but it may perhaps be regarded as equiva-
lent to Mrs. Verrall's more definite statement, " In London
half the message has come," which I take to refer to the fact
1 Corde dolor tristi ;
gaudet cognomine terra.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 249
that only half the cross-correspondence was given in Mr.
Piddington's letter.
I must repeat that the interpretation of these two scripts
from beginning to end was only made during January, 1910,
and that none of the persons concerned had before that date
taken into consideration anything in the scripts, except the
obvious reference in Mrs. Verrall's to the sealed envelopes of
Mr. Myers and Professor Sidgwick. In consequence of this
reference, Mrs. Verrall invited Mr. Piddington to come and see
her, so that she might consult with him as to the desirability
of asking Sir Oliver Lodge to open Mr. Myers's envelope, as
urged by the script. The consultation took place on July 17,
1904, but the whole of the scripts was probably not shown
to Mr. Piddington ; he is, at all events, now certain that,
whatever he saw, he never associated anything in them with
his own letter.
During October, 1909, Mr. Piddington was studying and
annotating Miss Verrall's earlier scripts and observed a
reference to the rainbow and the number 7, followed by a
Latin sentence which clearly indicated that a cross-correspon-
dence was being attempted. The script is as follows :
3£iss VerraWs Script, Aug. 6th, 1907.
A rainbow in the sky
fit emblem of our thought
the sevenfold radiance from a single light
many in one and one in many
{In Latin : Doubtless he himself will seem to have transferred this
to his own rule. Wherefore whatever is set forth must be co-
ordinated, lest, being scattered, it should escape notice. What one
thing, that all people— So Fortune commands.) ^
The rainbow and the sevenfold radiance, etc., may possibly
involve some of the Dante allusions referred to above, and
1 Scilicet ipse videbitur lioc transtulisse ad saam normam quare coordinandum
est quodcuiique expoiiatur iie diffusum praetermittatiir
quod unum illud omnes
Sic Fortuna jubet.
The sentence '"quod unum illud omnes"' requires a context to complete it.
250 Alice Johnson. [part
there are several other phrases in scripts of the same month
which, when all put together, suggest a thread of Dantesque
allusions runnin" throu2;h the whole.
But I quote this one script because I am inclined to think
with Mr. Piddington that the " ipse " (himself) who " will
seem to have " effected the cross-correspondence is Mr. Pid-
dington himself, and that the reference here is to his posthumous
letter, which was not opened until November, 1908.
If this interpretation is correct, further interest attaches to
the following script by Mrs. Verrall, though it is important
to note that daring the earlier part of the same day on
which it was written, Mrs. Verrall had seen all the scripts
produced by Miss Verrall in August, 1907 (it being their
custom to compare notes of their scripts at stated intervals).
3frs. VerralVs Script, Aug. 28, 1907.
(In Latin: The meaning is obvious; you have touched the symbol)^
Tt'st the weakest link [drawing of three links of a chain] the
chain still holds. Not ours to teach. You learn alone Place the
question in the midst and let each have his test The same should
be said to each—Try this new experiment—Say the same sentence to
each of them and see what completion each gives to it. Let Pidding-
ton choose a sentence that they do not know and send part to
each Then see whether they can complete
Or he might give different parts of the same sentence to each
of them if the sentence is long enough—
After Mr. Piddington and 1 had opened his sealed envelope
on November 27th, 1908, I locked it up again in my office.
We told Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. Gerald Balfour in strict
confidence of the discovery, but it was mentioned to no one
else until I read a paper at a Private Meeting of the Society
on March 30th, 1909, which included a brief summary of
this cross-correspondence.
During this interval Mr. Piddington paid a visit to Mrs.
Verrall at Cambridge from January 15th-19th, 1909, and
while there heard from her of certain interesting incidents in
her script, in no way connected with the present case, but
strongly suggestive of spiritistic agency. He then, as stated by
^ Significatio patet—symboluni tetigisti
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 251
himself in a note sent to me later, '•
told Mrs. V. not to be
too spiritualistic, as a recent ease told rather against spirits.
He was thinking of the '
We are Seven '
case ; but deliberately-
refrained from oiving any hint of what was in his mind."
Shortly afterwards, namely on January 27, 1909, Mrs.
Verrall produced the following script
Fortunatus no that is not the word
Fortuna's wheel revolving
[Here follow further remarks on Fortune's wheel.]
Nothing is swifter than Thought, nothing more sure—swifter than
arrow or than bullet, thought flies from mind to mind, instantaneous
It is a uow and a now, at once, no pause, no then
Don't you understand ?
And ask what has been the success of Piddington's last experiment ?
Has he found the bits of his famous sentence scattered among you
all ? and does he think that is accident, or started by one of you 1
Tell him to look carefully and he will see a great difference between
the scripts in this exp*- and in the others. That ought to help the
theory. One language only has been used this time.
But even if the source is human, who carries the thoughts to the
receivers 1 Ask him that.
F. W. H. M.
This script of Mrs. Verrall's seems undoubtedly to refer to
her earlier one of Aug. 28, 1907 ; and the words "Fortunatus,"
" Fortuna," " Fortune," seem to connect it with the " Fortuna
of Miss Verrall's script of Aug. 6, 1907, which would tend
to confirm Mr. Piddington's view that the " ipse " of that
script is himself, though this interpretation had certainly not
occurred to Mrs. or Miss Verrall.
Further, this last script applies very appropriately to the con-
nection between Mr. Piddington's posthumous letter, (of which
Mrs. Verrall, as I have said, knew nothing), and the cross-corre-
spondence of Sevens (of which she did know, but had absolutely
no ground for associating it with Mr. Piddington), even to the
detail that " one language only has been used this time."
To assist the reader in following my discussion of this case,
I here give a chronological resumS of it. The sentences printed
in italics in square brackets relate to the events bearing on
the scripts.
252 Alice JoJmson. [part
O
CO
5!
O
C»
P ^
m C
5 SI
m "
O
Pi
03
O
o
o >
o
O
-(-:>
Ot
see
cu
o
05 CD
CO
.1>
CO
c3 ^ *^ ^
^ cS J CP CD £
s5 O
O oi
O
_ cu
o
O <D
c5
ft
o
O
2
C=3
>
CZ2
O
2 ^
o
en
CD
CD CO
CD
CO
O 2
S
CO
O
CM
c
CD
>
03 «
CS
o
o
03
S o
.2 C5
s: Si,
CD
g
O
SB
cm
o
o
El
O
CD
CZ2
05
cS
<I>
o
Ph
c2
CD CD
1>
05
o
CJ5
O
00
oo
O
Ci
05
O £~
(M <^"l
00
a,
<1
Lx.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Scri2:)t. 253
•
i £
to SX3
o ^
S 2
3-5
2 s
o
CO :
(O —
i
C
s o
o)
be
C
o
2~ S
cc (O
I «J D o
c ^ -5
«J C «
O O X
s
CO
CO
5 '
CD
I 03
o S c3
1-5
> ?
03 o
CO
^
CO
CU
CD
o
iD
<3
_Q ID
>
CD C
-
03 C5 >
i3 .02
> CO
03
02 _C3
G3
*-3
^ 'CO
c^
03 5
CO 'tJ
CO
3
S O
S2 -2
o
CD
CD
>
13
'Jj
CO
s
£
53
I
03
>
03
03
^>
03
CO 03
>
03
lies
CO
o
03
«3
A9
03
03
>
D
CO
03
00
c
C35
3 '^^
_3
03 CS
03 — 03 Oil
03
03
)-H
CO CO CO CO CO
OS
o
1—
1
1—
'
-in"
l-H I—
(
I—
(
1—( CM CM CM (M
Jj
1-5
>
o
254 Alice Johnson. [part
Bearing of the Case on the Theory
OF Cross-Correspondences.
I have treated this case at length, because it has, I think,
a very important and instructive bearing on the theory of
cross-correspondences, since it inchides what I regard as all the
elements of a typical cross-correspondence.
(1) It exhibits clearly the part played by the automatists'
normal knowledge ; for in many instances we can trace the
immediate normal source of the individual utterances
(a) Mrs. Piper derives " Habit " and " Angel band " from
the Latin verses given her by Mr. Dorr ; and " We
are Seven " and " Tick, tick, tick !
" from two poems
which no doubt were familiar to her.
(b) Mrs. Verrall writes of the seven hills of Rome on
the day before the date of the founding of Rome
and immediately after reading the last part of the
Purgatorio produces a poem about the exclusion of
Virgil from Paradise. Into the third verse of this
poem is introduced a familiar text from Isaiah.
(c) Miss Verrall's most important script seems to draw
on the Bible for Jacob's ladder, the seven-branched
candlestick and the seven churches ; on Plato for
the spinning wheel ; on Bentham's British Flora for
the drawing of the seven leaflets, and on Wordsworth's
poem for " We are Seven."
(d) Mrs. Frith's script was probably influenced by the
question put to her by Mrs. Verrall, and it introduces
a Biblical reference in " Pisgah is scaled."
(e) Mrs. Holland's " Grreen Eay " is probably due to her
script having been written at sea.
(/) Mrs. Home uses a variant of the Biblical phrase
" Unto seventy times seven."
(2) Though we may account in this way for many of the
individual utterances, take^i hy themselves, we still have to
account for the coincidences between them ; and the chrono-
logical summary suggests that telepathy, especially from Mrs.
Verrall, must have played a part in this :
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 255
(«) Three days after Mrs. Verrall has finished reading
the Purgatorio, Miss Verrall's script alludes to one
of its final cantos.
(6) The day after Mrs. Verrall has written to Mr.
Piddington of these Dante allusions in Miss Verrall's
script, some of them are repeated in Mrs. Frith's
script.
(c) Within three or four days of Mrs. Verrall's having
seen Mrs. Frith's script, both Mrs. Holland and
Mrs. Home write about Seven, adding some possible
Dante allusions.
Another possible telepathic agent in the case is, of course,
Mr. Piddington. Against the supposition of his agency we
have the fact that no time coincidence was involved, except
in the case of Mrs. Verrall's first script ; for the bulk of the
scripts were not produced until some years later, and he was
not, as far as he is aware, specially thinking of his letter
at any time during the period covered by them.^ Yet the
degree of correspondence between his letter and the scripts is,
I think, too remarkable and detailed to be put down to chance.
Accordingly, Mr. Piddington's letter might be held to account
for the Sevens in the scripts, while Mrs. Verrall's pre-occupation
with Dante, and her own scripts (in whicli the element of
seven is very inconspicuous) might be held to account for the
Dante allusions.
Are we to suppose, then, that the unconscious and involun-
tary telepathic efforts of Mrs. Verrall and of Mr. Piddington,
acting unconsciously, involuntarily, and telepathically in combina-
tion with each other, produced the whole cross-correspondence ?
A careful reader will see that even this hypothesis does
not cover the whole ground, for there are details in the other
scripts not to be found either in Mrs. Verrall's or in Mr.
Piddington's ;
e.g. Miss Verrall's " spinning top," Mrs. Frith's
"Pisgah," and Mrs. Holland's "Green Pay," all of which
contribute to the cross-correspondence. There are, indeed, two
or three items which some of the automatists may be
supposed to have borrowed telepathically from one another.
^He writes to me: "Few days of my life passed without my thinking of
the subject of my 'posthumous letter'; but I certainly was not thinking of it
more than usual at this time."
256 Alice Johnson. [part
Thus, both Mrs. Piper and Miss Verrall have " We are Seven,"
and Miss Verrall and Mrs. Frith have the phrase " mystic
seven." But looking at the scripts as a whole, we find an
extraordinary variety in the methods chosen to aj^proach the
same idea.
We find, moreover—in Miss Verrall's script especially—an
inextricable interweaving of the two topics, Seven and Dante ;
for all her Dante allusions, if analysed, are found to be con-
nected, implicitly or explicitly, with Seven. The implicit
connections have been pointed out above ; viz. that " Jacob's
ladder " is in the Seventh Heaven ; and the " spinning top,"
or wheel, is not only connected with the rainbow (in Plato as
well as in Dante), but it is the seventh circle of this wheel
which is specially mentioned by Dante in connection with the
rainbow.
Can this interweaving of the topics be put down to the
action of two separate and independent agents, Mr. Piddington
and Mrs. Verrall, or must we go further afield and postulate
(3) Some other intelligence, which, surveying and selecting
from these diverse elements,—namely, the ideas normally
arising in the minds of the automatists and of Mr. Piddington,
and the play of telepathy between them,—diverted them all
to its own purposes and so shaped the event ?
I have pointed out that the automatists drew on a number
of different sources : on the Tavern Club Latin verses, on a
poem of Wordsworth's, and on one of Longfellow's, on Dante,
on Plato, on various passages in the Bible. What was it
that from each and all of these miscellaneous sources extracted
the strands needed for the interweaving of Seven and Dante ?
The task would not, of course, be very difficult for any one who
had such a plan in mind,—assuming that he was able to
infiuence the automatists to carry it out. I maintain only
that there is strong evidence of the existence of such a plan,
and I think it looks like the plan of one mind, and not of
two or more.
As to Mr. Piddington's letter, Mrs. Verrall's contemporary
phrase, " In London half the message has come," can hardly
be explained by telepathy from Mr. Piddington, since the
phrase by no means represents his own conception of his
action, for he was planning a message which should come in
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 257
a single and complete form after his death. On the other
hand the phrase fits in exactly with the hypothesis that a
cross-correspondence combined out of the ideas of Seven and
r)ante was being planned by another intelligence, which took
advantage of Mr. Piddington's interest in the number Seven
to enlist his telepathic co-operation.
I am inclined to surmise also that the absence of Mr.
Piddington's name from Mrs. Verrall's script may have been
due to an intentional v^/ithholding on the part of the hypo-
thetical intelligence ; for if it had appeared, she would probably
have made enquiries which would have led to the premature
disclosure of his letter, before the cross-correspondence was
complete.
In Mrs. Piper's case, special ingenuity seems to have been
shown in turning to account the unpromising material of the
Latin verses, which is used for both the main topics of
the cross-correspondence. On May 8 th a translation of the
verses had been given in writing. At the beginning of the
waking-stage of the same sitting a fresh attempt is apparently
made to translate them, but of this the only word that
is audible is " Habit," followed soon after by " Angel band."
Now it is remarkable that " habit " is a mistranslation of the
word propositum, the proper meaning of which is " intention,"
and that earlier in the sitting the same mistranslation was
accompanied by another one, mori (to die) being rendered as
"according to custom" (see above, p. 223),—as if the trance-
personality were harping on the idea of habit or custom.
Thus out of these irrelevant verses are selected the very
fragments that correspond (as I have explained) with Mr.
Piddington's letter and with parts of Mrs. and Miss Verrall's
scripts, the first fragment being emphasised by the fact of the
mistranslations, just as we have found in previous cross-
correspondences that misquotations are sometimes especially
significant.
Again, note that Mrs. Piper's reference to Longfellow's poem :
" I said Clock ! Tick, tick, tick ! stairs," follows immediately after
" Habit " (except that " We are seven " is interpolated,—as I
fancy, to clinch the correspondence), whereas " Habit " combined
with " Tick " gives the connection with Mr. Piddington's
letter, in which the word tic is used in the sense of habit.
R
258 Alice Johnson. [part
And note further that the insertion in that reference of the
word " Tick," vjJiich is contained in the ijoevi imj^licitly and
not explicitly, is just what is wanted at this point for the
connection.
Discussion of some Criticisms of the Theory.
Since the theory of cross-correspondences was first put
forward in a tentative manner in my first report on Mrs.
Holland's script, followed by the far more complicated and
elaborate instances of the same type given in Mr. Piddington's
" Series of Concordant Automatisms," two important criticisms
of the theory have appeared,—Professor Pigou's in the Proceedings,
Vol. XXIII. p. 286, and Mr. Podmore's in the Contemporary
Review of September, 1909. In my original report I pointed
out that if the plan of cross-correspondences did not originate
with some intelligence external to the automatists—and the
evidence that it did so was, I observed, very far from being
complete—the most probable alternative hypothesis was that
it originated in and was carried out by Mrs. Verrall's subliminal
consciousness. It is, naturally, this alternative hypothesis which
is maintained by both our critics.
Professor Pigou argues that the element of complementari-
ness in a cross-correspondence, which I adduced as evidence
of the intention of a mind other than those of the auto-
matists, may on the other hand be purely accidental and
therefore evidence of nothing at all. He instances the case
where Dr. Verrall attempted to transmit a phrase telepathically
to Mrs. A^errall, whose script reproduced it, but only in a
fragmentary and incomplete form ; and says that,—since the
fragmentary character in this case was clearly not intended
by the agent, but was only the result of the imperfect
reception of the idea by the percipient,—the mere fact that
different fragments of the same idea occur in the scripts of
two different automatists cannot be held to indicate any purpose
in the fragmentariness. If the subliminal self of Mrs. Verrall,
say, were trying to impress some idea upon her own script
and on that of some other automatist, the correspondence
achieved would often not be exact :
" The two scripts would
indeed be orientated about the same idea ; but they would be
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 259
very far from identical. If we compare the word aimed at
to the bull of a target, it is in a high degree probable that
attempts to hit the bull would result in shots scattered widely
round it. In other words, mildly complementary corre-
spondences are likely to result from attempts at simple
correspondences" {Proceedings, Vol. XXIIT. p. 295).
The simile is, I think, a very apt one ; it is one that I
have often thought of applying in psychical research, and I
propose to analyse it a little further.
Supposing—-to make the analogy with our cases somewhat
closer—we do not see any one shooting at a target, but find
a target marked with a large number of shots, which cluster
most thickly in a certain region, we infer that an attempt
was being made to hit some point within that region. It
matters not whether the attempt was made by one or by
several persons ; in either case the aim or design was one and
the same.
So, if Mrs. Verrall's subliminal self were aiming at the
expression of a single word or simple idea through herself
and another automatist, a similar effect might be produced, and
we should infer what the word or idea was by observing the
approximations to it, just as we discover what spot on the target
was aimed at by observing where the shots cluster.
Now Dr. Verrall's experiment was a comparatively simple
one, and Mrs. Verrall's script suggests nothing more than a
series of straightforward, though somewhat unskilful, aims at
his central idea—the bull's-eye of his target.
The complex correspondences, however, are by no means
suggestive of any such simple design as this.
The scripts containing them present the appearance not of
a target with a central bull's-eye, but rather, as Mr. Piddington
has remarked, of a mosaic,—broken and fragmentary indeed, but
showing unmistakable traces of a pattern, and that pattern
filled in by several different hands, whose efforts overlap, but
each of whom contributes something different from that con-
tributed by any of the others. Here the pattern must be
regarded as the work of one designer ; for it can hardly be
supposed to result from the accidental concurrence of several
designs.
I refer especially to such cases as Mr. Piddington's " Light
260 Alice Johnson. [part
in West" (Proceedings, Vol. XXII. pp. 241-280) and the
" Sevens and Dante " case just described.
Cases of the target type, where two or more automatists are
concerned, may no doubt be attributed to the design or agency
of one of the automatists, for there exists ex loypothcsi evidence
in each script that the word or idea to be expressed is present
in some part of the writer's consciousness.
Cases of the mosaic type cannot be so easily disposed of
for in them we can find evidence of only ijart of the design
in the mind of any one of the automatists. There is con-
sequently no evidence—still less is there any proof—that any
one of them designed the whole : so that, if we are right
in holding, as just stated, that the whole must be the work
of one designer, there is no evidence—still less is there any
proof—that that designer is one of the automatists. This
appears to me the fundamental distinction between the two
types of cross-correspondence.
But arguments from analogy may easily be pressed too far,
and—if the analogy be admitted—the question at once arises
how far our actual cases of cross-correspondence conform to
these two ideal types.
As a matter of fact, we find a number of gradations between
them.
Of the cases quoted in this paper, two, viz. (o) " yellow,"
Aug. 6, 1906, p. 207, and (&) "The Blue Flower," Oct. 24,
1906, p. 215, are of the simple target type.
Two others, («) "The Janiculum," June 24, 1906, p. 204,
and (5) "Savonarola," Oct. 8, 1906, p. 211, are of the mosaic
type, in that each script contributes something not found in
any of the others ; but the whole design, especially in the
second case, is so simple that it may be supposed to be con-
tained as a whole (partly expressed and partly implied) in
one script and transferred thence telepathically to the others.
Nevertheless, it is noteworthy that the interpretation of Miss
Verrall's script as referring to a scene in Roinola was only
made after the independent occurrence in Mrs. Holland's script
two days later and in Mrs. Verrall's script four days later of
passages which can be interpreted as referring to other parts
of the same scene. That is, taking any one of the scripts
alone, we should be uncertain what it referred to, and con-
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 261
sequently we cannot assert positively that the whole idea was
in the mind of any one of the automatists ; but taking all
together, the reference is almost certain.
There are other cases in which a definite statement in one
script points us to the interpretation of a less definite one
occurring earlier in cmother script, which again suggest that
the complete idea was at all events not in the mind of the auto-
matist who wrote first. Thus Miss Verrall's mention of " Jacob's
Ladder" on May 11th (see above, p. 228), points to the
interpretation of part of Mrs. Verrall's poem of May 8th,^
which Mrs. Piper's mention of " Angel band " on the same
day tends, I think, to confirm.
So long as any topic, whether expressed in direct terms or
only allusively, can be found in a script, it may, I think,
fairly be argued that it must have been present in some
part of the consciousness of the automatist, and may have
been transferred thence telepathically to other automatists. But
if it cannot be found (as, e.g. neither Miss Verrall's " spinning
top " nor Mrs. Holland's " Green Eay " can be found in Mrs.
Verrall's script) then the same argument cannot be used.
The utmost that can then be said is that the topic 7nay
have been in the automatist's mind, and if so, may have
been transmitted thence telepathically ; and such a hypothesis
cannot, I think, be definitely accepted without further con-
firmation.
It appears to me, in short, that many of the items of this
cross-correspondence afford strong evidence of the design or
agency of some intelligence which was cognisant of the %vliole
scheme, as finally revealed ;
—I refer especially to the use made
of the Latin verses in Mrs. Piper's case, and to the veiled
allusions to Mr. Piddington's letter in the Verrall scripts ;
and it seems to me difficult to attribute so complete a knowledge
of it to the subliminal consciousness either of Mrs. Verrall or
of Mr. Piddington.
What has been said of Professor Pigou's main contention
1 If the objection be made that my interpretation of Mrs. Verrall's verse as
referring to Jacob's ladder is altogether fantastic and unfounded, I will reply
that I bring it forward partly in order to make the greatest possible allowance
for the theory of telepathy between the living. For the more items of the
cross-correspondence can be found in Mrs. Verrall's script, the easier is it to
maintain that she transferred them telepathically to the others.
262 Alice Johnson. [part
will apply also to the similar conclusions put forward by
Mr. Podmore in his able and sympathetic review of the
evidence derived from the scripts/ and I will now only deal
with one further point.
Mr. Podmore concludes that the Piper-Myers is not identical
with the Verrall-Myers. For my own part it never occurred
to me to suppose that it was. It never occurred to me to
imagine that in the scripts we could find anything more than
a product of the mental interaction of two personalities,—the
automatist and another.
To attempt to formulate the meaning of such an interaction
would be rash and presumptuous at the present stage. We
shall only, I think, approach a comprehension of it by studying
it from a mental standpoint, and our mental operations are
limited by the inelastic nature of a language which is based on
sensory, material and spatial terms. It is hardly possible to dis-
cuss the subject without the use of material analogies which are
constantly liable to be mistaken for real similarities. The best
method perhaps is to vary the analogies as much as possible,
so as to avoid confining ourselves to fixed grooves of thought.
In particular, any analogy referring to a process,—such as the
comparison of telepathy to wireless telegraphy,—is to be
deprecated, as it inevitably suggests the inference that the
processes referred to are essentially similar. It is better to
confine ourselves to analogies which relate simply to the facts
before us and suggest nothing as to the causes that produced
them.
I will then compare the scripts to chemical compounds of
two . or more elements which are found in different proportions
in the various compounds. Thus, if we call the automatists
P. and v., and the hypothetical external intelligence X., we
may get in the one script such compounds as PX, or PgX,
or PX,, and in the other VX etc.; or we may get in either
of them such compounds as PVX, PgVgX etc. We may also
get such compounds as PV, or PV„ ; or we may get the
^Mr. Podmore's summary of the Latia message inciilent (Proc, Vol. XXII.
pp. 312-416) seems to me, however, incomplete, for he omits to take into
consideration the important fact that, though Myersp failed to show any real
comprehension in the abstract of the plan of cross-correspondences, he pointed
out—and maintained his point in the face of every discouragement—that
"Browning, Hope, and Star" was an instance of the kind required.
LX.] Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. 263
elements P and V by themselves. The one element that we
never get alone is X.
If this be so, the Piper-Myers is not and never could be
identical with the Verrall-Myers. The utmost that can happen
will be that the same element is found in both scripts. The
burden of proof must lie with those who maintain that it is
there to be found ; but our methods of analysis are not yet
so far perfected that we can assert positively either its presence
or its absence.
264 Mrs. A. W. Vevrall. [part
A NEW GEOUP OF EXPERIMENTERS.
By Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
History of the Mac Script.
On September 26th, 1908, when I was away from home, T
received a letter from a complete stranger in Scotland, enclosing
a considerable number of specimens of automatic script, obtained
by the writer of the letter in combination with other members
of her family. The writer, who is here called Miss Mac, gave
a brief account of the origin and development of the script, and
explained that lately the controls had urged that the script
should be sent to Mrs. Verrall.
Her letter, dated September 23rd, 1908, was as follows:
. . . We are a family of five and are all more or less, as well as
our parents, able to write to a certain extent with Planchette. . . .
It is about nine months ago that I read Myers' Human Personality
for the first time. I was greatly interested in it. We had a Planchette
in the house, but had never succeeded in writing with it when on
one or two occasions we had tried. However I read in the above
book that several people tried for a considerable period before getting
legible writing, so that I felt encouraged to try again. After about
eight weeks of practice, generally once a day, the huge illegible
scrawling gradually decreased in size and then changed into hand-
writing, words and then sentences. We told the Planchette to stop
after every word instead of stringing them together as at first, and
now it generally refuses to go on until lifted and replaced after everj^
word.
For three or four months we had only one control, Anne Murry,
purporting to be a nun who lived in the time of William the
Conqueror and had rather a tragic history. I when from home
ceased writing for three months, and on my return in the middle of
LX.] A Ne%v Group of Experimenters. 265.
May I practised with my brother A., with the result that I cannot
now write legibly with any other member of the family. ... A.
writes more or less with every member . . . but best with me.
When he and I started together the result was several fresh
controls. One, Ellen Bell, seemed to be a perfect lunatic, as indeed
the other controls said she was. She was so pertinacious for a while
that she used to interrupt and spoil all the other script, apparently
refusing to let any one else write. . . . She has her own line of
riddles, epigrams, Limericks, etc., sometimes very witty, at other times
utter rubbish . . . She draws clever caricatures of our acquaintances,
in a few instances not known to the writers, but to some one else
in the room. . . . She appears to be quite subliminal and varies in
character with the various writers. . . .
Other controls called themselves " Mr. Evans, a "Welsh parson,"'
who " seemed anxious to be identified, but we find that the
churchyard in Aberystwitli where he was supposed to be buried
does not exist," and " Eosa Baughan," a name subsequently
found to be that of a " character delineator " on the staff of
The Lady's Pictorial. This control seems to have produced some-
evidence of supernormal acquaintance with " palmistry."
In June Miss Johnson's report on Mrs. Holland's script
{Proceedings, Vol. XXI., Pt. LV. pp. 166 ci^ seep) was read by the-
Mac i'amily, and three weeks later, on July 19, 1908, they
developed a " Sidgwick " control. The nature of the phenomena
obtained was considerably modified, as was to be expected, by
acquaintance with the type of script described by Miss Johnson.
The script of July consisted of more or less disconnected
sentences, in which, however, was a constant recurrence of
certain easily definable topics ; it abounded in literary allusions
and quotations, and my name occurred more than once. The
marked influence of the reading of the Holland script was
noted in Miss Mac's letter.
In August the script underwent another change, and con-
sisted mainly of attempts, with the aid of a large number of
controls, to relate a complicated story in Italian verse. This
language was unknown to Mr. A. Mac, and Miss E. Mac, the
other automatist, had only a slight knowledge of it. The Italian
of the script is fiuent, but inaccurate and ungrammatical ; it
contains words not to be found in dictionaries, and the ter-
minations are often undecipherable. The general meaning is,
266 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
however, plain enough. But it is difficult to say with certainty
that it shows knowledge beyond that possessed by Miss Mac,
though it is certainly not the sort of thing that she would or
could consciously and deliberately write.
About the middle of September there arose what Miss Mae
described as " a regular clamour of entreaty," on the part of the
controls, that she should write to Mrs. Verrall. My name had
occurred in the script of July, and the idea of sending some
of the " Sidgwick " messages to me had arisen, but nothing had
been done, as Miss Mac did not think the messages sufficiently
definite to warrant her in writing to an absolute stranger. " It
was only," as she writes, " planchette's entreaties that have made
us change our minds." At the direction of a " control," calling
itself " Eeynold Carson," Miss Mac sent to me the whole of the
Sidgwick script and of the Italian attempts, as well as a few
specimens of messages from earlier controls. On September 18,
this " control " had urged the desirability of despatching the
specimens to me, so that they might reach me " by next
Saturday week,"—before, that is, Saturday, September 26,
1908—and this was done. The script was posted from
Scotland on September 24th, reached Cambridge on September
25th, and was re-directed to me in Hampshire, reaching me
on September 26th.
Miss Mac wrote that before reading the report on Mrs.
Holland's script the automatic writers had only read Human
Fersoncdity and Phantasms of the Living, among what she described
as " volumes of the Psychical Research Society." In reply to
a question, she wrote on September 29th that they had read
none of my script except what is contained in Miss Johnson's
Report (Vol. XXI.), and that they had seen no reviews except
of that Report.
Further enquiries as to the occupations and interests of the
automatists and their opportunities of reading the Proceedings
of the S.P.R., confirm the belief of Miss Mac that none of the
automatists were acquainted with my Report on my ov^n script
(Proceedings, Vol. XX.) published in October, 1906. More-
over, the very fall notes sent by Miss Mac, at my request, in
elucidation of her script contained nothing indicating any previous
acquaintance with two or three points presenting obvious resem-
blances with the contents of certain scripts mentioned in that
LX.] A Netv Grmip of Experimenters. 267
Eeport, and two supplementary questions, sent with several others
to Miss Mac in October and purposely framed to elicit latent
knowledge of these points, failed to do so. It may therefore
be taken as certain that no knowledge of Proceedings, Vol. XX.
was consciously possessed by the Mac family. At the same
time it cannot be proved that at some time the Eeport, or a
notice of it, may not have been within reach of one or other
of the automatists. The point is of importance in connexion
with some allusions in the Mac script,^ but does not affect the
value of the greater part of its contents, including the principal
incident here described.
At the time when Miss Mac wrote to me there was absolutely
no acquaintance between any members of the two families. A
cousin of Miss Mac's was a college friend of Miss Yerrall's,
and this served as an introduction for the correspondence that
began with the sending of the script. The principal automatist
appears to be Mr. A. Mac, and the majority of the messages
relating to cross-correspondences were obtained by him in com-
bination with Miss E. Mac (my correspondent), though occasionally
one or more other member's of the family collaborated with him.
In March, 1909, I made the acquaintance of Miss D. Mac,
the eldest of the family, whose work had brought her to
Cambridge for a short period. After I had written out the
account of this incident and shown it to Miss Mac and her
family, I had some talk on the subject with Miss D. Mac.
From her I learnt in detail more of the instances of telepathy
between various members of the family, to which Miss E.
Mac had referred in her original letter, but nothing that passed
between us has thrown any further light on the incidents
here related.
This paper deals with the messages claiming to come from
the " Sidgwick control," generally referred to henceforth as
Sidgwickji, in accordance with the nomenclature introduced by
Mr. Piddington.
The messages were produced between July 19 and July 29,
1908; the desire that the script should be sent to me was
expressed between Sept. 12 and 18, 1908,- it being particularly
igee below, p. 301.
-My name did not occur after July 29 till Sept. 1, and then again on
Sept. 12 and onwards till Sept. 18.
268 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
urged that the script should reach me by Saturday,
September 26.
This latter fact at once struck me. My daughter and I
were engaged in an experiment necessitating the comparison of
our scripts at fixed intervals and it had been arranged that the
next comparison of scripts should be made on September 27,
the reason being that we were to separate on September 28
for some weelvs. It was accordingly our intention to compare
scripts on September 27 and then to leave the subject un-
discussed aud the scripts unexamined till the middle of
December, when we proposed to make the next comparison.
If therefore any question were raised by the newly received
script which necessitated a reference by me to Miss Verrall's
script, September 27 was the last possible day on which that
reference could be made.^ September 26 therefore seemed
an appropriate day to be named for the arrival of the new
script at my house. No reason can be suggested why this day
should have commended itself to the writers of the Mac script,
and in view of the appropriateness of another date named in
the Mac script - this date may perhaps be regarded as not due
to accident.
To return to the contents of the Mac script: On July 19,
1908, there appeared for the first time, when Miss E. Mac
and Mr. A. Mac were using Pianchette, a control claiming
to be Professor Henry Sidgwick. The remarks claimed by
this control consisted of sentences more or less fragmentary.
The first piece of script, which announced itself at the outset
as coming from '
Mr. Sidgwick,' was signed with his signature,
H. S., as well as with the initials F. W. H. M. and the name
Harry.^ On July 2 0 and 2 1 similar script claiming to come from
'
Sidgwick ' was obtained, the name '
Mrs. V.' occurring without
context on July 20, and on July 23 similar script contained
both the name Sidgwick and the initials F. W. H. M. On
July 24 was written only a single sentence from the Sidgwick
1 During the periods between comparison of scripts tlie record of each writer's
productions is not available to the other.
- See below, p. 305.
No explanation has been found of this name, which occurs nowhere else
in the Mac script. Miss Mac later told me that they had regarded it as an
attempt at the Christian name of Dr. Sidgwick.
LX.] A Neiu Group of Experimenters. 2G9
control: "Tell Mrs. Verrall to think of me." On July 26
there were again sentences of the same type as on July 19-23.
The script of July 27, 1908, as sent to me, was as follows
Sidgwick. News from the Occident. [Drawing of rose.] Roses
dew-kissed—R. S ^
Sidgwick. Sesame and lilies —lotus the flower of repentance.
Sidgwick. Vanity of vanities all is vanity. A little love and
then the joy fades and the rose is crumpled and wither(s) up—fane
[Automatists ask, "What is thaf?"]
French [accent added to last word, making "fane" into "fane."]
Bleeding hearts cannot be staunched and the voice of death echoes
through the brain with palling monotony— Sidgwick. hollow and
mortal vain is life without a meaning.
This script, all from the same control, Sidgwickjj, refers to
four topics, each of which has been found to form the subject
of a cross-correspondence with other automatists
(1) "News from the Occident" refers to the cross-correspon-
dence between Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Holland and myself, described
under the title " Light in West " in Mr. Piddington's Report
{P7'oceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 241, d seq.) which was not published
until October, 1908 ; see below, p. 299.
(2) "Sesame and Lilies" connects with the scripts of both
myself and my daughter, and forms the subject of the next
section of this paper.
(3) and (4) "Vanity of vanities" and the reference to a
French poem are connected with scripts of Miss Verrall's, as
•described below, pp. 294, 297.
On this occasion, therefore, nothing irrelevant was introduced
into the script. The whole of the " messages " claimed by
Sidgwickjf—whose name occurs four times - in the course of
the 69 words—were found to be intimately and intelligibly
^ The .... mark an interruption by a control, "Bell." Four Italian words
that follow are part of a lengthy Italian communication from a group of
-controls of whom H. S. was one, and who occupied the Mac script in August.
^I had made the above division into four subjects of the topics introduced
in the script of July 27 some time before I noticed that the name of the
control, "Sidgwick," was written four times. In view of other instances of
intelligent direction by the controls, I am disposed to attribute this coincidence
act to accident but to design.
270 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
connected with topics that had already been mentioned in
scripts unpublished and inaccessible to the new automatists.
On July 29 another control, "Evans," said that Mr.
Sidgwick was anxious to get a message through the auto-
matists to Mrs. Verrall and was trying to do it " now." Here
ended the Sidgwick messages for the time. Although Sidgwickj,
took occasional part in the script freely produced by Mr. and
Miss Mac in August, no further reference to me was made
till September 1, when my name emerged in connexion with
the cross, heart and anchor which several times in this script
occur as symbolic of Henry Sidgwick (probably owing to
recollections of Proceedings Vol. XXI. p. 229). It was not till
some days later, September 13, that the definite suggestion
was made that the Sidgwick script should be sent to Mrs.
Verrall.i
Sesame and Lilies.
Of the four topics in the script of July 27, 1908, quoted
above, I deal first with the second, which is the most
interesting. It must be treated at some length, while com-
paratively brief comment only is required in the other three
cases.-
Immediately after the second occurrence of the name
Sidgwick came the words " Sesame and Lilies." This phrase
is the title of a book by Euskin. Two points arise for con-
sideration : Does the Mac script contain any further references
to Euskin's book ?—Is there any point in sending the words
" Sesame and Lilies " as a messaire to me ?
To begin with the first question, whether there are allusions
in the Mae script to Euskin's Sesame and Lilies —Two lectures
were delivered by Euskin at Manchester in 1864 and published
in a single volume under the title of Sesame and Lilies. The
lectures are called respectively, " Sesame : of Kings' Treasuries,"
and " Lilies : of Queens' Gardens," and to each lecture is
prefixed a motto in Greek. To Sesame is prefixed parts of
^ A complete copy of such parts of the Mac script as concern the cross-
correspondences here described will be found in the Appendix to this paper,
p. 307.
- The consideration in detail of the whole script of July 27, 190S, is postponed,
for the sake of clearness, till after the separate topics have been discussed.
LX.] A New Grou}') of Experimenters. 271
the fifth and sixth verses of Job xxviii., namely : aJr^?
e^eXevcreTai apTO<i . . . kui ^(Wfxa y^pvirlov. (" Out of it cometh
bread . . . and . . . dust of gold.") To Lilies is prefixed the
second verse of Canticles ii., namely, Kplvov ev juea-w
UKuvQwv, ouTwg i) irXtjcTLov fxov. (" As the Lily among thorns, so
is my love . . ."). There have been several editions of this
work, and between these editions there is a good deal of
variation in small points. The first edition and its re-issues
in brown cloth binding contained, as has been said, the two
Manchester lectures, with the mottoes in Greek from Job and
Canticles. In 1871 a revised and enlarged edition was pro-
duced as part of a general issue of Euskin's works. The
volumes were bound in blue leather with blind tooling on the
two covers and gold letters on the back. The volume of
Sesame and Lilies in this edition contained a third lecture
delivered at Dublin in 1868. The original mottoes to the
two Manchester lectures were altered, and for them were
substituted, in the first case, a motto in English, from
Lucian's Fisherman, " You shall each have a cake of Sesame
and ten pound," and, in the second, a text in English from
the Septuagint version of Isaiah xxxv. 1, "Be thou glad, oh
thirsting desert ; let the desert be made cheerful and bloom
as the lily ; and the barren places of Jordan shall run wild
with wood." There is no motto to the third lecture. These
mottoes seem thenceforth to have been used in subsequent
editions, except in the 1907 edition in Everyman's Library, this
returns to the old mottoes, but is not bound in blue leather.
There are therefore two forms of Sesame and Lilies, if we
classify the types by their mottoes
(a) The two-lecture form, with mottoes in Greek from Job
and Canticles
(6) The three-lecture form, with mottoes to the two Man-
chester lectures in English from Lucian and Isaiah (Septuagint).
There are several forms of Sesame and Lilies, if we classify
the types by their binding. Of these the most familiar is the
set in blue leather with blind tooling and gold lettering. But
in that binding there is no volume containing the two Man-
chester lectures with the Greek mottoes, unless some private
individual has bound the earlier edition in blue leather like
that of the revised edition.
•272 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
As regards the contents of the volume, both lectures are
concerned with the readmg of young people, the second being
specially addressed to girls. The contents , of Sesame : of
Kings' Trecistiries are described by their author as being
"about the treasures hidden in books" {% 1); the analogy
between wisdom and its "physical type . . . gold" 13)
is kept constantly in mind, " even at cost of tiresomeness
14) ;
just as pickaxe work and smelting, "sharpest, finest
chiselling, and patientest fusing are required " before you can
gather one grain of the metal" 14); so Euskin insists on
accurate examination of words, their philology and history
15), and illustrates his meaning by reference to passages
in the Bible 17, 18) and in Milton, comparing Milton
with Dante 24) more than once 25). Finally, he
likens the Wisdom which he is urging his hearers to seek
to " a Fourth kind of treasure, which the jewel and gold
could not equal, neither should it be valued with pure gold
"
45). This phrase recalls the second half of his introduc-
tory motto from Job (" dust of gold "), and, returning in
thought to the first half of that motto (" out of it cometh
bread ") he concludes by urging the establishment of a Corn
Law " dealing in a better bread ;
—bread made of that old
enchanted Arabian grain, the Sesame, which opens doors ;
doors not of robbers' but of Kings' Treasuries" (§ 50).
In the second lecture, after describing types of womanhood
in the great writers—Shakespeare, Dante, Homer, and others
and commending the education of Wordsworth's Lucy who
"grew in sun and shower" 70), he urges women to leave
their own secluded flower gardens and go forth to make a
garden of the world. " The path of a good woman is indeed
strewn with flowers ; but they rise behind her steps, not
before them. '
Her feet have touched the meadows and left
the daisies rosy' (^93) . . . Shall morning follow morning, for
you, but not for [the poor] ; and the dawn rise to watch, far
away, those frantic Dances of Death ; but no dawn rise to
. . . call to you, through your casement—call (not giving you
the name of the English poet's lady, but the name of Dante's
great Matilda, who, on the edge of happy Lethe, stood, wreath-
ing flowers with flowers), saying : Come into the garden,
Maud" (§94).
Lx.] A Netv Group of Experimenters. 273
This summary of the contents of the book may be supple-
mented by Euskin's own account of his intention. In the
tifth edition of Sesame and Lilies, published in 1882 with a
new preface, Euskin says of the book that, " if read in con-
nection with '
Unto this Last ' it contains the chief truths I
have endeavoured through all my past life to display."
Other Eeferekces to the Book in the Mac Script.
We are now in a position to consider whether there are
other references to the book in the Mac script besides the
occurrence of the unattached phrase " Sesame and Lilies." There
are, as it seems to me, two groups of unmistakable references
on two preceding days, namely, as follows
July 19, 1908. Where is the little blue vase with the lilies
that grow by Sharon's dewy rose (a) . . . Search the scriptures, and
the dust shall be converted into fine gold (h).
July 26, 1908. A blue book bound in blue leather with ended
paper and gold tooling.
Let us consider the applicability of the above quotation
from the script of July 19, and take first the second clause,
" Search the scriptures, and the dust shall be converted into
fine gold."
In reply to a request from me to identify all quotations in
the script. Miss Mac quoted to illustrate (b) Job xxii. 24, and
xxviii. 6, for "dust" and "gold"; and Psalms xix. 10, Prov.
XXV. 12, Lam. iv. 1, for "fine gold,"
Let us see if we can fix upon one of these five passages
as more intimately connected than the others with the phrase
in the script, and therefore more likely to be its source. What
is wanted is a passage contrasting " dust " and " fine gold."
" Dust " does not occur in the passages from Psalms, Proverbs,
and Lamentations, all of which have " fine gold." " Dust " is
contrasted with " gold " in both the passages from Job, but in
the actual verses referred to in Miss Mac's notes the " gold
"
is not " fine." Closer examination of the context of Job xxii.
gives no further clue, but if we look at the beginning of
Job xxviii. we find that the verb " fine," though not the
adjective, is used in close conjunction with " gold." " Surely
s
274 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where
they fine it. Iron is taken out of the earth ... as for the
earth, out of it cometh bread . . . and it hath dust of gold
(Job xxviii. 1-6).
This therefore is the passage which we are led on internal
evidence to regard as the source of the phrase in the script,
and the latter half of this passage is the motto set by Euskin,
in its Greek form, at the head of his essay on Sesame ; or
Kings' Treasuries.
Moreover, " Search the scriptures " is appropriate. For, as
has been said, Euskin insists on accurate examination of the
written word,—" Search the scriptures
"
—and illustrates his
meaning by quotations from the Scriptures ;
only so can
reading be of value, only so can " one grain of the metal " be
gathered. In fact, Euskin's first lecture might be summarised
in the words, " Search the scriptures and the dust shall be
converted into fine gold."
Let us turn to the other extract from the script of
July 19; {a) " Where is the little blue vase with the lilies
that grow by Sharon's dewy rose."
To illustrate this. Miss Mac quoted the hymn
" By cool Siloam's shady rill,
How sweet the lily grows,
How sweet the scent beneath the hill,
Of Sharon's dewy rose."
The hymn is of course based on the famous words of
Canticles ii. 1,
" I am the Eose of Sharon and the Lily of the valleys ",
the second verse of which chapter forms Euskin's motto to the
second lecture. Lilies ;
" As the Lily among thorns, so is my
love."
Thus the two extracts from the Mac script of July 19
both correspond, one completely and the other partially, with
the mottoes prefixed to the two lectures in Euskin's book—with
the two mottoes, that is, prefixed in their Greek form to the
original edition of Euskin's Sesame and Lilies}
^ In the script the plural "lilies" occurs—a modification of the singular
"lily" of the hymn quoted by Miss Mac, and of Canticles ii. 1, perhaps due
to the plural "lilies" of the title of the book.
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 275
The words " Where is the blue vase " are so far unexplained,
and are best considered in conjunction with the second extract
quoted above from the Mac script, that namely of July 26.
This runs as follows :
" A blue book bound in blue leather
with ended paper and gold tooling." " Ended " paper, though
intelligible, is not the technical term for what is apparently
meant. " End papers " are the blank leaves added at each
end of the book by the binder. The description is not very
definite, but the implication plainly is of a book carefully
bound, not merely put into a cover like the ordinary book
of commerce. The script does not say on what part of the
cover the " gold tooling " is. The description, however, quite
fairly fits the familiar binding of Euskin's works. These books
are blue, bound in blue leather with end papers and gold
letters on the back. There is tooling on the covers of the book,
but blind ^ tooling.
So far then it appears that the references on July 19 and
on July 26 in the Mac script are appropriate enough to the
inside and the outside of Euskin's Sesame and Lilies, though
it is to be noted, as above stated, that no volume has been
discovered which combines the blue binding with the Greek
mottoes. It would be fanciful to press a meaning from the
interrogative form of the sentence, but it is permissible to see
in the " blue vase " which holds " the lilies " an allusion to the
blue binding of Euskin's book.
Neither blue binding nor Greek mottoes, however, were
associated in the minds of any of the automatists themselves
with Euskin's book. Their copy of Sesame and Lilies was
George Allen's green cloth-covered '
Eleventh complete edition,'
and this volume contains not the Greek mottoes referred to
in the script, but the English mottoes from Lucian and Isaiah,
The automatists had recognised that the phrase on July 27,.
Sesame and Lilies, was a reproduction of the title of a book
^ In this connexion it may be worth noting that immediately after the
description of the book, when the automatists asked, "What book is that?",
the script went on " Blind, blind, blind, wherefore are your eyes bound witli
clay —every man has his . . .
''
[sic). Possibly here the "blind" and "bound"
may have some reference to the Mind tooling on tlie blue hound Ruskin.
And in '^
Everyman's Library" there has been a recent issue of Sesame and
Lilies, with a preface by Sir Oliver Lodge, an edition however not known to
any of the automatists.
276 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
by Ruskiii, and in their annotations had described the book
as " known, though not lately read."^ But they did not recognise
the previous allusions of July 19 and 26, and had no idea
that any other mottoes had ever been used by the author
than those which they found in their own copy, when, at my
request, they looked out the mottoes prefixed to the lectures.
The allusions then in the Mac script to Ruskin's Sesame and
Lilies do not appear explicable as instances of revived memory.
Nor can we ascribe to accident the sequence of (1) the
allusions to both original mottoes of the Manchester lectures,
(2) the description of a blue bound book, and (3) the final
words " Sesame and Lilies."
Can any explanation be found in the instructions to convey
tlie words to me ? Here I come to my second question, and
to answer this an account must be given of the contribution
made to the subject by my own and my daughter's scripts.
References in the Vekhall Scripts.
Between October, 1907, and June, 1908, as has been said,
we had tried experiments for obtaining cross-correspondences
between our scripts. Miss Verrall was mainly in London during
this year. At three pre-arranged dates scripts had been com-
pared, no communication of the contents being made in the
intervals, and some correspondence was observed between them.
Early in June we went abroad and automatic writing was dis-
continued. On our return experiments were again begun, and
the first date for comparison of scripts was arranged for
September 1, 1908.
The circumstances were no longer so favourable for experi-
mentation. During the months of July and August we were
in the same house, and though we were careful not to speak
to one another of the contents of our scripts, there was an
increased chance of similar associations being aroused by
incidents common to both.
1 Of the four automatists concerned, one had not read Sesame and Lilies at
all, and another, Mr. A. Mac, writes that he had not read it all or recently,
and had no recollection whatever of it except of an extract from it in an old
reading book.
t
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 277
On September 1, 1908, Miss Verrall's scripts^ were com-
municated to rae and some of mine were shown to her.
Each writer had produced thirteen scripts. The comparison
of scripts showed two ^ instances of attempts at intercon-
nexion, of which one was as follows. Comparison of M. V.
script of August 19 on the one hand with H. V. script of
August 19 and two other H. V. scripts, of August 12 and
August 22, closely connected with it by internal evidence,
led us to the conclusion that an unsuccessful attempt had been
made to produce " Sesame and Lilies," the title of Euskin's
book, as the subject of a cross- correspondence between our
scripts. It is to be remembered that when this conclusion was
reached we knew nothing of the Mac script.
The scripts that refer to Sesame and Lilies are as follows
I begin with my own script
{August 19, 1908. Wednesday, 10.40 a.m.)
Let your hand go loose—let the words come.
It is a literary allusion that should come to-day. Think of the
words
Lih'astrum Paradise-—Liliago no not that. Lilies of Eden
Lilith no.
Eve's Lilies all in a garden fair. Try again.
Lilies swaying in a wind
Under a garden wall
Lilies for the bees to find
Lilies fair and tall.
Then besides the Lilies there is to be another word for you and
for her Lilies and a different word—So that lilies is the catchword
to show what words are to be put together.
And your second word is gold. Think of the golden lilies of
France.
You will have to wait some time for the end of this story, for
the solution of this puzzle—but I think there is no doubt of its
ultimate success. Yours.
' I use the letters H. V. and M. V. henceforth to describe respectively niy
daughters script and mine.
The attempts at correspondence during this period were considerably fewer
than they had been during the earlier periods when we were not in daily
communication.
t
278 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
This script, purporting by the form of its signature^ to come
from Myersy, in its first half emphasises the word " Lilies "
Paracusia Liliastriom is the botanical name of a wild Lily of
the Alps, and Liliayo is the name of another species. Paradise,
the garden, leads naturally to Eden, and the Lilies of Eden
suggest Lilith, but the scribe returns to Eve's Lilies in a
garden fair. The Lilies and the garden are again conspicuous
in the four lines of verse. In the second half the script
plainly indicates that a cross-correspondence is being attempted.
This cross-correspondence is apparently to consist of Lilies and
something else. Lilies being the clue indicating what scripts
are to be combined. The wording is obscure, but what is unmis-
takable is that in each of two scripts " Lilies " is to occur
in combination with a different word. The second word in
M. V. script is " gold," and an association '
between the two
words Lilies and Gold is suggested in the French coat of arms,
" the golden Lilies of France."
A comparison of the M. V. script of August 19 with the
H. V. script of the same date ^ seems to show a certain
reflexion of the M. V. script in the H. V. script, but not the
supplementary matter that the M. V. script had announced as
intended. The H. V. script began as follows : ^
{Aiigust 19, 1908. 9 p.m.)
Blue and gold were the colours golden stars on a blue ground
like a night sky.
It appeared to us that the French arms of the M. V. script
golden Lilies on a blue ground—were reflected in the opening
words of the H. V. script, the fleurs-de-lys being not unlike
stars in shape. This of course was unsatisfactory ; the catch-
word " Lilies " was absent in the H. V. script, and its absence
was emphasized by the substitution of " stars " for " lilies " in
the phrase which appeared to re-echo the allusion to gold
and the French arms in M. V. script. The failure was
iSee Proc. Vol. XXII. p. 115.
- For a previous attempt in M. V. script to tintl associations for an idea to
be transferred, see Proc. XX. p. 59.
''The coincidence of day was accidental, August 19 not being one of the
pre-arranged days for obtaining script.
LX.] A Nexo Group of Experimenters. 279
the more annoying in that the next H. V. script, on
August 22, contained the word " Lilies," and plainly suggested
that some cross-correspondence had failed, or been misunder-
stood. This script, quoted here only so far as it is appropriate,
claimed to come from MyersHv.
{August 22, 1908. 10.5 p.m.)
Unto this la.st that was the message to be given.
It was in the cemetery where the lilies grow—a view over the
hills—blue hills—in love with death.^
Note that the words are a clue.
But you have no but you have not yet written the most
important of all. But do not hurry or guess let it come of itself.
F. W. H. M.
The " Lilies " of M. V. script of August 1 9 appear here,
and the script further says that a clue has been given but
that " the most important of all " has not been written. This
suggested that the scribe had this time succeeded in giving
the catchword " Lilies," but hjad omitted, and knew that he
had omitted, the distinctive word. The connexion between this
script of August 22 and the M. V. script of August 19 seemed
further indicated by a similarity of phrase :
" Let the words
come" (M. V.) "let it come of itself" (H. V.); and the
identity of control,—" Yours " (M. V.) and " F. W. H. M."
(H. V.).-^
It will be noted that the first words of this script are
" Unto this last that was the message to be given." Now
Unto this last is the title of one of Euskin's books. A remem-
brance of that fact joined to the statements that (1) what
was wanted was " Lilies and " something, and (2) that it was
" a literary allusion that should come to-day " suggested to me
that the intended subject for the cross-correspondence was
Sesame and Lilies, the title of another of Euskin's books. This
1 Cf. Keats, Ode to a Nirjhtiwjale, "Half in love with easeful death"; and
Shelley, in the Preface to Adonais, writing of the Protestant cemetery at
Rome, where Keats is buried, "in love with death."
Only two scripts within the period under consideration were signed by
MyersHv—this script of Aug. 22, and another, on July 27, in which appeared
the other cross-correspondence between the M. V. and H. V. scripts of July
and August, 1908. (See above, p. 277.)
280 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
view was confirmed on further investigation. The H. V. script
of August 12, which by internal evidence seems closely con-
nected with the scripts of August 19 and 22,^ begins with the
words " Praeterita rediviva." Praeterita is the name of another
of Euskin's works. There is a certain appropriateness in the
framing in, so to speak, of the Sesame and Lilies episode in
the H. V. script; the first allusion, on August 12, opens with
the words " praeterita rediviva " (the past revived), and the
last allusion, on August 22, opens with the words "Unto this
last—that was the messaoe to be given." In both cases there
is a certain play upon the meaning of the title :
" things
past-by " live again ;
" unto this last " concludes the episode.
This was recognised at the time, but the singular aptness
of choosing those two titles in particular was not realised till
my researches into editions of Sesame and Lilies led me to
make acquaintance for the first time with the preface to the
edition of 1882, already quoted (p. 273). There Euskin says
of Sesame and Lilies that " if read in connection with Unto
this Last, it contains the chief truths I have endeavoured
through all my imst life to display."
In this sentence, then, Euskin combines with " Sesame and
Lilies " both " Unto this Last " and " All my past life," the
past life which elsewhere he describes as " Praeterita." It is
impossible to attribute to accident the selection among Euskin's
many works of the two titles which are so especially associated
with Sesame and Lilies in the mind of Euskin, and of readers
of his 1882 preface, and it is as certain as anything can be
that neither I nor my daughter - knew any reason why those
titles should be so associated.
That the intention of tlie suggested cross-correspondence
between us was aimed, not at the mere phrase, but at
Euskin's title, is confirmed by the emphasis given to the
word " Garden " in connexion with " Lilies " in M. V. script of
August 19. The alternative title of Euskin's second lecture,
1 See Appendix for complete copies of these scripts. Prominent in all three is
the idea of Death ; neither the topic nor the word death occurs in any other
H. V. script of the period ;
two, those of August P2 and August 22, have
(a) drawings of a lyre and (b) allusions to the "light of the western sky."
-For a statement of the knowledge of Ruskin's book consciously possessed
by my daughter and myself, see below, p. 284.
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 281
Lilies, is Queens' Gardens and the garden is the central idea
iu the concluding paragraphs of his lecture.
It is therefore not surprising that a comparison of scripts
led us to the conclusion that there had been an attempt and
a failure to work off a cress-correspondence on the words
Sesame and Lilies. We spent some time investigating both
scripts in the hopes of detecting a reference to Sesame, but
could find none.
This conclusion was not recorded at the time, but was
vividly present in our minds, and recorded on September 26,^
after reading the Mac script. But though there is no record
of our recognition of the failure of this cross-correspondence
in our scripts, evidence that we had discussed the question
of Sesame and Lilies may be obtained from an H. V. script of
September 23rd.'^ This script, written three weeks after the
comparison of scripts on September 1, and before anything
further had occurred to draw attention to the subject, con-
cludes as follows
Note the literary allusions something should be made of them
putting one with another the clue is there but several things have
been missed but try again.
An implement of peace the fork of the husbandman—the sowing
of the grain —a star flower something like a daisy what does that
mean the message was confused the star flower and the lilies too
look back—the open door.
The allusions in this script to the above described episode
are unmistakable ;
" liter'ary allusions " (see M. V. script of
August 19) are to be noted and put together, the literary
allusions being, as we had observed, Praeterita, and Unto this
Last ; the " star flower something like a daisy," and again
" star flower and the lilies too " recall the " Liliastrum " and
" Liliago " of M. V. script. Clearly the " sowing of the grain
"
and "the open door" allude to Sesame, as a grain, and as
a magic word.
To sum up then : between August 1 2 and August 2 2 the
V. and H. V. scripts seem to have attempted to work
^ See below. Appendix, p. 316.
" Each original script of Jilrs. or Miss Verrall's is, after copying, enclosed
in an envelope and posted to 20 Hanover Square, London, so that the date
of eacli script is attested by the post mark.
282 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [PAllT
off a cross-correspondence on the title of Euskin's Sesame and
Lilies, introducing by the way into Miss Verrall's script
appropriate allusions to two other books of Euskin's specially
associated by the author with Sesame and Lilies, but not so
associated by either automatist. This attempt was recognised
by us on September 1, though not recorded. Miss Verrall's
script, however, repaired that omission on September 23.
Connexion between the Mac and Verrall Scripts.
So far, then, it is clear that references to Euskin's Sesame
and Lilies were made in the Mac script between July 19
and 27, and in the M. V. and H. V. script between August 12
and 22. The question arises whether anything in the method
of presentation, as distinguished from coincidence of subject,
in the two sets of scripts suggests inter-connexion between
them or derivation from a common source.
The allusions in the Mac script combine with the title of
the book two definite ideas, blue and gold. " Where is the
little blue vase with the lilies " etc., and again, " The dust
shall be converted into fine ffold" on July 19; and on
July 26, "Where is the blue book with gold tooling." The
M. V. script of August 19, suggesting that lilies is half of a
message adds, " Your second word is gold think of the
(/olden lilies of France." The French shield being gold lilies
on a bhie ground, it is evident that the idea gold is here
expressed and blue implied. Miss Verrall's contemporaneous
script begins " Bhie and gold were the colours, golden stars on
a blue ground," and her next script combines with the growing
lilies a view over blue hills.
These are the only cases in the scripts of the period which
contain the word lilies. The conjunction of gold and blue
with the Euskin title in all three sets of scripts cannot be
an accident. It is one of many indications of intelligence in
the conduct of the experiment. The word " golden " occurs
once in the M. V. script of the period in question, and " gold
"
or " golden " six times in the H. V. script.^ The mere occur-
rence of such a common word is of no interest, and in the
1
The word b/ne occurs nowhere else in the Mac or M. V. script of the period,
but once in the H. V. script of Aug. 26, in quite a different context.
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 283
passages in the H. V. script ^ where it is not associated with
" blue ", there seems no trace of allusion to Sesame and Lilies.
This cannot, however, be said of the one passage where it is
used in the M. V. script, though, did that passage stand
alone, it would hardly deserve attention. As, however, it
shows some trace of correspondence with the Mac script, I
have thought it best to transcribe it here and leave the reader
to form his own opinion.
On August 11, 1908, the M. V. script begins with the
words
August's ripened sheaves under the moon reapers in the field.
She stood breast high amid the golden corn. The fidl sheaves
ungarnered. With reaping hook and sickle who stands there.
But now write something quite different. . . . Good-b3''e. Tuus.
The " she " of the above is obviously Euth. The line of
verse quoted seemed to me an inaccurate recollection of the
line in Keats' Ode to the Nightingcde, " She stood in tears
amid the alien corn," but my attention has been drawn by
Miss Johnson to a poem of Hood's called Buth which contains
the lines,
" She stood breast-high amid the corn
Clasped by the golden light of morn."
As I have read Hood's poems it is quite possible that the source
of the phrase is to be found in Hood, though the rhythm of
the line is unlike that of Hood's poem, and the allusion to
Keats is perhaps made more probable by the introduction into
the script of the phrase " under the moon." This does not seem
an obvious idea in connexion with gleaning or reaping, but the
evening time is naturally present in a reminiscence of Keats'
Ode, whereas Hood's poem distinctly refers to morning. How-
ever, the crescent moon is closely associated in my mind with
Kuth, owing to a very familiar passage in Victor Hugo's L6gende
cles Slides, I. ii., " Booz Endormi."
^Examination of tlie complete collection of H. V. scripts shows that the
words gold and golden are of fairly frequent occurrence; e.g. there are five
instances in September, 1908, two of which are quoted in the Appendix,
p. 315. It is the combination of gold with blue and its repetition which
gives point to the scrijit of Aug. 19.
284 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
It is not easy to determine whether this script has any con-
nexion with the group of scripts referring to Sesame and
Lilies. On the one hand the conjunction of gold with corn
suggests Sesame, and the reminiscence of Keats' Oclc is paral-
lelled by the reminiscence of another line in the preceding
stanza of the same Ode, in the H. V. script of August 21^, which
is certainly one of the Sesame and Lilies group.^ There may
be an attempt at connexion with the Mac script, for on July 19,
the day when allusions to the liuskin mottoes were made, the
Mac script contained the words " Euth 7 2 chapter 7 verse 2."
There is no such chapter in Ruth as 7 —a fact noted by the
automatists—and it is conceivable that the general intention
of the script was to refer to the name Euth rather than to
any particular passage of the book of liuth? But the allusion *
is too indefinite to be interpreted with certainty.
Previous Knowledge on the paut of Automatists.
Before discussing some further points which arise in con-
nexion with these references in the scripts, it will be convenient
to state exactly what was the conscious knowledge of Euskin's
books possessed by my daughter and myself* on September 1,
1908, when we discovered, as we thought, an attempt to refer
to Sesame and Lilies in our scripts.
Miss Verrall, to the best of her belief, had never read Sesame
and Lilies, Praeterita, or Unto this Last. She was familiar
with the phrase " Sesame and Lilies " as the title of a book of
Euskin's, but did not recognise any allusions to his books in
' See above, p. 279.
-If we suppose an inversion of the figures and a reference to Ruth ii. 7, the
text is not inappropriate as a general reference to sheaves and reaping :
" And
she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the reapers among the
sheaves : so she came, and hath continued even from the morning until now, that
she tarried a little in the house."
"Four times in the Mac script there are references by chapter and verse to
passages in the Bible. One of these is '
Ruth 7 2' as above. The other three
cases all seem to have some relevance or intention. Two of them are discussed
below, p. 295, and there again it seems as though the point of relevance were
to be found in the name of the book, Ecdesiastes, rather than in either of
the verses indicated.
*For the knowledge of Miss Mac see above, pp. 275-6.
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 285
the phrases used in her script. She was familiar with Modern
Painters, Stones of Venice, Ariadne Florentina, and most of the
books on Art, but had read none of the biographical or socio-
logical works. No doubt the titles had been seen by her, but
no suggestion of them was recalled to her mind by the appear-
ance in the script of the words " praeterita rediviva " on August
12, or "Unto this last" on August 22.
I read Euskin's Sesame and Lilies in the second edition
jDublished in 1865. This edition, covered in brown cloth,
contains the two -Manchester lectures and the original mottoes
from Job and Canticles. The mottoes are printed in Greek
with references at the bottom of the page but no translations.
The book was read for the first time by me soon after its
purchase by my mother in 1866,^ and was probably read
more than once between that date and 1870 or 1871. At
that time I knew no Greek at all, and if therefore I became
acquainted with the meaning of the selected mottoes I must
have learnt it by looking up the references given, there being
no indication whatever in the book itself as to the meaning
of the mottoes. It is of course possible that I did look up
these references, but it is most unlikely that a child of my
age—9 to 13—should have done so, and there was no one
in the house who could have translated the Greek. To the
best of my belief I did not read the book after this period
till October, 1908, when my interest in it had been revived
by the occurrences above described.
At some time, probably in or soon after 1871, the revised
and enlarged edition, bound in blue leather and containing the
three lectures and the mottoes from Lucian and Isaiah, was
given to my mother, so that I was familiar with the appear-
ance of the blue bound volume as well as with the small
early brown cloth-covered volume which I had read. Part
of Praeterita was read by me in its first appearance in Fors
Clavigcra about 1875 or 1876; Unto this Last, to the best
of my belief, I have never read ; nor did I read the preface
of the 1882 edition of Sesame and Lilies till October 1908.
I had a pretty good general recollection of the two lectures
on Kings' Treasuries and Queens' Gardens, but no detailed
remembrance of the contents of either.
^ The date is noted in my mother's copy now belonging to Miss Merrifield.
286 Mrs. A. W. VerraCl. [part
It was only when I read the brown cloth-covered edition
at my father's house, where I went on September 28, 1908,
that I recognised in the Mac script allusions to the Greek
mottoes, and it was not till some days later that I found
that different mottoes had been used in the later edition bound
in blue leather. Nor was I aware that in 1907 the original
two lectures of Sesame and Lilies together with the Two Paths
and the King of the Golden River had been published in Every-
vian's Library, with a preface by Sir Oliver Lodge.
Connexion with Earlier Scripts.
The question arises whether the phrase " Sesame and Lilies,"
thus successfully produced by a combination of three automatic
scripts, is to be regarded as an isolated incident, or as forming
part of a series. The reader will be better able to judge this
after considering other cases of cross- correspondence between
the Mac scripts and other scripts.^ But apart from the general
question of the influences underlying the Mac script, there are
some indications that this particular incident forms part of a
series and is connected with other successful cross-correspondences.
The first point to notice is that the phrase " Sesame and
Lilies " appeared in an earlier script of Miss Verrall's, on
March 17, 1907, in the course of the experiments with Mrs.
Piper described in Volume XXII. of the Proceedings of the S.P.E.,.
published in October, 1908. No publication of Miss Verrall's
script of March 17, 1907, was made till Mr. Piddington's Eeport
appeared, and it is therefore impossible that the phrase should
have been known by Miss Mac and her brother to have occurred
in Miss Verrall's writing.^ The phrase occurs after a reference
to laurel leaves for a wreath and a quotation from a poem of
Clough's, " Say not the struggle nought availeth " ; it is followed
^See below, pp. 294-300.
-No proof sheets of Vol XXII. were seen by Mis.s Mac or her brother, iior
are the Mac family acquainted with any of the very small number of persons
who had any opportunity of seeing Miss Verrall's script before its publication
in October, 1908. The script of March 17, 1907, was quoted in a paper read
by Mr. Piddington at a private meeting for S.P.R. members only on Nov. 7,
1907, but no report was printed in the Journal. None of the Mac family are
members or associates of the S.P.R. , nor have they ever attended any S.P.R..
meetings.
LX.] A Neiv Group of Experimenters. 287
by the words " Arum Lilies," but has no apparent connexion
with either preceding or succeeding context. The script is given
in Proceedings Vol. XXII. p. 99, in the discussion on the
cross-correspondence " Laurel Wreath," and Mr. Piddington
traces some associations of ideas in the earlier script down to
and including the quotation from Clough, but has no explanation
to offer of " Sesame and Lilies " or the words that follow.
The script of March 17, 1907, had been seen by me, so
that in July, 1908, the fact that "Sesame and Lilies" had
occurred in H. V. script was known to my daughter and me,
and was recalled to my mind early in August, 1908, when
I read in proof the section of Mr. Piddington's paper which
discussed the H. V. script of March 17, 1907. The references in
the Mac script to " Sesame and Lilies " were completed on July
27, some days before I received the proofs of Mr. Piddington's
paper. The revival of my recollection of the H. V. script of
March 17, 1907, therefore, though it preceded the emergence
of " Sesame and Lilies " in the Verrall scripts, was subsequent
to its appearance in the Mac sciipts.
On July 20, 1908, the first script produced by me as part
of the experiment in cross-correspondence between M. V. and
H. V. script during Jvxly and August contained the same quota-
tion from the poem of Clough as had appeared in my daughter's
script of March 17, 1907. The M. V. script of JiUy 20,
1908, ran : "Say not the struggle naught availeth. For where
the tired waves, vainly breaking—and so on. Conies silent
—flooding in—the main." The reference to Clough 's poem was
noted by me in copying the script on July 21, but it was
only on August 6,^ when reading the proof of Mr. Piddington's
paper, Sec. IX., that I remembered that the same poem had
been quoted in H. V. script of March 17, 1907. It is con-
ceivable that this quotation from Clough on July 20, 1908,
represents the first emergence in my script of an idea already
formed and subsequently defined in all three scripts as " Sesame
and Lilies," words associated long before in H. V. script with
the poem of Clough's.
' My diary and other contemporai'y notes show the dates of my reading the
proofs of Mr. Piddington's Report. I had not received the section referring to
my daughter's script of March 17, 1907, when my own script of July 20, 1908,
produced the quotation from Clough.
288 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
I have no theory to offer as to where or when that idea
was formed. I mention the circumstance here, as it may have
some bearing on the case under consideration. The words,
" Sesame and Lilies," in my daughter's script of March 17,
1907, are the only reference before August, 1908, that we
have found in the whole of her script to Euskin or any of
his works. Euskin's name occurs once in my script of March
19, 1905, in an attempt, possibly veridical, to establish a
connexion with Mrs. Holland. The object described is a picture
of which it is said in the script " Euskin has written of it."^
It is a point worth noting that the development of the
Sidgwick control in the Mac script corresponded closely in
point of time with the inauguration of the new cross-corre-
spondence experiment between my daughter and myself The
first appearance of Sidgwickjj is on July 19, 1908, and on that
day begin the allusions in the Mac script to " Sesame and
Lilies." Our first contemporaneous sitting for script was on
July 20, 1908, and on that day in my script emerges
the quotation from Clough which sixteen months before had
immediately j)receded in Miss Verrall's script the words " Sesame
and Lilies." No special reason has been found by any of the
automatists concerned for associating Sesame and Lilies with
Dr. Sidgwick. Headers of his biography ^ or of his collected
essays might easily find a link between him and Clough, and
to me and my daughter the names of Clough and Sidgwick
are intimately associated. But whereas the reference to Clough
occurs in her script of March 17, 1907, and in mine of
July 20, 1908, the name Sidgwick is found only in the
Mac script, which contains no allusion to Clough.
Eesemblances in Scripts to Contents of " Sesame and
Lilies."
The next point to notice is a certain similarity between
the contents of two of the scripts^ and the concluding paragraphs
iSee Proceedimis S.P.R., Vol. XXI. p. 254.
-See, for instance, Memoir, p. 141.
^Between the verse of H. V. script of August 19, and sections 41-45 of Sesame,
there is a certain similarity, but no ascertainable connexion, such as might
for instance be suggested by resemblance in vocabulary or phraseology. The
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 289
of Euskin's second lecture. Extracts will enable the reader to
judge whether the similarity is more than accidental. The
first script (one of Miss Verrall's) falls outside the period of
"Sesame and Lilies" scripts (August 12-22, 1908). It was
produced after the comparison of scripts had suggested to us
that an attempt had been unsuccessfully made to produce
" Sesame and Lilies " as a cross-correspondence, but before the
reading of the Mac script had revived any interest in the
subject. On September 1-1, 1908, the H. V. script contained
the folio win"
o
In the meadows where bloom the daisies and young maids' feet
are tripping in the dance—around the Maypole on the village green
our English may, the hawthorn's scented pride, the bridal wreath of
summer Queen of May—the light fantastic toe.
And Holbein's dance too, the dance of Death.
Sections 93 and 94 of Euskin's second lecture, Queens
Gardens—never read by Miss Verrall—contain the following :
Have you ever considered what a deep under meaning there lies
... in our custom of strewing flowers . . . that . . . they will tread
on herbs of sweet scent . . . The path of a good woman is indeed
strewn with flowers ; but they rise behind her steps, not before them.
" Her feet have touched the meadows, and left the daisies rosy."
. . . Shall morning follow morning, for you, but not for [the poor]
and the dawn rise to watch, far away, those frantic Dances of
Death.
The two passages show some resemblances ; the " meadows," the
" daisies," the " feet," are common to both, the " scented pride
"
perhaps recalls the " herbs of sweet scent " ;
possibly the " May-
pole," " English may," and " hawthorn " of the script vaguely
represent the " dawn " and general setting of Euskin's second
paragraph.1 In the script the contrast is between the " light
fantastic toe " and the " dance of Death " ; in Euskin (Section
94) the contrast is between the "freshness of dawn " and the
reader who wishes to investigate further the question of connexion between
the contents of Ruskin's volume and the scripts will find in the Appendix,
p. 316, a list of all passages in Sesame and Lilies which appear to me to
have any counterpart in the scripts.
^"Hawthorn" or "may" has elsewhere in H. V. script been associated,
through its French name, Aiihipine, with dawn,
T
290 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
" frantic Dances of Death " as terminatino- the outrageous banquet
described before, and referred to in his note on this passage.
A still more direct connexion seems to exist between the
Mac script and the Euskin volume. On July 26, 1908, the
same day on which was produced the allusion to the blue
leather-bound book, there also came two quotations from
Tennyson's poem of Maud. A first hint of one of these
is probably to be traced in the phrase of July 19, "May
I go to the wind kissed hollow." But whether that be
so or not, the phrase on July 26, "I hate the little hollow,"^
is unmistakably a quotation from Maud, and was recognised as
such in Miss Mac's annotations. The second quotation from
Maud on July 26 is as follows: " Eoses in the west, Eoses in
the south, Eoses in her cheeks, And a rose her mouth."
This quotation was recognised also as from Maud ; it is not
correctly quoted ; in the first two lines " Eoses in " should be
" Eosy is," and " in " in the third line should be " are."
From no other poem are two quotations given in the Mac
script ; and this fact in itself throws emphasis on Tennyson's
Maud. Eeaders of Mr. Piddington's Eeport—not published when
the Mac script was produced—will not need to be reminded
of the important part played in the most elaborate of all the
cross-correspondences, " Light in West " (Section XIX.), by the
allusion to Maud ;
" Eosy is the East and so on," in my script
of April 8, 1907 (Proc. XXII. p. 271).
It is therefore of some interest to find in a script endeavour-
ing to establish cross-correspondence with me, an allusion to a
quotation which in my own script played a part in establishing
cross-correspondences with other automatists. But there is a
special suitability in this particular case in the choice of this
quotation from Maud, as will be seen by a reader who will
compare some sentences from Mr. Piddington's Eeport with the
concluding paragraphs of Euskin's Sesame and Lilies. Mr.
Piddington writes (p. 276) of
that famous passage in Maud where the lover, waiting for Maud
in the high Hall-garden, sees just before the dawn (as did the lover
Dante waiting on the Mount of Purgatory to begin the ascent that
is to bring him finally to Beatrice) the planet of Love,
1 The actual phrase in Maud is, "I hate the dreadful hollow behind the
little wood;" in the script it runs, "I hate the little hollow—woods of box."
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 291
and the reader will remember that Dante immediately there-
after enters the Terrestrial Paradise and sees beyond the river
of Lethe Matilda gathering flowers. Euskin writes :
Shall morning follow morning . . . but no dawn rise to breathe
upon these living banks of wild violet, and woodbine, and rose ; nor
call to you, through your casement—call (not giving you the name
of the English poet's lady, but the name of Dante's great Matilda,
who, on the edge of happy Lethe, stood, wreathing flowers with flowers),
saying: "Come into the garden, Maud."
It cannot be an accident that selects as a subject for cross-
correspondence between Sidgwickji (with the concurrence ^ of
Myersji) on the one hand and Myersy and Myersjjv on the other,
the title of a book of Euskin's where, in a most characteristic
passage, the author makes use of a twice repeated quotation from
Tennyson, to introduce a comparison between the English poet's
Maud in her garden, and Dante's Matilda in the Earthly Paradise.
Further Eeferences in the Mac Script.
One further reference to the subject of this cross-correspond-
ence was made by Sidgwickji. On October 7th, 1908, Miss
Mac received from me a general comment on the script sent
to me, but no reference whatever was made to the words,
" Sesame and Lilies," or to Euskin, nor was anything said that
could have suggested to the automatists that I was interested
in the book. The Mac script, obtained on that day, after the
arrival of my letter, contained the words :
" The crucial test
is the lost book lost lost lost." This was followed by a
drawing of a book twice repeated. The drawing shows an
opened book with a floral decoration upon the binding. It
is impossible to name the flower or foliage represented.
For some few days'- before this script was obtained I had
been engaged in investigating the various editions of Sesame
and Lilies in connexion with the question of introductory
mottoes and bindings, and in particular I had been trying to
trace, but without success, the blue leather-bound copy of
1 See above, p. 268 and Appendix, p. 307.
^ See above, p. 286. The actual date of my investigation of all the editions
of Ruskin in the University Library veas October oth, 1908.
292 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Piuskin's Sesame and Lilies wliich had been given to my
mother.
It thus appears that there was some point in a reference
at this date to a lost book, but if that book be taken to refer
to Sesame anel Lilies, the representation of it must be symbolic.
On no discoverable copy of Euskin's book is there a floral
decoration of the type drawn in the script.^ On the other
hand, it is not inconsistent with automatic habits to describe
an object by means of a symbolic picture.
But whether or not the actual drav^fing was intended to
represent Euskin's book, the connexion of the script of October
7 with earlier references to Sesame eincl Lilies in the Mac
script is unmistakable. Two phrases in it repeat or recall
phrases used in the allusions on July 19 and 26. Thus
" Your eyes are still clay bound—V. has a glimpse of the
meaning " recalls the allusion to " Blind Blind Blind—wherefore
are your eyes bound with clay " that followed immediately
upon the description of the book bound in blue on July 26 ;
and " Search the scriptures for the only adequate meaning
repeats words forming part of the allusion to Euskin's motto to
Scseimc on July 19. Under these circumstances there is no
doubt that the " lost book " which is the " crucial test " is to be
interpreted as Euskin's Sesame and Lilies.^
Chronological Eecapitulation.
A recapitulation in chronological order of the main incidents
above described, and a summary of the writer's conclusions, may
help the reader to understand the whole cross-correspondence.^
On July 19, 1908, in the writings of automatists entirely
unconnected with any previous experimenters, a " Sidgwick
^ The original drawing was sent to me by Miss Mac. '
'^The script also contains tlie drawing of a laurel wreath, not elsewhere
contained in the Mac script. Is it an accident that whereas the cross-corre-
spoudence on "Sesame and Lilies" between the Mac and Verrall scripts begins
on March 17, 1907, in H. V. script with a reference to a laurel wreath,
followed by Clough's poem and the words "Sesame and Lilies," it ends on
October 7, 1908, with the Mac script containing drawings of a laurel wreath
and Ruskin's book ?
3 For a chronological table of incidents see Appendix, p. 317.
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 293
control " developed. This control, Sidgwickji, used phrases re-
calling the two mottoes prefixed in the earlier editions of
Euskin's Sesame and Lilies to the two lectures. On July 26
Sidgwickjj referred to a book carefully bound in blue leather.
On July 27 Sidgwickjj gave the phrase "Sesame and Lilies,"
and on July 29 said that he was now trying to get a message
for Mrs. Verrall. But the automatists did not enter into com-
munication at this time with me.
On August 19, 1908, in my script, MyerSy produced "Lilies"
as half of a message, which was to be completed, through some
other automatist, with another word. The Lilies were described
as being in a garden, and it was stated that for the completion
of the incident the experimenter must wait some time. Con-
temporaneously on August 12, 19, and 22, Myers^y produced
references to growing lilies and other connected topics, and also
gave two titles of books by Euskin, titles which were subse-
quently found to have been intimately associated by Euskin
himself with Sesame and Lilies.
On September 1, 1908, my daughter and I compared
our recent scripts for July and August, and recognised
that about the middle of August there had been what we
regarded as an unsuccessful attempt to give Euskin's title.
Sesame and Lilies, as a cross-correspondence between the two
scripts. But we made no note of this opinion.
Between September 12 and 18, 1908, another control in the
Mac script urged that the messages of Sidgwickjj should be sent
to Mrs. A^errall by September 26, and these messages were
despatched, with a letter from Miss Mac, on September 23.^
Meanwhile on September 23 there were allusions in Miss
Verrall's script to Sesame and Lilies, in phrases reminiscent of
the scripts concerned in the previous attempt at cross-corre-
spondences between her scripts and mine. This script therefore
serves as a record of the impression formed by us on September
1, but not then recorded.
On September 26 a comparison of the statements by
Sidgwickjj with those of MyerSy and Myers^y showed that the
phrase suggested in the Verrall scripts had been expressed in
the Mac script.
1 Posted September 24, 1908.
294 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Conclusions.
It; is claimed that the intimate inter-connexions of this episode
are not due to accident, and that they show throughout a
perception of the general situation, as well as a knowledge of
certain facts outside the range of the automatists concerned.
In particular it is claimed that intelligence is shown in the
following points :
(a) In the division of the subject between three automatists
and the distribution between them of various topics ;
thus, while
there are inter-connexions between all the scripts of the ideas
Lilies, Blue, and Gold, the titles of Ruskin's two other books
occur only in H. V. script, the full title Sesame and Lilies, as
well as the allusions to the prefixed mottoes, occurs only in the
Mac script, while the indication that Lilies is one of two words
intended for a cross-correspondence is suggested in M. V. script.
(b) In the withholding of the Mac script from Mrs. Verrall till
after the comparison of M. V. and H. V. scripts on September 1,
and in the sending of the Mac script before the separation of
Mrs. and Miss Verrall.
(c) In the registration in H. V. script of September 23 of
the impression produced on Mrs. and Miss Verrall by the com-
parison of their scripts on September 1, but not recorded by
them.
(d) In the choice of titles of Euskin's books named in H. V.
script, these two titles being, as was subsequently discovered,
intimately associated as no other two books could be with the
name Sesame and Lilies.
(f) In the choice of the subject of the cross-correspondence,
the contents of Euskin's Sesame and Lilies being linked by an
easy association of ideas with other subjects already successfully
used in cross-correspondences by MyerSp, MyerSy, and MyerSjj.
Cross-Correspondence.
" Vanity of Vanities."
The name of the control, as I have said, was introduced four
times into the script of July 27, 1908 (see above, p. 269). The
phrase " Sesame and Lilies " followed upon its second use.
1
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 295
Immediately after its third use came the words :
" Vanity of
vanities all is vanity," followed by a line . Between this
phrase and a phrase in H. V. script I am disposed to see a
correspondence ; the connexion is scarcely disputable, but the
H. V. script precedes the inception of the Mac script by some
six weeks.
On June 1st, 1908,-^ the H. V. script contained the following:
Lay not up to yourselves treasure upon earth, something about
moth and corruption and the worm shall devour it.
Vanitas vanitatum.
The anchor mark that well.
In M. V. and H. V. scripts the anchor, the symbol of hope, has
long been connected with Dr. Sidgwick.- It is therefore beyond
dispute that on June 1, 1908, the H. V. script connected the
phrase " Vanitas vanitatum " with a Sidgwick symbol, and empha-
sised the importance of the connexion.^
On July 21, 1908, Sidgwickjf wrote: "Evelyn
faithful unto death. Ecclesiastes 3. 2." On July 26 Sidgwickji,
immediately after the description of the blue leather-bound book,^
wrote "Ecclesiastes seven and three." On July 27 Sidgwickjj,
immediately after giving the words " Sesame and Lilies," wrote :
" Vanity of vanities all is vanity." ^
Ecclesiastes 3. 2 is as follows : "A time to be born and a time
to die ; a time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is
planted." Ecclesiastes 7. 3 is as follows :
" Sorrow is better than
laughter : for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is
made better." It is of course possible that one or both of these
texts were intentionally referred to in the script, but in the
absence of verbal quotation and in view of the fact that a text
actually quoted without reference on July 27, 1908, is from
Ecclesiastes, it is more probable that the earlier references to texts
^ One piece of H. V. script (on June 10) was produced after this before Miss
Verrall went to Switzerland. No further script was produced till July 20.
- See Proc. XXI. pp. 224 etc.
The preceding sentence recalls the subject of Ruskin's first lecture, Semme :
or Kings' Treasuries, in particular § 45.
4 See above, p. 275. ^ Ecd. i. 2; xii. 8. ,
296 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
in Ucclesiastes are incorrect preliminary emergences of the text
eventually written on July 27. The reader of JEcclcsiastcs will
remember that the idea of Vanity is so prevalent throughout the
book that by a common association of ideas an approach to the
familiar "Vanity of vanities" might easily be made by means
of general allusions to the book of Ecclesiastes}
Another reason for connecting the earlier references to
Ecclesiastes on July 21 and 26 with the quotation of July
27 is to be found in the context of the three scripts.
Throughout the Mac script the Sidgwick control is associ-
ated with faith, charity, and hope, and their symbols—the
cross, heart, and anchor.- Thus on July 19, the first com-
munication claimed by Sidgwickjf was headed by his name and
shortly followed by the drawing of a cross j^^"^ and the
words "faithful unto death." On July 21, in a communication
from Sidgwickjf, this was repeated, and a little later, just before
the reference to Ecclesiastes 3. 2, came the words, "Evelyn
faithful unto death." The same script later contains
the drawing of an anchor. On July 23 the script begins,
"Sidgwick These three hope faith chai-ity." On July 26 are
found drawings of cross, heart, and anchor, and, a little later,
the star is drawn, followed again by the words, " Faithful unto
death."
Under these circumstances there is no doubt that both the
earlier references to Ecclesiastes, as well as the actual verbal
quotation on July 27, are claimed by Sidgwickjf. Moreover,
in the script of July so claimed there are two, and only two
drawings of an anchor, and these come upon the only two
days (out of nine days on which Sidgwickjj wrote) on which
is mentioned the name Ecclesiastes.
When it is remembered that in the H. V. script of June 1
the phrase " vanitas vanitatum " was immediately followed by
the words " The anchor mark that well," it will be seen that
^ See above, p. 284, for a similar suggestion to explain the reference to a
non-existent chapter in the book of Ruth.
^See Proc. Vol. XXI. pp. '2"24, etc., which had been read by the automatists.
LX.] A New Group of Experimenters. 297
there was good reason for Sidgwickjj to include in the four
topics of his message to me of July 27, the words " A'anity
of vanities all is A^anity."
Ceoss-Coerespondence.
Poem of Victor Hugo.
The fourth topic again, as I think, constitutes a cross-
correspondence with my daughter's script, for Sidgwickji refers
to one of two stanzas of a poem of Victor Hugo's, of which
the other stanza had occurred in Miss Verrall's (unpublished)
script. The interval between the two scripts is greater than
in the last instance, being rather over four months. On the
other hand, the connexion is definitely marked by the occurrence
in both scripts of a similar word, irrelevant to the poem, but
with a certain appropriateness to the whole situation.
On March 16, 1908, the H. V. script ran as follows:^
La vie est breve
Un pen d'espoir
Un pen de reve
Et puis bonsoir.
The end of the story.
Like a crimson petalled rose the rose of Sharon.
When the proof was sought he told them that the only means
of obtaining it was to persevere in the attempt to prove the
connexion.
Gautier and Hugo those together types to be compared.
Unless there is a possibiHty of setting the two side by side there
would be no opportunity.
is is the
now at his ease.
[drawing of flower] note this flower.
The end of the script is fragmentary and obscure. But
what comes out clearly is (1) the quotation of a whole stanza
from a two-stanza poem of Victor Hugo ; (2) an allusion to
^ The whole script is quoted. In the original the last word of the second
line was originally amour, but the pencil has been drawn through this and
the word espoir substituted.
298 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
a rose; (3) a suggestion that some attempt to prove a connexion
must be made, that some two things are to be set side by
side, and two French poets compared. The script was at the
time interpreted by Miss Verrall as suggesting that a cross-
correspondence of some kind was intended. It had been
obtained on a day when she and I were intending to write
simultaneously, but I had been prevented from trying for
script.
On July 27, 1908, the Mac script, immediately after the
words, above quoted, "all is vanity " went on:
A little love and then the joy fades and the rose is crumpled
and wither(s) up—fane. [Here the automatists asked what was the
last word and the script went on: "French," and added an accent
to the e of the preceding word, thus converting fane into fanL
It then concluded :] Bleeding hearts cannot be staunched and the
voice of death echoes through the brain with palling monotony
Sidgwick—hollow and mortal vain is life without a meaning.
This script at once reminded me of the first stanza of the
poem by Victor Hugo, very familiar to me, of which the
second stanza has been quoted above. The first stanza runs
" La vie est vaine
Un peu d'amour
Un peu de haine
Et puis bonjour !
"
The allusions are unmistakable: "A little love" translates
un peu d'amour " ; the rhyme is given by " fane," again
perhaps by " brain," and in the final sentence the phrase
" Vain is life " translates " la vie est vaine "
;
" French
"
suggests the language wanted.
The poem was known to Miss Mac, for though in her first
annotations she only wrote :
"
' Vain is life without a meaning
'
seems familiar: origin of quotation, if it be one, not known,"
she wrote later in answer to my question, whether the
automatists knew a poem of Victor Hugo's which begins
'
La vie est vaine,' " that all knew it, and that she ought to
have mentioned that " a little love " in the script recalled
this poem to her, but that what followed in the script was
so different that she did not think it could refer to the
Hugo poem.
LX.] A Neiu Group of Experimenters. 299
It is in itself not remarkable that the H. V. script on
March 16, 1908, and the Mac script on July 27, 1908,
should quote from a poem of Victor Hugo's known to both
automatists. It is more remarkable that each script quotes a
different verse, and that in one case, the H. V. script, the words
" the end of the story " indicate that the second and concluding
verse is deliberately chosen. Moreover, in this case it was
plainly indicated that a cross-correspondence was intended, and
that unless " two " could be set side by side some opportunity
would be lost. But what clinches the whole matter and dis-
poses of the theory that the correspondence is accidental, is
the introduction into both scripts of the word " rose," a word
which has no association whatever with either verse of the
original poem. And the rose of the H. V. script is, it should
be observed, the " rose of Sharon," a phrase which occurs in the
Mac script in connexion with the allusions to Sesame and Lilies.
It will be admitted that here again Sidgwickjj had good
reason to include in the four topics of his message to me of July
27, 1908, the combination of a rose with the first stanza of
a poem of which the second stanza, also combined with a rose,
was known by me to have occurred four months before in
my daughter's script.
Ke-echo of Peevious Experiments.
I now return to the first of the topics of July 27, 1908,
in which I see not a cross-cori'espondence with a contemporary
automatist—as in the three already described —but rather a
reminiscence or re-echo of the subject of a previous successful
•experiment in automatic cross-correspondence.
The Mac script of July 27, 1908, began as follows:
Sidgwick. news from the Occident [drawing of stalked rose
with leaf] Roses—dew-kissed. —R. S.^
Neither of these phrases is, as far as I have been able to
discover, a quotation. The second recalls " Sharon's dewy
^ These initials which were not looked on by the automatists as the signature
of a control, had occurred before, on July 20. There they came in the midst
of the script, just as 6. V. occurs in the script of July 21 (see Appendix).
The initials R. S. have not been identified or explained.
300 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
rose" of the script of July 19; but no phrase at all like
the first is to be found in the script. Between the two there
is no obvious connexion, but the whole arrangement of the
script indicates that they form part of a single topic, the
next topic, Sesame and Lilies, being introduced by a repetition
of the name of the control.
Regarded as forming a whole, the two clauses seem to
present a certain contrast or opposition ; news is announced
from the setting sun, whereas it is rather with the rising of the
sun that we associate dew-kissed roses, as it is in the morning
that we find dew upon the roses. It is in this contrast that
I conceive to be the point of the message. The words of
Sidgwicku are not quotations, it is true, but we may find
their literary prototype, and a parallel, not only to " news
from the Occident " but to news from the Occident that might
very well find the " roses dew-kissed ", in the poem of Maud,
where the poet bids the happy day
" Pass the happy news .
Blush it thro the West
Till the West is East,
Blush it thro' the West."
Here then is '
news from the ' West, and news intimately
associated with '
roses.' Tennyson's Maud, as I have already
said,^ is the only poem from which two quotations are given
by Sidgwickjj. The second of those two quotations, after a
preliminary attempt on July 21, emerged on July 26 —the
day preceding the collected messages to me—in a reproduction
of the four lines
"Eosy is the West
Eosy is the South
Roses are her cheeks
And a rose her mouth,"
with the substitution in the first two lines of " Eoses in
for " Eosy is," and in the third of " Eoses in " for " Eoses
are.
iSee p. 290.
LX.] A Neiv Group of Experimenters. 301
At the time that the Mac script was produced, Mr.
Piddington's Eeport {Proc. Vol. XXII.) was not published, and
no paper had been read at any meeting of the Society on the
subject of Section XIX., " Light in West," in which he describes
the series of complicated cross-correspondences between the trance
of Mrs. Piper and the scripts of Mrs. Holland and myself.
These are grouped round the three concordant contributions
made on April 8, 1907 {o^o. cit. pp. 265-77); the contribution
of my script was the substitution of " east " for " west " in
a quotation from the same poem from Maud (l. xvii.), which
is quoted in the Mac script of July 21 and 26, 1908. The
automatists had no knowledge of any of these scripts, or of
Mr. Piddington's conclusions. Whatever view we may hold as
to the meaning of the opening words of the Mac script of
July 27, 1908, it is certain that on July 26 the script
quoted the same line which had been referred to in my
script of April 8, 1907. But to me it appears that the
opening sentence of Sidgwickji on July 27, 1908, conveyed
an unmistakable allusion to the " concatenation of cross-
correspondences " described by Mr. Piddington as " Light in
West," and represented in the Mac script as " News from the
Occident."
This is not the only '
re-echo ' in the Mac script. There
is in the script of July 26th, 1908, an unmistakeable allusion
to an incident described in my Eeport on my automatic writing
{Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XX.) which there is every reason to believe
unknown to the automatists. The Eeport was published in
October, 1906, and it is therefore impossible to be certain
that some notice of the volume did not come within the
cognisance of one of the automatists concerned, though none
of the family had read the Eeport in question.^ The reader
must judge how far it is probable that a review, or notice,
or even a perusal of the Eeport is likely to be responsible for
the incident which I now describe.
On July 26, 1908, the Mac script passed on from the
quotation from Maud l. xvii. to an allusion to a well-known
1 See above, p. 266, for a statement of the automatists' previous knowledge
of the publications of the S.P.E. Both Miss E. Mac and Mr. A. Mac state
that, to the best of their knowledge, they did not read my Report or any
review of it.
302 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
poem of Malherbe's on the death of his friend's child.^ Then
came the following
(illegible Greek characters) Sennacherib Assur bani pal O star
of the dawn—to the porch of the east ^aster •
The
passionate pilgrim.
Eeaders of Proceedings Vol. XX. will remember that during
some weeks in 1901 my script was occupied with attempts to
reproduce three Greek words chosen by my husband as the
subject of an experiment. The words were juovottoAop e? aco
(" to the one-horse or solitary dawn "). They were taken
from a chorus in the Orestes of Euripides" describing a reversal
of natural phenomena. Both the meaning and the sound of
the words were attempted in the script. Among those attempts
were the following^:
dawn - J^^ly '1-
towards the east -A-ug. 16.
to the east -^ug. 29.
in the east like stars Sept. 7.
Banipal and Assur . . . Asta, aster Sept. 7.
The resemblance between my Report and the Mac script
cannot be accidental, and that Sidgwickjj associated the phrases
with me is manifest, not only from their occurrence in script
which the automatists were told to send to me, and which
proved to be full of " messages " appropriate and intelligible
to me, but also because the phrases are immediately followed by
the words " the passionate pilgrim," words which in my script of
Jan. 17, 1904, had been associated with Dr. Sidgwick. This
latter fact was known to the automatists, since the script in
question was quoted in Miss Johnson's Beport,* so that if this
case stood alone, it would be difhcult to resist the conclusion
that certain passages from my Eeport, in particular the copy of
the script of Sept. 7, 1901, had also been seen at some time by
one of the automatists and retained by the subliminal memory.
But the case does not stand alone. The words in question
occur in the same Mac script which contains the quotation
^This incident formed part of a series of allu.sions, evidential and interesting
personally to me, but not treated here.
2Eiu-ipides, Oreste-^ 1004. ^^ee Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XX. pp. 387-93.
»See Proc. Vol. XXI. pp. 227, 316.
LX.] A Neiu Gtou.]} of Experimenters. 303
of Maud I. xvii., re-echoing the quotation of the same passage
in my unpublished script of April 8, 1907; while the earlier
script on the same day contains allusions to Sesame and Lilies,.
and also to Ecclesiastes and the anchor, constituting cross-
correspondences with other unpublished scripts of my daughter's
and mine. Under these circumstances it is justifiable to point
out that there appears to be a certain intelligence shown in
the selection of the very few words used on July 26, 1908,
to recall my husband's experiment. These words are not an
exact reproduction of anything in the script. They summarise
the account in my Eeport and emphasise with remarkable
accuracy the chief points ;
namely, the long series of " illegible
Greek characters," ^ the attempts to give " three foreign words
"
(Assur bani pal -), and the use of Latin (aster) in the script.
The general meaning of the passage selected from Euripides,
which describes the reversal of natural phenomena, is well
reproduced in the phrase, " 0 star of the dawn to the porch
of the east,"—the natural progression of the star of dawn, as
of other stars, being from the porch of the east.
I have now described the four topics in the Mac script of
July 27, 1908, which accompany the four uses of the name
of the supposed control. But before concluding the whole
account, it remains to comment on five words, which occur
after the phrase " Sesame and Lilies " and before the third
" Sidgwick," thus
Sidgwick Sesame and Lilies lotus the flower of repentance.
Eeference to " lotus " is very frequent in the preceding script,
and the actual words of July 27 had occurred on July 19.
(July 19.) I have lost the precious jewel of repentance.
Lotus—the flower of repentance—Buddha.
See the little lotus flower the symbol of resignation.
(July 2L) lotus buds—symbols of resignation.
(July 23.) Lotus.
(July 27.) lotus the flower of repentance.
1 That Sidgwickii can write legible Greek letters on occasion is shown by
the introduction, later on the same day, of the words yXvKvs and rjvprjxa in
Greek characters.
2 My script has Banipal and Assur.
S04 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Miss Mac's note on allusions etc., in the script runs as
follows : "All references to Lotus thought to be from Holland
script." The passage of which Miss Mac was thinking is to be
found in Miss Johnson's Eeport (Proc. Vol. XXI. p. 350):
From the ancient lotus symbol
The inevitable lily
Purity—immortality
Detachment from Earthly Care
Karma—no
Om mani pudmi om !
These words are followed by a " rough attempt to depict
the seed-vessel of the lotus, a frequent ornament in Buddhist
carving." The words mean :
" Oh thou jewel in the lotus,
thou!" and the "jewel in the lotus" symbolises purity as
well as heavenly wisdom and is sometimes rendered as " the
heart of the lily."
There seems little doubt that the references in the Mac
script are directly traceable to the above passage in Miss
Johnson's Eeport on the Holland script. It is possible that
the association there and elsewhere of lily and lotus has
brought in the "lotus" just after the "lilies" of "Sesame and
Lilies" on July 27. But having regard to the relevance of
all the other script on July 27, I am disposed to think that
there is some reason not hitherto discovered for the introduction
of this reminiscence of Mrs. Holland's script of May 15,
1906.
Summary and Conclusion of Incident.
The whole script therefore of July 27, 1908, is as follows:
Sidgvvick. News from the Occident. Roses—dew-kissed—R. S.
Sidgwick. Sesame and Lilies—Lotus the flower of repentance
Sidgwick. Vanity of vanities all is vanity—A little love and then
the joy fades and the rose is crumpled and wither[s] up—fane.
(Automatists ask " what is that 1 ")
French [accent added to last word making fane into fane]. Bleeding
hearts cannot be staunched and the voice of death echoes through
the brain with palling monotony—Sidgwick—hollow and mortal vain
is life without a meaning.
LX.] A Neiu Group of Experimenters. 305
I take this script to contain four topics, each purporting to
come from Sidgwickjj
(1.) News from the Occident.
(2.) Sesame and Lilies.
(3.) Vanity of vanities.
(4.) One stanza of Victor Hugo's poem.
These four topics are not wholly disconnected among them-
selves : the roses of (1) are repeated by the rose ^ of (4), which
is not suggested by the poem. Again the vanity of (3) is
repeated by the vain of (4). In the case of topics (2) and
(4) there are a few superfluous words,- but in both those cases
the reference to the main topic is perfectly definite.
Further, I take the script of July 27 to be a summary of
various attempts that had been made by the same control
from July 19, 1908, onwards, to convey verifiable matter of
evidential value that would be comprehensible to me, as is
made plain by the script of July 29, 1908, which, pui'porting
to come from another control, " Evans," is as follows
About Mr, Sidgwick's script. He is anxious to get a message
through you to Mrs. Verrall.
That the " message " is intelligible to me—and I hope to
others—it is the object of this paper to show.
A few words will describe the conclusion of the incident
and the termination for the time of communications from
Sidgwickjj. On September 23, 1908, as has been said. Miss
Mac wrote to me and despatched the script up to date. On
September 27, when automatic writing was attempted, the
only words written were from another control, not Sidgwickjj,
" Wait till V writes Wednesday week," i.e. till October 7.
On September 29 Miss Mac received from me a letter of
acknowledgment, in which I wrote that it would be some
time before I could comment in detail on the script. On
September 30 the Mac script again repeated, as from
Sidgwickjj, " Wait till Wednesday, because of V's preoccupation,"
the "Wednesday" being again October 7. On October 7, at
^ The rose also appears in another reference, on July 19, to topic (2), see
above, pp. 273-4.
-'lotus . . . repentance,' and 'Bleeding liearts etc'
U
306 Mrs. A. M^. Verrall. [PAKT
4 p.m., my letter commenting at length on the script was
received by Miss Mac. I, who of course knew nothing of any
statements in the Mac script subsequent to September 23, had
finished my comment earlier than I had expected or led Miss
Mac to suppose. So that the original directions of September
27, repeated on September 30, that no more script was to be
produced till " V " wrote on October 7, were justified by the
event. The Mac script of October 7, produced after the receipt
of my letter, contributed only one sentence referring to the
cross-correspondence on Sesame and Lilies, namely the allusion
to the " lost book " which has been already described.
Here for the present ends the account of the communications
received from Miss Mac. At a future time I hope to supple-
ment this paper by notes on further indications in the Mac
script of telepathic connexion with other automatists, including
some re-echoes of recognised but unpublished cross-correspon-
dences. The experiments are being continued as occasion offers,
so that it is hoped that this paper will be but the first of a
series of reports on the results contributed by this new group
of experimenters.
APPENDIX.
For the convenience of the reader, all the scripts quoted or
referred to in the foregoing paper are here arranged in chrono-
logical order, within the two groups that may be called the
Mac scripts and the Verrall scripts. In the former case, the
scrijDt being produced by means of a planchette worked by
Miss Mac and one or more other members of the family, the
initials of the automatists concerned are given before each
script. Questions or remarks by the automatists at the time
of writing are within inverted commas ;
comments, etc., by
Miss Mac written on the copy sent to me are in round brackets
comments, etc., added by me are in square brackets. I have
given the context of the passages, but omitted such parts of
the script as manifestly refer to other topics. All omissions
LX.] Appendix to " A Neio Group of Experimenters." 307
are marked with . . . The facsimiles represent drawings in
the script of two types of four-armed figures, namely a cross
and a star. These are not always distinguishable. The original
drawings have been sent to me and I have interpreted each
case as best I could, but all ambiguous cases are marked
with *.
Mac Scpjpts.
July 19, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. Grood may arise from the intervention of spirits for
many are susceptible to thought waves of spirits.
"Who writesr'
Mr. Sidgwick. It is exceedingly doubtful if there will
ever be a perfect communication.
faithful unto death . . . When did I
write —she dwelt beside the untrodden ways, beside the
springs of Dove—I have lost the precious jewel of repent-
ance . . . May I go to the wind kissed hollow . . .
Lotus—the flower of repentance—Buddha . . . See the
little lotus flower the symbol of resignation. Trust in
the Lord O ye of little faith . . .
Some day the film shall be torn from my eyes and
I shall astound you—Where is the little blue vase with
the lilies that grow by Sharon's dewy rose—Can I see
the purple heath by—and I wasn't for I shall never
be— ... I shall tell you a beautiful poem the Bells
of Edgar Allen Poe—Search the scriptures and the
dust shall be converted into fine gold—Should I stop
ere I be awearied—. This is my name—Harry
F. W. H. M.—H. S.
Can I see the rock of my salvation—Ruth 72. Chapter 7
Verse 2 —it becomes it me to unveil the statue of the
living God
[Change of writing here, and after some talk about
the new control, H. S., another control writes :]
He is the only interesting person you will get you
are not psychic enough for a person like Gurney.
308 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Juhj 21, 190S.
E.M. AND A.M. . . . faithful unto death.
Roses in the south [two undefined drawings] Lotus
buds—symbols of resignation. .
La pensee—Cau a—G. V. -V. S.—Evelyn
faithful unto death. Ecclesiastes 3. 2.
\j
Why did the rose fall so young and fresh
I am tired.
"Ls that all?"
One thing more [drawing of anchor]
July 23, 1908.
(Automatists ask for H. S. control.)
E.M. AND A.M. Yes—Sidgwick. These three hope faith charity
Sundown on the face of the craggy hill. [Same undefined
drawings as on July 21, subsequently identified by Miss
Mac as a stringless lyre.] . . . Lotus.
F. W. H. M. Ce n'est pas un petit idee
"What is that?"
It is French—Belle.
July 2J,, 190S.
E.M. AND L.L.M. Sidgwick. tell Mrs. Verrall to think of me.
July 26, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. [After drawings of cross * and heart, . . . and anchor:]
Wherefore Wherefore have ye forsaken me saith the
Lord—A blue book bound in blue leather with ended
paper and gold tooling.
"What book is that?"
Blind Blind Blind wherefore are your eyes bound with
clay—Every man has his—evil that good may come—
Look now at this text Ecclesiastes seven and three.
LX.] Appendix to " A JSeiu Group of Experimenters." 309
L.M., D.M. AND A.M. Sidgwick. —Erebus and terror—Hoc fecit Perse-
phone—Eheu fugaces postume postume —Gandria^ super-
eminet lacum and mi ay de mi—weary and bitter like
the gall—[drawing of star *] Faithful unto death—She
died young—Roses in the west Roses in the south Roses
in her cheeks And a rose her mouth—Alas for the
faded faded petals—helas elle est morte dans sa jeunesse
quand tout est frais et nouveau—(illegible Greek char-
acters) Sennacherib Assur bani pal 0 star of the dawn
—to the porch of the east—aster—The passionate
pilgrim —the fuel of Life is repentance—Silesia the— . . .
7]vpi]Ka ... I hate the little hollow—Woods of
box in the Auvergne where the summer winds sough
.... yAuKi'S . .
July 27, 1908.
E.M. andA.M. Sidgwick News from the Occident [drawing of stalked
rose in profile with one leaf] Roses dew-kissed—R. S.
L.M., D.M. AND A.M. Sidgwick. Sesame and lilies—lotus the flower
of repentance—Sidgwick. vanity of vanities all is
vanity—A little love and then the joy fades and the
rose is crumpled and wither(s) up—fane
"What is that?"
French (accent added to last word making "fane"
into "fane") Bleeding hearts cannot be staunched and
the voice of death echoes through the brain with palling
monotony—Sidgwick—hollow and mortal vain is life
without a meaning.
July 29, 1908.
L.M., D.M. AND A.M. [Another control writing, called Evans:]
About Mr. Sidgwick's script. He is anxious to get
a message through you to Mrs. Verrall. He is trying
to do it now.
"What message
r'
How could I give you his message. . . . He is
considering an authentic message to send you.
^Name of place on Lake Lugano visited by L. M. not long before.
310 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Sept. 1, 1908. , . .
E.M. AND A.M.
Mrs. Verrall [drawing of anchor, two crosses *, and
heart.]
Sept. 13, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. [Drawing of hand and five pointed finger nails].
Verrall.
Sept. 13, 1908. [later]
E.M. AND A.M. [Another control writing, called Reynold :]
Verrall is waiting for you to send her an abstract of
your script. Take my advice and do not send her too much
of Bell 1 only such bits as seem to you to be at all likely.
Send the conversations of Mr. Evans, and Dr. Sidgwick,
and Dr. Cassilis ^ (new name to us) and also some of
your early efforts. You must mention the change in
your script after the reading of Mrs. Holland. The
". change however was not lasting. Enijjhasise the Italian
and point out the lack of knowledge of the tongue.
State under what conditions the writing is easiest and
if it ever affords you pain. Eeynold
You must write you know. Professor Sidgwick.
" Why ?
For the sake of science. Mr. Evans.
Sept. IJ^, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. Reynold. I have one message for you—You must
both send specimens of your real writing.
[H. S. writing] V—crystal (drawing of eye). When
will the day come oh reaper 1 The day when I shall
behold ray jewels 1 [drawing of star, heart and anchor]
when shall I behold my jewels 1 My pearl of great price
. . . [drawing of rose and leaf] rich and rare dear [draw-
ing of three decorated crosses] jewel [drawing of ring]
Ve tired now Sidgwick.
^ Name of early 'control'. "Nothing further known of this 'control'.
LX.] Ajypendix to " A Neiv Group of Experimenters." 311
Sept 15, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. Reynold. Mrs. V. will nob be disappointed. This
has been expected. (Drawing of crystal with profile of
lady— Mrs. Verrall ]
—gazing into it).
Sept. 18, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. [drawing of rose and leaf] Reynold. Is there any
possibility of our Cambridge friend receiving the message
: by next Saturday week 1
"Every possibility."
(Drawing of crystal and profile of lady.)
[All the above scripts were seen by M. de G. V. and H. de G. V.
on Sept. 26, 1908.] .•
.
-
^
Sept. 27, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. (Reynold writing). .Reynold.
Wait till V. writes Wednesday week.
Sept. 30, 1908.
E.M. AND A.M. . . . (Reynold writing)
Wait till Wednesday because of V's preoccupation. . . .
Oct. 7, 1908.
E. M. AND A. M. (H. S. writing)
Dig a grave among the laurels [drawing of wreath]. Your
eyes are still clay bound—V. has a glimpse of the meaning
—peace perturbed spirit [drawing of owl] Owl like
phantasm—Search the scriptures for the only adequate
meaning—Farewell said she farewell and once more sad
farewell—The crucial test is the lost book lost lost lost
[drawing of open book] This is the last message I have.
Be sure of this, [drawing of open book with V on it]
ale
[The above scripts were seen by M. de G. V. on Oct. 24, 1908.]
312 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [PAKT
Verkall Scripts.
March 16, 1908. 10 p.m.
H. jUE G. V. La vie est breve
Un pen d'anjeoTr espoir
Uii peu de reve
Et puis bonsoir.
The end of the story.
Like a crimson petalled rose the rose of Sharon.
When the proof was sought he told them that the
only means of obtaining it was to persevere in the
attempt to prove the connexion.
Gautier and Hugo those together types to be compared.
Unless there is a possibility of setting the two side
by side there would be no opportunity.
is is the . .
now at his ease . .
[drawing of flower.] note this flower.
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on March 22, 1908.]
June 1, 1908. 9.30 p.m.
Lay not up to yourselves treasure upon earth, some-
thing about moth and corruption and the worm shall
devour it.
Vanitas Vanitatum.
The anchor mark that well.
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on June 6, 1908.]
Aug. 11, 1908. 11.30 p.m.
M. DE G. V. August's ripened sheaves under the moon reapers in
the held. She stood breast high amid the golden corn,
the full sheaves ungarnered.
With reaping hook and sickle who stands there 1
But now write something diflerent.
Try regular hours for writing etc. etc
Tuus.
[The above script was seen by H. de G. V. on Sept. 12, 1908.]
Lx.] Appendix to "A Neiv Groujj of Experimenters." 313
August 12, 1908. 9.20 p.m.
H. DE G. V. praeterita rediviva
0 mors O labies
Araby the perfumes of Araby
Sleep Duncan. Macbeth hath murdered sleep —and
sleep is changed to death—Death the bell-ringer, Death
who rings the curfew for the quenching of the fire upon
life's central hearth. When the flames burn brightly
life leaps high in the breast but as they flicker and die
away so life too sinks and smoulders and grows cold.
A light in the Western sky the last flicker of the
dying day the landscape melts before our eyes the
colour fades away.
[drawing of two-stringed lyre.] A lyre two-stringed
mark the symbol golden voiced.
[scribbles.]
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on Sept. 1, 1908.]
Aug. 19, 190S. 10.40 a.m.
M. DE G. V. Let your hand go loose—let the words come.
It is a literary allusion that should come to day. Think
of the words
Liliastrum Paradise—Liliago no not that. Lilies of
Eden —Lilith no
Eve's lilies
all in a garden fair. Try again.
Lilies swaying in a wind
under a garden wall
Lilies for the bees to find
Lilies fair and tall
Then besides the Lilies there is to be another word
for you and for her Lilies and a different word—So
that lilies is the catchword to show what words are to
be put together.
And your second word is gold,
think of the golden lilies of France.
You will have to wait some time for the end of
this story, for the solution of this puzzle —but I think
there is no doubt of its ultimate success.
Yours.
[The above script was seen by H. de G. V. on Sept. 1, 1908.]
314 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
August' 19, 190S. 9.20 p.m.
H. DE G. V. Blue and gold were the colours golden stars on a blue
ground like a night sky —the brimming goblet the
eagle's prey cupbearer to Zeus himself, but it availed
him nothing when the peril came (illegible word).
Storks upon the roofs white storks that was part of
the scene.
Return oh king to thy ancestral halls
Let there be revelry amid thy thralls
For now thy day hath come.
Naught shall avail thee that thou wert so great
Thy boundless kingdom and thine high estate
When Death shall beat the drum.
The fish with shining scales —something—a fish
phosphorescent light upon the wat—upon the water.
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on Sept. 1, 1908.]
August 22, 190S. 10.5 p.m.
H. DE^G. V. Unto this last that was the message to be given. The
cross and sceptre the double symbol temporal and
spiritual but the cross was first.
Who .said " I will go before that ye may see the track."
It was in the cemetery where the lilies grow—a view
over the hills—blue hills—iu love with death.
note that the words are a clue.
But you have no but you have not yet written
the most important of all. But do not hurry or guess
let it come of itself. Is not there a change this time.
You should consider Avhat it was that made you feel
what no [drawing of lyre without strings]. An oriel
window beautifully traced the Western light shines
through.
F. W. H. M.
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on Sept. 1, 1908.]
[On Sept. 1, 1908, u couiparison of scripts suggested to M.
de G. V. and H. de G. V. that the above scripts contained an
unsuccessful attempt to produce Euskin's Sesame and Lilies as
the subject of a cross- correspondence.]
LX.] Appendix to "A Neiv Group of Experimenters." 315
September 1, 1908. 11.30 p.m.
H. DE G. V. a Maltese cross crystal and gold hung on a fine gold
chain—there is some history connected with it—a royal
tragedy. 1
G or [illegible letter]
with foot in the stirrup—boot to saddle to horse and
away ere break of day . . .
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on Sept. 26, 1908.
It is quoted here, although it contains no allusions to Sesame and
Lilies, because it perhaps presents points of connexion with the Mac
script of Sept. 14 (above, p. 310), and with Mrs. Holland's script of
Dec. 9, 1908, quoted and commented on by Miss Johnson below,
p. 320.]
Septemler IJ^, 1908. 11.30 p.m.
H. DE G. V. vTrepcjivei (TTevd^uii' [Thou excellest in lamentation]. A
golden mace the insignia of office but wherefore 1 Aliis
disputetur [let others dispute].
In the meadows where bloom the daisies and young
maids' feet are tripping . in the dance around the Maypole
on the village green our English may the hawthorn's
scented pride the bridal wreath of summer queen of
May the light fantastic toe.
And Holbein's dance too the dance of Death.
The spider and the fly the web stretched wide,
[illegible word] might is right [scrawls].
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on Sept. 26, 1908.]
Sept. 23, 1908. 9 p.m.
H. DE G. V. . . . . .
Note the literary allusions something should be made
of them putting one with another the clue is there but
several things have been missed but try again.
An implement of peace the fork of the husbandman
the sowing of the grain a star flower something like a
daisy what does that mean 1 the message was confused
the star flower and lilies too look back the open door.
[The above script was seen by M. de G. V. on Sept. 26, 1908.]
^ Probably an allusion to Rossetti's poem, The King's Tragedy.
^Browning, Cavalier Soiujfs. . :
«
316 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Index to Sections of Sesame (S.) cmd Lilies (L.) with which
may be compared phrases in the above-quoted scripts.'
July 19, 1908.
July 36, 1908.
June 1, 1908.
Aug. 19, 1908.
Aug. 22, 1908.
Sept. li, 1908.
Sept. 23, 1908.
Note on ^'Sesame and Lilies" made after reading the Mac scripts of
July 19—Se^}tember 23, 1908.
September 26, 1908.
On September 1 H. and I compared scripts, as we had for some
time intended to do.
I took my script of August 19 to mean that whereas I had Lilies
and gold H. was to have Lilies and some other woi'd, but this was not
the case.
H.'s simultaneous script of August 19 had no reference to Lilies
at all, but it had the word gold, and it also apparently alluded to
the French arms by which my script had combined the two ideas
of lilies and gold. It thus seemed as if H. had done exactly what
my script did not want ; but there seemed a plain reflexion in her
script (9.20 p.m.) of my script of 10.40 a.m.
H.'s next script, August 22, began Unto this last" and had the
word Lilies. When we talked it over and noticed that H. script of
August 12 had Praeterita we were reminded of Sesame and Lilies
and said that our script seemed to have failed to do Sesame and
Mac Scripts.
L. § 70. (Wordsworth's Lucy).
Motto to L. in first edition.
Motto to S. in first edition.
S.
§§ 15-20, especially §§17 and 18.
L. §§ 93, 94.
Verrall Scripts.
S. § 45.
(M. V.) Title of L.
(H.V.) S. §§41-45.
S. § 25, end of, (Dante, stritggle between
temporal and spiritual powers).
L. S8 93 and 94.
S. § 50.
Lx.] Appendix to " A Neiv Group of Experimenters." 317
Lilies. We looked through H.'s script to see if we could find
Sesame, but without success.
I received this morning the automatic script of the Mac family
in which I find that on July 27 " H. S." produced Sesame and Lilies,
and on July 29 another of their controls said that H. S. was anxious
to get a message through them to Mrs. V.; "he is trying to do it
now."
M. DE G. V.
H. DE G. V.
Chronological Table of Incidents in Cross-Correspondence
ON "Sesame and Lilies."
1907.
(1) March 17. H. V. Laurel wreath, Clough's poem. Sesame and
Lilies.
1908.
(•'>')
0 uiy 1 1)
July 1 Q
ly. iviac. Reference to Motto of "Sesame" (Job xxviii.
5 Q)
(^) July 20. M. V. Clough's poem.
(5) July 26. Mac. Description of book carefully bound in blue
leather.
(6) July 27. Mac. Sesame and Lilies.
{') July 29. Mac. Sidgwick control anxious to get a message to
Mrs. Verrall and trying to do it now.
(8) Aug. 6. Mrs. Verrall reads proof of S.P.R., Vol. XXIL,
Laurel wreath.
(9) Aug. 12. H. V. Praeterita etc.
(10) Aug. 19. M. V. Lilies as half of incomplete message. Lilies in
a garden etc.
(11) Aug. 16. H. V. Golden stars on blue ground etc.
(12) Aug. 22. H. V. Unto this last etc., Lilies, most important
not written.
(13) Sept. 1. Comparison of above M.V. and H.V. scripts.
(14) Sept. 13. Mac. Script of July to be sent to Mrs. Verrall.
(15) Sept. 15. Mac. Above repeated.
318 '• . Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
(16) Sept. 18. Mac. Script to be sent by September 26.
(17) Sept. 23. H. V. Reminiscence of impression produced by com-
parison of M. V. and H. V. scripts.
(18) Sept. 23. Letter written by Miss Mac enclosing script.
(19) Sept. 26. Mac script received by Mrs. Verrall.
(20) Sept. 29. Mrs. Verrall reads Sesame and Lilies and
notes mottoes in early edition.
(21) Sept. 29. Mrs. Verrall seeks unsuccessfully for blue-
bound Sesame and Lilies.
(22) Oct. 5. Mrs. Verrall ascertains change of mottoes in
later editions and finds Ruskin's preface
connecting titles.
(23) Oct. 7. Mac. Reference to laurel wreath and lost book.
LX.] Sequel to the " Sesame and Lilies " Incident. 319
SEQUEL TO THE "SESAME AND LILIES" INCIDENT.
•
By Alice Johnson.
It appears that Mrs. Holland made certain contributions to the
" Sesame and Lilies " cross-correspondence, described above by
Mrs. Verrall. The references in Mrs. Holland's script occurred
in December, 1908, whereas the chief references in the Mac
script were in July, and in the Verrall script in August, 1908.
Of course the belatedness of Mrs. Holland's references detracts
from their evidential value by giving more opportunity for the
coincidences to occur by chance. But it happened that Mrs.
Holland produced only one piece of script between March
11th and November 25th, 1908, that one (dated July 23,
1908), being concerned with the cross-correspondence of
"Sevens," given in my paper above (pp. 222-263).
After this almost blank period, she began to write again,
generally once a week, from November 25, 1908, onwards.
Erom that date up to April 14, 1909, she produced twenty
pieces of script, in which have been found nine cross-corre-
spondences with Mrs. Piper's script of a few months before,
viz. the period from March 17 to May 12, 1908, besides
some evidential matter connected with the Verrall scripts, all
of which I propose to deal with later. It looks, therefore, as
if Mrs. Holland, on resuming her script, began to pick up
the topics (all, of course, unpublished at that time), treated of
some months earlier by the other automatists, for the connec-
tions then appearing seem too numerous to be put down to
chance. Consequently I think that the occurrence of passages
in her script referring to " Sesame and Lilies " is not accidental,
but has some supernormal connection with the analogous pas-
sages in the scripts of the other automatists.
320 Alice Johnson. [part
It must be noted that Mrs. Holland's references did not
occur until after Mrs. Verrall had seen the other scripts and
made out the connections between them and the various topics
treated of, so that it seems likely that she was influenced by
telepathy from Mrs. Verrall. The influence of her own mind
is also obvious here. Her range of poetical reading is,
as I have already said, unusually wide, and her script as a
whole is characterised by a profusion of quotations ; but in
this case her contributions to the cross-correspondence consist
of hardly anything else. The poetical form taken by the
script may, then, be attributed to her own mind ; but for the
selection of quotations appropriate to the subject some other cause
must, of course, be found. She does not, it will be seen, quote
from any of the literary sources drawn on by the other auto-
matists, and incidentally she introduces certain topics belonging
to the subject, but not to be found in any of the other scripts.
The first passage to be considered occurs in her script of
December 9th, 1908.
... A circling diadem of quivering star
"Three queens with crowns of gold and from them rose
A cry that shivered to the tingling stars." ^
[Here follow references to other topics, quite unconnected with this.]
"Blame not the Royal Saint for vain expense."
Charge not tlie Roj'al Saint
—
King—
Not a sign—the actual reliquary with the jewels and
dLy% the crystal—rock crystal—It is in the Museum now and
T"*^ it should be in the Library.
^ "Tax not the Royal Saint—"
The third attempt, " Tax not the Eoyal Saint with vain
expense," is the correct rendering of the first line of Words-
worth's sonnet on the " Inside of King's College Chapel."
This script contains two words that are prominent in the
other scripts, viz.:
(1) Gold: which occurs both in the Mac and the Verrall
scripts.
(2) Stars: cf. Miss Verrall's script of Aug. 19, 1908.
^Tennyson, lilorte cVArthur. \
LX.] Sequel to the "Sesame and Lilies" Incident. 321
It also gives one important factor of the whole subject
" Sesame and Lilies " which is not mentioned by any of the
other automatists, viz.: "Queens:" the sub-title of the essay
" Lilies " being " Queens' Gardens."
Note further the word " Kino " associated with the idea of
some kind of treasure, the jewels and the crystal " : the
sub-title of the essay " Sesame " being " Kings' Treasuries."
In this essay Euskin complains bitterly of the English nation
for " despising literature, despising science, despising art . . .
and concentrating its soul on Pence," and justifies his complaint
by showing what a very small proportion of the national
wealth is spent on such objects as libraries, scientific work
and art. Compare the sonnet quoted from by Mrs. Holland
Tax not the royal Saint with vain expense,
With ill-matched aims the Architect who planned
Albeit labouring for a scanty band
Of white-robed Scholars only—this innneuse
And glorious Work of fine intelligence !
Give all thou canst ;
high Heaven rejects the lore
Of nicely-calculated less or more ;
So deemed the man who fashioned for the sense
These lofty pillars, spread that branching roof
Self-poised, and scooped into ten thousand cells,
Where light and shade repose, where music dwells
Lingering—and wandering on as loth to die
Like thoughts whose very sweetness yieldeth proof
That they were born for immortality.
Again, the third and last sonnet on King's Chapel begins :
They dreamt not of a perishable home
Who thus could build.
There seems a possible connection between this script and
Miss Verrall's of Sep. 1, 1908, which describes "a Maltese
cross, crystal and gold, hung on a fine gold chain " and
connected with "a royal tragedy" (see above, p. 315); and
both scripts are possibly connected with the Mac script of
Sep. 14, 1908, which has the words "crystal," "jewels" or
" jewel " (three times repeated) and a drawing of three decorated «
crosses (see above, p. 310), Further, the Mac script on the
X
322 Alice Johnson. [part
next two clays, Sep. 15 and 18, had drawings of a crystal;
whereas Mrs. Holland's next script, that of Dec. 16, 1908,
contains the words
Crystal—the terrible crystal.^
The next references occur in Mrs. Holland's script of
December 23rd, 1908 :
. . . Pentreath—Penarth—Penvoorth [?]. Polwarth—Polwhede
Penhaligon Antony Anthony—Carew—Gary
Leon dore Doreu Lion d'or Leo n Leo not right Pass
Honours—Well we have waited some time haven't we
Fresh wreaths and garlands new.
Fresh woods and pastures new -
To endure for ages
" Light in darkness—comfort in despair
—
"He for God only she for God in him
"Farewell the flowers of Eden
Ye shall pick nevermore
The curious confusion at the beginning of this script repre-
sents, I think, an attempt to get the name " Roden Noel
through the medium of Cornish place-names.'' A number of
interesting references to Eoden Noel had occurred in Mrs.
Holland's earlier scripts, and an account of these was published
in my first Eeport (Proceedings, Vol. XXL pp. 316-327).
Mrs. Holland had read this report and therefore knew of his
association with Cornwall, and that the names " Gary, Carew
had occurred in her script in connection with " Fowey," which
I had interpreted as a reference to a poem of his (op. cit.
pp. 350-351).
Further, for some reason which I am unable to conjecture,
she seems subliminally to associate his name with the notion
^ Browning, The Englishman in Itnly :
" Oh heaven and the terrible crystal !
No rampart excludes
Your eye from the life to be lived
In the blue solitudes."
^Milton, Lycidas. ^Milton, Paradise Lost, Book iv.
*E. B. Browning, A Drama of Exile; "pick" should be "smell."
^Penhaligon had been mentioned in connection with him in two previous
scripts.
LX.] Sequel to the " Sesame and Lilies " Incident. 323
of pixnning and enigmas (oj). cit. pp. 320-1), and here it
appears under the anagram " Leon Doren."
I think that the object of bringing in Koden Noel's
name here is twofold
(1) To introduce through a pun the notion of ffold ("Lion
d'or "), and
(2) To suggest implicitly a Sidgwick control; for in Mrs.
Holland's previous script the two men are generally
associated together. She did not know of their friend-
ship at the time when her script first associated them,
but had since learnt of it from my Eeport. It will
be remembered that it was a Sidgwick control that
purported to inspire the Mac script in this cross-
correspondence.
In regard to the rest of the script, it is perhaps worth
noting that a passage from Lycidas is selected by Ruskin to
illustrate the teaching of his Sesame, whereas Mrs. Holland
quotes the last line of it (a line not included in Euskin's
quotation). This, however, may be an accidental coincidence.
But there is, I think, an unmistakable connection between her
last two quotations
" He for God only, she for God in him."
"Farewell, the flowers of Eden
Ye shall pick nevermore,"
and Mrs. Verrall's script of August 19th, 1908 (see above,
pp. 277, 313),
Liliastrum Paradise —Liiiago—No, not that.
LiHes of Eden—Lilith. No. Eve's lilies all in a garden
fair.
and a certain sentence in the Mac script of Oct. 7, 1908
(see above, p. 311), viz.:
Farewell, said she, farewell, and once more sad farewell.
This same Mac script begins with the words " Dig a grave
among the laurels," followed by a drawing of a wreath, while
Mrs. Holland on Dec. 2 3 has " Fresh wreaths and garlands
new." I take this phrase to be a variant or misquotation of
the line correctly quoted immediately afterwards :
" Fresh woods
324 Alice Johnson. [part
and pastures new " : if so, it affords yet another instance of the
special part played in cross-correspondences by the apparently
deliberate use of misquotations.^
Finally, some further references to the subject of Sesame
and Lilies are to be found in Mrs. Holland's script of
December 30th, 1908, as follows:
Con—Context is lacking—Nob constant remembrance—Con—"Art
thou poor yet has thou golden slumbers—oh sweet content—To
add to golden numbers golden numbers
The Pleiades—Stars in her hair were 7—No the Muses on Helicon
—Coniston
F. W. H. M.
I think the confusion at the beginning here represents an
attempt to get the two words, " content " and " Coniston,"
which emerge later.
The next part of the script is a fragmentary quotation from
a poem in Thomas Dekker's Patient Grissell, Act. I., Scene i.
The whole verse is as follows
Art thou poor, yet hast thou golden slumbers ?
0 sweet content
Art thou rich, yet is thy mind perplexed?
0 punishment
Dost thou laugh to see how fools are vex'd
To add to golden numbers, golden numbers ?
Besides the threefold repetition here of the word " golden,"
one of the leading words of the cross-correspondence, the whole
spirit of the verse re-echoes the sentiment of Sesame.
" Stars in her hair were 7 " is a fragmentary quotation from
Eossetti's Blessed Damozel, the first two verses of which are
as follows :
The blessed Damozel leaned out
From the gold bar of Heaven
Her eyes were deeper than the depth
Of waters stilled at even ;
She had three lilies in her hand,
And the stars in her hair were seven.
1 Mis. Verrall has explained above (see pp. 286-7, and '292, foot-note) the
connection between "Laurel wreath" and Semme, and Lilies.
LX.] Sequel to the " Sesame and Lilies " Incident. 325
Her robe, ungirt from clasp to hem,
No wrought flowers did adorn,
But a white rose of Mary's gift.
For service meetly woru ;
Her hair that lay along her back
Was yellow like ripe corn.
The script then explicitly menfcious " Stars,"—a word which
had occurred in Miss Verrall's script of August 19, 1908,—
and gives " Lilies " implicitly, for they occur in the line
previous to the one it quotes. " Gold " is also mentioned in
the second line of the poem ; and in the second verse is found
the word " Eose," which is prominent in the leading Mac
script, that of July 27, 1908, having previously appeared in
their script of July 26, and as "Sharon's dewy rose" in that of
July 19, 1908; while with the phrase, ''yellow like ripe corn,"
we may compare Mrs. Verrall's script of August 1 1, 1908:
August's ripened sheaves under the moon—reapers in the field.
She stood breast high amid the golden corn,
and Miss Verrall's of September 23, 1908:
The sowing of the grain . . . the star flower and lilies too
look back—the open door,
which gives the double sense of Sesame, as a grain, and as
a magic word which opens doors ; whereas Mrs. Holland's
script can only be said to contain the first sense of the word,
grain, and that only implicitly.
" The Muses on Helico/i.—Coniston " seems an attempt to
pass from the general habitat of the Muses to one particular
haunt of theirs with a somewhat similar name ; the intention
being shown by the underlining of the syllable con in Helicon.
The literary associations of Coniston are, of course, above all
with Euskin, who lived there for the last twenty-nine years of
his life and died and was buried there. This phrase, then,
which is the only allusion made by any of the automatists
to the author of Sesame and Lilies, serves to complete the cross-
correspondence.
Mrs. Holland's whole script of Dec. 30, 1908,^ is signed
^ The portions of the script omitted from the extract given above contain
two cross-correspondences with Mrs. Piper.
326 Alice Johnson. [part
" F. W. H. M." Mr. Myers, who was a great admirer and also
a personal friend of Euskin's, had written an obituary notice
of him which was printed in the Journal S.P.E. At the
beginning of this he speaks of Euskiu as a " man dear to
tlie Muses," and at the end writes
I have pictured him waiting in the Coniston woodlands, as Oedipus
in Colonus' Grove,—waiting in mournful memory, in uncomplaining
calm, —till he should hear at last the august summons ... of the
unguessed accompanying God, "Come, Q^dipus, why linger on our
journey'? Thou hast kept me waiting long."
In so far as the individual items of this script go, there is,
as in most cases, nothing that could not have been supplied by
Mrs. Holland's own mind. She knew the two poems quoted
from ; she must have been perfectly familiar with the fact that
Euskin lived at Coniston ; she may even have seen Mr. Myers's
obituary notice of him, since this was reprinted in Fragments
of Prose and Poetry, which she had once spent a few minutes
in glancing over. But the intelligence shown in selecting
from the stores of her mind elements appropriate to the
cross-correspondence and fitting them together to confirm and
supplement what had been given by the other automatists,
this intelligence must clearly be attributed to some source
external to her.
LX.] Postscript to the Lethe Incident.
POSTSCEIPT TO THE LETHE INCIDENT:
Note on " Olympus ".
By J. G. PiDDIKGTON.
{Althovugh the reader is referred to this Note from j). 98,
above, he will not find it intelligible until he has finished the
whole account of the Lethe case.)
Sir Oliver Lodge points out that " Olympus " may refer to
the word Olympo in Metamorphoses, XT. 571 ; and this inter-
pretation I accept. The context of this line is concerned with
the drowning of Ceyx, which is thus described :
Ceyx himself . . . lays hold of some wreckage, and calls upon his
wife's father \i.e. Aeolus] and upon his own [i.e. Lucifer], though
alas ! in vain. But the name most often on his lips is his wife
Alcyone's. Of her he thinks, her face across his fancy comes
before her eyes he prays the waves may cast him, and that by
her loving hands his lifeless corpse may be entombed. While his
strength holds out, he speaks her name, as often as the waves
allow of utterance, or breathes it under the water with shut lips.
Lo ! towering high aloft, a black arch of waters bursts, and engulphs
him in its riven flood. Dark was Lucifer that night; and, since
he might not quit Olympus, he had veiled his face in thick
clouds.
The daughter of Aeolus \i.c. Alcyone], meanwhile, in ignorance
of these cruel adversities, . . . was devoutly offering incense to
all the gods of heaven. Yet chiefliest did she frequent Juno's
sanctuaries . . .
The fact that Aeolus is the subject of direct reference a
few lines before, and of indirect reference a few lines after,
the occurrence of the word Olympo accords well with the
conjecture, advanced on p. 102, that the trance-personality
was helped to a recollection of the story of Ceyx and Alcyone
by an association of ideas with another classical story in
which Aeolus plays a part.
328 G. Piddingion. [part lx.
In this connexion it is worth noting also that the first
mention of " Olympus " in the trance was made immediately
after Mr. Dorr had spoken of the Styx (see p. 87), for Ovid
{Met. XT. 500) describes the stormy sea in which Ceyx's ship
foundered as " blacker than the Stygian wave ".
If "Olympus" was an allusion to Met. XT. 571, it may
serve to explain why MyerSp on March 30, 1908 (see p. 96)
said that he had " previously answered " Mr. Dorr's request
for an explanation of " Olympus ". In the waking-stage of
the previous sitting (see p. 94) the letters of the name Ceyx
had been all but correctly pronounced, and MyerSp may have
thought that leading words like " Olympus " and " Ceyx
ought together to furnish a sufficiently easy clue to his
meaning.
Neither in Bulfinch's nor in Gayley's version of the Ceyx and
Alcyone story does the word Olympus occur. Bulfinch's para-
phrase of Md. XI. 570-572 is: "The Day-star looked dim
that night. Since it could not leave the heavens, it shrouded
its face in clouds." Gayley omits the lines altogether. This
enforces—I might almost say, proves—my contention that the
knowledge of the story shown in the trance was not derived
from either Bulfinch's or Gayley 's book.
The reason why I failed to detect any meaning in " Olympus
"
is that my own text of Ovid (Merkel's) reads caelo in place
of Olympo. Mrs. Verrall has kindly looked up the textual
history of Met. XI. 571 for me, and from her investigation
the following appear to be the facts
Both readings, ceiclo and Olyvvpo, are to be found in the MSS.
Heinsius, whose edition of Ovid was published in 1652, adopted
the reading Ohpwpo ; and this reading seems thenceforward to
have been regularly followed {e.g. in the Delphin edition, in
Lemaire's, in Baumgarten-Crusius', and in the old Corpus Poet.
Lat.) till Loers in 1843 adopted caelo, the reading of the older
MSS. Subsequent editors have followed Loers {e.rj. Merkel,
and Postgate in the new Corpus Poet. Led.). It may be asserted
with considerable confidence that the editions of Ovid in
common use about the time (1853-1859) when Frederic
Myers has described himself as living " much in the inward
recital of . . . Ovid ", would have contained the reading
Olym-po.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXI.
August, 1910.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETING.
The 136th General Meeting of the Society was held at the
Morley Hall, George Street, Hanover Square, London, W., on
Thursday, May 5th, 1910, at -1.15 p.m.; the President, Mr.
H. Akthur Smith, in the chair.
The President delivered the Address which is printed below.
Y
330 H. Arthur Smith. [part
PEESIDENTIAL ADDEESS.
Delivered on May 5th, 1910.
By H, Akthur Smith.
When, just ten years ago, Frederic Myers was elected to the
Chair of our Society, he prefaced his remarkable presidential
address with these words :
—" When 1 heard that the Council of
this Society had done me the honour of electing me as its
President for the current year, I felt that a certain definite stage
in the Society's evolution had been reached at an earlier date than
I should originally have expected. My predecessors in this chair
have without exception been men of the highest distinction. The
list has included men whose leadership would confer honour on
any body of men whatever ; on such bodies, for instance, as the
British Association or the House of Commons. We have been
grateful to these eminent persons for lending the sanction of their
names to our early beginnings. And we have other names of
similar distinction ;
—destined, I hope, some day to adorn our list
of Presidents. Yet for the current year the Council have preferred
to choose a man who has little claim to such a distinction, beyond
the fact that he has worked for the objects which our Society
seeks, from days even before the Society's formation, and that he
is determined to go on thus working so long as his faculties may
allow. . . . The time has come when we may fairly indicate to
the world that we believe our Society can stand on its own
bottom . . . and that therefore we do not need to put forward in
its prominent positions only those names which have been made
independently illustrious by good work of other kinds performed
elsewhere."
If such a man as Frederic Myers thought it necessary to intro-
duce himself to this office in such modest and apologetic fashion,
LXI.] Presidential Address. 331
how much more is it incumbent on myself to justify the taking of
a place in such a succession of names, at the invitation of your
Council ! Myers's hope as to his successors has up to the present
been fulfilled. Our Society has been served by a succession of
persons distinguished in many ways, in science, in philosophy, in
education. If it has now called to its chief office one whose only
claim to such a position is his intense and life-long interest in the
work before us, it must argue a great confidence in the present
strength and stability of the Society.
There is abundant evidence before us that our Society is now
strong and stable; and I am sure I shall provoke no jealousy
if I say that its strength is due to Frederic Myers himself more
than to any one else. In 1882 we began with a small company
indeed, and for some years were not infrequently the butt of
gibes and sneers. At present, we have no fewer than 1284
names on our books ; and these, comprising representatives of
many creeds, are to be found scattered over the whole earth
literally from China to Peru. Happily, moreover, there seems
to be no decline in the public interest which our investigations
attract. The supply of new candidates continues steady, or
rather tends to increase in volume.
It may well, then, be asked, indeed I am often asked by
persons not conversant with our work, what our Society has
done, or what it is doing to explain or justify this extended
interest and support. To answer this question completely would,
of course, involve the writing of the Society's history through
eight and twenty years. To attempt such an undertaking within
the limits of time and space which I must impose on myself
would be absurd. And it is the less necessary, since I am
addressing myself mainly not to the uninformed but to those
who have already convinced themselves that there is a sufficient
raison cVStre for our existence. At the same time, in view of
the continual accretion to our numbers of new enquirers, who
can scarcely be expected to follow all the steps of the past, I
have often been impressed with the desirability of presenting
from time to time something in the form of a resume of what
has been accomplished, what attempted and as we hope in
process of accomplishment. I think, then, it is reasonable and
may serve a useful purpose to adduce a brief summing up of
the results of our labours from this point of view.
332 H. Arthur Smith. [part
The original programme of the Society comprised six
subjects as appropriate for its investigation :
(1) An examination of the nature and extent of any influence
which may be exerted by one mind upon another, apart from
any generally recognised mode of perception.
(2) The study of hypnotism and the forms of so-called
mesmeric trance, with its alleged insensibility to pain; clairvoy-
ance and other allied phenomena.
(3) A critical revision of Eeichenbach's researches with certain
organisations called " sensitive," and an enquiry whether such
organisations possess any power of perception beyond a highly
exalted sensibility of the recognised sensory organs.
(4) A careful investigation of any reports, resting on strong
testimony, regarding apparitions at the moment of death or
otherwise, or regarding disturbances in houses reputed to be
haunted.
(5) An enquiry into the various physical phenomena commonly
called Spiritualistic, with an attempt to discover their causes
and general laws.
(6) The collection and collation of existing materials bearing
on the history of these subjects.
This enumeration of our original objects of research is, of
course, familiar to many, especially of our older members, but
I refer to it, partly by way of introduction to the brief review
of our progress which I propose to present, and partly because
it seems to me to need repetition from time to time in order
to correct misconceptions which one often meets with as to our
scientific position.
Eepeatedly have I been asked by outsiders, half in jest and
half in earnest, what our Society has discovered, or even what
it believes on this or that occult matter. Some seem to suppose
that the Society is possessed of a kind of corporate intelligence,
or that we are wont at our meetings to recite something like
a creed which we regard as psychically orthodox. Even
stranger misconceptions than these may be met with in some
quarters. Some seem to think that candidates for admission
are required to go through something like a Masonic initiation
or Eosicrucian ordeal, or to face the "Dweller on the Threshold,"
as described in Lytton's Zanoni. Now, in fact, it is obvious
enough that if we were to confine our expositions to such
LXI.] Presidential Address. 333
matters as all of us believe, our curriculum would be extremely
limited; and if on the other hand we were to pronounce dog-
matically on things which some among us believe, we should
pretty certainly soon be worried by many dissenters from our
ecclesiasticism.
But to return to our programme. The inter-relation of the
various subjects mentioned is plain enough. That they have not
all received equal attention is also plain, and the reasons for this
are not far to seek. In some cases, notably in that of hypnotism
and hypnotic ansesthesia, the subjects have been widely taken up
and investigated outside our Society. In the earlier days of our
existence we by no means neglected this investigation, as our
Proceedings clearly show. But now that the more familiar
phenomena of hypnotism at any rate, have tardily forced their
way into scientific recognition—and the steps leading to this
recognition are amongst the most instructive and curious in the
history of science —now that these effects of hypnotism are daily
being applied to practical purposes in various parts of the world,
it seems scarcely incumbent upon us to devote our scanty
resources of time and treasure to the further proof or illustration
of what may be taken to be already established.
The lieichenbach researches, again, have not been neglected.
Experiments were made to test the truth of the allegations
that to certain sensitives a luminosity was visible around the
poles of powerful magnets. But, so far as my recollection
serves, these experiments produced few if any satisfactory
results.-^ Moreover the interest in them was, I think, of too
academic a character to affect any considerable number of our
supporters ; and this, of course, had to be taken into consideration
in the application of the energies at our command. But a
subject of enquiry which was not specifically mentioned in our
programme but which is of a nature somewhat analogous to
that just now mentioned, inasmuch as it involves the study
of a special sensitivity, more or less widely, but not univer-
sally possessed, has attracted minute attention, which has
produced most interesting and important results. I refer to
the phenomena of the dowsing rod. The Society, and indeed
the world of science generally, is indebted to Professor Barrett
^ I have been informed by Professor Barrett that of recent years the
Reichenbach experiments have been renewed with success.
334 H. Arthur Smith. [part
for an exhaustive examination of this strange faculty, the
operative cause of which must still, I suppose, be deemed to
remain in the region of hypothesis. The dowsing rod has
indeed for ages, some would say from the time of Moses, been
empirically used and applied in the search for water and
mineral lodes for commercial and other purposes. Fortunes
have been made by the exercise of the faculty. But never
before has any one devoted so much time and careful study
to this subject as has Professor Barrett during the past five
and twenty years. As a result we have in our Proceeclmgs
an exposition of the art, a discussion of the theory, and a
collection of the ancient and modern bibliography of the
dowsing rod, such as had not before been presented to the
world.
These are, however, but by-products, so to speak, which
have appeared in the course of our quest. Beyond all doubt
the subject which above all others has attracted and engrossed
the attention of the great majority of our supporters is to be
found in our investigation of the evidence for the continuance
of life after death—" The Survival of Man." In one depart-
ment of this enquiry, specifically mentioned in the programme,
the results obtained have not been great, namely the exami-
nation of houses reputed to be haunted. Stories of ghostly
disturbances have reached us from time to time ; and thanks
largely to Mr. Baggally's and Colonel Taylor's readiness to
place their time at our disposal, some of these have been
tested ; but on the whole, I think I must say, with meagre
and unconvincing results. We have found little, if any,
trustworthy evidence in favour of what I may call the "ghost
story of commerce," the periodic ghost, or the ghost which
appears with a purpose. Our records, indeed, contain a valu-
able monograph by Mrs. Sidgwick on the " Phantasms of the
Dead " ; but apart from this, the cases which have come before
us have been too sporadic and disconnected to suggest any
very definite conclusions.
There remains, however, the great subject of all, the demon-
stration of thought transference among the living, for which
Myers happily invented the word "telepathy"; and the collec-
tion of voluminous evidence which at least suggests the
operation of telepathy between the dead and the living. This
LXI.] Presidential Address. 335
branch of our enquiry has produced an extensive literature,
characterised scarcely more by the evidence which it presents
of tireless research than by the eloquence with which the
results have been propounded and discussed. It has given to
the world such works as Phantasms of the Living, Human
Personality, and lastly The Survival of Man. It has influenced
many of the pregnant writings of Professor William James of
Harvard, and it has called forth the numerous and valuable
critical essays of Mr. Podmore on the whole subject—a litera-
ture which has profoundly influenced the world of thought on
matters psychical and psychological, and I venture to thinlv is
destined to do so for many years to come. Moreover a great
mass of literature has sprung up and is almost daily being
added to, outside the ranks of our Society, but almost wholly
based on its reports. Some of these works are valuable, many
of them much the reverse, but they all tend to show how
deep an impression has been made by our work.
" Telepathy," as I have indicated, was a word unknown in our
language until about five and twenty years ago. Now it is
scarcely an exaggeration to say that it is as familiar in common
speech as " telegram " and " photograph." Telepathy has been
defined by Sir Oliver Lodge as " the apparently direct action of
one mind on another by means unknown to science." This Sir
Oliver regards as having been experimentally proved, at any rate
to this extent, that " a hazy and difficult recognition is possible by
one person of objects kept as vividly as possible in the conscious-
ness of another person," and in this conviction, if in nothing else,
I think all who have followed our Society's work are agreed. I
suppose that the admission of this operation of mind on mind is
not yet reckoned orthodox in the world of science, or deemed to be
a proved vera causa ; but it is obvious that in the world at large
its recognition is very widespread and is increasing day by day.
Now I contend that if by means of these many years of strenuous
work our Society had obtained no other result than this, this
alone would suffice to justify its formation and labour. It
establishes the existence of a factor in the powers of the
human mind which may before have been suspected, but never
before came within measurable distance of pi'oof ; and he would
be a bold man who would venture to predict what results may
accrue from it in the generations to come. One illustration
336 H. Arthur Smith. [part
of its pretty general acceptance may be given, which is not
without its humorous side. Our Society through its various
workers has taught the world all it knows or thinks it knows
about telepathy, as well as giving it the word. And now
what do we see ? When our researches carry us into deeper
regions, and bring to light occurrences which are calculated to
produce more exciting effects on the minds of the observers,
such, for example, as the phenomena associated with the names .
of Mrs. Piper, Mrs. Verrall and others, especially the cross-
correspondences,—our critics lay hold of our own discovery
and use it to cast ridicule or pour scorn upon the conclusions
we are endeavouring to formulate from these more recondite
occurrences. They make a hurried examination of a most
complicated series of facts and then confidently assure the
world that there is nothing in them but " telepathy." They
beat us, or try to do so, with the stick which we have made
for them. Having jeered at telepathy as long as they dared,
now that it is established in a simple form, they accuse us of
credulity for not assuming its sufficiency to account for many
complicated phenomena for which its aptitude is by no means
proved, and to which its application seems more than doubtful.
We are not in such a hurry. We have not been deterred by
scoffs in the past and we shall not now be hurried to unwar-
ranted conclusions by impatience. Our motto has been, and I
hope will always be, " Festina Icntc."
Taking telepathy, then, in its simplest form to be proved, we
have under watchful examination the possibility of much more
complicated manifestations of the same faculty. That there are
such in operation the phantasms of the living and still more
impressively those of the dying seem strongly to suggest. But
I prefer to leave the analytical examination of this question to
experts in science and philosophy, among whom it would be an
impertinence for me to claim a place. Many will remember
the ingenious illustrations presented to us of the possibilities
of telergy, teltesthesia, telekinesis, genius, inspiration, etc., in the
diagrams expounded by Sir Oliver Lodge at one of our meetings
in 1908, an exposition which personally I hope to see
reported in a much completer form than was possible in the
limited space of our Journal. Nor shall I go at any length
into a consideration of the Piper phenomena which of late
txi.] Presidential Address. 337
years have figured so largely iii our investigations. I have,
however, been asked to make some reference to the evidence
for the identity of the controls from a lawyer's point of view.
To this I will return in a few moments, but first I should
like to make some general observations bearing on the same
subject.
One of the commonest objections urged against the genuine-
ness of communications claiming to come from the dead, is
based on the triviality, or in other cases the want of consis-
tency in the messages delivered. True, some of the communi-
cations seem trivial, but it is a gross exaggeration to assert,
as some have asserted, that all are so. This objection, again, is
likely to be more striking to a reader of the reports than to
a first-hand witness. No doubt it gives one something of a
shock to find in a message purporting to come from Myers
solecisms of grammar ; and such may be met with. But apart
from the fact that, though a few people here and there write
good grammar, no human being speaks it in general conversa-
tion, how little as yet do we know of the nature of the
difficulties obstructing these communications, if communications
there be, or of the extent to which the communications are
influenced by the personality of the mediums with their various
limitations ! That there are difficulties and limitations the
scripts continually assert. Some one has compared them to
the difficulty of talking through an imperfect telephone, and
everybody who has tried that will agree that the exasperating
hindrances met with are more conducive to forcibleness of
expression than to elegance of style. Mrs. Piper's brain, nerves,
and muscles may perhaps be the best telephone in the world
for the purpose in hand, but may be very far nevertheless from
being a perfect instrument. And then again, how little, if any-
thing, we have learned as yet of the conditions on the other
side ! I think Dr. Schiller suggested in an article which
appeared in our Proceedings some years ago that a life newly
begotten into the discarnate state may have to go through a
period analogous to infancy in this life, needing again to learn
the use of such faculties as it finds itself possessed of
—" an
infant crying in the night " and sometimes " with no language
but a cry." Or on the other hand, though this would seem
scarcely in the same accordance with the processes of nature
338 H, ArtJmr Smith. [part
as we know them, the discaruate spirit may suddenly find
itself endowed with senses, faculties and powers entirely
unknown to us, and so may have to cramp itself (if I may use
an Americanism) to communicate with us at all. If some of
the lower forms of life here are possessed of only one sense,
some higher forms of two or three senses, and man of five or
six, why may not the liberated spirit enjoy a dozen, or a
hundred for the matter of that ? For we must assume, if we
are to consider the question at all, that the exercise of senses
does not continue to depend on the possession of physical
organs of sense as we know them. How should we succeed
if we tried (reverting to our comparison) to describe through
a buzzing telephone the beauty of the rainbow to a man blind
from his birth ? These intelligences, if such there be, may,
again, be as conversant with the fourth, fifth, or higher dimen-
sions of matter, as we are with the first, second and third.
Yet once more, it may well be that the attempt to communi-
cate with us, if such attempt there be, involves a heroic
act of self-denial or sacrifice on the part of those making
the attempt. Some passages in the scripts more than hint
that this is the case. In short, until the whole study has
progressed much further than it yet has, we must remain
hopelessly incompetent to estimate the value, or quite as pro-
bably the valuelessness, of such criticism as I have referred
to. But surely with such facts as we have before us, this is
no sufficient reason for discrediting, still less for abandoning
the study.
And now let us briefiy consider the evidence for identity
from a lawyer's point of view, which subject has been suggested
to me. My first comment must be that it is by no means
clear that a lawyer's is the most important point of view in
a case like that before us. The lawyer is conversant with
certain canons which in the aggregate are known as the law
of evidence, the exposition of which by some writers occupies
a thousand pages or so. These canons are no doubt based on
the principles of inductive logic, but in the application of those
principles they are cribbed and confined on all sides by the
exigencies of forensic practice. It is far from being certain
that the dialectic methods of the forum are the methods best
adapted for the investigation of questions not subject to similar
LXI.] Presidential Address. 339
restrictions, but carried on under entirely different conditions.
And here let me call attention to the important ambiguity
which lies in the word "evidence." Probably half the contro-
versies which rage in the regions of theology, politics and
philosophy turn on the fallacious use of what logicians call the
ambiguous middle ; and possibly one reason why we have in
Britain the reputation for being excessively addicted to con-
troversy may be found in the fact that our language is peculiarly
and unfortunately rich in words which are more than ambiguous.
The word " church," for instance, has eight or ten distinct
meanings. What wonder then that ecclesiastics wrangle when
they come to talk about it ? If half-a-dozen politicians meet
to discuss " socialism," it is quite likely that no two of them will
attach the same meaning to the word. What wonder then if
they lose their tempers ? So of the word " evidence." As Sir
James Fitzjames Stephen points out in the introduction to his
Digest of the Law of Evidence, and expounds still more fully
in his Introduction to the Indian Evidence Act, the word some-
times means relevancy, sometimes testimony, and sometimes
proof. It might seem plausible to argue that if there is evidence
produced as to an alleged fact, the truth of the fact is thereby
made evident. The fallacy is obvious enough v/hen tested, but
it is nevertheless operative in the minds of loose thinkers, and
nowhere more frequently than in careless dabblers in psychical
research. One brief illustration will suffice. The notorious
Pigott gave testimony, and perfectly relevant testimony, as to
the authorship of the Parnell letters. But half-a-dozen questions
of cross-examination showed how very far this relevant testimony
fell short of proof He gave evidence indeed, but made nothing
evident save that he was an arrant liar. The same point is
enlarged upon in what I have always regarded as a locus classicus
for the expression of a sane view of some of the problems
before us ; I refer to De Morgan's Preface to his wife's work
entitled From Matter to Spirit. It appeared anonymously some
five and forty years ago, since which time of course a great
deal of water has passed under the bridge ; but its authorship
is now an open secret, and its wit and wisdom are worthy of
the writer of the celebrated Paradoxes. I believe the work
has long been out of print and is difficult to obtain, so that
a quotation at some length is the more justifiable.
340 H. Arthur Smith. [part
De Morgan writes
One of the greatest pursuits of the world is the study of evidence
we are all engaged upon it in one way or another. But as generally
happens, when a word goes much about, it picks up more than one
meaning in its travels. Accordingly, evidence passes for that which
is given and intended to produce an effect, and also for that
which does produce it there is the quod debet monstrari, that which
may properly be tendered in aid of a conclusion, and the quod facit
videre, that which gives perception of truth or falsehood. The difference
and the fallacies of confusion arising therefrom are strikingly illus-
trated in courts of law. "While the case is preparing for trial it is
the lawyer's business to collect what he then calls the evidence, the
matter which is to be offered to the jury. It is his duty to see
that the evidence is quod debet monstrari, not onlj' addressed to the
points raised by the pleadings, but in conformity to certain rational
ru.les which are laid down.
And here I may interject, though it may be giving away
one of the rather illicit devices of the profession, that counsel
advising on evidence in this sense will sometimes manaste to
introduce matter tending to prejudice the jury in his favour,
although he knows it not to be in strictness admissible. De
Morgan continues :
Thus it comes before the jury, who are sworn to give a true
verdict according to the "evidence," which now means the quod facit
videre. So far good ; the law must decide what is and what is not
fit to be offered as material for evidence. But it may happen that
matter slips in which the Court would have prevented if it could
(i.e. matter which I have called matter of prejudice), but could not,
or at least did not, prevent. And now comes one of those coUisions
in which the jury mind rules contrary to the legal mind. If the
ghost of a murdered man were to make his appearance in court in
a form which no one could possibly attribute to imposture, optics or
chemistry, and were solemnly to declare that the prisoner was not
the murderer and then to vanish through the roof, the judge would,
no doubt, instruct the jury that they must dismiss the respectable
apparition from their minds altogether ; that even if the spirit had
offered to be sworn and to stand cross-examination, there would be
very grave doubt whether his evidence could have been received,
from his probable want of belief in a future state; but that, as
LXI.] Presidential Address. 341
matters stood, it was clearly their duty to take the vision pro non
viso. To which the jury would reply, if they believed the ghost,
by a verdict of 7i^3t guilty. No honest men would ever make believe
that they do not believe what they have in any way been made to
believe, if they clearly understand what they are doing.
So far De Morgan ; but as to his last sentence I think that
experience of the courts will recall many cases in which juries
have yielded to judicial direction, and been induced to give
verdicts conformable to legal rules of evidence, in spite of con-
viction forced upon them by matter which I have described as
matter of prejudice.
iSTow let us try to apply this to the case before us, to the
evidence tendered to prove the identity of controls, or spirits
speaking or writing through mediums. Here I perhaps may
interject the remark that, when I was asked to deal with this
question, it was suggested to me that I might find some help
by consulting and refreshing my memory with the report of the
famous Tichborne case of five and thirty years ago. Well, I
happen to have in my Chambers a full report of one of the
two enormous trials which arose out of that imposture. But
when I tell you that the report of this one trial, and that not
the more important, occupies five quarto volumes, each of which
contains nearly a thousand closely printed double column pages,
I think you will e.xcuse me if even my enthusiasm for Psychical
Eesearch has not sufficed to induce me to attempt the task of
navigating such an ocean. I must content myself with some less
onerous method.
It is clear in the case before us,—the proof of the identity
of our instructors who claim to speak from behind the veil,
—that though there is much evidence ciuod debet monstrari,
that is, what lawyers call evidence to go to the jury, there
is absolutely nothing that can be called evidence quod facit
vidcre (Professor James has somewhere called it " knock-down
evidence") from a lawyer's point of view; nor can I conceive
that there is ever likely to be. Apart from the disqualifica-
tions of the supposititious spectre which De Morgan humor-
ously introduced, our enquirers are hampered and restricted
on every side by the want of powers which are every moment
available to a judge trying an issue. If a witness speaks
indistinctly he can be required to " speak up," and if he
342 H. Arthur Smith. [part
refuses, he may be committed for contempt. If he declines to
give a direct answer to a direct question, he subjects himself
to the same penalty. He can be cross-examined in detail with
the peril of a prosecution for perjury before his eyes. But
notwithstanding the disabilities under which our enquirers
labour, it by no means follows that we (who constitute the
jury) may not be brought reasonably to believe the evidence,
informal though it be, presented to us, just as De Morgan
supposes the jury to believe the ghost.
Direct " knock-down " evidence is then wanting and pro-
bably always will be wanting. But circumstantial evidence of
a kind abounds ; and in courts of law experience has shown
that in many respects the evidence called circumstantial is
more trustworthy, safer to rely on than direct testimony. For
instance : the question for a jury to determine is the identity
of A., who is alleged to have shot B. A witness, C, may
come forward and swear that in l)road day-light he saw A.
fire the fatal shot. In a sense this seems the most cogent
proof possible ; but in fact it is not so. C. may have an
interest in getting rid of A., and may be willing to perjure
himself to accomplish his object. This, of course, is analogous
to the hypothesis of deliberate fraud as applied to our experi-
ments. Again : C. may have very defective vision and may be
honestly mistaken in swearing to the identification. This
would correspond to mal-observation in our experiments. But
if on the other hand it is by independent witnesses proved
that shortly before the murder A. purchased a revolver, that
the bullet found in the body exactly resembled others found
in A.'s possession, that foot-prints of a peculiar character were
discovered leading to and from the spot where the shot was
fired and were found to correspond to the marks made by
boots known to have been worn by A. at the time, and so on;
though not one of these facts taken alone would be quite
convincing, their cumulative force might well be overwhelming
and might justify a much more confident verdict of "guilty"
than the mere unsupported testimony of C, however clear.
As Professor James has pointed out in his report on the
Hodgson control {Proceedings, Vol. XXIIL), this is precisely the
character of the evidence before us. It is futile to take it
item by item and to proclaim that no one incident in it
LXI.] Presidential Address. 343
proves anything. The evidence must be considered as a whole.
Juncta juvant. As to its convincing effect when so regarded,
opinions will, of course, differ ; but in determining this ques-
tion, we may reasonably apply the principles of logic, which
are broader than the technicalities which restrict the law of
forensic evidence. All this is indeed somewhat elementary,
but some of our critics are not incapable of ignoring what is
elementary.
When we appeal to logic, our path is still a thorny one.
We are very far from being in a position to apply to the case
in hand the four canons (or indeed any one of them) which
John Stuart Mill lays down as applicable to experimental
methods. We can scarcely even act on the Aristotelian advice
to proceed to the unknown from what is known to us,
because of the fact that so little as yet is really known.
For example : we are undertaking to enquire into the causes
which produce the effects of a medium's trance-speech or
automatic writing. Before we can reach the conclusion that
the cause is the will of a departed human spirit to communi-
cate with us, we are logically bound to eliminate, not only
every known cause, if any there be, but also any suggested
cause which we ought to regard as more probable. I do not
think there can be said to be any cause for these phenomena
which we are entitled to describe as knov:n ; so that the
discussion of probabilities is all that is left to us. And here
our difficulties thicken around us. In the attempt to esti-
mate the balance of probabilities we find ourselves without
the known quantities which we need to enable us to frame
even an indeterminate equation. Putting fraudulent conspiracy
out of view as a cause of the facts we are investigating, there
would seem to be at least three possible explanations of these
facts to be considered, other than the hypothesis of actual
communications from the dead.
The first which I would mention is of a metaphysical
nature and will not perhaps appeal to many minds. A little
more than twenty years ago Sir Edwin Arnold published in the
Fortnightly Review a brief essay entitled " Death—and after-
wards," in which he eloquently discussed some aspects of the
question before us. This essay was shortly afterwards pub-
lished separately and has since run through many editions.
344 H. Arthur Smith. [part
To it are appended some critical examinations of his thesis,
which appear anonymously, but which are evidently the
production of acute thinkers. From one of these I will quote
a statement of the metaphysical supposition to which I refer.
The writer says
When the GaHleo of Time—surely coming—shall have made con-
ceivable, if not actually accessible to us, what answers in the
temporal sphere to the antipodes we know as spatial fact ; when we
have begun to realise that " past and future " are no more absolute
than the "over and under," the "above and below," which now we
know to be reversible, not only in conception, but in physical
experience ; then perhaps we may alter somewhat our estimate of
the comparative value of the local temporal sensuous character of a
fact, and our notion of what constitutes its real significance.
Professor Pigou in a recent number of our Proceedings has
alluded to the same idea in the same connexion. Speaking of
the survival of man he says
The ambiguity connected with "survive" is philosophical. If any
one asks whether cats survive immersion in water, it does not occur
to us to bring to bear on that problem a metaphysical discussion
concerning the reality of time ; we assume, in fact, that time is real,
and we mean by "surviving immersion," being alive after immersion.
When, however, our cpiestion relates to men and women and bodily
death, the idealist philosopher enters the arena and claims that time
and all that therein is, is a purely subjective condition of human
perception ; that in reality there is no after and no before ; that
survival and death alike are appearance ; that men and women, as
spirit, neither survive nor die, but in some sense eternally are.
It was not likely that such a deep philosophic thinker as
Myers should have overlooked this speculation ; and he has
not overlooked it. In more than one passage in Human
Personality, and also in his essay on Wordsworth, he discusses,
but does not accept, the suggestion. I dwell on it now
because there seem to be cases before us to which it may
conceivably apply. I am not referring to prophecy or to the
predictions of the Delphic oracle or to the legends of Mother
Shipton, or to the occasional happy shots of so-called astrolo-
gers ; but I recall to mind what we know as " the Marmontel
LXI.] Presidential Address. 345
incident " in Mrs. Verrall's script, and other somewhat analogous
premonitions ; certain striking predictive crystal visions which
have come under my own notice, and also some occurrences
described in the experiences of Swedenborg. I might refer
also to the seeming confusion between past and future which
sometimes appears in the automatic scripts. See for example
the " Neptune " and " Pharaoh's daughter " references in Pro-
ceedings, Part LX., p. 193. If the conjecture is to be enter-
tained at all, it would point to the idea that what Aristotle
called the " categories " and the schoolmen the " predicaments
"
have no relation to things as they are, but amount only to a
rough formulation of the present conditions of human thought;
and these not absolute or essential, but subject to extension or
evolution with the progress of knowledge, so that a conception
of our relation to space (for example) which may have been
unthinkable to Aristotle or Aquinas has now become the
common property of every school-boy ; and possibly the con-
ception of our relation to time may be destined to a similar
change. I am not, however, as confident as the writer above
quoted that the Galileo of time is " surely coming."
A second conceivable explanation of the phenomena before
us is of a quasi-theological nature. The sacred writings of many
religions, and the folk-lore of many nations are full of
assertions of the existence of beings intelligent and potent, in
a sense intermediate between this world, and what we some-
times call the other world or world to come. Some are repre-
sented as benevolent, others as malevolent to man, others again
as scarcely the one or the other, but capricious, tricksy sprites
addicted to practical jokes and petty mischief Cardinal Xewman
seems to have accepted the existence of such a race of beings;
in his Apologia he writes :
—" Also besides the hosts of evil
spirits I considered there was a middle race, 8uLfx6vLa, neither
in heaven nor in hell, partially fallen, capricious, wayward,
noble or crafty, benevolent or malicious as the case might be."
To such beings he ascribed potent influence in matters of
church and state. A similar view appears in Father Hugh
Benson's recent work The Necromancers. I do not propose to
discuss such vague circumstantial evidence as may be deemed
to exist in favour of the existence and operation of these Sai/moi'ia,
elementals, or whatever they may be called. This, however,
z
346 H. Arthur Smith. [part
may be said with reference to them, that if such beings exist
around us, their operations may have a bearing not only on
the investigation of trance-speech and vv^riting, but also on the
occurrences known amongst us as physical phenomena, and of
the pranks so often recorded, so seldom well authenticated,
ascribed to poltergeists. For myself, if I see no very cogent
a priori reason for discrediting the hypothesis of such powers
in our environment, I see little that is calculated to carry
conviction on the affirmative side. But this may be added : if the
phenomena of trance and other mediumistic communications can
conceivably be ascribed to such a cause as this, we may well despair
of attaining any evidence conclusive of the identity of discarnate
human beings purporting to communicate with us. Ignorant as
we are of the powers and means of information at the disposal
of such SaifjLovia, if such there be, it is rather hopeless to expect
to find any personation agent to put in our polling booths, com-
petent to detect the deceptions which may be practised.
The third alternative to the reality of messages from discar-
nate human beings lies in the possibilities of telepathy among
the living. As already said, simple telepathy so far as experi-
mentally proved is not sufficient, is, indeed, far from sufficient
to account for the occurrences which we seek to explain. But
the possibilities of this faculty are at this moment under care-
ful observation, as you all know. The records of our experi-
ments are voluminous ;
they are being added to and placed
before you year by year, and it would serve little purpose now for
me to speculate as to the ultimate results of an enquiry which
is in hands much more competent than mine. To these three
possible explanations other philosophic speculations might of
course be added ; such for example as the existence of what
has been called a Cosmic reservoir of memories to which the
subliminal consciousness has access. But our limits prohibit the
discussion of such hypotheses.
And now we come back to the primary question: Consider-
ing the facts before us, and weighing as best we can the
probability of the alternative explanations which I have tried
briefly to suggest, are we entitled to say that Myers " being
dead yet speaketh ?
" Personally, I am not convinced. But
then I am in the disadvantageous position analogous to that
of a person who tries to form an opinion on a complicated
LXI.] Presidentml Address. 347
issue at law from merely reading the evidence, without having
had the opportunity of seeing or hearing the witnesses in court.
And one cannot but be impressed by the fact that many who
have assisted in the experiments have been convinced. More-
over, when I wrote this last sentence, I had not read the
latest number of our Proceedings (Part LX.) which, I think,
carries us many steps forward.
Before I conclude I will venture to call attention to two
matters which seem to me worthy of earnest consideration, and
to point in the direction of an affirmative conclusion. First,
it is a strange thing, as was pointed out by De Morgan long
ago, that " in spite of the inconsistencies, the eccentricities,
and the puerilities which some of them (the supposed communi-
cating spirits) have exhibited, there is a uniform vein of
description running through their accounts, which, supposing it
to be laid down by a combination of impostors, is more than
remarkable, is even marvellous. The agreement is one part of
the wonder, it being remembered that the mediums are
scattered through the world; but the other and greater part of
it is that the impostors, if impostors they be, have combined
to oppose all current ideas of a future state, in order to gain
belief in the genuineness of their pretensions
!
The second point is this. It is as certain and demonstrable
as anything can well be that many of the most striking
developments which have appeared in our recent investigations,
—I refer more particularly to the cross-correspondences,'—-have
not originated in the speculations, the ingenuity, or the invention
of any of the enquirers on this side,—at any rate, not in their
supraliminal consciousness. These methods have come as a
surprise to all concerned, and I cannot but consider this to be
in some degree an argument for their genuineness. From the
iirst, perhaps, the unexpected might have been expected ; and
this is not such a Hibernianism as it at first sight appears.
What it means is that, assuming the communications to be
real, we might have expected surprises, but could not have
expected to forecast their nature. And this is just what in
fact has happened.
In the preceding summary of our work and its results it
may be observed that there are so many "ifs," so many instances
of the use of the cautious subjunctive, that some may be dis-
348 H. Arthur Smith. [part
posed to ask whether the attainment of such uncertain results
after so many years is sufficient to justify our labour. Is the
game worth the candle ? As to this, I have already expressed
my view as to the incalculable value of the discovery of tele-
pathy, even in its most elementary form. Now I will go
further. I agree, if I may presume to say so, with Professor
Barrett that we seem to be "On the threshold of a new world
of thought." I agree, if again I may presume to say so, with
Sir Oliver Lodge that we seem to be " at the beginning of
what is practically a new branch of science." And if these
weighty estimates of the results attained be accepted, what be-
comes of the significance of the phrase "after so many years?"
What are twenty-five years in the history of a science, a discovery,
an invention ? Is not this history in all its course a protest
against impatience ? I believe that some twenty-two centuries
ago Hero in Egypt discerned the possibility of utilising the
expansive force of steam as a means of driving a macliine ; and
he was probably not the first. But the discovery had to wait
all those centuries before it was taken up by Watt and New-
comen, Trevithick and Stephenson, and this force was turned
to account to do so great a portion of the work of the world
as we find it doing to-day. The same reflection applies to
magnetism and to electricity, the first observers of which little
dreamed of the results which would accrue from their groping
experiments ; and I suppose that the school-boy's humble kite,
after playing an important part in the history of electricity,
may be regarded as the progenitor after a long period of incu-
bation of the aeroplane ; a sort of protozoon from which has
been evolved an eagle. Again, it is easy to smile over the
crude hypotheses and futile labours of the old alchemists. But
owes modern chemistry no deljt to those patient explorers ? It
is likely enough that a century or so hence our successors in
these enquiries will smile at our methods and conjectures much
as does the modern chemist at the theories and dreams of the
alchemists; but we shall have helped them nevertheless, and if
they are as wise as we hope they will be, they will not despise
the day of small and feeble things.
But we need not elaborate an argument to justify our exist-
ence. We are not called upon to justify our existence to
troglodytes ; and critics who have no higher or better point of
LXI.] Presidential Address. 349
view for estimating the value of a scientific discovery than by
calculating its immediate commercial or utilitarian value, may
fairly be so described.
Apart, however, from any such questions of detail, I contend
that our studies are justified on the ground that they are help-
ing us to a wider view of the universe in which we live, in
which I think we shall always live, in which, perhaps, in a
sense, we have always lived ; to lift us, as one has said, from
" a mere planetary consciousness which naturally starts from
the earth as a mental centre, to a solar or systematic conscious-
ness more consistent with the Copernicau era, or yet higher, and
by a completer generalisation to a cosmical consciousness, of
which indeed the foregleams may be discerned in the very
questions we ask, in the very doubts suggested to us, in the
very paradoxes of which Nature is full." We have, I venture
to think, done much towards undermining the gross materialism
of some scientific thought, which a generation ago threatened
the higher conceptions of all matters psychological and spiritual.
Some of you will doubtless remember the intensely interesting
presidential address given to us by Sir William Crookes fourteen
years ago, in which by a series of ingenious speculations he demon-
strated the folly of what may be called a negative dogmatism,
which would seek to discredit the exploration of regions hitherto
unknown or but imperfectly known, on the ground of the
seeming inconsistency of the phenomena presented with the
ordinary course of nature familiar to us ;
or, if I may use a
mathematical comparison, the folly of attempting to frame an
equation to a curve, before, with the imperfect instruments of
observation at our command, we have been able sufficiently to
discern its sweep to determine whether like an ellipse it returns
on itself, or like a hyperbola it stretches forth into the infinite.
It is perhaps somewhat daring to attempt to add an illustra-
tion in similar vein to those in that address so brilliantly
presented. But I have often thought that the prophecy of
despair with which the materialist would depress us may be
compared to the despair which might fall on an ephemeral
insect which we will suppose to have come into existence at
the noon-tide of a sunny day, and to be endowed with the
faculty of scientific observation. He would, after living, say,
a quarter of his life-time, notice that the sun, the source of
350 H. Arthur Smith. [part
light and heat was gradually descending towards the horizon of
the sea. His own philosophy would tell him nothing of the
seqvience of day and night, for he has never seen the sun
ascending. His science then would boldly, and, from his point
of view, reasonably, conclude that with the setting sun all life
would cease. So our materialistic science tells us that the solar
system which we know is slowly wearing itself out by friction
and radiation ; that the time surely approaches when the sun
will be dark and cold with all its planets engulfed in its mass,
and that universal death will reign, having put all enemies under
his feet. But may not this despairing cry be as false as that of
the ephemeris which mourned the setting sun ? Who can deny
the conceivability of another cycle of existence as truly growing
out of this we know as day follows day, feon following seon
by equally natural process, marking the systole and diastole
of the heart of the Eternal ? Are there not indeed ancient words
which declare as much, when of the visible universe we read " as
a vesture shalt Thou fold it up and it shall be changed, but Thou
art the same ;
Thy years fail not." " The things which are not
seen are eternal " ?
In conclusion let me quote again from Sir Edwin Arnold's
essay
When we regard the stars at midnight, we veritably perceive the
mansions of nature, countless and illimitable ; so that even our
narrow senses reprove our timid minds. If such shadows of an
immeasurable and inexhaustible future of peace, happiness, beauty
and knowledge, be but ever so faintly cast from what are real
existences, fear and care might, at one word, pass from the minds
of men, as evil dreams depart from little children waking to their
mother's kiss ; and all might feel how subtly wise he was who wrote
of that first mysterious night on earth which showed the unsuspected
stars ; when
Hesperus with the host of heaven came,
And lo ! Creation widened on man's view !
Who could have thought such marvels lay concealed
Behind thy beams, 0 Suni or who could find
Whilst flower and leaf and insect stood revealed
That to such countless orbs thou mad'st us blind 1
Why do we then shun death with anxious strife?
If light can thus deceive, wherefore not Life I
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 351
REPOET ON THE JUNOT ^ SITTINGS WITH
MES. PIPEE.
BY HELEN de G. VERRALL.
Introduction.
The sittings with Mrs. Piper published in this Eeport are
amongst those that were held in America, at Arlington
Heights, Boston, under the management of Dr. Hodgson. They
extend over a period of five years and a half, from June 19,
1899, to November 22, 1905, the last of the series having
taken place only a few weeks before Dr. Hodgson's death. All
the communications purport to come either from a young man,
Bennie Junot, who died on September 5, 1898, aged 17 ; or
from persons in some way connected with him. Dr. Hodgson
himself was present during a part at any rate of all the
sittings, with one exception ; sometimes he was alone, and
sometimes the father or mother of Bennie Junot or other
members of his family were present as sitters. This Eeport
includes every sitting up to November 22, 1905, at which any
reference was made to Bennie Junot, and nothing has been
omitted except (1) occasional repetitions due to the sitters'
difficulty at the time in deciphering the trance-writing, (2)
remarks which do not purport to be in any way evidential,
such as " I won't forget to send you a message occasionally,"
(3) interruptions by other communicators not connected with
Bennie Junot, and (4) some attempts at medical diagnosis,
which could be more satisfactorily discussed in connexion with
similar attempts at other sittings. It will therefore be possible
to form a fair judgment of the whole case and to estimate the
proportion of correct and incorrect statements.
^This name and also the name '"Roble" (see below) are pseudonyms.
352 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
The phenomena here discussed were produced under the
usual conditions, with which I shall assume that the reader is
familiar/ and they do not present to those who have read the
earlier reports on Mrs. Piper's trance-phenomena any new or
startling features. But the cumulative effect of the evidence,
taken as a whole, is striking, on account of the unusually small
proportion of error, confusion and irrelevance, and there are
many points of psychological interest. One clearly marked
characteristic is the large part played in the trance utterances
by the association of ideas. Dr. Hodgson has referred to this
characteristic in his Eeport on Mrs. Piper {Proc. Vol. XIII. p.
333), and frequent traces of it are to be found in the sittings now
under consideration. If a group of names has been once asso-
ciated together, an allusion to any one of them is very likely
to produce allusions to the others. The human mind in its
normal condition is largely influenced by such associations, but
their force is controlled by consciousness and deliberate choice.
In the case of Mrs. Piper's mind, during trance, this control is
apparently lacking, so that associations once formed will often
recur without regard to their immediate relevance. This char-
acteristic will also explain the tendency to repeat a mistake
once made. For instance, the confusion between " Judge " and
"Major" (see p. 443) persists throughout the sittings, in spite
of the fact that some part of the medium's mind is apparently
aware of it (see p. 470).
With regard to the sources of error, it is worth noting that
amongst the statements which must be described as incorrect,
only a small proportion are wholly false or meaningless. Many
contain some phrase or word perfectly relevant and intelligible,
round which is woven a tissue of false interpretations. At
the first sitting, for instance, the following communication
occurs :
(Bennie communicating.)
Do you remember who I meant by John
N. B. J." No, tell me his other name.
Well do you remember Roberts
iThey are described by Dr. Hodgson in Proc. Vol. XIII. pp. 291 foil, and
by Sir Oliver Lodge in Proc. Vol. XXIII. pp. 1.30 foil.
^ Mr. N. B. Junot, the communicator's father.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 353
N. B. J. No.
Roberts there is more to it Roberts
N. B. J. "Where <lid 3'ou know him 1
Here and he has two brothers FRAK and Charles
Frank and Charles were the names of the commuuicator's two
most intimate friends, so that it was quite natural that he
should mention them in close conjunction, and he had an uncle
called John. All these facts are made clear at later sittings,
but the interpretation first put upon the names is wrong. It
is as though vague unattached ideas were presented to the mind
of the medium, and were by her provided with an imaginary
and inappropriate setting. The same tendency is apparent
in some of the various automatic scripts recently published.
With a few exceptions, of which the most interesting is the
John Welsh incident related below, no information was given
in the trance communications that had not been known at
some time to some members of Benuie Junot's family, but
many of the clearest and most correct statements were made
not in their presence but when Dr. Hodgson was alone. The
communicator declares that he often visits his home and sees
what happens there ; in support of this claim, he shows
knowledge concerning the recent thoughts and actions of
various members of his family, and on one occasion reference
is made to a contemporaneous event (see p. 416).
It will be noted that a considerable amount of information as
to names and other details was deliberately given to the com-
municator by the sitters in the course of the sittings, and it is
necessary in reading the report to distinguish carefully between
the correct statements founded on this information and others
which originated spontaneously with the communicator. I have
given page references and notes throughout to facilitate the
distinction.
The plan was no doubt adopted by Mr. Junot with a view to
eliciting memories that might be supposed to be dormant. It is a
plausible hypothesis that if the communicator were reminded of
certain names and certain incidents, other recollections associated
with them might be evoked, and the results obtained are
consistent with this hypothesis.
Nevertheless, there is nothing in the evidential part of the
354 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
communications which provably transcends telepathy between
living minds, if we suppose this faculty to possess the
necessary scope and extension. Perhaps the incident most
difficult to explain in this way is that concerning John
Welsh, which I will briefly recapitulate here. On February 11,
1902 (see p. 492), Mr. Junot sent a message through his son
Bennie to a former coachman of his, Hugh Irving, who had
been dead some months, asking where " the dog Eounder " was.
Hugh Irving had left Mr. Junot's service about two months
before his death and taken the dog with him. In the waking-
stage on April 2, 1902, it is stated that "John Welsh has
Rounder." Mr. Junot succeeded after some difficulty in tracing
" John Welsh," but unfortunately it proved impossible to discover
whether he had ever had the dog in his possession. It is
certain, however, that he was closely associated with the
coachman, who took the dog away, and it was through his
attempts to find John Welsh that Mr. Junot recovered the
dog. Moreover, there seems good reason for thinking that
John Welsh, even if he never had the dog himself, knew
something of his whereabouts, and could have helped Mr. Junot
to recover him. Neither Mr. Junot nor any of his family
had ever to their knowledge heard of John Welsh (at any rate
under that name), still less of his connexion with Hugh Irving
and possible connexion with the dog. Doubtless people could
have been found to whom all these facts were known, but
they were not people with whom Mrs. Piper had ever been
brought into contact. Until we know to what limitations, if
any, telepathy between living minds is subject, we cannot
determine whether it is a sufficient explanation of such
phenomena as this.
On the other hand, if we suppose, as the controls them-
selves declare, that the source of the information is the minds
of the dead, such incidents present no difficulty, and therefore,
though they cannot be said to prove this hypothesis, they would,
if frequently repeated, render it more probable.
Whatever hypothesis we adopt to explain the veridical part
of the phenomena, the confused and incorrect statements are
no doubt in a great measure to be accounted for by mere
guessing and invention on the part of the medium's subliminal
consciousness, persistently unwilling to admit ignorance or failure.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 355
I have said nothing iu this report as to the identity of
the alleged controls (e.g. Eector), who purport to influence the
medium's mind directly, or as to their relation either to one
another or to the mind of the medium, or to the communicators
(e.g. Bennie Junot), whose remarks they claim to transcribe,
and who rarely act as '
controls '
themselves, because I do not
think this question can be satisfactorily discussed in relation
to a particular episode such as is dealt with here. This same
objection applies in my opinion to almost all theorizing as to
the nature of the phenomena, and therefore in my comments on
the sittings I have usually confined myself to a statement of facts.
Dr. Hodgson regarded these sittings as amongst the most
interesting of those held with Mrs. Piper, and they were
carefully annotated with a view to publication. With few
exceptions, all comments by the sitters were obtained within a
week or two of the sittings ; wherever the dates of these
comments are of importance they are given. There are
occasionally points not commented on at the time, about
which it is not now possible to obtain any information, but
fortunately they are few.
It will be seen that most of the evidence as to the
veridical character of these sittings has been obtained from Mr.
Junot. Mr. Junot is a member of the S.P.E. who was
formerly a member of the American Branch, and a friend of
Dr. Hodgson's ; he is also known personally to Mr. Dorr.
The study of these records will show that his comments are
characterized throughout by scrupulous care and accuracy.
DETAILED RECORD OF SITTINGS.
Note. —The notes in round brackets were made at the sitting by the
person responsible for the management of it, that is, in almost all cases,
by Dr. Hodgson. The notes in square brackets are comments added
afterwards by the persons whose initials are appended to them.
1st Sitting.
J?me 19, 1899. Present.- N.B. Junot and R. H.
(S.i remarked before the trance began :
" It was nearly freezing
when I left C .")
^ Mr. Junot was introduced to Mrs. Piper anonymously, according to Dr.
Hodgson's usual practice. He is therefore referred to here as S. ( = sitter) and
not by his initials.
I
356 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(Rector writes.)
Hail thou friend why come to us in sorrow
Why needst thou weep when all is well and ever will be.
We will find thy friends for thee and bring them here.
(Hand speirs out inquiring;iy-)
* * *
(Inquiry by R. H. as to arrangements for future sittings.)
We see among our friends here a young man who seems
dazed and puzzled. He is not near enough to us for
us to give him much help at the moment but will be
presently.
R. H. (to S.) Follow'?
S. Yes, I understand.
George ^ is here with him and trying to urge him to come
closer as . . . that he may see into thy world more
clearly.
I hear ... I hear some thing. Where is my mother I
want very much to see her.
I can breathe easier now. .
'
. .
I want to go home now . . .
And take up my studies and go on
I see some one who looks like my father I want to see
him very much.
S. Speak on, Bennie, tell us all about yourself.
(Much excitement.)
I . .
I want to see you awfully . . I [My son used " awfully
in this way frequently. —N. B. J.]
R. H. Take your time. Take your time. Be quite calm.
^ Throughout these sittings Eector is in control of the medium and acting as
amanuensis, except where there is a statement to the contrary.
-George Pelham (see Proc. Vol. XIII., pp. 295 et seq.), who is frequently
represented as assisting inexperienced communicators.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 357
Father papa papa Pa Pa father I hear something
strange . . can it be 3 0ur voice.
S. Yes, Bennie, it's daddy.
I . . You hear me . . do you hear me I . . wonder how
I can reach you as I long to do. I heard all you said . .
And I want to tell you where I am.
You are not my father. (Hand moves towards R. H.)
R. H. Kindly listen one moment. I am with your father, and I
have brought your father here for you to free your mind
to him.
And can I do so now.
R. H. Yes, fire away, take your time and be quite calm.
do you . . [undec] the boys [?]
And if they will be glad to see me
I want to see father more than any one except mama.
S. Bennie, tell me what to say to your mother
Oh she is so sad, tell her I called her the other day and I
could not make her hear me. I love her so, but . . .
wait till I think it over and I will say it all.
S. Are you happy where you are ?
*
I wish I could hear you. You were so good to me . .
Do you ride any now.
S. Yes, swjeetheart,—yes, sweetheart, and think of you every day
when I ride.
I often think how I used to go with you.
S. Do you remember your ride in the West 1
(Much excitement.)
I do very well. Yes I do. I remember it all and do you
remember what happened to me.
Do you remember anything about a storm dad.
[My son very commonly called me Dad—more often Papa
and sometimes Pa. —N. B. J.]
358 . Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. Write that word again, Rector, please.
sounds like S 1 0 R M Rain
S. Let me ask Mm a question.
Oh so many things are going through my head.
S. Who went with you on your ride in the West 1
Will you say it again . . who was with me . . I . .
R. H. The father says, AVho was with j'ou in your ride in the
West 1
father says . . I . . who . .
I want to know about Harry.
[Harry was a cowboy friend of my son with whom he took
a long horseback journey in the West.—N. B. J.]
S. That's right.
Tell him I remember it well. . . I . .
S. Yes, he wrote your mother lately. Harry's gone South.
He's gone away South.
And he a good fellow and do you know I liked him very
much and I thought he sent the photograph to her.
[After my son's death, Harry having reached a town
sent his photograph.—N. B. J.]
S. He did, yes, he did.
I heard her say it looked like him. I am very happy now,
better than ever before.
I saw her when she was so ill.
[His mother suffered an illness not long after his death.
N. B. J.]
S. Bennie, what are you doing now ? What are you doing
now, Bennie?
What am I doing why pa [1] dear I am doing everything,
writing reading studying, and am generally happy. Do
you hear me I am getting . . . clearing I think. I
often ... I often think I hear you calling me.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivitJi. Mrs. Piper. 359
S. Yes, we call for you often, dearie.
And when mother sits in that chair by the window I hear
her say Oh if I could only see you dear. Ask her.
[This statement about the window is very true. —N. B. J.]
(S. had brought paper package over.)
What have you got there . . my . . .
cap my cap.
[The package of articles was, when the cap was called for,
still placed on a table on the other side of the room.
Each article was carefully tied up in soft brown paper
and all were wrapped for a long journey in thick brown
paper. The initials A. L. were written before the cast
of Lincoln was uncovered. —N. B. J.]
S. Do you want the cap?
Yes, I think I do, and some day I will take my codac and
make a picture for you.
S. There it is. (Putting forward the cap which he had taken
out of package.)
do you remember it.
And I see
S. Yes, indeed. We've got lots of your pictures, dearie.
Do you remember . . . yes yes he said yes . . yes
(Perhaps Rector to communicator.)
and tell me about
S. Bennie, who is with you? Tell me who is with youl
Rector is helping me and do you know him and that he is
here with . . A 1 . . A 1.
(Small parcel tied with ribbon had in the meantime been
put forward near the hand by S.)
S. Yes. That's his Abraham Lincoln.
Do you remember . . and Al.
S. Yes, you made him. (Opening parcel and showing a cast of
face of Abraham Lincoln made by communicator.)
360 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Yes I know it well and
A 1 . . A L has been in my mind for a . . .
[It does not seem to me certain that the letters A L refer
to the cast. When they are first written, only the A is
a capital letter, and moreover they occur in a connexion
which suggests that Bennie is trying to give the name
of some one present with Rector. —H. de G. V.]
S. Do you want to send any word to your brother?
I have got more to sa}^ than I can tell you . .
do you hear me . . . and I tell you about Joh J Jo
Jo [?]
Joe
R. H. Joe ?
not quite friend.
J . . Joh n
S. John 1
Do you remember who came here before I did 'i
I am with Char.. Char..
Robin in . . I will have to wait for a moment.
[Persons referred to here are not recognized now.—N. B. J.]
Tell my dear dear mother how often I think of her, and
how I wish I could tell her where I am and make her
hear me.
Did Harry say he would send me any message Speak
slowly dad or I cannot hear all you say.
S. Mamma wrote and told Harry that you had gone away and
left us.
I wonder what he thought when he heard that. Give him
my love and tell him I will never foi'get the good times
we had together.
Hear dad do you remember anything about fishing ^
S. No, I don't remember anything about fishing.
he will I'll bet . . .
S. Do you want this 1 (Parcel put to hand.)
That is not AL . . . (Contents of parcel, a spur, a large
Mexican spur, minus its rowel-wheel, put on blockbook.)
(Hand touches over it.)
1 See p. 409.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 361
let me think whose that was . .
Where is the one I had . . I want my cap.
(R. H. asks if above letters were G. W. Dissent.^)
He is a little confused for the moment. No ... let him
rest a moment and repeat.
What has become of Arthur, where is Arthur,
•S. Must be from some other sitting.
tell . . tell me quick I am going now.
S. Bennie, do you want this? (Parcel containing a harmonica.)
Yes I do ... he will return in a moment and answer.
Do you remember George, he was helping me before I went
Pa where is my wheel, where 1
S. Do you mean out of the spur 1:
Yes I do.
S. I don't know where it is. I think you lost it yourself.
Well I know it but have you not found it yet.
S. Do you know what this is? Do you know what this is!
(Parcel containing scarf pin.)
father if you don't hear me speak.
was that not my stamp . . S T A M P do you remember it
S. No, I don't remember your stamp.
Well, I had one I made myself ask mother.
S. Oh, I guess he refers to the Abraham Lincoln.
Here comes another. (Harmonica given.)
who passed out long ago. Speak again slowly. Father I
am still coming closer. Do you remember when mother
was so ill. And what has become of Dick I say do
you hear me. That is my knife.
Dissent and assent are sometimes conveyed by motions of the hand.
Oh I remember
362 Helen de G. Verrall.
S. That's right.
[part
I see it, but eveiything is so dark to me.
S. I don't know whether it is or not. I'll see.
Who was that who tried to call me back. I did not like
her. Who was that wlio tried to call me back. I did ....
[This harmonica had long been carried by my boy. I learned
after the sitting on my return to the West that an old
nurse had asked for it and had carried it to a medium of
lier acquaintance, hoping for some communication, but
had returned it to my wife saying that she had heard
nothing.—N. B. J.]
Where are you I see you dad
S. I don't think his knife was here any way.
Do you hear me.
S. Shall I speak to you? I'm on earth with Dr. Hodgson,,
trying to speak to you. We're having a hard time.
You must help us, and must come again when you get a
chance.
Yes that sounds like you more than anything yet.
Are you going soon 1 You see father my head is not quite
clear yet.
S. What made you leave us ? What made you go away and
leave us 1- Why did you go 1
I did not exactly leave you, dad, but I only stepped out for
a time^ * * my head bothers me when I try to
think and speak. * *
Papa talk to me as you did before I left so suddenly.
S. Well, dearie, I want you to study and work hard and get
along in that life you're in now, and then daddy'll come
too and we will get along together just as we did in
this life.
iBennie supposes the question to refer to his having gone out to rest for
a moment during the trance. See p. 361.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 363
Yes, but ?ye ivere so happy together. This is my dear
father. Do you see him— Do you remember one sum-
mer when we took a long ride together near the mountain
S. Yes, I think I do.
I am trying to recall everything for you that you may
know I am all right here.
S. Do you go to the old farm 1 Do you ever go to our old
farm ? (Much excitement.)
Farm yes that is what I was thinking about a moment
ago . . . and do you remember the time I had trying
to make the (Hand moves to and fro.)
S. Can't hit it.
You remember I used to take up the tvafer vjith. I cannot
think of the name
S. I don't remember. I can't think of the name.
iVb —well it did not . .
Chain.
S. Do you mean lifting hay in the barn? (Dissent)
S. Water?
Chain . . yes water.
I mean just what I say. I know so well. I mean the chain
I fixed to take the water out with.
Cannot you think . .
R. H. All right.
I am still here. Do you remember Aunt May [or Mary.
Interpreted by E. H. as Mary.] sounds like May [Mary ?]
S. Yes. Cousin May I should think.
She is here.
S. Don't you mean Cousin May ?
Yes I do.
364 . Helen cle G. Verrcdl. ^
[part
S. Who is with Cousin May ?
I mean Cousin May, yes she is with me.
Do 3'ou remember who I meant by John 1
^
S. No. Tell me his other name.
Well do you remember Roberts
S. No.
Roberts there is more to it. Roberts
S. Where did i/ou know him 1
here and he has two brothers F R A K
R. H. Frank ?
F R A K
and Charles— [Not recognized. —N. B. J.] [These are the
names of two intimate friends of communicator, constantly
referred to in later sittings. —H. deG.V.]
Yes both. I will have to speak again in a moment.
Friend this young man constantly calls for his mother, he
says mother (Rector to R. H.)
S. What shall I tell her 1 You tell me what to tell mother.
She wants to know that you're happy.
Well, I am happy and don't worry about me will you. I
am very anxious to tell you everything about myself,
everything I can remember. Did you remember when
she was so ill . . . Yes. Mama
S. Yes, I do. Were you there 1
every day. I tell you many things but you don't seem to
hear me do you dad
(R. H. explains method of communication.)
Father dear do you remember what I said to you before I
left.
^
See p. 360 ; see also p. 454, where the name is given correctly as that of
communicator's uncle.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 365
S. Bennie, do you remember the walk we had on the Sunday ?
Do you remember the walk we had on the last Sunday?
(Hand points to sheet just written upon as though to
indicate that was what he referred to.)
S. Yes, he means that.
Yes very well, and do you remember what I said to you
on that day and how I felt.
S. Where was it that we were walking?
What was it well we walked over to the city and we went
down there and I told you I felt as though some thing
was going to happen. Do you remember this—speak.
[We walked from the hotel at the shore up to and through
the town to the country beyond.—N. B. J.]
S. Do you remember that I told you to go and get your hat,
your cap 1
Yes I do well.
* * (undec.)
take cold,
S. Did you go and get your hat when I told you to ?
Oh I remember. No.
S. That's right.
I did not.
S. What did you tell me about not getting your hat? What
did you say to me ?
I said I think I won't need it.
[The answer is exactly correct. We were starting for a ten
mile walk and our last. He went without a hat.
N. B. J.]
S. Do you remember what happened to your boats last
summer ?
366 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
That is what I was trying to say some time ago about the
chain and the water . . the water . . we went down to
the water ^ . . .
It is gone from my memorj' now.
Say it again.
S. Who was with you in the boat when the mast blew offi
I cannot catch that, dad.
Why why were you not there 1
I cannot remember that to save me at the moment. I will
think it over and tell you who it was.
S. Bennie, you think it all over, and send word to your mother
what to do with your things in the house, and your
horse.
I will, yes indeed, but you know what I want done with
him. I will tell you all about it.
Who was it that went with you the other day when you
got the hair clipped.
I do not think you know what I am saying do you 1
8. Do you mean when I had Alice's horse clipped 1
Yes. Yes I saw you (much excitement.)
S. Do you mean when 1 had Aunt Alice's horse clipped 1
but could not make out who it was.
Well it is queer.
S. I can't remember. Was it man or boy riding the horse 1
hoy and I.
S. Did you see any one with me riding on horse on the
boulevard lately ?
Yes some days ago. SUNDAY a few days ago.
S. Do you see mother and papa drive out South sometimes
Of course I do. I told . . . out to where they took my
body
iSee p. 363.
I.XI.] Report on the Junot Sittings tuith Mrs. Piper. 367
S. Ah, sure, Bennie, your mind's clear enough.
And I see the flowers mother put there (not read at once)
they . .
S. But who's the boy that rides horseback with me ? His
name, can you give his name 1
No I am trying to think F . . .
(R. H. inquires about the writing above not read.)
I saw the flowers mother took there
Yes and put over it.
I want so much to tell you more but how can I. I am
so . .
I want my knife . give . . No I am going out . .
S. Is he going now 1
(S. sounds mouth harmonium.)
hear me play
that is what I used to blow on for the boys in the evening
on the water. [Correct. —N. B. J.]
HARMONICA
S. Ah, sure.
And ask mother if she remembers HOME SWEET
Home I used to play for her. [Correct. —N. B. J.]
S. Yes, and for daddy too. I remember well. Yes, yes.
Something about the water or River
S W A N E E River. [Correct and states with curious exact-
ness the distinction in tunes called for respectively.
N. B. J.]
S. You used to play that also. I remember.
Yes, I did for you. I am going now. Will I see you
again I hope to, my father in Heaven I will . .
I cannot talk more . .
-S. Give your name in full, if you can, before you go.
I will think it all over and tell you more
368 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(Waking Stage.^)
* * *
That was that young lady and that tall young man that
was always * * []
S. Light hair?
(Mrs. P. said first that the eyes were dark, then)
gray and blue.
He doesn't look cross * * he has a happy face>
You don't know who I mean ?
You heard that? I'll tell you more.
S. Was there something peculiar about his front teeth ?
2nd Sitting.
June 20, 1899. Present: N.B.J, and R.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Did you know what I meant about the chain - . . could
you make it out.
S. No, I could not.
I pulled it in, spliced it, while George held the sail and we
left it in bow.
I am as clear about this as I can be.':* I know it. Now
let me . . .
Who are you any way, you are not my father are you?
Is he? Oh yes. I see. All right Go on. Yes, I don't
mind. (These expressions to Eector.)
S. Bennie, I am here. Daddy's here. This other gentleman is
Dr. Hodgson. He's trying to help me.
^ Tlie communications in the waking stage are spoken and not written.
^See pp. 363 and .366.
^When a comnumicator asserts that he is clear, it often means that he is
conscious of confusion. At the beginning of this sitting (omitted here) Mr.
.Junot had spoken of George Pelham. The name '
George ' is perhaps a dreamy
echo of this.
LXI.] Rei^ort on the Junot Sittings xvith Mrs. Pilfer. 369
Yes they told me just now.
Well, pa, do you mind if I tell you something which is on
my mind.
S. No, go on, Bennie, tell everything.
I want very much to send a message to mother who knows
more about it than any one. Tell her dear pa that I
left two or three letters in my little case written to me
by L, and I do not wish any one to see them but her.
S. Yes, dearie.
I know perfectly well what I mean, and she will know too.
S. Yes, she will know.
Please let no one see them, and they are in a pale blue
envelope and marked jmvaie. Ask her to go there at
once and take them, read and destroy.
kS. Yes, dear boy, she will.
I am anxious about this as I did not realize I was eoino"
to leave as I did. There is nothing else on my mind
that makes me feel like this.
S. All right, dear boy, the letters will be destroyed.
[This allusion is not understood.—H. de G-. V.]
And I want to say one thing more . . would you mind
going out . . . come here dad I want to speak to 3 0U
about . .
(R. H. goes out.)
S. What is iti
Do not bother me now. I want to speak to you about . ,
S. Write on.
L en a [or Laura do you remember her . .
Laura [?] and Harris . . . HARRIS,
do you know what I mean
370 . Helen de G. Verrall. [part
S. I do not know.
I want you to remember . . . Af . . . Alfred . .
where is he . . at home ....
[A near neighbor and friend of my son. —N. B. J.]
S. He's married now.
since I left
S. Yes, since you left.
is he all right
S. No, he's not well.
I am so happy to see you. I never felt as I do now,
I am telling you about iilfred . . about Alfred ...
I . . . yes because I remember all about him . .
S. Do you remember Roble ? [Roble is his brother.—N. B. J.]
Yes. I have been trying to send a message to him . . .
S. Did you see him riding with me 1
^
Yes I saiv him with you only a few days before I saw you
here dad. He was with you. He was on horse back
and I hear him speak of me . . . [Correct. —N. B. J.]
S. Did you see Roble riding with any one else?
Yes, I tried to tell you of that yesterday. I think it was
mother [or brother] and Carl [1] . . . Jarl [1]
Jarl [?]
S. Was it a boy or a girl?
r/iii, and
S. Write the name.
Ell . . . E . . . I know just as well as you do, dad, I
1 See p. 366.
LXi.] Re])OTt on the Junot Sittings vjWi Mrs. Piper. 371
know . . Elsie [?] . . yes . . E. you . . . yes I mean
my sister . .
* * [undec]
[Helen is sister's name and she rides on horseback much
with Roble.—N. B. J.]
E . . Elen . . . yes and I see my brother Roble . . .
Yes, and I was wn'tli them and I want her to have my horse,
want her to have my horse . . I do very much.^
S. She's got a nice new horse of her own.
/ know it. I know it, and
S. And your horse has been sent to be sold. I think it has
been sold.
. has it . . I don't thinh so. [Horse had been sold but not
delivered and was recovered by telegram sent at once.
—N. B. J.] I wanted her to have it.
I don't care about Aunt Ellen's horse do you hear me . . .
[Perhaps a confusion with Aunt Alice's horse, mentioned
on p. 366—H. deG. v.]
Well do you know who * * * [undec] is
S W E N S 0 N. [Not recognized.—N. B. J.]
What has become of watch, my watch
S. Your mother has it.
Tell her to keep it always.
And do you know where all my photographs are. I want
Elen to have them.
S. Do you mean your sister ']
Fes. I say yes. Oh pa if you would only know what I want
to say. I am trying so hard to tell you what I want to
say. , .
S. Go on.
Tell mamma to cheer up and not worry about me. I am
alive and happy.
1 See p. 366 where an enquiry about the horse was made by N. B. J.
372 Helen cle G. Verrall.
S. Bennie, is my mother with you 1
[part
I am with her now, and Cousin May ^
(S. thinks he asked liere if there were any messages for
communicator's brother and sister.)
And Uncle Will I see him often.
[Uncle Will is Mrs. J.'s brother.—H. de G. V.]
S. Where is he now ?
he is there in the ... on the other side
[The conjunction of names here suggests that Bennie sup-
poses "Uncle Will "to be dead. His answer in reply to
N. B. J.'s question "Where is he now 1 " is ambiguous
(cf. p. 394). Mistakes as to whether persons referred to
are alive or dead are not uncommon.—H. de G. V.]
S. Do you know where Willie is staying now 1
No pa I do not. I see him often, and I often wonder if he
ever thinks I am alive.
S. Uncle Willie's down on the farm now and I will tell him.
Oh yes, and will will you go soon.
S. Yes.
I am so glad. I will be there and help you with the hay.'^
And do not forget what I say about it.
S. Shall not Dr. Hodgson come back now, as I can't read the
writing ?
Yes I think I can keep clear . .
(R. H. returns.)
Don't you say one word to me will you because I want to
talk more.
I am constantly trying to reach Elen Roble and Mamma.
8. (to R.H.) He means Helen.
^See p. 363. 2 See p. 363.
liXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tuith Mrs. Piper. 373
Yes I told you before what I did not think you U and
that is about Mma Mamma.
She is not really coming over to this life very soon.
S. That's right.
but she is really coming to see me some day.
S. Yes, dear.
And I will do all I can to see her keep well.
Tell me about the dog and ped . . . P E D Ted.
Wait a moment . . .
it is Uncle Will . .
Ped . . .
S. Peg (Assent) Ah, sure,
and, and I
S. What's her other name 1
he is speaking it dear friend . . (Rector to N. B. J.)
I tell you about Uncle Will and Peg
I have it.
S. Go on.
and D . . . D.
S. Are they going to help him 1
Wait, he is thinking of P e d g i e
S. Peggie.
He says Peggie . .
[Peggie is his cousin about his own age, the daughter of
Mrs. J.'s sister. Peggie is not her real name but his
name for her. —N. B. J.]
Fen
S. Yes, go on. That's right.
\This abbreviation is used habitually in the trance writing for " understand,"
-or "understood."
374 Helen de G. Verrcdl. [part
n 0 . . . o . . sa.j it do
F e n n n . .
[These letters are not correct, 'enster' (see below) is perhaps
an attempt at the name.^ But there seems to be some
confusion on the part of the controls as to whether
they are giving Peggie's name or the name of the com-
municator, Bennie, and this perhaps accounts for the
"Fenn."—H. de G. V.]
Speak more distinctly . . . you know who I mean dad.
Don't worry me.
I want to tell you about her awfully.
do you think I do not know . . . well I do know very well.
It is * [?] enster [?] F e n
I cannot seem to get it friend. (Rector to E. H.)
R. H. Well, never mind about it
It is his name.
S. Oh, he's trying to write his name?
and it is very clear to him.
F * [1] Fenn. I cannot say it . . and will you for-
give me . . he does not hear it . .
S. Bennie, you can write your name. He's got three names all
in one. Now you can write them.
I know it all right, but let me.
I am trying to
I will go back and * * [undec] what I wanted .
Harrison [1]
S. What's that name ?
HAER
[Perhaps an attempt at Bennie's middle name, a three
syllabled name beginning with H and ending in -son.
The name '
Harris ' was given earlier in this sitting,
see p. 369.—H.deG. v.]
^ This name and several other names also have been omitted from the published
report at Mr. Junot's request.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 375
Yes I will go back to my sister once more and when I get
through I can say it better.
Tell me where my Skates are and Peggy. I want very much
to know. And then I am thinking about the new
clothes I never wore.
S. Your skates are uj) in your room, I th . .
Who took them out. It must have been . .
S. I don't know. Perhaps your mother gave them away.
I cannot see them anywhere. [Skates were given away.
N. B. J.] And my clothes I never wore . . wore . .
wore but once. Where . . .
Pa my hair is light you know i
S. Yes.
Yes, and do you remember of my getting hit with some
thing on the boat.
S. Did the mast hit you when it blew ofF?^
struck me in the head.
S. Ah, I thought so.
I feel that I can never get away from the thought of that
day, but I shall in time. Do you remember it 1
S. No, I was not there.
No, but did they not tell you.
I often think of the good times I used to have and the
times we drove into the woods.
S. Yes.
Come nearer to me pa. I hope these people will let me
come here again and tell you more I am really a little
confused yet, but the}' are helping me much.
But I . . Uncle Will Peggy I must say more to you.
S. Yes. Speak to them.
1 See p. 368. 2 See p. 366.
376 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
I certainly must tell )'ou liovv 1 will be on the farm with
3'ou all and it will do mama so much good.
Pa give me some thing. I thought I saw my knife, was I
mistaken, where is Washington Pa Where is Washing-
ton dad, tell me where.
[Perhaps a mistake for "Lincoln."—H. deG. V.]
S. I do not know. (S. in meantime opens package, and pro-
duces the A. L. bust, the spur, cap, and a scarf-pin.
About the scarf-pin placed in the hand he asks :)
S. What is this?
I used to wear it in my tie. Gone. I don't believe I lost
it. My pin . .
S. Who gave it to you ? AVho gave you the pin ?
Who gave me the pin
Will . . why I think you did.
S. That's right.
I think you gave it to me on Christmas [1] Was it
Christmas 1
Let me think. I do not know but it was my birthda}'
. . . was it pa . .
S. What did I tell you about the pin? Where did I say it
came from? Where did I say the gold came from?
this came from . . . Oh I never can say it . . C o . .
Was it my birthday . . I have forgotten . . I have
forgotten.
Who was the man who went out there with you and . . .
I had so many pieces of it.
S. Do you mean the miner man 1 (Assent.)
[The scarf-pin was made of a Colorado nugget presented
with a number of other nuggets by a miner friend.
X. B. J.]
Yes I do, but his name has gone from me completely.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 377
S. Did you look for your wheel, ^ for your spur'?
Yes, I did. Yes I did.
S. Where is the wheel ?
the wheel . . I saw it . . I saw it some where in the
drawer in my room with the letters.
Tell mama to look there and she will find it for me. I
want to see Elen very much dad and tell her to be a
good girl, my brother Roble
S. That's right,
and HELEN.
S. That's right.
Oh my head. I cannot think more, dad.
I wish you would come here and talk to me.
There were two small figured stones on my desk do you
remember them.
S. No, I do not, but I will look.
All right.
If I ever get straightened out so I can remember everything
I will be very glad. I have no bother unless I try to
speak, then it all goes away from me before I have a
chance to say it.
(From Rector.) Here is an elderly gentleman with him
and a dear old lady who is very sweet to
S. (to R. H.) Shall I speak now?
look at and she is very anxious to see
S. Please let the old lady speak to me.
her daughter and son in the body two sons—sends great
love to Benjam [?] and Will.
R. H. Benjamin, is that 1
iSee p. 361.
. , 2b
Helen de G. Verrall. [part
B e n j . . . (dissent)
[There is some confusion here. If the "old lady" is
N. B. J.'s mother, the allusion to "Will" is incorrect,
Will being the name of Mrs. J.'s brother. It is true
that Mrs. J. Sr. had a daughter and two sons. —H. de
G.V.]
there are two by the same name here . . two
and Eliza . . Elizabeth who came here many years ago
S. Is it mother and grandmother 1
Yes both of them. One was called Elizabeth.
S. What was the name of the other in life ?
And she is a sister to this young man's mother . . Auntie
Aunt.
The name is not quite right.
[Mrs. J. had no sister called Elizabeth.— N. B. J.]
I am here again father, they took me away to get stronger.
S. Yes, Bennie, now tell me if my mothfer is with you.
Grandma yes she is I told you before dad . .
Helen. Do you remember Helen ... I
S. Do you mean our Helen that's still in life 1
No not on your side, not my sister but Aunt Helen.
[If Hattie is read in place of Helen here, all is clear ; other-
wise not. —N. B. J.] [Bennie had an Aunt Helen but
she was still living. —H. de G. V.]
Not my sister, not Aunt Helen.
S. Another one ? I don't remember any other Helen.
Yes. Well there was, and she is here, and you will find
out soon what I mean.
Speak to me of Alfred ^ and tell him I think of him often.
S. Do you mean Alfred W ?
I mean him of course, he is not well. Do you not know
this.
1 See p. 370.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings loith Mrs. Piper. 379
Have you not forgotten what I said before.
* * *
(From Eector) Better leave him for a moment and see if
he cannot tell me distinctly the name he tried to give
me before.
Dad you here dear.
S. Yes, Bennie.
F . .
S. Bennie, listen to me. You come to this good friend here.
Dr. Hodgson. He'll help you to talk with us.
B B
S. Yes, go on. Write your name.
Say it again, sir. Come to him, and talk it over.
I will say it over to him.
Is that it.
S. Write a letter to your mother, through Dr. Hodgson, after
a while.
Yes. I will write . . BR
R. H. Rector, it's no use bothering about that name now.
No, we U D but I am trying to hold him for it, but +
says come so I suppose I must do so. However I will
ask him and give it to thee.
R. H. Yes.
* * *
3rd Sitting.
July 6, 1899. Present: E.H.
(G. P. writes) •
R, H. George, any message from Bennie 1 [Hand reaches out.]
^ + = Imperator.
380 Helen cle G. Vervall. [part
I was just trying to hear what he was telling me, so 1
could tell you after Fred got through.
Yes. I should like to know if Mama has found my letters.^
R. H. I have not yet heard from your father since he got home.
Well, he will tell you soon all about it.
Oh give my love my dearest love to papa mama, Roble and
El Helen.
R. H. I will.
Oh tell them I love them oh so much and I will do all I
can to help them know I live. I am so glad about the
horse I do not know what to say.
[Extract from letter of N. B. J., July 12, 1899. "When I
was with you Bennie asked that his horse be given to
his little sister. I . . . wired to C to stop the
sale of the horse, which was done just in time . . . and
the children and especially '
Uncle Willie ' have been
using him a great deal." See p. 371.]
R. H. Yes.
4th Sitting.
March 5, 1900. Present: Mr. and Mrs. J. and R.H.
(Rector writes. Excitement and turmoil in hand. Cross
in air. Much excitement at first in the following
writing.)
Dad Dad Dad yes I am coming dear . . wait until I
pass through the light and I will meet you once more.
It is I, Bennie don't you know me.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we hear you.
I see mama I am so glad so glad . . oh do you know all
I feel for you ....
Dad dear, do you remember all I told you and mama about
myself before.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I remember all you said before.
1 See p. 369.
LXI.] Re'port on the Junot Sittivgs ivith Mrs. Piper. 381
Did you hear me when I came into your room a few weeks
ago.
N. B. J. I thought I did. But I was not sure. What did you do ?
I came in and walked over to you and )iiade a noise, did
you hear it 1
N. B. J. I thought I did, but I was not sure.
Well you may be sure noiv. (Perturbation in hand.)
Mama speak also dear and tell me what you were doing
with desk
Mrs. J. Do you mean my desk where I have your things 1
[Mrs. J. had been lately working over his things in her desk.
—N. B. J.]
Yes. I do, I heard that very clearly dear. Oh how can I
refrain from telling you how dear you both are to me
and . . .
Mrs. J. Bennie, I often think you come to me. Do yowl
Come to you . . yes indeed I do and mama there is no
doubt about it. I do see and know a great deal about
you and the things you do. I see all the pictures of
myself and all my own work.
[We have a great many pictures of Bennie lately placed in
our rooms — also various pieces of his handiwork. —
N.B.J.]
Mrs. J. Bennie, are you happy'?
Happy, yes, very, and I wish you to be also. Promise me
and I will never say any more about the past, believe
mama dear that it is all right. I know it is.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I feel happier now that I have seen you.
Well you will dear if you will only listen and in a way
talk to me. I would like something at this moment
dear
(R. H. passes parcel of articles to N. B. J. to undo.)
And it will help me to keep clear . . . and in a . . .
382 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Bennie, who met you when you left me 1 Who met you
in the light that you are now in 1
Didn't dad tell you if not I will in a few moments . . just
give me something.
(Articles felt by hand, which chooses sjmr.)
I only wish to get help so I can remain
Yes, all right now how is Roble give him my love and
tell him I am so glad he is doing well. And then I
have a few things to tell you about this life.
Do you remember the letters I spoke of dear, I wish to
know if you ....
Mrs. J. What letters did you mean, Bennie ?
the blue ones.^
N. B. J. (to Mrs. J.) Tell him you couldn't find them.
They are yet on my mind and I hope I will [be] able to think
it out soon . . . what did you think I meant any way
Tell me dear and it will not trouble me . . .
I left two or three short letters somewhere about . . . .
coat [?] or
just let me see now . . .
Mrs. J. I couldn't understand about the letters, Bennie. Did you
mean the two or three you left on the bureau at Oster-
ville?
Yes that is exactly what I meant and I do remember now,
I wish to know if you got them or who did.
(Interruption due to difficulty in deciphering the writing.)
Tell mama dearest that I will never forget my days in
earth. Never and about the letters if I am only U. D.
about that I will be glad. Can you help me in any way
Mrs. J. I found two or three letters of yours on the bureau.
Yes well I had a faint recollection of leaving some, where
I did not wish any one to get them but my mother
and I tried to make it clear to dad because they were
on my mind. Did you destroy them, tell me dear.
iSee p. 369.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 383
Mks. J. I put them away, Beniiie. I didn't think they were im-
portant.
No I do not know as they were only I felt that I had
left them and . . .
N. B. J. Tell him who they were to.
Mks. J. Yes. I will. One letter was to grandma from you, and
one letter was a chain [ ? ]
letter, do you remember ?
And a letter from Charlie.
Oh dear yes of course but for the life of me I could not
explain what I wished you to know. The fact was
mama I knew I had left some letters behind me in
a way that troubled me.
Yes, do you U. D. dear and I did not wish any one to
touch them but you.
Mrs. J. No. I read them and put them away, Bennie, all of them,
to keep for myself. Did you wish me to destroy them?
No only to get them out of others' way dear. Now I am
quite happy about it, and I will not think about it
any more. You have . . .
That is all right now dear. That is all about the letters.
Mrs. J. Put that off your mind, Bennie. Forget about the letters.
Yes I have, now that I know all I cared to know.
Mrs. J. Can you tell me about the last few days you spent with
me, Bennie 1 Do you remember ?
Why yes I do very well, and what shall I tell you about
them ? I was very happy ma [ ^ ] dear.
Mrs. J. Tell me what you talked about, Bennie. Do you remember
that day you were sick and we talked so long?
Oh yes I do very well. You thought you knew about this,
and I remember you were somewhat troubled, but I told
you I was going to be all right.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, you did tell me. You said you were better.
384 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Yes and I was right. Believe me dear I am all right.
Do you remember you said you did not know what you
should do if anything should happen to me, and I an-
swered don't worry I shall come out all right.
[This is recognized. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, but I didn't want you to leave us, to leave me.
But I did not leave you dear, don't you see. I I did not
leave I am really Bennie N J . . J.
Mrs. J. I understand, Bennie, do you want to write your name?
Do you want me to . .
Mrs. J. Yes. Yes, if you can.
BENJAMIN
Mrs. J. Good.
ROBLE JUNOT.
Mrs. J. Yes, that is right. Do you remember your middle name ?
I do write it or speak . . . H . . H
Mrs. J. Yes, that is right.
HAEE [1] [HHER ?]
Mrs. J. No.
[Perhaps an attempt to repeat Harrison. See p. 374.
H. de G. v.]
R.. H. (to Mrs. J.) Let him . . let them get it themselves.
Who is talking . . . H E . . . D . . .
I am tired a little ... let me rest and I will tell you
soon dear.
Dad why are you so quiet and why don't you talk to me.
I must rest a little because I cannot think now.
N. B. J. Bennie, I thought you wanted to talk to your mother.
Tell me about the old farm when you can.
1 See note on p. 389.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 385
Yes indeed I will. Do you remember the time I tried to
tell you.
N. B. J. Yes. I remember. But we've been there since.
Oh yes indeed, that I know too, and about my horse dad
I think you told me you would not let him go.
Mrs. J. Yes, papa kept him. Yes.
Yes, I know it very well. I only remind him that I do
not forget any thing he says to me. Do you not tell
me about sister . .
[Some remarks here made by sitters which I did not catch.
—R. H.]
And Maria [1] . . do you remember Aunt Nain [ ? ] . .
Mary . . May MaRy ... I here with [^]
N. B. J. Cousin May, you mean.
Yes, cousin May. I told you before ^ . . and
Will [ ^ ] tell me
Could you let me see my mother all alone.
R. H. Yes, we will go out if you wish and Rector thinks well.
I think friend he is confused a little and could be kept
very quiet by letting him be free U. D.
(N. B. J. and R. H. go out.)
I want to see you. Mamma, as I did before I came here
and he confuses me.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I can read it.
Well Dearest then listen to me
(Hand kept motioning and sitter said "Do you want me to
write 1
")
Yes if you wish, but I want to tell you who I met here:
whom I have met here. I met May the first one and
she said Come to me Bennie and I will take care of you
[His cousin May passed out only a few weeks before his
death.—N. B. J.]
And do you remember how we used to like each other
iSee p. 363.
386 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. I do not understand.
How we used to play together.
[Bennie knew her very well. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. I cannot read. Is there anything I can do 1
Yes. Nothing Dear, only U. D. me.
Mrs. J. You said Cousin May met you ] ,
Yes, exactly.
Mrs. J. Is she with you ?
Also Grandpa.
[Sitter took this to refer to her own father, who had died
since Bonnie's death. See note on p. 399. —H. de G. V.]
Mrs. J. Is he with you 1
Yes he is.
Mrs. J. He did not meet you, did he ?
No, he came here after I did Dear yes . . . and I met
him also.
Mrs. .J. And was he not surprised to see you 1
Yes very. And oh Mamma so glad . . .
Yes Dear he sends love to you now and Grandma also.
and Eliza . . . Elsie [?] . . she came here . . Lizzie . . .
she used to know grandpa , ... in the body . . . her
name was Smith . . .
[Not recognized. —N. B. J.]
Don't you remember now
Mrs. .J. No, I don't understand—is it Lizzie or Eliza Smith 'I
No. Never mind Dear I will tell you of our own
Yes but Mamma I want to assure you it is I.
Yes. Do you remember a cold I got. Dear,
in the water
Mrs. .J. Was that the beginning of your sickness 1
Yes, Dear, it was.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Pipe7\ 387
Mrs. J. Did I do everything I could for you, Beunie i
Yes, dear.
Oh yes, and that is one thing I wanted to tell you.
Now do not worry any more about it.
I will be happier if you do not.
Mrs. J. I will not worry now. I am happy to have heard from
you.
Oh I am so glad Dear.
Mrs. J. Was it time for you to go, Bennie ?
Yes—and better so—they all tell me.
Mrs. J. Have you seen Grandma Junot 1
I do often.
—and my brother Eoble in the body—I remember our little
Boat. Yes and I saw it go over once. Do you remem-
ber Dear.
[Bennie and Roble capsized in their small boat not long
before his death.—N. B. J.]
Well it all came from that.
I got wet
Mks. J. I have forgotten that.
Have you forgotten, Mamma dear.
I did sometime before I came here.
Mrs. J. You got wet many times.
Yes, but when I lost my cap, dear ...
Mrs. J. Do you mean when you went without your cap^^
Yes. Y^es I say. Yes, Dear. Yes, and Dad told me to
take it.
Mrs. J. When you went for the long walk with your father ?
Yes, when we went together, when we went together.
(N. B. J. returns and says " Do you want me Bennie 1
")
iSee p. 365.
388 Helen de G. VerralL. [part
Yes I do.
Oh I am so glad. There never was a boy so glad.
I want to keep clear and tell you all.
I want you would hear all I say to you because I try very
hard.
Pa did you know Grandpa was here ^
and sees you now.
N. B. J. Which grandpa ^
Grandpa Junot, Dad, —and he sends love to you. I looked
out for him and took him to this world. . . . Yes.
N. B. J. Have you seen my mother 1
Yes I did (hand points back to written pages.)
and she told me to tell you dear Dad that she had taken
care of you ever since she came here, and no matter
what you do she will still watch over you. She told me
these words for you and Helen.
Oh dear I know every thing so well.
Do you miss me at the farm when you go.
And if you do, you need no more I am there when I wish.
(N. B. J. goes away to get more writing paper.)
Call him back once more and let him help me.
Mrs. J. Shall we not call back Dr. Hodgson ? Do you want him t
Yes I do now. (R. H. returns.)
B. H. J.
Mrs. J. "B.H.J." The way he signed his name.
[The signature of his initials is wonderfully like his own
signature. —N. B. J.]
I . . I am all I claim to be.
* * *
(Waking Stage.)
See the young man with the light hair up in the clouds
with Rector.
I want to go too. I want to go too.
Did you hear the song that boy was singing 1
R. H. What was it? What was he singing?
Swanee River—Swanee River.^
iSee pp. 386 and 399. ^gee p. 387. ^See p. 367.
lxl] Report on the Junot S'lttivgs vnth Mrs. Pvper. 389
[The communicator's name is Benjamin H. Junot. The name
Bennie was mentioned by N.B.J, (see p. 356) and the name
Koble was also mentioned by him and identified by the com-
municator as that of his brother. With regard to the possibility
of Mrs. Piper knowing the name Junot, N. B. J. writes
" We knew nothing of Dr. Hodgson or Mrs. Piper until the
summer before Bennie's death, when one of our neighbours
gave us a copy of the S. P. E. volume which contains Dr.
Hodgson's report (2nd I think) upon Mrs. Piper. Some time
after Bennie's death I wrote to Dr. Hodgson, applying for
membership in the American Branch and asking for a sitting.
He and Mrs. Piper knew nothing of us. We resided in a very
large city 1000 miles away from them. Dr. Hodgson never
mentioned our names in Mrs. Piper's presence for four or five
years after our first sitting.
"Our son died at the seashore about 100 miles away from
Boston. We know of no notice of his death in any Boston
paper. It is certainly very unlikely that there should have
been any such notice. We have always lived in the West
and have little acquaintance in or about Boston.
" At all our sittings we always saw Mrs. Piper before the
trance, but only for a few moments and always in Dr. Hodgson's
presence. Mrs. Piper never came to know us until Mr. Dorr
introduced us after Dr. Hodgson's death."
If Mrs. Piper had ever seen jST. B. J.'s name, or that of his
son Eoble, it is very probable that the mention of the names
Bennie and Eoble, would have revived in her memory the name
Junot. All that can be said is that there is no evidence of
her having seen the name and some reason to suppose that she
is not likely to have seen it. —H. de G. V.]
5th Sitting.
March 6, 1900. Present: Mr. and Mrs. J. and E. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Do you remember the things I used to make when I was
in body and some of the things I placed about my room.
[He made a number of things, many of which are now
390 Helen de 0. Verrall. [part
in his room. —N. B. J.] Good night mama, dear, I just
spied you out. How are you ... I see you
Mrs. J. I am well, Bennie. Do you want to ask me any questions?
Yes, only a few, because I have something to tell you. Ever
since I came to this life I have been praying that j'ou
might feel that I was still with you, and I have fol-
lowed you many times and especially when you and dad
have been out driving. I sit often beside you and hear
the things you say about me.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I understand.
I almost never see you but that you do not speak of me
and it makes me very happy. Do you hear me now . .
the Good Priest ^ is helping me to keep my thoughts clear.
I remember in the summer at the farm how I used to sit
out in front of the house and Charlie and Roble were
with me often and I used to play on this thing [Refer-
ence is to the harmonica and the statement is correct as
to Eoble and his cousin Charley—here first referred to.
—N. B. J.]
[The name Charlie had been mentioned by Mrs. J. at the
previous sitting, see p. 383. At later sittings there are
frequent allusions to a friend of Bennie's, Charlie D. ; no
distinction is ever made by the controls between " Charlie
D." and "Cousin Charley" and there is nothing to show to
which of the two reference is here intended. —H. de G. V.}
(Hand listens to Mrs. J.)
Mrs. J. Wait.
and I never will forget those days. But the one thing
which has troubled me more than anything since I came
to this life is the thought of dear mamma's feeling that
she could do more for me. I tell you now that she did
all she could and nothing could have kept me in the
body. Do you hear me dear . .
And the time is coming when you will see me walking
about with you mama. Remember I tell you so.
^Imperator.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 391
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, I hear all you say.
Yes, dearest but why did you tell pa you did not know
for sure that I was with you. Tell me dear because it
will help me to feel free.
Mrs. J. I do think that you are with me. I often feel that you ....
with me.
But that touch.
Mrs. J. What do you mean, Bennie 1
When I touched you one day when you were lying down.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I don't feel sure about you touching me. Da
you touch me ?
I am as sure of it as I can be of anything I do.
Mrs. J. Bennie, you know I can't see you as you see me.
Did you hear what + said about that one day. God hath
said it is the privilege of the so-called departed and
only theirs. I do not U. D. all these laws yet dear
but I am going to in time.
Tell me now about Eleu (Hand dissents at once) Helen
and what . . .
Mrs. J. Do you mean your sister Helen 1
I do indeed, and I wish you to know that it was I who
helped her when she had that cold as you and pa
called it.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Why do you ask me more about Helen than
Eoble ?
Because I saw her not very well only a little time ago,
dear. But I have him in mind also and will ask when
I get to it.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
I love you all so dearly I do not want to leave out any
one.
392 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. That's right, sweetheart,
I tell you Roble, my brother I mean, will be a great comfort
to you so do not miss me. I am still with you.
Got to go a moment, will return soon.
R, H. No hurry.
(Slight pause.)
(From Rector.) Friend, speaking to him, kind friend, speak
slowly kindly.
(Hand touches the articles, as if seeking some particular one.)
Mrs. J. I think he's looking for that, (cast of Lincoln.)
Yes, back again.
Mama what did you do with that piece [f] of A. L.
Abraham Lincoln.
Mrs. J. This, Bennie, do you mean 1 (pushing forward the cast of
Lincoln.)
Mrs. J. Do you want your cast of Abraham Lincoln 1
Yes. (Hand fingers cast.)
Yes, all right.
I am . . am going back now do you remain.
Daisy.
Do you know what I mean, dad dear.
N. B. J. No. No, I do not know what you mean.
Do you remember 1
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I don't remember Daisy.
What was the name we used to call the what was it we
called the . . . can't [?] cannot you help me think . . .
Da . . DA . . DAN . . . Dan.i
[The dog's name was Don. We could not remember at
the time.—N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
1 See note on p. 419.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 393
Think dear and you will know what I mean.
N. B. J. Daniel Webster he means.
Mrs. J. No. .
•
'
No, it was when I was a little boj'.
Mks. J. Daisy
Oh dear no one knows better than you do
R. H. Bennie, what was it that was called Daisy 1
dog . . Dog . .
Mes. J. We had a dog called Daisy 1
N. B. J. Willie had a little one, didn't he '?
he is over here now. Oh do think
N.B.J, {to Mks. J.) What was the name of the dog we had so long?
Tramp 1
Mrs. J. Sport
Mrs. J. Do you mean Crisp?
No but the dog I used to like so much when I was a
little fellow . . . and . . .
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I can't remember.
Do you remember the old dog we used to have.
Well if you cannot help me I will let it go but . . and
tell you some day. (Hand indicates R. H.)
R. H. I understand. I shall be glad.
Yes now speak to me dear because he is here and I will
ask what R is doing now.
Mrs. J. Do you want me to speak to you ?
Yes I do very much.
•2 c
394 Helen de G. Verrall. - . [part
Mrs. J. Bennie, can you remember the words of the song you sang
so much before you left us, —at the minstrel show, do
you remember ?
Oh let me see, I did sing something. No I don't believe
I, I do. I will think about it and it will come back to
me.
Mrs. J. Very well, Bennie. Bennie, do you see any of the boys ?
Oh yes. I do often. I told Pa, didn't he tell you?
Mrs. J. Yes, Tell me the names of some of them.
Well, I told you about Arthur and Frank and Charlie,^
and do you remember Eugene
[All recognized except Arthur. —N. B. J.]
Gene.
Mrs. J. Gene, Gene. What was he to you 1
he was . . . .
with Cousin May.
Mrs. J. No . . .
When 1 was with you . . .
Wait I am hearing her also.
Surely you know him dad sj^eak . .
N. B. J. Is he in the body, in this world ? Is he with you in [your]
world '? Is he in our world or in your world ?
Yes he is, dad, and I see him often.
N. B. J. Bennie, is Gene in our world or in your world 1 Where is
Gene?
He is here dear
N. B. .J. We don't know him then.
But you do, and so does Ma . . . perfectly.
I see him, and see him writing once in a while and you
must hear me out.
i.See pp. .361 and .364.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 395
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, but don't you mean that he is with us, not
with you ?
But I mean dear that he is often with me or I am with
him and Roble that is what I mean . . .
R. H. Rector
. . and I see him as I do you.
R. H. Isn't he getting confused ?
No, but we have a little difficulty in explaining the differ-
ence between being immediately here, i.e. present and
being at a distance, but he is perfectly clear about it
friend and his seeing him. He is on the material side
of life, and he often visits him as he does his father
and mother. When we go we will explain the use of
the expression spiritual life and material to him, and it
v/ill be U. D. always. But tell him about Helen, and
if she still speaks of him as when he was in the body.
Mrs. J. Yes. Bennie, Helen is well, goes to school, talks about you
often and is growing to be a big girl.
I think a great deal of her. I saw her ill.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. She is well now, I think.
Yes, but I tell you dearest I helped her to recover as . . .
I say it.
Mrs. .J. Yes, Bennie. Will you always help her'?
Yes always.
Does she remember the little C o d ac I used to take pictures
with
Mrs. J. Yes. You used to take pictures with it 1
Yes, does she remember it, and did I not see her have it
at the farm 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, she took it with her, but she doesn't know
how.
396 •
" Helen cle G. Verrcdl. [part
' . that is what I was going to tell you dear that I will help
her to U. D. it so she can use it. Tell her I give it
„ .
to her ...
Mks. J. Yes, Benuie, I will.
for her very own. And I am quite clear about it.
Do you remember the one I took of the boat
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie. Do you remember the pictures Eoble took
of you on the boat 1
Yes, I do very vaguely dear. This will help me to re-
member more about the things I used to do when I
was with you in that world and I will tell (hand moves
towards R. H.) this one here some things some day for
you and dad.
Mes. J. Yes.
R. H. I shall be glad to take them.
I will think over all about my other life and tell you all
I can.
Mes. J. Bennie, is there anything you want me to do for you ?
Yes. Speak to me when you are at home, and talk to me
when you are sitting up in your room and I will hear
you and tell this man what you say.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Do you know that I speak to you often now
Yes indeed, didn't I tell you so before, dear?
Mes. J. Yes, you did. When I talk to you, shall I speak out loud
or think about you 1
Well speak just as you are now, only to me and not to
the man who speaks for me and does not hear all I say.
Do you see what I mean. Mama dear what is
[in] my room over in the corner where
(Hand listens to Mrs. J.)
Mes. J. Wait a moment, Bennie, until we read this. One moment.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 397
I used to put m)' Rods fishing
rods . . it is all taken out and Roble has put a kind of
chair like
Chair there ...
Mrs. J. Eoble has put a chair there? Bennie, I don't quite under-
stand what you mean.
Well let me tell you. I had two rods. Do you remember
them. One dad gave me.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
Yes, ask dad. Do you remember.
N. B. J. No. No, Bennie, I don't remember. Maybe I gave you
the money, not the rods.
Well that is so, dear, and just as it is.
Now let me finish and you will remember.
Roble and I put the rods on the side of our boat and
I . . .
took one the new one and put it up in my room before
I was ill.
Now I do not see it, but I see a chair in its place. Ask
Eoble what he did with it, and you will see I know
dear.
Mrs. J. I will ask Eoble about it. Bennie can you write the name
of the gentleman you went fishing with at Osterville,
the one we ... [I could not get down all the words.
R.H.]
I cannot U. D. Do you speak of what I am telling you
now . . do you think now of Gene.
Help me to keep my mind clear and I will tell you . . .
Wood.
[The second name of the friend referred to by Mrs. J. begins
with "Good" and his first initial is W. "Wood" is
perhaps a " portmanteau " of these two sounds. Port-
manteau-words are not uncommon in the trance writing.
H. de G. v.]
What is the trouble with Aunt Helen's ^ teeth.
(Sitters laugh a little.)
1 See p. 378.
398 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mks. J. Bennie, her teeth trouble her. That is all. (to N. B. J.)
That's very funny.
Well grandma wanted to know and so did I because we
saw her walking around holding on to her teeth.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, she goes to the dentist very often.
Well }'ou tell her not worry about it and I don't think
they will trouble her.
dearest mother . . I love to see you only you look differ-
ently to me.
(From Kector.) We shall have to let him go again for a
moment, friend, not because he is tired, to use thy ex-
pression, but because he becomes a little confused.
Better talk to him a while.
Here I am again.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. I would like to ask you some questions.
Well go ahead dear, and if I . .
N. B. J. Which grandpa was with you yesterday 1 Was it my
father ? Was my father with you yesterday ?
I said yes.
N. B. J. Was mama's father also with you yesterday 1
Yesterday'. Well let me see . . . yesterday . . why yes he
is with me all the time, and he is well aware that he is
going to speak some day. I . .
N. B. J. Bennie, which grandfather sent his love to me
Why dad it was grandpa J. your father and he has come
over here since I did. J. do you U. D.
N. B. J. No.
No.
Mrs. J. Wait a minute, Bennie.
* *
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 399
N. B. J. Do you mean grandpa Junot ?
Grandpa Junot I said.
N. B. J. Bennie, but grandpa Junot went to your world long before
you went there.
but when I spoke of the grandpa I said I saw him when
he came and so I did dear and if you do not feel so
troubled pa I will tell you all about it,—do you hear.
[See note below.]
B. J. Yes, go on.
(From Eector.) Tell the young lad to free his mind now.
R. H. Bennie.
I hear
R. H. We shall be glad for you to free your mind about the
grandpa, but . . .
they tell me to think it over when my thoughts get clear
again.
N. B. J. Bennie, do you remember Aunt Alice Clark 1
Certainly, I told you something about her.
jS[. B. J. Have you seen her children over in your world 1
In the spirit, yes, dear, and when I come back I will tell
you.
II. B. J. Will you see them and have them send word to their
mother ?
Yes, I will. Yes, I hear, But I cannot think dear. Now
here comes the Priest. What will I do ?
I am going to return.
* * *
[On p. 386 Bennie referred for the first time to "Grandpa."
Mrs. J., who at that moment was the only person present
at the sitting, assumed that the reference was to her own
400 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
father and asked a question implying that he had died later
than Bennie. This suggestion was accepted by tlie com-
municator, who did not, however, make any statement showing
to which of his grandfathers he had referred. At a later stage
of the sitting (p. 388) he speaks again of "Grandpa," and on
this occasion says in reply to a question that lie means
" Grandpa Junot." " I looked out for him and took him to
this world."
At the sitting of March 6, N. B. J. informed Bennie that
Grandpa Junot's death had preceded his own and at the next
sitting (see below, p. 401) Bennie says that "Grandpa Junot
came here some time ago and since then I iiave seen my
other Grandpa."
It seems to me possible that it was Grandpa Junot that
Bennie had in mind when he first alluded to " Grandpa," but
that his statement was confused, as often happens, by the
tendency of the controls to acquiesce in the sitter's interpreta-
tion.—H. de G. v.]
6th Sitting.
March 7, 1900. Present: Mr. and Mrs. J. and R.H.
* * *
(Articles given. Harmonica placed on left front by hand.)
(Bennie communicating.)
Yes I hear all right, do not feel troubled about it.
Hello dear dad is that you dear. You see I took all my
influences with me.
[At end of previous sitting the hand fingered some of the
articles and acted as if " drawing some influence " from
them, after the writing ceased. —R. H.]
And I am better now and perhaps I can tell you more.
Just you talk to me and don't mind tliat man.
Rector knows him. I got a . . .
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
little confused about grandpa just before they took the light
away.^
^See p. 398.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivlth Mrs. Piper. 401
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I understand.
Oh I am glad. Now grandpa Junot came here some time
ago. So did grandma, and she was here before lie was,
and then I came after Cousin May and then
R. H. " before he was " ?
Yes, I mean in this life, not in the body life.
since I came I have seen my other grandpa and when I get
ready I will tell you who he is but do not hurry me
dear because I am thinking very fast, and do you . . .
R. H. " talking very fast " 1
thinking I said sir. I said thinkinir sir.
R. H. Thinking. Yes, I understand. Clear.
Well, you must be all right but I cannot seem to U. D. it.
Never mind I will go on. [Perhaps from Bennie to
Rector in reply to some statement of Rector to Bennie
upon my deciphering talking instead of thinking. —R. H.]
Where in the world is . . . my things all of them any way.
I told you. (Hand makes sudden closure, and moves a
little towards Mrs. J.)
Hello, mama, dear, I just spied you out.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
Were you here all the time, dear 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, all the time.
Do you remember Georgie . . George.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, tell me more about him.
I wanted very much to tell you I have seen him.
N.B.J. You want to speak to me, Bennie'! Do you want dad to
speak 1 You go on, Bennie.
Well I will dear. I know perfectly well what you want of
me now, because Rector told me . . Yes and I think if
I . . .
do you remember the sore tinoat he had and how it
troubled him.
402 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, Berinie, I remember. (toN. B. J.) George, I think.
[Mrs. J. took this to refer to her cousin George not long
deceased. He had some throat trouble, but it was not
thought serious. —-N. B. J.]
Well he told me to tell you and . . . before I left and I
forgot it because I was ill myself.
Now I am all right and so is he, give my love to him
when you see him and I used to have an uncle Gene.^
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, that's right. That's right, go on.
And I have been thinking about him a good deal Pa since
I last spoke to you, and he was queer wasn't he.
]Sf. B. J. Bennie, do you remember about your other uncles ']
George. [Probably G. P. arrives at this point. —R. H.]
R. H. Rector.
I have a friend here at this moment who will help also.
R. H. If Bennie has some things which he has come prepared to
say, perhaps he had better free his mind of these first,
and then his parents can ask him other things and he
can tell about his experiences when he was in the
material body.
Yes. All right, he seems anxious to tell all he has been
thinking over since he spoke last.
Dad do you remember a little book I have with pictures
photographs and proofs in it 1
[We have this photograph book. The first three pages
contain i)roofs. —N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I remembered that.
Well some day will you put it on the little table in my
room and you and mama sit there for me to come to you.
I think it will attract and help me. Mr. George - says so,
and besides do you remember the (Hand makes some
motion touching one of the sitters, I think.)
1 «ee p. 394. = G. I".
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 403
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, go on.
B U t terfly
Mks. J. Yes, Bennie, the butterfly was in Eoble's room'? (Hand
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, Mama says that's right.
Well sit or have Roble put it where I can see it when I
come.
Dad do you remember the
Maples where I put a little seat
Mrs. J. I don't recall. Probably.
I am not sure I have the name of the tree but you know
. . but ... is near the end of the wall down almost to
the barn.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. In the spring lot.
[Roble remembers the seat under the maple. Says it was
there last summer.—N. B. J. J
All right. Now follow me. And do you remember the fun
we used to have in putting in hay
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I remember.
Do you know too (indicating Mrs. J.)
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I know.
Dear mother, I cannot help telling you how good you always
were to me. Can you see me dear . .
Oh j'es I forgot the hay and the rides on the load .
Oh I see it all over again.
And I also see the new part of the barn, do you remember
assents.)
that
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, go on.
and . . . old Spot . . Spot
No not quite but I mean
Mrs. J. Sport.
404 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. That's not right.
I mean the place where we kept the horses.
R. H. The old spot.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
Did you say yes, dear. Did you say yes. You told me to
tell you about the farm, dear.
[The allusion to "Spot" was not understood at the time
but we have a large Holstein cow called Spot, which
belonged to Bennie. The error probably arose from our
thinking that he referred to one of our dogs named
Sport.—N. B. J.] [The fact that 'Spot' is spelt twice
ovei' with a capital S makes it almost certain that it
is to be interpreted as a name. The subsequent con-
fusion shown in the remark " I mean the place where
we kept the horses " is probably due to Mrs. Piper's
subconscious mind, following a natural association of
ideas in its attempt to explain an unrecognized phrase.
H. de G. v.]
N. B. J. That is right, dear. Tell about your pony.
Yes. I am trying to think all about him. I will have it
in a minute, dear, and do you remember the little brook
where we used to ride down to
N. B. J. Yes. Yes, Bennie, go on.
to let tliem drink. And we went over the . . .
Oh let me tell you dear . . do you remember where Roble
and I built the little stone wall around the spring
We put about a dozen there and one flat one
R. H. Bennie.
Oh I am sure I know
R. H. First rate, Bennie. Your father will find out from Eoble.
Oh doesn't he know.
Mrs. J. Yes
LXI.] Report ov the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 405
N. B. J. No, I do not remember, Bennie.
Mrs. J. I remember you and Roble used to play about the creek.
Yes of course. Well, we put a big flat stone there so we
could stand on it and not get wet. Do you remember
this at all. If you do not, Roble will, I know.
Mrs. J. I have an indistinct recollection of it. I will ask Roble.
All right I only want you to be sure I am not out of
mind dear.
[Not recalled distinctly by Roble, but they played in the
creek every summer. —N. B. J.]
And dad do you remember the new stall you had put in
for my pony
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, that is right.
[This is correct. —N. B. J.]
I do wish I could think what I called him. I know every
thing so well before I speak, then I lose it . . . Helen
* * *
I think of the long things that used to grow, and we got
a bunch for Helen one Sunday before we went home
and she took them home with her tied . . . (pause)
tied with a bit of ribbon . . what were they ma . . long
brown tops . .
Mrs. J. Cat o'nine tails. (Excitement in hand.)
Yes, indeed, that is just what they were dear but I could
not think the name. Do you remember them and . . .
Mrs. J. Yes, I remember them, Bennie. You got them for Helen.
[This is very distinctly remembered by all the family.
N.B. J.]
Yes I did."
And now let me see who Avas it we called Benjamin.
And where is Frank, give him my love, and tell him I
think of him often and the good times we used to have
[Frank was his most intimate friend. —N. B. J.]
Now I am going for a moment. Will you wait for me 1
406 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Yes. (Slight pause. Hand seems to indicate
new communicator.)
* * *
Here I am again. Just got straightened out a little.
Now I wish I could think ... do you remember N E 11
Yes, now I am not going, I am all right again.
She is going . . that lady who got in my place.
How I wish you would not get tired dad, it
Now can you help rae about the rod . . fishing rod,
at ain. .
R. H. Ask him to say what he is thinking about his fishing rod,
and . . .
(From Rector.) he seems to think that a brother of his in
the body has taken it away and put some thing in its
place.
R. H. Yes, we'll find out from Roble.
You do not really know, then?
N. B. J. No, we do not remember now.
Well do you remember what you have done with my
boat . . . truut hooks
They are together, the rod and the hooks I see now.
How is Harry ^ . . . W i 1 son
[Koble suggests that the reference here is to Wilson D ,
a friend of Bennie's. —N. B. J.]
N.B.J, (to Mrs. J.) Harry is the .... (not heard)
Mrs. J. Bennie, I think your rod and boat hooks were left at
Osterville.
You mean the farm. Well I know but don't you remember
where I used to sleep.
[He has fishing rods at our farm in the West, but his
mother supposed him to be speaking of Cape Cod.—
N. B. J.]
'See p. 397. =See p. .3.58.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings xvitli Mrs. Piper. 407
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Do you mean the rods you had when you
were a little boy? Oh yes, I remember that.
Yes, exactly.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. I don't remember where I put them, but when
I go to the farm I will look.
Yes, I will be glad. I am not worrying about them only I
want you to know I have not forgotten everything dear.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, you remember better than I do.
Well I don't TJ. D. that very well, but I think I would
rather have you know where I am than anything.
Are you happy dad dear.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we're happy now, since we've heard from you.
Are you going to get worried any more ?
K B. J. Not if I can help it.
Well don't. I ask you not to worry about me. I asked
mama that many times befoi-e I came here and I want
you to say you won't. Speak, dear. Say you will not.
Mrs. J. I will not, Bennie. I will not worry any more.
And will you tell Roble too
Mrs. J. Yes, I will tell Roble. Do you know how much he misses
you?
Yes, I do indeed, I know he does, and I only hope he will
not any more. It troubles me to have you worry, and
it is the only thing that does really trouble me here.
I know so well when you do worry, dear, and no one
could know better than I do.
Mrs. .T. Bennie, I will try not to worry.
Oh I will be glad, but when I tell you and Pa and this
man all I know, I will not have to be troubled any
more, will 1 1
408 Helen de G. VerralL '
•
'
•
[part
R. H. He is a little dreamy now'? '
"
Yes, and going for a moment.
Friend, I think if there is any thing we can do we will, but
if we could ask thee to go a little way off" for a time
it might help us to keep him.
(R. H. goes out.)
+ We will now prevent confusion.
Come back . . . (Prolonged pause.)
Yes dad here I am again.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, what will you say to me 1
I will tell you now that I have seen you and dad so many
times go out where my body is and I do not wish you
to think of me as being there.
[We often drive out to his grave. —N. B. J.]
Dad do you remember M a jor . .
Mbs. J. Yes, Bennie, we remember. [A great friend of his with
whom he went fishing a great deal.—N. B. J.] (R. H.
was called.)
I begin to think again.
(R. H. returns.)
And my head is getting clear since that man named . . .
called George went away with his father.
That is thy father friend.
R. H. I understand.
[Apparently my father came to give some message to me,
and G. P. took him away. His coming or his presence
helped to confuse Bennie. —R. H.]
Mrs. J. I'd like to ask him a question.
Yes.
Now tell me about Major
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, he has not been well this winter. Can you tell
me what you used to do with him 1 (Hand points over
to right front.)
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Pijyer. 409
Yes you asked me before dear but I was too weak to tell
you I used to fish ^
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie.
I tried and tried to tell you but you see I have much to
do here.
Mama do you remember a little boy who came here before
I did, and who came here very suddenly. He is with
May . .
Ed . . Ed . Ed . . E d d i e
Eddie she calls him all the time. [Not recognized.
N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you mean a boy about your age ?
I do.
Mrs. J. Yes.
Ed . . he is here with her now (Hand points over to-
wards right front.)
See him dear ... do you not see him . . . v/ith May . . .
(Hand points several times.)
Ed . . do you remember a very little one who came here
soon after grandpa . . b . .
Mrs. J. No, Bennie. I don't remember, Bennie.
but it was a little girl and came here before I did also
Yes . . . she . . . you know where and Will is . . .
Cousin, and Will is her father.
Let me help thee, friend.
R. H. One moment please. Rector. Does he mean that there is a
little girl with him who went into spirit world before
Bennie 1
2
Yes.
R. H. A long time ago?
Yes a long time quite.
^ See p. 397 ; also p. .360, where fishing was wrongly connected with 'Harry.'
=^See p. 496.
2d
410 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. Was her father named fnil 1
Yes, he was.
R. H. Does Bennie's father or mother know Will ?
Yes, both very well.
R. H. Does Bennie want to say any more about her ? They do
not j'et at this moment recall, but perhaps will do so
later.
ask them if they remember a gentleman by that name who
used to teach.
Mrs. J. No, I can't recall him now.
He had a son "\^"illie who went to school with this young
man, and ask the gentleman if he remembers Atwood.
N. B. J. No, I cannot recall Atwood.
Perhaps R will, I know so well, and .
(Hand moves towards E, H.)
this is all right, friend, and . . . and
Lmorence
R. H. What about Lawrence 1
also is here.
[Lawrence was the maiden name of Cousin May's mother.
—N B. J.]
he will think about it then in a little while.
Dad do you remember Lydia ?
[Lydia Atwell (not Atwood) was his mother's grandmother
dead long since and Maria was name of his mother's
aunt.—N. B. J.]
N. B. J. No, Bennie, I do not.
Nor Marie
N. B. J. No, Bennie.
No not that but Maria [1]
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 411
R. H. Marie ?
Mrs. J. Mamie?
M a n ia [V\
Mrs. J. Maria 1
N. B. J. Do you mean Maria ?
I am telling you about grandma.
Mrs. J. Bennie, grandma's . . . mother's name was Lydia.
Well why do you not remember, here dear they are all
here now, and all . . .
N. B.J. (to Mrs. J.) . . . .
Mrs. J. Atwell.
. . they all know you so well dearest and feel it because
you do not speak to them.
I found them and asked them to help me to see you, dear,
and Lydia, Lawrence . . Lawrence and Mama (Read
first with ordinary pronunciation of Mama, — dissent —
then as Mama — assent.) all send love to you.
Do you not know them now.
Mrs. J. Not ver}' clearlj^, Bennie.
Well I hope it will come back to thee p]
Dear friend as + has taken special care to help these
friends to find thee I am back all . . .
R. H. Yes, Rector. Whatever they say will be enquired into
most carefully, . . . but the friends here with me do
not seem to recognize these fully. They will be glad
to take any messages. Can they give their names or
further relationship 1
Well, one is Bennie's grandma and the other is an aunt . .
the other is . . .
a son Ed E . . . cousin of the (Difficulty in decipher-
friend the light is fading
412 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(Waking Stage.)
All right.
There's a young .... young man.
Hallo, sir ! Can . . . Can you come with me 1
Sh ! Don't talk so fast.
That's Rector, sure !
That's - er . . . That's . . er . . That was a bunch of
violets, and the young man with the light hair's got
them.
Who's the old lady^
* * *
7th Sitting.
March 19, 1900. Present: R.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Well, dad, dear, are you aware that I went with you and
mamma the day before this to see the old lot and
and its earthly mound [1] [Not understood.—N. B. J.]
Well I heard all you said, but do not feel disturbed about
me any more or in any way because I am better than
you can possibly know.
(Hand makes several curious slight jerks in my direction.)
Are you dad's friend'?
R. H. Yes, Bennie. Your father is well known to me, and he is
looking forward to receiving your messages to him and
your mother through me. He will write you a letter,
and another time when I get it, I shall read it to you,
and I hope also from your mother. But you remember
that this is near Boston, and they must write, and letters
will take time.
Is Boston East of West .... oh yes I remember, well I
U. D. all right I have much to tell them all.
R. H. Good.
You are a friend I know and I will just free my mind,
that is what I'll do
(Hand moves in direction of bag on floor, which contains
parcel of Bennie's things. I place them on table.)
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrfi. Piper. 413
R. H. Your father left some of your things with me.
(The A. L. cast and the harmonica taken and placed on left
side of block-book.)
Tell Mama I saw her take . . .
my photo after she went home and put it up over her
desk
and say Bennie are you with me dear. I want you to see
me and come and tell me all about it.
[Did put his photograph—but words not correct. —N. B. J.]
Ask dad if he remembers the day we went out in the
woods and got the fern for Mama and ask him if he
will try find the rods I spoke of.^ I thought I heard
my brother say they had been gone for some time, is
that so ?
[Statement about ferns correct—and brother did say on
inquiry by father that the fishing rods had been taken
away some time ago. —N. B. J.]
K. H. I shall tell you, Bennie, as soon as I hear. Your father's
notes have not reached me yet.
Well, he is busy and he will do all he can for you and me.
He is one of best fathers in your world. I thought
I would try and tell mama who was with me, but I
could not make her U. D. me quite. Will you give her
my dearest love and tell her what I meant when I said
those names to her.
R. H. Yes, Bennie. Your parents understood afterwards that you
were bringing the friends and relatives with whom you
are, so to say, staying at present. At first they did not
quite see, and they were, as you will understand, anxious
to get all they could M'ith you.
Oh yes it is all right only I would not do anything if I
knew it to disturb them in any way.
I only want them to know I am perfectly well cared for and
very happy here.
R. H. Yes. (pause.)
See p. 397.
414 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
I think grandma Atwell ^ would be glad to know that I did
what she asked me to do, and I will tell her as soon as
I get through.
Ask dad if he sees the Major to give him my love and tell
him I have seen his father over here and ask him if he
remembers Thomas.
R. H. Yes. I will . . .
and his sister is Mary Ellen.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter Nov. 14, 1900: "The Major
said that he had an uncle Thomas who died long ago,
also two sisters dead, one named Ellen and one named
Mary Ann."]
I will now tell you that I have not forgotten any thing I
ever did, but it will take me some time to tell you what
I remember.
I had in my pocket-book a little ten cent script paper, very
old, [He had a very old ten cent script but it was found
in his cabinet along with old coins. —N. B. J.]
one had for a very long time. Will you ask dad what he
did with it
R. H. Yes. 1 will, and let you know.
and two old coins.
I wish Helen to have the coins and the script for dad to
keep.
Yes I think it is pocket book he gave me one Christmas.
R. H. Yes.
When I was quite a little boy Yes.
Is pneumonia dangerous do you think 1
Well I am only telling you.
[Perhaps this is meant to imply that pneumonia was the
cause of communicator's death (see p. 386, where sitter
suggested that a cold was the beginning of his sickness).
If so, the implication is not correct. He died of con-
gestion of the brain.—H. de G. V.]
I will go in and get my cap. Wait a moment. I will be
back soon. B . Yes.
[The last few sentences suggest that he was losing conscious-
ness. —R. H.]
^ See p. 411, where this name was mentioned by sitters.
LXi.] Report on the Jimot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 415
(G. P. communicating.) Hello, H. I am here helping out a
little.
* * *
Here comes Prudens with B Adieu, George.
R. H. Adieu for present, George, thanks.
(Bennie communicating.) Tell Eoble he may have my grey
suit if it will fit him. I do not need it now. And when
he sees it think of me.
[He left a grey suit which was a favourite with him.
N. B. J.]
I have often tried to tell dad about the long shore man ^
but I never could think of him when I wished to most.
He will know what I mean and before I get through
I will tell you all about him.
Now I am thinking of the SUNDAY FPtANK ROBLE
and myself went out to the camp ground and heard
Mercer preach. Ask Roble if he remembers it. U.
Yes, we got home rather late and I went over to Howes
afterwards . . .
[Not recognized. —N. B. J.]
What has he done with the new oar locks [Not under-
stood fully.—N. B. J.]
and the Butterfly Net [Not understood fully.—N. B. J.]
H. H. Yes, is this for Pi-oble 1
Yes.
I am thinking of so many things I wish to tell you.
H. H. Yes, it's all right.
It was I who killed the snake down in the meadow and
put him on the rock to dry in the sun when we went
for the hay.
[Not recalled.—N. B. J.]
You may not know about these but my brother and father
will.
R. H. Yes, this is first rate, Bennie. That is just what will please
father and mother so much. They will be so de-
lighted for you to tell them these incidents of your life
1 See p. 428.
6 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
in the body, because that makes them feel so sure that
you are there telling them and often with them, and
are your ver}^ own self.
Well, I am glad too.
I am my very own self, and no one else, and you should
see the kindly men who are teaching me how to find
the way to speak clearly. You would be as glad as I
am to do just what I am doing.
here my words form in the Gloria and they speak them
out for me.
Now what has George Sargent ['?] got to do with those
rods any way.
* * *
(Explanation from Rector that '
the Gloria ' means '
the
light.')
Do ask all my questions and I will do a great deal for
you.
I can hear the Piano going now, is it Helen (11.26 a.m.)
yes it is I must help her all I can.
[On the afternoon of March 19, R. H. sent the following
telegram to Mrs. Junot
"Was Helen playing piano about twenty-five minutes past
eleven this morning.
Hodgson "
He received the following reply from Mrs. J., which was
delivered at his office the next morning
" Helen was playing piano this morning about quarter or half
past eleven.
K. H. Junot."]
[Extract from letter from N.B.J, of March 19, 1900.
" Helen is usually in school in the mornings, but this morn-
ing she had a cold and, as the weather was bad, she
was allowed to stay home, and from about 10.30 to
11.301 giie -yy.^g playing on the piano."]
This time covers the hour at which Bennie's message was given, allowing
the difference between Boston and C time. — H. de G. V.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 417
I do not like Algebra very well, but if I have to do it I
will. I told Mama that I should be able to go again
next year to the farm.
Queer she did not remember the Smiths. They were queer
people I used to think.
I found a hornet's nest on a birch limb
And took the pitch fork and hooked it down.
[Not recalled, though probable. —N. B. J.]
Such fun as Roble and I used to have you never saw.
R. H. Yes, I used to have jolly times myself, Bennie, when I
was a young fellow.
Did you, did you have a brother like mine ?
R. H. I have a brother about seven years younger than myself.
One of my chums when I was your age was my cousin
Fred. Ask Rector to introduce him to you, and he can
tell you about some of the fun we used to have.
Well I will, that will be fine for me. He perhaps can
help me.
Well I am awfully glad I know you.
I love music dearly, do you . . .
R. H. Yes, 1 used to play the violin.
Oh yes jolly. King of instruments.
R. H. Yes.
Well, we have great music here 1 tell you, can j'ou hear
it at all.
R. H. No, my senses are too shut in.
Well, that is too bad, can 1 do any thing for you ?
R. H. 1 fear not, thank you. I must wait till 1 get to your
side.
Oh yes well that will be all right then won't it. Yes.
Well, I begin to U. D. better I think. You are in the
body. That is it. All right. Now let me tell you all
I can before I get too weak. (Pause.)
' See p. 386.
418 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
It was not Sport nor Daisy but Dandy ^ I was thinking
about . .
Ask Dad if lie can't remember him,
R. H. Yes.
And ask him if he remembers the fern pot we made and
put out at the corner of the house.
[Not remembered.—N. B. J.]
Did you see my watch anywhere 1 It was on the side of
bed.
R. H. I will ask.
before I left.
Wait a moment. One more thing before I go away.
Do not forget to see that they find out about the fiat
stone E. and I put near the little spring at the creek,
yes . . also the ones we piled up in a kind of well like
form.^
[Not remembered by lioble, but they plaj^ed much at the
creek.—N. B. J.]
Ask mama if she remembers a kind of moss we used to
get with little red tops on it for . .
[This is well remembered and accurate. —N. B. J.]
Helen liked the little red caps like, I remember them so
well. I . .
[This is well remembered and accurate. —N. B. J.]
Ask Roble if he remembers SCRUB.
[Not understood or recognized by parents, but instantly
recognized as their name for a game they played often,
when read by Roble. —N. B. J.]
I am going now.
R. H. Thanks, Bennie. The ne.xt time you come I hope to have
some letters from your father and mother.
Well before I go I wish to tell you I often see every thing
they do and I am going to try and count out the days
so I can know which day I see them doing things on.
I do not know as it will be possible but I can try at least.
What is your leal name if you do not mind telling me
before I get too far away.
iSee p. .39-2, also below, p. 419. ^See p. 404.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 419
R. H. My name is Richard Hodgson . . Hodgson.
Not HUDSON
R. H. No, indeed.
but HOD... spell it again.
R. H. Hodgson (Articles held up by hand, as if to help B to
stay a little longer.)
HODGSON
R. H. That's right.
Good. I won't forget it.
(Waking Stage.)
* * *
There's the young man with the light hair in the light of
the spirit world.
All itchy (scratching back of left hand with right.)
Prudens, George, Bennie, and Lydia.^
* * *
[The name Dandy was not recognized at the time, the
sitters supposing that the eommuuicator was attempting to
give the name of another dog called Don (see pp. 392 and
431). In a letter to Dr. Hodgson however, written on
Nov. 24, 1900, N. B.J. says:
" You may remember that Bennie in speaking about the dogs
named one as Daisy and afterwards said that it was '
Dandy.'
A few evenings ago we started his uncle Willie upon the
subject of our children's various dogs. He is a dog lover
and all our dogs had come to us through him. Without
knowing why we inquired he gave our dog history—stating
among other things that the first dog our children ever had
was '
Dandy.' This was when Bennie was a very little boy.
It was in the sitting of March 19, 1900, that he corrected
the name from Daisy to Dandy, and March 6th said it was
'
when I was a little fellov/.' Neither Mrs. J. or myself
remember anything about this dog. Long after the sitting we
recalled that they had had a dog named Don at one time
iSee p. 410.
420 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
and I think that I wrote you that Dan probably should be
read Don. There is no doubt but that the Uncle's statement
is correct and exact."]
8th Sitting.
March 27, 1900. Present: B. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Well well did you know that I am beginning to see you
more clearly friend. It is I Bennie.
R. H. Well, Bennie, do you want to tell me first anything that
you have ready, or . . .
(Hand points to where I had letter on chair from Mrs.
Junot.)
R. H. Read ?
Yes, dad's letter to me oh do. Oh I will do all I possibly
can to help liim to know where I am dear friend.
R. H. Yes. Bennie, I have a short letter from your mother, and I
think that your father must have sent his letter to my
office instead of to my own rooms. So I will read your
mother's.
It will make me just as happy, but you told me you would
didn't you %
R. H. Yes. I thought I would have had your father's, but you
know it is a long way off.
Yes from Boston
R. H. Yes.
Yes all right I hear and it is all right.
R. H. (reads) " My dear Bennie :
As I shall not have an opportunity to talk
with you again for some time, perhaps a very long time,
I want you to send me a message b}' Dr. Hodgson who
LXI.] Report on the Jimot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 421
has very kindly consented to receive it and send it to
me.
Tell me of some incident which happened during the
last year of your life on earth with us, either during the
summer vacation or the winter before. I know that it is
you, but I should like to have something which would
be a strong proof of your identity to other members
of the family. I have not yet verified all that you
told me when I last talked with you, but some of the
incidents I remember well, particularly that of the cat
o'nine-tails, and I well remember how you and Roble
used to play at the creek. Do you remember how I
always said to you '
Be a good boy ?
' Well, Bennie,
dear, still be a good boy and some day we shall all meet
together and be even happier than we were when you
were with us on earth.
Your loving mother."
(Hand assented and showed emotion at several places,
especially at the "Be a good boy.")
Oh that has helped me so much, my dear good friend and
tell her God knows we will all meet again here in His
presence and be happier than she can ever know until
she comes and tell her when she does I will watch for
her and be at the door with my arms open to meet her
and show her where to go. I am so conscious of all that
takes place with her that it is like being with her all the
time, even though she cannot U. D. it.
I have been thinking of Uncle Gene a good deal of late and
wonderina; if he was comins; over here to meet me soon.
I shall know before he does come.
[Uncle Gene is an uncle who is very fond of young people
and to whom Bennie was much attached. —N. B. J.]
Ask Mama if she remembers just before we went on our
vacation of our riding out to South Park one Sunday
afternoon on horseback and I got off and tightened up
my saddle and then we sat down . .
wait a moment . . .
and then she go
I helped her get off and we sat down on one of [the] seats
and . . sat there a few minutes and talked, then we got
back into the saddle and rode out to the side of the
422 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Park. I met Frank and bowed, then we got some pieces
the OAK the fancy white OAK
[Above statements about the ride are not correct. —N. B. J.]
I do not really remember the right name, but it was very
handsome with little white things growing on their
leaves, like hollow apples.
Do you know at all what I am thinking about 1
R. H. I don't think I do.
What are the little things which grow on the oak . . .
R. H. You don't mean mistletoe ? (Hand dissents.)
No not at all.
R. H. Acorns 1
No, but a kind of hollow false burr
tell her, she will I know remember.
R. H. Yes.
And I took them home and pinned them in my room over
the bureau.
I saw a woman take them all down one d&y since I left
home, and here is one more thing I remember. Ask
her if she remembers any thing about Edna and if so
what she asked me about her.
[Not understood, unless the reference is to a name which an
old colored servant gave to his sister Helen when she
was a baby. This servant called Helen "Edna." He
is in the habit of giving the children and dogs and
horses names to suit himself, but he has not used the
name for her for about ten years. —N. B. J.]
I have no idea what Roble will say when he hears how I
gave things away about him.
of
R. H, Yes.
R. H, Yes.
LXi.] Report on the Jimot Sittings with Mrs. Pijoer. 423
I wonder if lie will like it. Tell him I only do so because
I want him to know me. And ask him if he can play
on a Jew's harp yet. or the bones.
[Not recalled or understood. —N. B. J.]
R. H. I will.
Ask him if he remembers the one I gave him, I mean harp.
R. H. Yes.
And if he won't laugh to think how he played on the boat
one evening with me while I played the harmonica. It
was the last time we ever went out in the evening
together on the boat if I remember rightly.
George somebody says wait a moment. I'll be here in a
moment.
(Hand moves as if looking for something. I produce
articles. Cap taken and clutched and held up.)
I saw my cap and came back soon to tell you that Allie
Clark is here with me now and sends love to sister
Alice ^ in the body
"
Do you remember dad dear any thing about uncle Thomas
and how he looked
[Not understood at all. No Thomas in family connexions
at any time. —N. B. J.] [Perhaps some confusion over
the 'Thomas' mentioned in connexion with the Major.
See p. 414.—H. de G. V.]
if you see Ernest tell him Allie sends . . . also . . love
[Ernest and Alice not known.—N. B. J.]
Do you think I will be better able to keep my thoughts
clear soon and not jump from one thing to another.
[The communicator seems conscious himself that he is
not clear at this point. —H. de G. V.]
R. H. Yes, Bennie. You will be better later on. I shall see you
next time, you know, once more, I think to-morrow, and
you will be clearer then even than now.
Well that is just what this man George told me.
^The reference here is probably to "Aunt Alice Clarke" (see p. 399), but
the statement is confused.
424 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. Yes.
And I begin to feel at home with you ah'eady.
R. H. That's first-rate.
(Hand touches sjnir and shakes it gently.)
Tell mama I did not think to tell her I did not eat over
here, and ask her if she remembers the day I went with
the boys and got some . . . now what is that name . . .
can you help me oh dear if I do not tell her that she
won't really know it is I . . . they grow in a meadow
and are red and very acid
...GRAIN BERRIESi
R. H. " Grain berries " . . Grain .?
No that isn't just what they^ were.
R. H. Bennie, I think I know what you mean exactly, but
perhaps if you can get the name yourself it might be
better. Do you mean the ones that grow in bogs'?
Yes I do and they grow not far from where we used to get
our hay, but I think I am a little weak some way
and . . .
R. H. Bennie, don't mind about it now. Tell me next time. I
think I know quite well what you want, and perhaps
you don't get the exact sound or you find it hard to
convey it to Rector. Never mind, it's all right.
I will think it over . .
R. H. Do you mean what we make up into a sort of preserve
and eat with turkey'? (Excitement.)
Yes I do just those and I will think about it and when
they let me return I will tell you.
R. H. Good. That's all right.
I do not think I can stay here much longer, my friends
here tell me I may stay a long time with you and
think over all I wish to tell you the next time.
^ See pp. 426 and 470.
hXL] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Pi-per. 425
R. H. Yes, so you can.
he who is helping me is calling me to take my influences
and give it up for now.
R. H. Yes, quite right.
I am very glad to thank you for all you are doing for me.
R. H. Bennie, all right, you are welcome. See you to-morrow.
Bring remembrances to tell your father and mother and
Eoble and Helen and anything that occurs to you, and
we shall have a good lontr talk to2;ether.
Don't forget to ask them about the coy Ducks
Crood bye B.
R. H. " coy ducks "
•
C . .
R. H. " the decoy ducks " perhaps, decoj'.
[Not recalled or understood at all. —N. B. J.] [A corres-
pondent suggests that this may be a mistake for '
codac,'
see p. 395.—H. de G. V.]
* * -f
9th Sitting.
March 28, 1900. Present: R. H.
(Bennie writes.^)
(Movements in hand, not violent, suggesting new control.
Same pencil given. Fingers feel it, place it on block-
book, so that it lies flat on book, lift it up and down a
little, tapping various times with it lengthways trans-
versely across book, then raise it and cast it to the front
across the room. Fresh pencil offered, not accepted, but
hand pats block book over, round the edges and over
surface with hand slightly hollowed, palm down, patting
with distal joints of fingers. Then hand is held up as
if the back were being inspected by some one just behind
it, then turned round as if showing the palm for inspection,
^This is the only time during tiiese sittings that Bennie himself acts as
control.
2 E
426 Helen ds G. Verrall. [part
then bent backwards and forwards at the wrist, all as if
for the inspection of a person just behind. Finally the
hand took up the ordinary writing position on the block-
book. The time occupied by these movements was about
from three to five minutes. I was about to place the fresh
pencil in the usual place, between first and second fingers,
but the hand moved a little, as if rejecting that position,
and seized the pencil between the second and third
fingers, so that it passed between the proximal joints of
the second and third fingers and was held near the point
by the ends of thumb and first finger. —R H.)
Yes, here I am Bennie and He is teaching me how to speak,
this is a queer place I think and I am wondering how I
got here with you. I feel quite happy to know I can
come myself.
• I am Bennie and you are Mr. Hod g son.
They tell me I am doing well. '
'
R. H. Yes, very good indeed, Bennie. First-rate.
I am oh so glad to see you here and tell you about the
Cranberries , .
R. H. Yes.
I got in my hat.
R. H. Bennie, did you gather the cranberries in your hati
gather them in my hat . . yes I did, and took brought them
home in my hat . . .
[These statements about the cranberries were not understood
at the time, but see note on p. 470. —H. de G. V.]
tell me if you hear me, do you hear me or do you see me
or how do you do 'i
R. H. Suppose that you went to see a lady when you were in the
body. And she went hito what looked something like
sleep. Now suppose while she was resting her head on
cushions, her right hand showed signs of intelligence, and
you i)ut a pencil in it, and the hand should begin to
write on paper, a block-book which you place under the
hand. Now that is just what hapjjens.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivitli Mrs. Piper. 427
Well that is queer too because I hear you and I see you
ver}' clearly and I talk to you because I am using my
own mind and I see just what you are wishing me to do.
R. H. Yes.
Yes I like you pretty well already because I think you are
a friend of dad's aren't you'?
R. H. Yes. I . . . (Hand starts to write, turns to Spirit^ then to
me to listen.)
R. H. Shall I read his letter to you or do you wish first to tell
anything special yourself?
I would like to hear from him as it may help me to think
more clearly than I do now.
Did you hear that spirit tell me to look up when He spoke
to me ? (To look up apparently corresponds to stretching
up the hand to Spirit.)
R. H. No. (I reach for Mr. Junot's letter.)
He tells me to keep Cjuiet and hear you. Well tell me
something.
R. H. Your father writes to you. He meant me to get this before
I came here the last time, I think, but I found it after
I got back to where I live. He says :
" Dear Bennie,
I have just returned from a visit to Aunt AHce.
I went to see her because Uncle Frank is very sick and
likely to pass over into your world soon. While down
there I went out to the old farm and had a beautiful
day. I saw your pony Walter. He is getting old but
is fat and cheerful. Can you not remember and tell Dr.
Hodgson "—that's myself—" who it was who gave Walter
to you when you and the pony were each only 5 years
old.
Roble says he well remembers the seat that you made
by the maple trees up near the locust grove." (Excitement)
Dear dad. G-o on.
^ The hand of the medium sometimes stretches forward, as though to some one
standina" in front of her. —H. de G. V.
428
R. H. Yes.
Helen de G. Verrall. [part
excuse me if I weep it is only with joy.
R. H. All right, Bennie. Roble " says it was still there last
summer," the seat.
" Also Roble says that '
Scrub ' was the name of the game
of ball that you played so much."
Did you not see me throw one when I came in
[Perhaps this refers to the throwing of the pencil across
the room, as above described. —li. H.]
R. H. You mean this time 1
Yes. I often used to do this when I went in against the
house.
[He played hand ball against a wall often. —N. B. J.]
R. H. "and that by ' Wilson '
^ you mean Wilson D who
played with you."
Yes, did Roble not remember it ?
R. H. Yes, this is what Roble says.
" I remember," your father goes on, " a lot of things that
you refer to, such as the trip for the ferns that I took
with you children, when Helen rode Walter and it got
late and we all raced home for sapper." (Excitement.)
Yes I remember it so well, dad dear, and I am glad you
do.
Pv. H. " I don't know just what you mean in relation to the
Long shore man.'-^ Please tell me more about that so I can
understand."
Do you remember the man whom we used to call Cap and
Captain and who used to tell such whopping stories about
his life at sea
[Not recognized—but "whopping" was a word frequently used
by Bennie.—N. B. J.]
iSee p. 406. =See p. 4:15.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tuith Mrs. Pijjer. 429
R. H. That will make your father understand 'I
Yes, and he owned the little white and red striped boat,
down near the bridge.
R. H. All ridit.
Oh I am so happy. I cannot tell you how happy I am.
R. H. That will be all that is necessary 1
All I can remember just now . . .
I have so much to say . . .
R. H. Also . . "Roble wants to know if you remember the slide
on the bull-pen." (Excitement.)
Well I think I do and will I ever forget it. Ask him
who got the worst of it, —him or me.
R. H. "Also whether you have seen Sammy."
Well yes I have and sport ^ also
[Sport was the name of our stable dog that died of old
age some years ago. —N. B. J.]
Yes, I am glad to here from you Oh so glad. Ask Roble
if he remembers who cut the hole in the . .
the Barn Yard fence
[Not recalled.— N.B. J.]
and what it was done for.
R. H. I suppose that's one on Eoble 1
Well it is. I have two or three which I will just remind
him of occasionally
R. H. Yes. "Also do not forget to tell my mother that I received
and understood her loving words, and tell my father that
I thank him for the love he sent."
he gave me Walter.
R. H. Your grandfather 1
Yes. ,
[Not correct—N. B. J.]
^Mentioned by sitters. See p. 393.
430 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
R. H. "and that as I have grown older I have learned to understand
him better
"
he will be so glad to know this I tell you, he often tells me
of dad.
R. H. "and that I hope to meet him in your world and understand
him better still."
Well you will dear this I know well.
he often says your father is very dear to me and although
he was left more or less to himself I will take him
to my heart when he comes to us.
R. H. Good. " Give my love to all our friends who are with you,
and do not forget to render to Imperator and Rector and
George and all others who have aided you in communi-
cating with us our heartfelt thanks and reverence for
their great kindness.
You have not yet given correctly the name of the
dog that figured so much in the childhood of yourself,
Roble, and Peggy. You came near it both times. ^ Can
you not give it ?
Your '
ten cent script ' is now in your little cabinet
in your room. Daddy will keep it in memory of you.
Do not forget us, Bennie, and let us hear from you when-
ever you can well do so. With great love,
Daddy."
(Assents)
Do you wonder I am happy.
R. H. No, indeed.
I have not and never can forget my dear dad and his tender
words to me always. I never wanted for any thing and
never shall. I now see he did not say any thing about
the hornet's nest.
R. H. He has not intended, I think, Bennie, to make a complete
reply to all that you said.
iSee pp. 392 and 418.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 431
Well I begin to . . (Haud talks with Spirit.)
U. (Hand talks with Spirit.)
he Eector says do it so. U. D.^
R. H. Yes.
Yes, very good.
What I said was DON.
[This is the correct name. We read it Dan in former
sitting.—N. B. J.]
R. H. Is that ...
Yes, the dog. You may be glad to know I have seen a little
young dog here who often comes up and smells about
j'ourself .... about you belonging to yourself.
K H. What kind, Bennie 1
A little yellow looking one and looks like a little bull dog.
Do you remember him 1
R. H. I do not ... [I was about to add "remember a little bull-
dog." I remember well a little yellow mongrel, very
affectionate. —ii. H.]
I will have a better look at him some day when I see him
about you again and tell you more about him I did not
notice as I wish I had.
R. H. Yes, all right, Bennie, I shall be very pleased if you will take
a good look at him and tell me another time.
Yes, I will. Now those things I was trying to think of Avere
oak apples.-
Have you ever been at Osterville ^ if you have you will
remember the little pier we built down on the water
edge.
[Reference to Osterville all right and Eoble says that they
did build a small pier for their boat. —N. B. J.]
^ This is a good instance of "dramatization." Bennie has not acted as
control before, and is therefore unfamiliar with this abbreviation. —-H. deG. V.
2 See p. 422. s
jyieutiojjgj sitter. See p. 397.
1
432 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
. I cannot remain myself they saj- but I will speak to Rector.
(Pencil dropped. Movements of hand. I think I here
placed the articles on the table.)
(Rector writes.)
* * TT
We were obliged to release him for the present a most
worthy lad ...
and we are giving him all the help possible.
It is always wiser to act under our conditions
We . . We U. D.
(Articles touched, and spar placed on turned sheets of book.)-
Yes here I am again B
R. H. Bennie, what was that you last said ?
Osterville . . were you ever at . . if so you will remember
the little pier we built down on the water's edge.
R. H. I have not seen the place. Kindly once more the name.
0 S T E E Y I L L E .
R. H. Yes, thank you.
And I intend to tell you about Sammie, and it was Sammie
instead of Dandy,
but I cannot keep everything in m}- memory you see
because I become very dizz_y sometimes.
[Not understood.—N. B. J.]
[On p. 418 Benny referred to a dog called Dandy. The
name was not recognized at the time. (See note on
p. 419.) On p. 429 when asked whether he has seen
"Sammy" he answers, "Yes, I have, and sport also,'"
Sport having been mentioned by the sitters on a previous
occasion as another of their dogs. Finall}' (see above
and also p. 435) he explains 'Sammy' as a correction
of 'Dandy.' Evidently the similarity of the two names
suggested, that, since Dandy was not recognized and
information was desired about Sammy, mutters might
be put right b}- identifying the one with the other^
—H. de G. Y.]
R. H. Yes. I understand.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 433
and when I try to tell you I sometimes tell you what I
have on my mind instead of what I had been thinking
up for you, but I will always tell you as best I can
and I hope you know it.
R. H. Yes, indeed, Bennie.
Ask Roble if he remembers the Sc^uirrel's hole in the old
Beech tree . .
aud what we put into it
[Roble remembers the squirrel hole, but not of putting
anything in it. —X.B. J.]
I will tell you. apples.
But ask him first.
And what has become of the Bracket Saw I used to have.
R. H. Yes.
I remember remember so weU.
And ask him if he remembers any thing I made out of an
old cigar box.
[He had a scrall or bracket saw with which he worked a
good deal when he was a small boy, using cigar boxes.
—N. B. J.]
R. H. Yes.
I wish him to keep that for himself always.
R. H. What was it, Bennie ?
It was a bracket in the shape of a table something more
like than any thing else.
R. H. Yes.
Those letters 1 I first told dad about and the ones that
were on my mind were the ones I left on my bureau
so carelessly, but I knew I had them on my mind and
I am glad mama found them, it was more the fact of
having lefo them there than the contents of them.
R. H. Yes. I understand.
Well that is good. You must be prettj- bright I think.
Did you ever teach school.
iSee pp. 369 and 3S2.
434 . Helen de G. Verrcdl. ,
[part
R. H. Yes, I have taught ...
I thought so. Did you like Algebra.
R. H. Yes, I did.
I am glad to know it. I didn't. '
*
K. H. Let me for a moment or two see if you have finished the
special questions in your father's letter. Shall 1 1
Yes oh yes, do, kindly. I wish so much to do so if I can.
R. H. If you still feel quite clear, all right. If . . .
Well I do not feel quite so bright as I did but I can
think it over you see.
R. H. Yes.
I think I can do more. .
R. H. Fii'st, your grandfather gave you your pony Walter 1
Yes.
R. H. The "longshoreman" has been answered?
Yes.
R. H. The slide on the bull-pen. Any more about that 1
No, only we went in.
R. H. In what 1
the pen.
R. H. "the pen " ?
'
'
Yes of course, in the pen. Any more.
R. H. Any more ...
I think a great deal [about] uncle Frank. Give him my
love and I will help him when he gets here.
R. H. Yes. Any more about Sammy 1
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings %vitli Mrs. Piioer. 435
No, only he was a dog of ours [Wholly incorrect.
—N. B. J.] that is all just now.
R. H. The dog that used to play with you and Eoble and Peggy . .
yes and Frank and . . . Don. Don.
R. H. Yes.
Cousin May sends love to all.
Yes, hurrj^ up please. (Writing begins to get dreamy.)
R. H. Well, Bennie, you have apparently answered all that your
father asked. I thought that there was something else,
but apparently not.
Well do not forget the berries in the hat.-
R. H. iSIo fear.
And remember that I will do all I can.
but Peggy means Helen.
R. H. Oh, Peggy is Helen'?
don't you see. I thought you would Ije glad to know
R. H. Yes.
[Peggy does not mean Helen.—N. B. J.]
[The confusion here is perhaps caused by the juxtaposition
just above of the names '
Roble and Peggy,' Eoble and
Helen having been constantly spoken of together.
When Peggy is first alluded to on p. 373 Bennie seems
to distinguish her clearly from his sister Helen.
H. de G. v.]
I am more than half out good bye kind friend and heaps
of love to all at home.
R. H. Good-bye, Bennie, for the present. Come again some time
when you get the chance and I shall be glad to take
messages to your father and mother and all at your
home. And I say, Bennie, look up my cousin Fred.
George Pelham will help you, and he will tell you of
the larks we used to have together in Australia.
i.See p. 432. p. 426.
436 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
Well, that will be jolly, I will.
I hope you will know me when I come again.
R. H. Yes.
They are awfully good to me here and I am as happy as
I can be.
* * *
(Waking Stage.)
* * -Si-
George * * * courtesy * jjQy
with light hair.
That black and white dog was wagging his tail when I
went in.
10th Sitting.
April 3, 1900. Present: IL H.
(G. P. writing.)
And now here is B . . got any thing to say to him, H.
* *
R. H. Have you anything further to send to your father or mother
or any others at home 1 Have you seen them do any
thing special, or have you an}' fresh matter on j'our
mind ?
Only one thing . . .
I am still here H you know. (G. P. acting as amanuensis.)
R. H. Yes. I know.
I heard Eoble trying to explain something about the camera
to Helen since I saw you here and she is going to learn
to take pictures.
R. H. Yes.
And I saw mama take some of my things out of a drawer
and B brush them put some papers over them and put
them back again one was a pair of gloves I used to
Lxr.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Pi'per. 437
wear and I saw them very distinctly, tell her this for
me
[Mrs. J. says that not long before this she was taking some
things out of the trays of a trunk and found a pair of
western riding gauntlets which Bennie used on his long
horseback trip. She took them out and brushed them
carefully and put them back just as described.—N. B. J.]
I saw Mr. Hyde and I like him mighty well ... he is a
very bright fellow and has been helping me in many
ways.
(I here for the first time thought of my cousin Fred Hyde.)
K. H. Oh, you mean my cousin Fred.
Yes he is your cousin Fred and the gentleman ^ who is
speaking for me helped me to find him.
11th Sitting.
June 5, 1900. Present: li. H.
(Rector communicating.)
Well we promised Benny as he says he spelled it
R. H. Yes. Benny.
Yes, that we would take a message to thee for him.
R. H. Yes.
[The statement about the spelling is not correct. The com-
municator wrote his name " Bennie."—H. de G. V.]
he says dad could not make out all the things but he
thinks he did very well with the light we gave him.
R. H. Yes. I think he did famously.
* * *
^ George Pelham.
438 Helen de G. Verrall. [PAKT
12th Sitting.
Oct 29, 1900. Present: E. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Just one word from me.
I am Benny
R. H. Yes.
Do you remember me '
R. H. Oh Bennie, well, indeed.
* * *
Tell dad it was I who cured Helen's throat and I knew it
was only a cold.
[Extract from letter of KB. J., Nov. 14, 1900: "Mrs. J. had
in Sept. been at the seaside where Helen had an ugly
sore throat, which caused her mother much anxiety, but
presently ceased to be serious."]
* -;'r *
13th Sitting.
Oct. 31, 1900. Present: R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
One voice is calling do not forget me. I am soon coming tO'
help you more. Benny.
R. H. Good. I shall always be glad to hear from you.
I suppose you told dear dad about the horse.
R. H. Yes, that was soon after you first saw him here '?
No, but after I saw him last.
[Probably Bennie here refers to his statement that his grand-
father had given him the pony Walter. (See p. 429)—H..
de G. v.]
Lxi.] Heport on the Junot SitUvgs %vitli Mrs. PiiJer. 439
R. H. All your messages were given to him faithfully, and he was
very much rejoiced and your mother also. I do not
remember myself every detail. I have also sent him your
last message, bnt have not yet got a reply, as he will
only get it in my letter abont this time in C , and
his answer will take more than a day to reach me.
Oh I see, well thank you for a good fellow and I am glad I
met you.
Pv. H. Bennie, they are specially glad to hear from you, —as you
know, Roble is now away, I think, at college.
Yes I know all about it and I am sending heaps of love to
them that they may know I do not live afar off. And
although Roble cannot see them nor they him excepting
through their mortal eyes, I can see them always and at
any moment. I was somewhat glad when they changed
Helen's teacher because she will gain by it.
R. H. "teacher" is that?
teacher . . music . .
I am looking after her, and tell them all that I will soon see
them here and meanwhile I send endless love.
R. H. I will.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, Nov. U, 1900. "In the last
week of September, Mrs. Junot and Helen returned from
the East and upon Helen's objecting to the taking of
music lessons, she not being very well, it was agreed
between them that for the present she should go to hear
music instead of taking lessons. "]
14th Sitting.
Nffv. 12, 1900. Present: II H.
Now friend. . (hand points to Spirit.)
the young man doth appear for one word from his father.
R. H. Dear Bennie . . I have not received word yet from j^our
father. I hope to get some letter and tell you before I
. • leave. (Cross in air.) It is a long way off, you re-
member. (Cross in air.)
440 Helen de G. Verrcdl. [part
Well, will 3'ou give my love to them all, and ask Roble if
he prefers a torch to a
Jack O Lantein . .
If he does I do not.
R. H. Good. Will he understand that?
Well, he will fully. Good,
[Not understood.—N. B. J.]
Ask him if he remembers the Poke Bonnet .
'
R. H. Yes.
and what happened to it.
[Not understood.—N. B. J.]
15th Sitting.
Jan. 30, 1901. Present: R. H.
(Rector communicating.)
but in speaking of Benny he is attracted by it and greets
them and sends love to dad and mother.
R. H. Yes, I . .
(Bennie communicating.)
found my last messages all straight, did you not 1
R. H. Practicall)' ; Bennie. Your father wrote me about }'our sister's
having been ill with a cold and got better, and about her
attending music to hear it and giving up regular lessons.
And he told me in a letter about meeting the Major, and
the Major explained to him about some of the persons
you mentioned long ago. And your father also mentioned
some affectionate messages for you, but they only found
me in England after my meetings here were over, and I
have not got his letter i
with me just now.
'
This is the letter referred to in the '
Cousin Frank ' episode. See below,
p. 452.
LXi.] Rei^ort on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 441
16th Sitting.
February 18, 1901. Present: Mr. & Mrs. J. and B. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Quiet . .
Coming dad all is well, rest and wait for me. B.
Oh I am so happy to see you once again here.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we're happy to hear from you.
* * *
Well I am here dear and I see you better to-day than I
ever did before.
Mrs. .J. Bennie, have you seen Frank ?
Yes, a few times, but he is not with us yet . .
will be they tell me soon.
[Frank B. (referred to in earlier sittings, see p. 405), died
in June 1900.—H. de G. V.]
Mes. .J. Can you tell me something of him 1
Of him. yes. I think so.
Do you want me to find him and send him to you, dear.
Mrs. J. Not to-day, Bennie. Can you send a message to his
father 1
Yes, I'll tell you all presently.
Don't bring . . oh don't . . why [?] I will keep clear.
N is that you 1
[At this point Bennie evidently retires for a moment 'to
prepare Frank'; his place is taken by N. B. J.'s father.
See pp. 398 and 401.—H. de G. V.]
N. B. J. Yes. Who is it speaking %
Do you remember anything about your father.
Be . . will return in a moment.
(Bennie communicating.) Yes I am here all right now. I
thought I would go and tell them to prepare Frank.
Oh I am so glad to see you I hardly know what to
2f
442 • Helen de G. Verrall. .
"
[part
tell you. Do you know how much I have been with
you of late.
(Hand holds up spu?')
1 hoped I would see Helen.
Mother you see I am looking at you. Do you realize how
clear my mind is getting.
Help me won't you (Hand listens to R. H.)
Dad did you think I had forgotten about everything I ever
knew ?
N. B. J No, Bennie, I didn't think you had forgotten much. I
only thought it was hard to write.
To write. I am not writing, I am speaking to the man
they call Rector but he isn't Rector at all he is some-
body else but I am talking as fast as I can and and I
hope you will hear all I say to you.
Did Roble get a fall P
N. B. J. Yes, I think he did on the ice.
Well, I tried to help him but was too late. I saw him
going down. I'll have a care next time, dad, don't
worry. . -
Mrs. J. Bennie, when did you see Roble falll
the other day.
When did you say . . I do not mean a long time ago.
Mrs. J. Do you mean since we saw him last night 1
I do not think I can tell that, ma dear.
Mrs. J. Is Roble all right now 1
Oh yes perfectly and he will be, I know.
Keep on thinking friend, do not get discouraged.
R.;H. (to sitters.) Probably from Rector to Bennie.
All is well. I'll take care that he does not interfere.
: .
(Probably a statement by Rector that he will keep some
^ . other communicator from interposing)
iSee p. 480.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 443
Dad you look tired, rest cannot youl
I am talking now to you.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I'll try and rest.
Mother did you think the fall was to-day 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. I was afraid something had happened since I
last saw Roble.
No. he is all right. I do not wish to worry you dear
mother because I love you, and he is not ill in any
way . . but Helen . . oh the farm I saw you at the
farm since I saw you here.
[Since our last sitting we had been to our farm for the
summer and had made various changes. —N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we thought of you often. What did you see
us doing at the farm ?
Well what didn't I see. I saw nearly everything that you
did. Oh by the way, dad, did you ask about the
boat,^ and is there anything I can do to clear up my
memories 1
N. B. J. Bennie, I don't understand about the boat.
I thought you were puzzled. I heard you say this at
home.
Well I'll tell you do you remember anything about a little
,. fishing trip we had at 0. one Saturday afternoon when
I got my feet wet. I told you this before. There is
something about the boat I am anxious to recall to
your mind.
(Hand holds up cap)
Cannot you think what I am trying to tell you"?
Mrs. J. Bennie, who went with you on this fishing trip ?
The Judge dad and I am not sure who else but in time I
can tell you.
[This friend is called by us "Major." Sometimes in these
communications it comes "Judge." Bennie went fishing
iSee p. 387.
444 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
often with him during his last summer. The inter-
changing of the titles Major and Judge seems to
indicate a curious error by the interpreter. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, at present I can't recall this.
Listen dear do you remember the last summer I was with
you. We went out for some fish. It rained. I got
my feet wet.
[After consideration we clearly remember that this is a
correct reference to Bennies last trip with the Major.
It was very foggy and rainy and they were gone two
or three days on a hshing trip. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Bennie, I remember you went out several times.
No, it is the last time I ever went . . think it over.
[If—as seems probable—this statement is to be connected
with the allusion to a boat on p. 387 there would appear
to be some confusion in the mind of the communicator
between his fishing trip with the Major and the cap-
sizing of the boat, just as on p. 387 he passes in a
confused way from the incident with the boat to the
last walk with his father. —H. deG. V.]
Mother what did you do with my cap. Give it me. I
am going out a moment to think.
(Hand holds up cap)
What about Aunt Alice.
I think Eoble is doing splendidly but . . wait till I return
and I will tell you more, will you speak to me then . .
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
(Hand talks with Spirit. Cross in air)
Here I am again and I thought I would ask you what you
were trying to have done with the old gate this summer.
Can you think what I mean ?
N. B. J. No, I do not understand. Where was it ?
At the back of the barn.
N. B. J. I don't understand, Bennie.
LXi.] Rejoort on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 445
Think what you had pulled up and put in its place. I
am not mistaken, dear, it looks differently to me now.
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you mean the calf shed papa and Roble
built last summer"?
(N. B. J. negatives this)
Mks. J. That's what he means, I think.
Yes, I do.
It all looks so changed to me . . it all looks so changed
to me there.
N.B.J. Yes.
and the little yard I never saw until the change was made,
tell me about it do.
Mrs. J. I think you mean the new chicken yard and shed we had
made ?
N. B. J. No, you mean the new yard back of the kitchen, don't
you 1
Mrs. J. No, back of the house, I expect.
Now let me tell you what I do mean. I mean that where
the Bull pen ^ used to be.
Do you know now, dad 1
N. B. J. No, I don't understand.
Well, do follow me . . the farm . . but where we used to
go out at the barn there has been a change made in
the floor that is what I tried to think . .
Mrs. J. (to N. B. J.) He means in the calf [?] where you built on
that shed.
and I called it gate, and it is all open there now and
something put in its place. Now I am trying to find
out what you intend to call it,
iSee p. 429.
446 '
. ,
Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you mean the garden I had made at the back
. of the house near the barn ?
No, I know that perfectly, but it is at the barn dear
mother. There are two windows and I am doing my
best to have you see what I mean dear. It is all so
changed to me.
Dad did you not take away part of the barn?
Mrs. J. Bennie, we have had a chicken house built where the corn
crib used to be.
Yes of course, that is what I mean exactly but they, dad
and Koble and another man took out the little door
leading into the yard. Didn't you dad ?
Mrs. J. (to N. B. J.) Yes, you did.
N. B. J. I don't remember, Bennie.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, you are right.
What is the matter dad, are you forgetting?
Mrs. J. I think he is stupid, Bennie.
Well, he never used to be.
Mrs. J. Bennie, when we were here last you spoke about Spot.'^
Did you mean the cow ?
Yes, of course, but to save me I could not say cow. I
cannot think of half the names of things I used to
know so well.
Now there is one thing more dad. Who was it who put
up the wall.
N. B. J. I don't understand, Bennie. Where do you mean ?
I mean out back of the house this time. And what do
you call it . . a . . word [?] is it.
N. B. J. Fence. Do you mean fhice ?
Yes exactly and dear you will forget the names of things
when you get here.
' See p. 403.
LXi.] Report on tJte Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 447
N. B. J. Yes, I understand that, Bennie.
I like it all though so much better than before and I only
wanted to recall all I saw you do and the changes you
have made that you might be sure I was with you.
that is all U. D.
N. B. J. Bennie, you told me that you would find Alice Clarke's
children and send me a message to her from them.
Have you found them 1
Yes and after I get through I want to tell you something
about her and them. But first of all let me tell you
what is on my mind.
Do you feel that I am losing my mind, dad 1
N. B. J. No, but we feel that it is very difficult for you to
remember names and communicate.
V •
Well that is so. But I have hunted for you ever since I
left the body and I said if I could reach you in any
way I would do so, and here I am if I am imperfect.
How is R. getting on at college P
Mrs. J. Splendidly, Bennie, and is very happy in his college life.
I am so glad to hear it. Give him my love and tell him
I'll do my best to help him. Did he send me any
message ?
N. B. J. He often speaks of you and has your picture hanging in
his room at college.
my what . .
• • .
N. B. J. Picture, picture of you.
Mes. J. Photograph.
N. B. J. Photograph.
Oh yes good.
'
Listen a moment. When I told you all about who was
with me,- why didn't you know mother dear. Speak
and tell me . .
Mother why didn't you know . .
^See p. 439 where R. H. mentioned that Roble was at college. —H. de 6. V.
-See pp. 410 and 413.
448 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Bennie, I was not thinking about them. I was thinking
about you and your last days with me.
N. B. J. (to Mrs. J.) Ask wlio is with him now.
Oh yes well it is all right only 1 could not stay here
longer.
Did you hear me when I called you the other night ?
Mrs. J. Bennie, I cannot always tell when you call me. I think I
feel you near me. But you know I cannot hear you.
What did you say to me 1
I said write to Roble.
[Not long before this one evening his mother suddenly
started up and proceeded to write to Roble. Her
motions were so unusual in some way as to attract
comment from others of the family. She said " I rnust
; write to Roble."—N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, I did neglect writing to Roble.
In a way I know all you do. And by the way what did
• . you do with the lot. I saw the . .
It is where they put my body.^
R. H. ''lot" ?
Yes grandpa told me to ask.
Mrs. J. Which grandpa, Bennie 1 My father ?
—(assent)
Mrs. J. You know your body is not in the same lot as his is.
I know but tell him, do.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I think he means the stones we had placed in
his lot on his grave and over the others.
Wait a minute.
Yes that will help him much. He said B do not forget to
'If we suppose that when he says: "It is where they put my body," Bennie^
is quoting his grandfather's words, the statement becomes clear. —H, de G, V.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 44f>
ask your mother what they did with tlie lot and it has
all been arranged very nicely.
[New head stones, etc. had lately been placed in the
cemetery lot of Bennie's maternal grandfather. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, a number of changes were made, new stones
put up and the lot made in order. Does he want to-
know anything more 1
No, that is all, but he would give me no peace until I
asked about it.
Tell me dear do you hear me when I tell you about
Helen. Look out for her.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. In what way shall I look out for her? She:
is very well this winter.
Yes, but I told you she would be, but do not hurry her.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
But you do
Mrs. J. Do you think so, Bsnnie ?
I do, yes. Why mother.
Mrs. J. Bennie, the family think I am too indulgent with her.
Well I do not. I see you hurry her to school.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, sometimes I do.
Don't do it, I see. Do not hurry her and she will be
with you a long time and will be well. Do you hear
me dear?
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, and I will do as you say.
I am glad, because you will not be sorry dear.
Oh I feel so happy now. I am glad I came after all.
Tell me do you not think she is doing well with the
photos ^
Mrs. J. I don't think that's right.
iRee pp. 395 and 436.
450 , Helen de G. Verrall. '
. . , \ .
[part
or did well with the . . .
•
;
Mother do you remember the pine cones. .
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, tell me about them.
I mean to tell you everything I ever knew in time. I
mean my Pine cones and what I used to get them for.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
'
Listen is this word pick . . stick or pick . . I am not sure
which . . them together.
Mrs. J. For what purpose, Bennie 1
•
I made [1]
do you remember the fire place . .
There is a little confusion here friend (Rector to K. H.)
I made a wreath.
Mrs. .J. Bennie, I remember that you used to gather pine cones.
I made a ring one year and left it in my room.
Mrs. J. I remember indistinctly, Bennie, I will try and recall this
later.
Yes all right and for the fire also.
Mrs. J. (to N. B.J.) This is for you.
and do you remember Charlie Adams 1
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
'
Chas. . . it is not Adams but Allen.-
Mrs. J. Is Charlie the right name, Bennie 1 I think you have one
name wrong, the first name. Think once again.
[Mrs. J. thought that Bennie might be referring to G. Allen,
a friend.—N. B. J.]
I mean Will . .
I want to recall more about him for you.
Mrs. J. Where did we use to see him 'I Do you remember that 1
Yes is . . Osterville.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 451
Mrs. J. No, Benriie.
Away from here or am I still in it . . I remember our
home so well and he vised to come there to see me.
Dad are you still here. (N. B. J. had changed his seat some
minutes before to other side of room)
N. B. J. Yes. I'm listening. Bennie.
I begin to feel a little dizzy, dad. Are you all right ?
(N. B. J. comes back to previous place)
N. B. J. Yes, I'm all right, Bennie, but I'm weary to-day.
Why so. I knew you were tired.
N. B. J. Bennie, can you send any messages to Aunt Alice's children
now, from her children to herl:
Yes. when I come in I will bring it to you. I will see
them and tell you all dad. I see what you want.
N. B. J. Bennie, who are you with all the time now 1
I am mostly with grandpas and Frank . .
Do you remember . . (Pause.)
sounds like . . Louie
LOUIEi
LOUISE
Both names are right as pronounced by him.
Ask dad before I go. I am getting . .
far away now.
N. B. J. I do not know to whom you refer.
Friend it will be better to ask him again when he is nearer
the light
I should explain to him wliat his friends desire. Rector.
R. H. Yes. I
I will and he will know father where are you now and
will I speak again ?
R. H. Bennie, your father and mother are coming again next time.
Now if you will kindly wait a moment, they will tell
, . 1 See p. 456.
452 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
briefly what they would most like to hear from you
about next time. T will ask them to tell you now
slowly what they wish you to tell them when they
come again.
They will tell me now. I will listen with all my spirit.
N. B. J. Bennie, when you come again, tell us about your three
uncles that you loved so much in this life and who
are still here. (Hand starts to write)
N. B. J. Bennie . . Bennie . .
One minute dad let me say it over. All right.
N. B. J. Also tell us about the little pony that you had when you
were a little boy and who gave it to you. Bennie, also
tell us all you can about Frank for his father.
Cousin Frank,! ygg
N. B. J. No, your friend, Frank.
Oh yes. I . . uncles you say, and pony and Frank.
* * *
Mrs. J. Bennie, bring me a message from P'rank which will be
evidential to his father, something that will be a test.
What has Everett got to do with it 1
[Prof. C. C. Everett, who died October 10, 1900, announced
his presence at my sitting of February 13, 1901. —R. H.]
R. H. Nothing. Ask him to kindly come again when . .
No but he thinks she said Everett for
R. H. No . . evidential . . evidential . . test
Oh yes . . all right.
Good bye for the present I will refresh my mind and . .
and recover from my excitement from seeing you and
do all you ask of me affectionately Benny.
* * *
^ See note on p. 4.33.
XXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 453
(Waking Stage.)
* * *
I saw the young man with h'ght hair walking all around
me.
* * *
[The allusion to " Cousin Frank " is interesting. This is
the first time that his name occurs in the sittings (the
name Frank which had occurred several times was always
supposed by the sitters to refer to Frank B., and as there
is no suggestion of a relationship between Frank and Bennie
this interpretation is probably correct.) On November 14,
1900, N. B. J. wrote a letter to r)r. Hodgson, in which
he said :
" Tell Bennie that Aunt Alice sends her love and
would be very glad to hear from her son Frank and Uncle
Frank Clarke who has lately passed out of this life." At
the next sitting at which Bennie communicated, January
30, 1901, Dr. Hodgson told Bennie that this letter from
N. B. J. only reached him after he was in England. He
mentioned several of the messages contained in it, but said
nothing of the paragraph quoted above (see p. 440). The
allusion to " Cousin Frank " occurred in the next communica-
tion from Bennie on Febniary 18, 1901, and at the sitting
of February 19, 1901, after alluding again to "Cousin
Frank " he says :
" I thought Dad asked me did he not ?
In fact his language is just such as might have been
expected, if the message sent by IST. B. J. on November 14,
1900, had been duly delivered. In view of the great care
shown in recording these sittings, it does not seem prob-
able that any allusion to " Cousin Frank '"
made either by
the sitters or by Dr. Hodgson would have passed unnoted.
—H. de G. v.]
ITtij Sitting.
February 19, 1901. Present.- Mrs. J. and II. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
I am here, mother dear.
Mks. J. Yes, Bennie, I'm glad to see you this morning.
454 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Morning, it is always morning dear.i I am glad to see
you once more. But I was sad to hear what dad said,
did he not feel well.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, he was tired yest . . when he was here.
Too bad.
Oh mother I saw Frank and he told me to tell you to tell
his father he remembered several incidents. One was to
ask him if he remembered the watch he gave him
on his eighteenth birthday.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
And he is [his ?] saying if you are a good boy when you
are twenty one, I will double this gift.
[These statements refer to Bennie's friend Frank, but we
have not been able to verify them yet. —N. B. J.]
Mother it seems so good to see you, I could cry with joy.
Do you remember what I said when you told me I was ill.
Mrs. J. What was it, Bennie?
I said Oh no not very . . I do not think I will be ill long
I will soon be better.
The words friend are a little obscure but nearly correct.
Where is uncle Tom dear.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, the name is not right.
John [John is correct. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. He is in Florence, I think, Bennie.
It was my fault. R.^ (Hand listens to R. H.)
R. H. All right.
Give him my love and tell him I will not forget him.
^The controls often protest against the use of words denoting periods of
time, e.g. morning, week, etc., and sometimes appear unable to apprehend
their meaning. At other times, however, they use these very words them-
selves and their attitude does not seem to be based on any consistent
principle.
"An apology from Rector for the mistake about "Tom" and "John."
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 455-
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
Do you remember College 1
I saw Frank there . .
[Bennie last saw Frank at Cambridge where Frank was pre-
paring for College. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, you went out to see him.
Several times I was too weak to answer for you before.
Mrs. J. Yes.
Will you forgive my blunders and see me as I am when I
am not trying to whisper to you dear.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I think you do very well.
But I try and that is all I can do, dear. Do you remember
my cousin . . Oh I told you about her before, and when
1 said Charles I meant uncle.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, uncle Charlie? (Assent.)
[The first time that any attempt is made to give the name
Charles is on p. 360 where the phrase occurs, "I am with
Char Char." It is immediately preceded by an allusion to
John. On p. 364 after speaking of his cousin May, Bennie
says, " Do you remember what I meant by John V and a
few sentences later refers to Charles in connexion with
Frank. It is likely therefore that he has a confused
recollection of these Dassai(es in his mind when he asserts
that, " When I said Charles I meant uncle." For this
remark occurs in connexion with a reference to his cousin
and just after allusions to Frank and his uncle John.
—H. deG. v.]
Mrs. J. Send a message to him, give me . .
I remember the Pony, ask him if he does.
[This is evidently intended as a tentative suggestion that it
was his uncle Charlie who gave him the pony, see
p. 462.—H. deG. v.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
456 • Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Give my dearest love to dear uncle Charlie and tell him I
think of him constantly and of the good times we had
tosrether.
T want also to explain about the cones.^ I gathered them
often for the fire.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
How is aunt Helen.
Mrs. J. She is well.
Did you tell her I was alive.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, but I have not told her about speaking with
you.
I thought so, but when you do and if you do tell her I . .
(hand holds up spur)
send love to her also. I thought she was not well and I
thought she might come here.
(Interruption owing to superposition of one line of writing on
another.)
As as I was saying . . Oh by the way where is dad I do
not see him.
Mrs. .J. He was called home, Bennie, but Dr. Hodgson has a letter
from him to you which he will read.
Oh I am so glad. Tell me do you remember what I meant
by Louise ?
^
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
I was thinking of that little friend of .sister Helen's.
[Helen has a friend, Louise, who was with us a grea:t deal
before Bennie's death. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, that is right.
and I thought perhaps dad would know.
Mrs. J. Yes.
Do you remember about a little girl who came here long
ago by the name of Alice.^
1
See p. 450. ^ See p. 378. ^See p. 451. -"See p. 409.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 457
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
M a r g aret
Mrs. J. No, B . .
Wait . . Ma . . gie [?] . . he [?j
Oh I saw her only a few moments ago.
Do you remember R i chard . . Dick . . Clarke.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, Clarke is right. Is Dick the right name?
It sounds . .
Oh no did I say . .
NE . .
I will let him wait a moment, his voice is not clear now.
Why do I feel stifled at times mother.
Mrs. J. I cannot tell you, Bennie.
R. H. Bennie, this is from your father to you.
Will you talk slowly to me
R. H. He says :
" Dear Bennie :
I am called suddenly away. I cannot remain.
This makes me very sad because I intended to say many
things to you. Last time I waited for you to speak and
said little myself. I wanted to tell you how much we love
you and how dear to Dad are all his memories of you.
The pictures which we have of your beautiful face are our
dearest treasures. Do not think that Dad will ever forget
you for a moment and we fondly hope that you will not
forget us. When Dad comes to your world he wants you
to meet him and show him the way.
When you can I want you to tell my dear mother that I
received her message and that I love her as dearly as ever
and to Uncle Frank Clarke I also send love and greeting.
Dear Bennie, the messages that we have received from you
have given us great joy and we wish you to thank for us all
who have helped you to do so. Also we hope to hear from
you often again. Tell us all you can about yourself, for
that makes us feel sure that it is your own self. May the
2g
458 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
blessing of the Father of all be with you is our prayer.
Good-bye for a time, sweetheart. Daddy."
Oh how like you, dear dad, and if you will wait until the
way is clearly open for me to free my mind I will tell
you everything I ever remembered of my happy life
with you. Father dear I know you love me as I
do you and you will find me when you come all ready
to greet you. Benny.
Ma dear this has comforted me more than I can tell.
Will you give my love to my dear Helen and Roble and
tell them I am still their brother Benny.
Mrs. J. Benuie, tell me about Helen. Do you not think her well?
Yes, very, but nervous dear.
Mrs. J. How shall I take care of her ?
Do not hurry her, mother dear, and let her sleep. She
says she wants to sleep more.
[Helen had for months been inclined to sleep late in the
mornings and when called to get up had been accus-
tomed to say that she was still sleepy. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
I hear her say this so often.
Mrs. J. But, Bennie, she ought to go to school.
Yes dear and so she will, but every chance you get let
her sleep, dear and it will help her more than anything.
Mother, she is going to be all right. I know she is. But
I see how she feels and I want you to know what to
do for her.
Bennie, do you think she should sleep longer at night ?
Yes, I do.
Should she go to bed earlier, or stay longer in the morning ?
Both.
R. H.
R. H.
LXi.] Rejjort on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. PijJer. 459
R. H. That is clear. .... .
and she will be strong and well. . .
'
R. H. Any other advice about her? :. . , . . .V . . ..
No that is all.
. ' I Now you found Roble all right, didn't you? ,
; J
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Will you send a message to him ?
Yes, certainly I will. Ask Roble if he would like a game
at leap frog.
Mes. J. Yes.
And tell him I think I could jump the faster . .
also tell him I am glad he is doing so well, and above
(Hand holds up harmonica.)
all is happy. - "
'
'
'
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Tell me now about yourself, what you do.
Do . . well the things I care for most are those I left
behind in the body, but I am contented here dear and
I live with grandpa and grandma Junot. He sometimes
says he was a little difficult for the boys U. D.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
to U. D. but he meant well and loves them all very much.
I am learning all the time the conditions of this life, the
reality and truth of our having to live in one life to
be able to in this. There is nothing that does not
interest me, and I am so glad to be able to feel see
and be with you all. I do not know what it is to ask
to see you without being able to do so instantly, dear.
Do you remember Frank . . I spoke of cousin Frank.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, have you something to tell about him ?
Yes I thought Dad asked me, did he not 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
He often sees me, did you know it dear ?
^ See p. 452.
460 Helen de G. Verrall. . [part
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
and I him. Speak to me a moment.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Do you remember anything about your last
illness 1
Yes, I do dear. What would you have me to tell you
about it dearest 1
Mother do you remember what I used to say to you
when I was going away any where 1
Mrs. J. What was it? What was it, Bennie?
Good bye, be back soon, don't worry about me.
[He had a habit of speaking just these words to his mother
when going away even for a few hours. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, that is just right.
I thought you would be glad to know, and I say it still,
dear.
Mother, do you realize how much I love and think of you.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, and I think of you always.
Well I know that dear, well. But cannot you forget my
last illness dear and think of me as I am now.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, but if you can, tell me the cause of your last
illness.
But I did dearest ma I told you I caught cold.^
Mrs. J. Was it only that ?
I was a little tired dear. The Sunday I went out without
my cap.
Mrs. .J. Yes, Bennie.
You know I was ill immediately after.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
[His illness began the day after the walk. —H. de G. V.]
1 See p. 386.
lxl] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 461
It was really that. Cannot you think so dear.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, and I will think no more of your illness.
Oh I will be so glad.
Dear one I want you to feel me as I am. Better so . .
Better so.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
You will all come some day and we shall meet and
know each other perfectly, and you will know all
that I am telling you now dear.
Do not cry.
Do not weep dear. I feel it all.
Mrs. J. No. Bennie, do you know sometimes when I talk to you?
Yes I do very well. I heard you say not long ago
Benny dear come and let me see you.
[His mother says that she has often spoken this aloud.
N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
and I was at your side then, but your eyes are still
clothed with the veil of flesh and you do not really
see me but I hope and know you feel me.
I was thinking about one of the boys at school . . Richard
Ellis. 1 Ask Roble, he will remember him.
Mrs. J. Yes, I will. I will.
Also ask if he remembers Eob.
Mrs. J. Yes.
Do you dear.
Mrs. J. Tell me something about him to recall him to me.
He came over to the house one evening and we sat on
the rail and sang together, back of the house.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie. Perhaps Eoble will remember.
^ See p. 472.
462 . . . Helen de G. Verrall. '< : : ^ . [part
I think he will. ' . '. -
'
Oh did I say grandpa gave me the pony 1
^
Mrs. J. No.
I did not recall just what I did say to dad about that but
I wanted to tell him about Uncle John first.
R. H. Yes. Then . .
•
.
,
then cousin Frank and uncle Charlie and it . .
; I think uncle Charlie gave it to me.-
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, that is wrong.
I think perhaps he better not try to recall just now and
wait a moment as he is forgetting. Better speak to him.
R. H. Bennie, never mind about that now. But next time, perhaps
you could begin when you come in and say so-and-so
gave the pony, then you might go on and say what
your friend Frank who has recently gone to your side
has to say, and then . .
Yes, wait a moment, do you not think I am getting clearer
any way my good friend. It is hard to come into the
light sometimes.
R. H. Yes, don't worry. Don't worry about it. Then you might
end up with your uncles in the body.
Mrs. J. (to R. H.) I want to ask a question.
(Hand listens to Mrs. J.)
Mrs. J. Bennie, bring a message next time from grandma Junot to
your father. Ask her why she never comes to us at
these sittings.
But she has dear, only I fear I am a little greedy and take
up all the light dear mother, but I do not mean to.
Can you not talk to me as you did when I was in the
body, and did you not make dad U. D. what I was
driving at when I told yoa about the changes on the
old place.
1 See p. 429. = See p. 455.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 463
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, we understood that. Think no more about it.
All right, I will not dear.
Mrs. J. Bennie, all that you have said to me to-day has made me
very happy.
Well dearest mother I am glad but I want to tell you
more and more about myself my life the things I did
when I was in the body with you all, and prove con-
clusively that I am really your son Benny, and that my
mistakes are not due to lack of memory on my part or
lack of love for j'ou, but due to a misunderstanding on
the part of the good man who is good enough to
repeat my words to you and other spirits who some-
times interrupt me when I am speaking.
Ma, who is Billie 1
Mrs. J. Your uncle Willie ? (Assent) Yes.
I only mention this as I tried to say it as I went out
before.
and I got young Allen and Will i
in my mind for dad and
I could not say what I wanted to.
Uncle Frank has just told . . nudged me and said go tell
your mother about Billie, Benny, and see what she will
say to that.
(R. H. reads the whole sentence over in a natural manner
as if speaking it himself and not merely slowly decipher-
ing it.)
Yes, this is exactly right, how did you do it 1 How did
you happen to hear me so distinctly, I am delighted.
R. H. Well, Eector made the machine work, and although I could
not read it at first, it was all well done by him.
All right, that explains about my affectionate uncles.
Dear mother, speak, I am getting away from you, dear.
* * *
^See p. 450 where allusion to Allen is followed by the words "I mean Will."
—H. deG. V.
464 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
18th Sitting.
February 20, 1901. Present: Mrs. J. and R H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Good morning dearest mother, I am here once more, thanks
to our Heavenly Father, and I am glad to see you, and
glad, very glad, that you can U. D. me better.
(Mrs. J. has articles on table, and hand holds up mould of
Abraham Lincoln.)
Is this A. L. . . friend hold this before him . .
Abraham Lincoln.
(Mrs. J. holds the mould up.)
Mks. J. Yes, Bennie, I am glad to see you once more.
I am glad too. Now I have ever so many things to tell
you, and if they can hear all I say we will not misunder-
stand each other.
I saw Uncle Frank, had a long talk with him, he sends
great love to Aunt Alice and although you may as he
U. D. not be able to tell her just what he said, he
sends the message through me just the same. Good
morning, friend.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I will take the message to Aunt Alice.
And do you remember another Benjamin in our family,
dear Mother?
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, tell me about him.
I want to tell you I have been with him since I saw you>
Mrs. J. Do you mean your grandfather"!
I do, and he sends love to dad.
Mrs. J. Yes.
and grandma told me . .
(Perturbation in hand)
Oh I hope I can give you all their messages straight, dear.
LXI.] Beport on the Jimot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 465
Do not hurry so dear boy (To Bennie from Rector.) to give
her love to dad, to yourself, to all her dear children, and
tell them she is watching over them constantlj'.
[This is characteristic. —N. B. J.]
Do you hear me dearest ?
Mbs. J. Yes, Bennie.
and do you see cousin Frank.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, is he here"? (Hand points to right front.)
Mbs. J. Standing over there ?
Right by my side. I do not believe I can keep him long,,
but he sends love to his mother.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, she will be glad to hear from him.
and wants to ask her if she remembers the queer little
picture she has of him when he had little trousers . .
ah ah ah on . . he laughs.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, your father will be glad too to have these
messages for Aunt Alice.
She will know how he loves her, will she not, mother. He
talks of her constantly.
And do you remember of my speaking of George.^
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, yes.
He sends love also.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, my cousin George you mean ?
(Assent.)
he told me not to forget it.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, give him my love.
he used to be so jolly.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
^ See p. 401.
466 Helen de G. Verrall. , . [part
This is a joke dear mother because he was never known to
smile . . .
• '.
[This cousin George had not long been deceased. He
scarcely ever smiled and during his life this was a source
of jokes in the family. —N. B. J.J
and we often remark . . we remark it here.
And I speak it in particular that you may know just who
I mean.
Yes, all right. Go on I hear you. (between Bennie and
Rector.)
Tell mother I did not really suffer as she thought, and
after I reach here I feel so happy. Ask her if she has
the little piece of hair she took from my head. I saw
her cut it off. F [1] C [?]
Mes. J. Is it Bennie speaking 1
No it is Frank C [?] who says this, not I.
Mks. J. Very good. I will ask her.
and ask her if she remembers the tune I used to whistle
that she did not like.
Mks. J. Yes. Is this Frank talking ?
Yes it is.
Mrs. J. Yes.
and do you remember me
Mrs. J. Oh yes.
M^ell do you remember how I looked aud something about
my eyes.
Mrs. J. I remember how you looked, but I cannot recall anything
about your eyes. , ...
Don't you think I looked like my dear mother in this
particular 1
Mrs. J. I do not know, Frank.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Pvper. 467
Father tells me so every day.
[The cousin Frank who communicates above died of a linger-
ing illness. His messages to his mother were reported to
her, but were not understood by her. —N. B. J.]
Mother dear I am here wailing. Do not worry dear I
will say it all before I go.
Grandma Junot is so glad to see you. She wants very
much to have dad know how deeply she loves him and
how glad she is to have found him in the body.
U. D. me if you can because my mind is full this day.
I think she is a dear good grandma and is very fond of
you all.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I knew you would think so.
Yes, I do.
Do you remember how patient she used to be dear ?
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
Mother dear is tliat not grandma's painting you had in the
sitting room.
[We have long had in our sitting-room a little childhood
-
.., - .. painting by this grandmother. It is kept in a cabinet
with some family keepsakes. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes. ,
She told me it was and to refer to it for you to let you
'
< know she could see you all at home and that things
of hers attracted her to you. It is the same with me.
She says tell Aunt Alice not to feel that God has been
unjust to her, but to feel that it is better as it is.
[For reasons well understood in the family these words are
very significant. It Avould be difficult for our mother
to better identify herself in words.—N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes. You are doing splendidly, Bennie.
I am glad to have you hear me so well. Prudens ^ is
helping me greatly, and is so good to me.
Grandma had the old secretary, didn't she ?
^Another of the controls.
468 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. I don't know about this.
Ask Aunt Alice, she knows and it refers to her.
And do you remember
Mks. J. Yes, Bennie.
I
another boy cousin of mine here.
He came long ago.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
Grandma said refer to him too dear when you speak be-
cause his TBother would be glad to know. Do not forget
these things Benny boy.
[We understand perfectly who this cousin is and why our
mother directed that word be sent to his mother.
N. B. J.]
You see he came here before Frank did.
R. H. Do you mean his mother is in the body ?
I think he does. I will ask again.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I understand these messages perfectly.
All right, then we won't bother and you can tell him later,
I mean my good friend who has taken so many mes-
sages of mine to you.
R. H. Yes, that's all right. Don't bother.
And by the way before I forget she toM me to tell you
she sent her love to uncle Charlie and Uncle Billie, is
that straight, mother dearl
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
[This was quite natural save that the uncle referred to as
Billie is commonly called "Willie" in the family. —N. B. J.]
I thought not quite. Then I have got your brothers and
dad's mixed up a little, haven't 1 1
Mrs. J. Yes.
[Uncle Charlie and Uncle Willie are brothers of Mrs. Junot
—H. de G. v.]
(Hand holds up A. L. mould.)
Yes, all right. I mean uncle Charlie.
LXi.] Re-port on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 469
Mrs. J. Do you wish to send a message to him'?
I do. Tell him as I said before I think of him often, and
wonder if he knows I am still living somewhere.
And does Uncle Will know too 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
Give him my love and Grandma's too.
That's not for him but for uncle John. He is dad's brother
[Correct.—N. B. J.]
Friend we will have to wait a moment
Better speak a little sentence to him now friend or re-read
his father's letter.
(Letter of Feb. 19 read again.) (See p. 457.)
Mrs. J. Bennie, does it give you as much pleasure to come here as
it gives to us 1
I think it does, more if possible dear, because I am very
glad to come always, and they are all so good to me,
the only thing that troubles me is the imperfection of
my speech.
Mrs. J. Bennie, these talks with you have been of more help to me
than anything else, and have comforted me greatly.
And also me, dearest. . You know how I love you and
how happy we were together in the body, do you not 1
Mrs. J. Oh yes, Bennie. Sometimes I think I cannot live without
you.
But do not feel like that any more because I am really
^
with you although you cannot see me dearest mother.
I often hear you cry out to me Benny dear where are
you.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, but I feel very sure that you are with me.
This comforts me because I am certainly, and I never fail
to see you every day of your life.
And when I hear you call I feel as though I could touch
you, dearest, and yet I know you could not feel me if
I did because you are still covered by your body, and
I am Benny in spirit without the body I used to have
470 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, and Bennie, it makes me very glad to know that you
are happy in your life on the other side.
I was I thought as happy as I could be when I h . .
owned the body, but after I left it I found I did not
know what happiness was. I found I had not drifted
away into some dark corner where I could not see you,
but I saw you almost as soon as I lost control of my
body, and I was so happy, and I was told that I
should see clearer and clearer [clear] as time passed and
so I have, dear, and when I have seen you grieve I
.
- have said Oh well it is not for long, and it is only a
condition of the body.
Mother cannot you tell me of Judge,i I wish so much to
hear. And does he think I am living or does he think
I am dead. Tell me if you think it right to do so.
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you mean the Major ?
.
Yes, I do, but Rector always calls him judge instead
although he has once or twice heard it right.
Mrs. J. The Major came to see us this winter, and spoke often of
you. He is going to Osterville next .summer.
Well I am glad to hear this and I will certainly be there
too.
Mrs. J. Perhaps I may go there again. We were so happj^
together the last summer you were with us, that I
want now to go back.
I wish you would and I have told you this and you have
felt it dear.
I am so glad.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I shall certainly go now.
I have again and again told you to recover from the past
and go back.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. In one of your talks with Dr. Hodgson, you
spoke of Cranberries.^ What did you mean 1 Do you
remember ?
iSee p. 443. ^See p. 426.
LXi.] ' Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 471
Yes, perfectly. I meant Blueberries. ,
[In a former sitting "cranberries" were spoken of, but not
understood. But the explanation brings backs to his
mother's memory clearly the incident during liis last
'
.
' -
summer at Osterville. One day he brought in several
. :,• clumps of blueberries to her in his hat. They were not
plenty there, though they were at Rye Beach, where we
had formerly spent our summers.—ISI.B. J.]
Mes. J. Oh yes, Bennie.
and I thought after I said it I would rectify it.
Mrs. J. Oh yes, Bennie. I understand now.
Do you remember of my putting them in my hat 1
Mes. J. Oh yes, perfectly.
and the little clumps I picked on their stems for you
R. H. "clumps" . . what ofl
Blueberries.
They were so thick on their stems.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
Well you tell dad won't you. I forget names of things
like that now, and it takes me a long time to recall
them when I think so fast.
Mrs. J. Yes, I will tell your father. Bennie, can you tell me
anything about youi- friend Frank now 1
Oh yes he is getting used to this life. I do not see him
as I do my own family dear, but I see him occasionally,
and he is very well satisfied with this life. He told me
about the watch dear as a test for his father.^
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I will find out about it as soon as I can.
Do you remember a friend of ours by the name of Wood.-
Mrs. J. No, Bennie.
(Hand listens to Spirit.) . .
1 See p. 454. See p. 397.
472 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Wood . . 1 . . wait it is something more.
(Hand holds up cap.)
Where is my gold jjencil . . I had better write it for you.
Woodley [1]
Yes he and Roble myself and two other friends played
ball just before we left . . the school [? fragmentary at
end of line.]
R. H. "before we left the summer"?
for the summer. We went to school together
Mrs. J. Bennie, I can't recall this ; but I will ask Eoble about it.
Oh yes, that will do, and don't forget Rob Eaton . . Rob
Eaton not Ellis . . Rob Eaton. [Names not known
to any of us. —N. B. J.]
[Apparently correction from name Ellis mentioned on p. 461.
—H. de G. v.]
Mrs. J. I do not recall this name but I will ask Roble.
All right dear.
About uncle John again I wanted to rectify any errors
before I got too far away.
Now talk to me a moment.
Did you find my letters.^
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I found your letters and put them away as
you told me.
That helps me greatly dear.
I wanted Helen to have the Kodak.^
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I found it and will give it to her.
I am glad. Was it all right, not broken?
Mrs. J. No, it is broken.
I thought I heard you say this, and it bothered me a little.
Mrs. J. I will have it mended for her if you wish.
1 See p. 382. ^ p. 395.
LXi.] Report on the Jvnot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 473
I do very much dear, I think it will help her and she will
enjoy using or learning to use it.
Mrs. J. Yes, I will have her use it. Bennie, do you know how
much she enjoys skating ?
(Excitement in hand.)
Yes, I do.
Mrs. J. Do you remember how you used to like it ?
(Further excitement in hand.)
Well I do very well.
Ask dad if he can skate now.
Mrs. J. Oh no, Bennie, he can't skate, but he goes with Helen
sometimes.
I see him, but skating is out of dad's line a little.
But Roble got a tumble I see not so long ago.^
Mrs. J. Yes, I shall see him in a few days, and will ask him about
it.
All right, that will be splendid because I often watch him
to see what is going on.
He is a good boy, mother dear.
Mrs. J. Yes, and he misses you so much, Bennie. You are so
much to him.
Well, we had splendid times together and got on splendidly,
don't you think so 1
Mrs. J. Yes. I thiidc no two brothers ever got along together so
well as you and Roble.
I have often thought myself how well we used to agree,
and I have often thought of the good times we had. Oh
mother it was not all due to ourselves I fear. We had
the best mother that ever lives also father. You were
always so good to us.
1 See p. 442.
2h
474 Helen de G. VerraU. [part
Mrs. J. Bennie, I must go soon now, and may not see you again
for a long time. Have you any special message for me ?
I have much to say. I want you to feel dearest that
although I seem a nonentity so far as your sight is
concerned but that I live on with you an individual
and spiritual being your boy just . .
and when you are at home and call out for me I will be
near and in my own way answer your call.
* * . ,
.
•
(Waking Stage.)
Yes, I hear you . . Yes.
(Mrs. P. wafts a kiss from her lips with her fingers.)
That's a . . this is grandma, this is grandpa and this is uncle.
There was a young man almost in my way. I didn't step
on him, did 1 1
19th Sitting.
April 15, 1901. Present: R. H.
(Rector communicating.)
Whilst we are preparing Hugh ^ we wish to ask thee
what is desired of Frank Clark. He also wishes to
know, and Benny has asked the question also.
R. H. His mother, Frank Clarke's mother, says that the questions
put by Frank Clarke as tests were all entirely wrong.
But she asks me to say that she will bear whatever life
has in store for her in future with more fortitude for
having heard from him, and though if he had said
something about his own little child or his young brother
it would have been better as a test, she does not ask
it, she will only continue to pray for him that he may
strive always after the noblest things, that he may
improve his opi^ortunities, that he may grow in grace
and in the knowledge of the truth until they meet again.
Amen.
Friend we can sincerely account for many seeming errors
because of our lack of U. D. and hearing of late.
* * *
What were the questions asked of Clark ?
^ Another communicator.
lxl] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 475
R. H. I do not think that they asked questions of him. He
asked questions as tests. I think, for example, he said
something like—ask father or mother if they remember
the watch I had.
Ah friend, we U. D. that as having come from another
Frank.'^
R. H. I do not know, Eector, that may be so. The record is
not yet returned to me from Bennie's father since they
were here, so that I could not examine this for myself,
and therefore I could only read you what this lady
wrote to me some time ago.
+ Bring this before us as soon as the conditions will permit,
as any and all errors will be completely rectified and
made dear.
20th Sitting.
January 13, 1902. Present: R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
How are you my friend, tell Dad there was some mistake
about the Franks but I will clear it up for him all
right - . .
Glad to see you very and very grateful to you. R.^
R. H. " R." Eoble. I shall be pleased to take your message.
You will see your father I trust after four Sabbaths.
:
'
•
2 1st Sitting.
Jamiary 15, 1902. Present: li. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
How are you my friend.
Ask Dad if can find my LeaTher Bag.
1 The recollection of the conti'ols is correct on this point. See p. 454.
^ See previous sitting.
^ If this is intended as a signature it is incorrect, Bennie's initials being
B. H. J. On p. 3S4 he gives his name as Benjamin Roble Junot, but afterwards
gives his initials correctly. ^
—H. de G. V.
Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Yes.
I left a few letters in it. Benny.
I suppose they have long since been taken but I happened
to recall it a few minutes ago.
Pretty well are you
Yes, Bennie, thanks, except for a damaged knee.
Take a ride on horseback when it gets better it will do
you good.
Thanks, I will.
I'll go along with you to see that all goes well.
Thanks.
Tell Dad that the wreath all faded very soon after he placed
it there.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, January 20, 1902.
"Just after Christmas I went to visit Bennie's grave. I did not
place a wreath there, but I did bring and place upon the grave a
bunch of flowers and some one else had very lately left a Christmas
wreath there. It was a cold and windy day and I arranged my
fresh flowers in and around the wreath.
His letters were found by his mother after his death carefully
tied up, but they were not in a leather bag."]
22nd Sitting.
January 29, 1902. Present: R. H.
(Rector communicating.)
Friend what news from Benny's father, he is anxious to
know.
R. H. They were delighted to be able to come. I supposed that
was settled.
(Hand shakes as if to indicate doubt.)
R. H. But perhaps I should have stated before that they said at
once that they would be here and looked forward to it
very much. They will be on hand after second Sabbath
as arranged. They . .
476
R. H.
R. H.
R. H.
R. H.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Pi^yer. 477
(Hand talks energetically with Spirit moving fingers much.)
R. H. The leather bag they don't remember finding any letters in
the wreath was on Bennie's grave but not placed there by
his father, but his father was there and saw the wreath
and twined other flowers with it.
(Hand talks with Spirit as before.)
He says he saw his father there and saw him doing some-
thing which he took to be the placing of the wreath.
R. H. Yes, I understand.
friend if thou couldst know the delight of this young man
thou wouldst feel at peace with God for the comfort
and privileges He hath given thee and him i.e. enabling
them to speak to each other
The fact of this young man's referring constantly to letters
is proof to us of a recollection of some which he left
and which have not to his mind been explained satis-
factorily, otherwise he would not be groping in his
memory for them and to recall where he left them . .
We hope ere long this will be cleared up for his sake.
It is a lingering memory.
R. H. His father said that since Bennie left they had found a
packet of letters, although they were not in a leather
bag. That is all I know. I will ask his father to give
Bennie such information as he can when they meet.
This will greatly assist him in recalling other things, i.e.
as soon as his mind is quite clear on this point.
Friend fancy thyself coming to our side suddenly and
leaving important letters to fall into the hands of others
which thou wouldst not have them see, and thou wilt
U. D. his case somewhat.
* * *
23rd Sitting.
Fehruary 10, 1902.
Present : N. B. J. mid R. H. ; also Ilohle J. in course of sitting.
give . .
(Hand moves about table as if looking for something.)
478 . - Helen de G. Verrall. ,
[part
R. H. Rector, Kector, shall I mention two points first
(Hand moves again about table.) .
.
him something and I will go on. R.
(I get parcel out of bag and hand it to N. B. J. to open. It
contains the cap, spur, harmonica and medal, which N. B, J.
places on table.)
(Bennie communicating.)
One word to my dear father, how glad I am to see you, Dad.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, and I am so happy.
I am told to wait a moment so I will. B .
* * *
I have looked for and longed to speak to you father my
dear father. God bless and keep you ,
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
in the best of light and peace. I have been with you a
great deal, I know all you think and feel and when you
are tired I often cheer you. I heard you and Roble
talking about me. I heard you say he had better study
a while longer what did you mean by that was it
studying. Dad ?
[I feared that Roble had been a little too much inclined to
athletics in college and I had been insisting upon more
study.—N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Yes, that's it. I told him to study more.
Yes, and he will now. I was especially attracted to that
myself. I think he has been a little behind.
N. B. J. Yes.
But don't worry about him dad he'll get there sure.
I am so far . . not so far removed but what I can help
him.
Do you hear me'?
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 479
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. Yes, Bennie. We hear you. Go on.
And I saw the fall he got could you make it out^
N. B. J. On the ice yoii mean, on skates '?
Yes.
N. B. J. Yes, he's all right now.
Good. All right did you say.
N. B. J. Yes.
I heard that perfectly dad.
N. B. J. Bennie, do you want Roble to come here and speak ?
More than I can tell you. I told . .
(N. B. J. calls Roble, who was waiting downstairs.)
you this long ago in your own mind. When I see him
he'll know it.
(Roble has entered while previous sentence was near the
end.)
(Excitement in hand.)
Well well Roble I am glad to see you once more my
brother. Did you think I was lost Roble —
E. No.
I heard something and told you steadily don't be lazy, R —
study on and I'll help you. got it . .
R. Yes, I heard it.
I hear you sounding where I am. I am right here beside
you. do you remember the joke I made about the Bull
Pen ^
R. The bull pen down at V 1
Yes.
R. I don't remember any joke. Remember the slide down
there ?
Yes slide and fall
1
See p. 442. 2 g^g 4-29.
480 . Helen de G. Verrall. [pakt
R. No, I mean the board slide.
Yes I am thinking of the same slide and the fall you got
skating. [Roble had lately received a bad stroke on
the head while playing hockey on the ice. —N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Lately.
R. I didn't fall, I got hurt.
Yes I know it well.
Tell me are you better R. I tried my best to prevent it
Benny.
Going for a moment friend.
N. B. J. (to R. ) Ask him something distinctive about your childhood.
See if you can't call up his memory.
Y"ou almost take my breath away I am so glad to see you.
I have an idea you feel strange, but you need not. Go
on B . .
R. Do you remember the good times we had in the creek at
V wading with the B—— boysl
Yes I do Koble, do you remember when we went up stairs
R. No, I don't understand.
and I took up the stick.
Don't talk kindly, let me think my thoughts.
Yes I remember it well. Do you remember two persons
whom we met in particular . .
R. No, I don't.
and anything about the stick I hunted for.
Don't hurry, think and you will remember.
Wait . . Stick. Now let me recall what I wish to say.
Do you remember Farred p]
R. H. Again please.
Farrd[?] Farerr [?]
R. H. "Farrar ?"
Fred and Dvvight . .
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 481
R. H. "Fred and Dwight."
Dwight yes.
[The above references to Dwight and later to the wedding
are well understood. Will try to find out about the
stick.—N. B. J.]
Cannot you U. D. me R. and . .
R.. No, I don't understand.
what I am thinking about
I am . .
Do you remember the Stick or cane that night . .
R. No.
NO.
That is strange. I am perhaps not U. D. you.
I perhaps did not U. D. you.
Did you not get the wrong Stick, E.
N. B. J. I don't understand, Bennie.
Strange it is as clear to me as it can be.
R. H. Bennie, remember that we all sometimes forget little inci-
dents. You will recall some that Roble does not, and
Roble will recall some that you do not. Perhaps
(Hand turns to Spirit a moment. R. H. pauses.) he
will remember something about it later. Or perhaps
you can say something more particular about it now to
recall it to him. If . . (Hand turns to Spirit a moment)
if not, better try him with something else. If necessary
go out a moment and think over some things you and
Roble did together.
Yes, what I did do. [Probably meaning that he went away
a moment to think over. —R. H.)
All right. Thanks. I'll have a try. (Cross in air. A
few seconds' pause.)
Yes, bring (between Spirits).
Well how are you Roble tell me this first.
R. I'm very well, Bennie.
Glad to see you once more,
like college
482 Helen de 0. Verrall. [part
R. Are you happy 1
Yes . . very. (In reply to R.'s question.)
R. Yes, very much. (In reply to Bennie's question.)
I am more pleased to see you how is Helen and Mamma
R. Very well, both.
Yes. Roble do you remember the time we went to that
wedding we had a jolly time.^
And now I want to ask you if you remember Dwight.
R. Oh I know. Do you mean when you went on a boat to
Buenna Park 1
Yes I do and Stick
I got his Stick. Roble cannot you remember this and the
hat
R. Do you mean Dwight H 1
Yes of course he is the only one I knew.
R. H. You mean the only Dwight you knew 1
Yes.
R. Do you mean the time you and Frank B. went out on
the boat to Buenna Park and got sick ?
Yes I do Rohle.
Do you remember Dwight H
R. Yes, I remember.
Come here, let's talk it over.
(R. takes place directly behind arm instead of N. B. J. R. had
previously been a little further to riglit.)
Now think R. do you remember anything about my taking
his Stick or cane . .
R. No.
and putting niy hat on it and making a signal.
1 See p. 481.
LXi.] Re'port on the Junot Siiti'hys with JlJrs. Piper. 483
R. No, you know I did not go on that trijj with 30U.
'
Oh yes certainly, well how can you know that, I forgot
about that I was thinking you went. Ask him and he
will tell you what I mean.
R. All right.
and it will be quite clear. I am glad to get it off my
mind.
N. B J. (to R.) Ask him about Frank.
Ride any now R.
R. Yes, I ride in the summer.
Who was that fellow by the way who was with you at
Osterville since I saw dad . .
R. Do you mean Barney 6 1
I did not really know, Roble, who it was.
R. Bennie, is Frank there 1 Have you seen Frank B. 1
Yes every day, every daj', and he often speaks of you.
Shall I tell him I have seen you, R . .
R. Yes. please. Have you also seen Sam B there ?i
Yes, and he came very much confused
he had trouble in his chest.
[This is a friend of Bennie lately deceased. His mother has
since told us that he complained constantly of pain in
his chest.—N. B. J.]
R. Do you remember when we and the three B boys
went up to Fort Knox on a picnic and Sam R 1
Picnic . .
Yes. Sam does.
Do you want to see him, R. What was the dream about
. . me . . was it I . .
here he comes.
^See p. 429.
484 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. (to R.) Don't speak unless the hand turns to us.
(Hand moves cap and spur back.)
Yes.
(G. P. communicating.) How are you old chap, glad to
see you. What is it H. want my help.
R. H. Yes, George, I think we do,
I am here on Deck. G. P.
keep my thoughts clear now. '
Do you remember Grandpa Junotl
R. No, I don't remember him, but do you remember his
picture ?
Yes, well I tried to tell dad about it since I came here.
He is with me and often refers to father and is anxious
to help him, U. D.
I am too excited I think, to keep my thoughts clear.
I hope you hear and U. D. me as I am now. Do you
remember the bag I referred to, R.^
R. No.
and the letters I cannot keep clear about . .
Oh if I could only get this cleared up I would be glad. I
often think how I would . .
(N. B. J. produces and holds up a packet of letters.)
R. H. Rector, here are some letters, perhaps they are the ones he
means.
He will know. (R. H. gives letters to hand which fingers
the edges of the envelopes, all enclosed together in a
band, holds the packet up a little in the air. Hand
excited and trembling.)
N. B. J. They are all we could find.
Those are they . . those are they . .
Yes I am so glad. Where did I leave them.
1 See p. 475.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 485
N. B. J. At Osterville. At Osterville on the table, there I think
your mother found them.
The last thing that troubled me was in not being able to
tell her destroy them . .
before I left.
Was there none in the bag.
N. B. J. No. None were found in a bag. Shall your mother keep
these ?
Yes if she wishes, but what good are they, dad t
N. B. J. Your mother likes them as a keepsake in your memory.
All right, let it be so then. I am glad to get it off my
mind that is all.
I want to ask you Roble about the . .
now if you remember the illness I had and how suddenly
I came.
R. Yes, I remember it, Bennie, and do you remember the last
morning we had together at Osterville, that last morning
out swimming?
Yes I do well. I tried to tell Mamma, did she not tell
you
R. No, she didn't tell me, but I thought that was where you
got hurt perhaps.
I told her to ask you if you remember the water and the
time we went in.
Did she not tell you or did that gentleman not tell you.
R. No, he did not tell me, but I remember it very well there.
[It is not clear to what Bennie here refers. On p. 387
immediately after an allusion to his brother, he mentions
to Mrs. J. the capsizing of the boat and his getting wet,
but says nothing about swimming. —H. de G. V.]
Do you remember the dip (Hand makes motion down
suggesting a dive.)
486 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. Dive? '
.
Yes. What was it.
'
R. Yes, I remember. Do you remember the dive off the little
pier when you cut your s . .
Yes I do.
R. Oh, yes, I remember that.
I felt . . Do you remember the little boat^ and the boat
house. Dad could not.
R. Yes, I remember, I remember the boat. Do you mean at
Osterville 1
Yes I am talking about Osterville and all we did there
together. Do you remember that morning whom we met
when we came out of the water.
R. Yes. Do you mean Miss N 1
I tried to tell this also. I think Dad will remember.
N. B. J. I can't remember, Bennie.
Did I not tell you of the boat and of my going into the
water. ,
N. B. J. Yes, you did.
I thought so, but Roble will remember I know.
R. Yes, do you mean where we capsized that day 1
I do but dad could not think about it.
N .B. J. I remember that you told j'our mother that you got sick
from going fishing.
fishing . .
do you remember the time the week before I got sick
Eoble . .
it rained
and we went fishing.
1 See pp. 387 and 443.
LXi.] Riqoort on the Junot Sittings vjith Mrs. Piper. 487
R. Fishing with Major G. 1
Yes I said the Major.
This is where I first felt that I was sick.
R. Yes, I remember that.
[The fishing expedition took place about two weeks before
Bennie's death.—H. de G. V.]
I then got a long walk with dad without my hat on Sunday
morning.
R. Yes, I remember when you and he went walking that
Sunday morning.
And he told me to go and get my hat.
R. Yes, I remember that too.
N. B. J. (to R.) Let him go on.
I did not feel well then.
Oh I wish I could tell you all I remember but George
somebody is verj' good to us here and by the way you
never spoke to Sam what will I tell him'?
N. B. J. (toR.) Ask him if Sam's there now.
R. Is Sam there now ?
Yes.
N. B. J. (to R.) Ask him if he wants to send a message to his mother.
And do you remember Frank Clark he is here also and
sends much love to his family U. D.
R. Yes, I remember Frank.
Why do I get so weak.
R. Bennie, do you mean uncle Frank Clarke or cousin Frank
Clarke 1
Cousin . . Frank Clark.
N. B. J. (toR.) Ask him what message he sends to his mother.
488 Helen de 0. Verrall. [part
Eoble he is wide awake and tells me he is glad to see you
and wishes you to tell Aunt Alice
that she is in his thoughts constantly and she is not to
think of hira as dead U. D.
R. Yes.
Do not forget this, Roble.
R. No, I'll tell her, I'll tell her.
like Study . . not much . .
stick to it and good times later, li.
I have seen the Major ^ several times since I left the body.
R. Major G. ?
Yes.
Will you get time to tell him I think of him a great deal
and the good times we had.
R. Yes, I'll tell him.
Tell mother I love her dearly will you.
R. Yes, I'll tell her.
And she is not to worry about anything.
What happens is always best.
R. All right, I'll tell her.
Helen had a sore throat ^
but it did not remain long.
Did you know it
R. No, I didn't know it.
did you dad.
N. B. J. Yes, I knew about it, Bennie.
I took care of that myself.
Music is all right too.
I am still with you.
iSee p. 408. 2.See p. 438.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 489
I forgot to talk about the Picnic but I will tell you next
time.
Do you see me or only hear me, R.
R. I only hear you, Bennie. [Of course he doesn't, he only
sees the writing. II. H.]
Did Mamma tell you I longed to see you where I could
speak . .
the light is going.
More anon. Benny.
N. B. J. He always writes his name with a y here.
Farewell.
24:TH Sitting.
Februaru 11, 1902. Present: N.B.J, aid R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Dad dear do you realize how much I think and care for
you.
N. B. .J. Yes, Bennie, we know you love us.
Do you feel me when I am near you at home or are you
too heavy to know it.
N. B. J. Sometimes at home I think I feel you, but I am not sure.
Wait for me and in time you will I know.
I hear almost everything you say.
Do you remember what I told you that I saw at the grave.
N.B.J. Yes, Bennie, were you there when I was there 1
quiet, dear boy (Rector to Bennie.)
Yes I stood beside you there. I saw the wreath and as I
saw you stoop I tried to see the shape of the flowers
you put in it. Objects sometimes seem quite clear,
then again they seem to lose their shape completely.
How is father . .
' See ]3. 476.
2 I
490 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. Bennie, did you hear what I said when I placed the dowers
on your grave
he said Bennie these are for you dear and something
else. I will think it over and tell this gentleman some
day and . .
N. B. J. That's just what I did say.
let me know
R. H. "let me know."
N.B.J, (to R. H.) "let you know" he means.
N. B. J. Bennie, don't bother about it any more. You have said it
right now.
I heard it quite clearly, tell Mr. H. you said something
about Doctor I think tell Doctor this.
[At the grave, I said aloud :
" Dear Bennie, these flowers
are for you. We have not forgotten you. Go and tell
Dr. Hodgson this."—N. B. J.]
(Hand points to Spirit.)
and Uncle Frank said better go tell him soon, B., so I came
and told him. Now Dad as I saw you there I see you
as clearl}' in other places but I am if possible nearer
when j'our spirit calls out to mine or when you handle
anything I owned. Do you remember I think it was
one Sunday last summer I saw you talking at the Pier
with Major. Do you recall it. You stood for a while
and then walked up towards the grove.
I was near enough to touch you. Think about it. was it
not Sunday. Do you remember seeing the little yacht
and commenting on it.
[Not understood at all—N. B. J.]
N. B. J. I do not remember. I was not at the water last summer.
I cannot remember, Bennie.
Yes, you were I know think if possible . . just where it
was and I will be glad.
R. H. Bennie, he may think of it later.
You remember seeing him don't you ?
Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 491
I did not see Major last summer.
Well how long ago was it.
Four years ago.
Think of the day and you will know what I mean.
Bennie, have you any message for your uncle Willie 1
Yes, tell him I have often thought I would like to have
him know that I am living I often think of and see
him.
Give him (harmonica placed by N. B. J. in front of block-
book.) A. L. (medal bust of A. L. placed in front of
blockbook.)
tell uncle Willie to come here some time if possible and I
will know him. Give him my love meanwhile,
tell me about the new Picture father.
N. B. J. What picture do you mean 1
mine.
N. B. J. Yes, we have three beautiful pictures of you.
I like the one I see in my room.
N. B. J. Yes.
ever so much.
I see Mama putting flowers near it sometimes did you
know it.
Did you see the yellow . .
help me (Hand turns to R. H.)
Vine
Yes I forget the name. Do you know, if not ask he7'.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I'll ask her. Bennie, do you know where
Hugh is now 1
[Hugh Irving was a negro coachman who lived in the
family through the whole of Bennie's life. He was
discharged on account of drinking too much about six
months prior to this sitting. He died about four months
Lxr.]
N. B. J.
N. B. J.
N. B. J.
492 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
prior to the sitting. When he left us he took with him
a dog that we vahied much, named Rounder—referred
to below.—N. B. J.]
Certainly I do I am here dear. (Apparently the sentence
only partly caught, and Huijlt interpreted as you.)
R. H. Rector, he says do you know where Hugh Ervvin is now 1
Oh yes (in excitement.)
I have seen him several times. What did he go for.
N B. J. Bennie, tell Hugh that we want the dog Rounder back.
I will sure and if you will wait for me a m.oment I vvill
attend to it now and you shall have him siire.
N. B. J. Good. That's right. You help us get Rounder back.
See if I don't. Wait a moment and in a few days you
shall have him I'll prove it dad
(Excitement in hand.)
What did he go for he asked.
he has gone a moment, but this was his last question to
me. R.
(Pencil placed on table. Hand turns round palm up for a
second or two, then makes sign of writing. Fresh
pencil given.)
Yes, father are you still here
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
You shall have him right away. I know this my friend
(Hand indicates R. H.)
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, you have Hugh tell you where Rounder is,
we want Rounder back.
They will give him back to you, he told me so and when
I go out again I'll ask liim all about where he is.
Did yOu say anything about Andrew.
N. B. J. No, I did not.
Did you know him, he is with Hugh.
Lxr.] Report on the Javot Sittings witk Mrs. Piper. 493
N. B. J. I don't know Andrew.
he is his uncle and came here a long time ago, dad, he
has helped him much to U. D. how to be contented
here.
[Hugh was born in slavery in the South, so we know
nothing about his uncle Andrew. —N. B. J.]
You need not worry about the dog. You will have him
sure. This is my test to you dear father.
N. B. J. Yes, dearie, I understand.
Do you remember the camera, that worried me so I
wanted Helen to have it.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, she has it.
mended
N. B. J. Yes, it has been mended.
Good, tell me don't you think she is doing splendidl}'
I am very much taken up with her now.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I help her with her Latin.
Yes, but I think she is going to have a very good mind
in time father which pleases me greatly.
N. B. J. Yes.
her music attracts me also do you remember the little
harmonica I used to play on . .
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
I used to play on the water.
N. B, J. Oh yes. Here it is. (N. B. J. lifts it from table and gives
it to hand that holds it up a moment, then replaces it
front of block-sheets.)
Does Roble U. D. me do you think.
N. B. J. Only partly. He feels sure that you are speaking.
494 Helen de G. Yerrall. [part
Oh yes I am sure too but I wondered if he U. D. how
deeply he touched me and all my old thoughts when
he was speaking.
I could not say half I wanted to tell him father.
Tell me a little about Helen.
N. B. J. Helen goes to school and goes skating a great deal and
wants to go to the farm all the time.
All the time.
N. B. J. Yes.
Good, the dearest spot on earth, dad.
N.B.J. She drives your horse in a cart.
1 gave it her.^
N. B. J. Yes, and she has her saddle-horse still.
I hope you will all go there soon and think of me.
N. B. J. Indeed we will.
I love you all and the longer I remain . . I forget some
things about my earthly life but I never forget yon
how good you were to me father . . .
N. B. J. Yes, Beniiie, and we'll not foi-get you.
Do you remember what mother said about my new
picture.
She said I looked as if I was going to speak,
don't you like it
N. B. J. Ye?, very much.
Ai'c you tired dad dear.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, a little tired, too much work all the time.
don't let it worry you, it will all be right soon.
father do you remember what a Stern man grandpa was
^
See p. 371.
LXi.] Report on the Janot Sittings loith Mrs. Piper. 495
N. B. J. Which grandpa ?
Your father.
N. B. J. Yes, he was stern.
he is as good to me as he can possibly be.
N. B. J. And I thank him for it.
father he met me when I came and showed me the ^vay.
I did not know him hardl)', but he soon made me
know him and took me with him home where I am
happy and if you could see us as we are you would not
doubt the goodness of God father.
N. B. J. I do not doubt the goodness of God, Bennie.
to let us live and know each other here and the friends we
used to know is more to us than you can realize father
. dear.
I wonder if you can U. D. all I say I have remembered
nearly everything for you I can think of things now as
tests.
Do you wish me to think of more things for you.
N. B. J. We would like to have you think of more things if you
can.
All right I'll tell this gentleman from time to time all I . .
that comes to me.
Do you remember the Alice I spoke of here.^
N. B. J. Yes.
Do you remember when she came.
She wanted me to send her love to her mother.
N. B. J. Who is her mother ?
She is (beginning of a word.)
she is in . .
Aunt Alice.
' See pp. 409 and 456.
496 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. Bennie, the Alice over there must be the little girl who
didn't live in this life. Is that right M
She is, but she lives here and is with Uncle Frank.
N. B. J. Now I understand.
I am so glad he would not let me go till I repeated this
for you.
N speak to me for God's sake and tell me if it is
really you.
[The sitter for some reason at once understood that this
was his brother-in-law Frank Clarke called by Bennie
"Uncle Frank." The words and their use were charac-
teristic in some way and what followed identified him
correctly —except that the reference to insurance was
not understood. He had been dead two years. We
had had many long talks about a future life in the
evening at his home. He had been much interested
in Spiritualism. —N. B. J.]
N, B. J. Yes, Frank, it is I.
I am delighted to see you I took Bennie's place for a
moment, a good boy N . .
N. B. J. Go on, Frank.
one of the best I ever knew.
(The writing during communication from Frank larger and
stronger.)
tell Alice I am sure I can remember everything soon. N
how is everything with you.
N. B. J. All well, Frank, all well, and Alice and the boy are walk
I see them often.
Give them my love and tell them I would not have left
them from choice, but it better so.
hear me.
N. B. J. Yes, Frank.
tell her I felt sorry about the insurance. . .
^ It seems to me probable that all references to a '
little girl ' are to be inter-
preted as alluding to Miriam Clarke, see p. 556 ; see also p. 456.— H. de G. V.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Pi'per. 497
N. B. J. Yes, go oil.
bat it was no fault of mine, it came out all right I hope.
N. B. J. Yes. All right.
Good. Ask her if she remembers what I told her about my
coming here. I said I was not coming.
('Hand turns to N. B. J. who makes no remark, then turns
to IL H.)
R. H. Yes, you mean you thought you would stay longer in the
body.
Yes, so.
N tell me why did she break up. (read at sitting as
" tell me did she break up.")
N. B. J. No, she did not. She's living in the homestead. Business
is all well.
I don't mean that, I mean keep up.
N. B. J. Yes, pretty well, but her health is not good.
No, never was very.
Are you still at it . . in harness . H . .
N.B.J. Yes, Frank, I am working too hard still
Don't pay give it up.
N. B. J. 1 understand.
You know what I mean, tried hard to speak before but
could not seem to U. D. the whys and wherefores.
N. B. J. Yes, go on.
I got an inkling that perhaps you wouldn't believe I was
anywhere if I didn't make some effort, do you miss me
any.
N. B. J. Certainly, every time I go to your home I miss you much.
do you know where we used . .
where we . . drive [1]
live . .
498 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Pv. H. Not clear.
Wait a moment he lost his hold so to speak.
Do you remember the evenings we spent together . .
N. B. J. Indeed I do.
and the talks we used to have.
N. B. J. Do you remember our talks about another life 'i
Yes just what I am saying N .
about this life and its possibilities.
N. B. J. Yes.
I found all better than I ever dreamed
N.B.J. Who came to meet you, Frank?
do you remember my boy
N. B. J. Yes, indeed.
he is my (hand points to Spirit.)
right hand.
N. B. J. That's right.
and we are together God bless him. Tell Alice this . .
N. B. J. I will.
N and till we meet again may God sustain you.
N. B. J. Good-bye, Frank. Good-bye.
going . . Farewell . . don't forget your . .
F H Clar ke [?]
[He usually signed his name "F Clarke."—N. B. J.]
[•'F. H." are the initials of his son, Bennie's cousin, Frank.
—H. de G. v.]
N. B. J. Frank, speak to us again hereafter when you can.
Most certuinl}' I will, (large and emphatic.)
(Noticeable contrast between previous large and somewhat
vehement writing and the c^uieter smaller writing ou
Bennie's leturn.)
LXI.] Rcijort on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 499
Father you realize I know the desire on the part of Uncle
F to meet you again that is why I left so suddenly.
N. B. J. Yes, dear Bennie, I understood perfectly.
Here is Hugh I called him to tell you himself about the
dog.
N. B. .J. Hugh, tell us wliere to find Rounder, we want Rounder,
lost him.
N. B. J. Lost him ? Did you lose him "?
Yes.
I lost him N and as a matter of fact I will see that he
is returned to you.
N. B. .J. All right.
as true as you live.
Tell me how is everything with yourself?
N. B. J. J'Fe are all right. How are you ?
better, head clearer, breathe splendidly.
Do you know how I suffered.
[Hugh died of an internal cancer, but, strange as it may seem,
he never once complained of pain or of being sick during
his last months with us. He drank very hard and we
supposed that that was the trouble. So that what he
says here is of great interest to us. Everything that he
says is quite characteristic (for instance calling Bennie
"Mr. Ben") except reference to sitter as "N ."
In life this was always " Mr. Junot."—N. B. J.]
N. B. .J. No, you never said you were sick.
but I would not tell anybody if there was anything I
hated it was to hear a man complaining about his heart
all the time.
N. B. J. Hugh, I thought you were druidv all the time.
No, not drunk, but mighty near it, the worst of it was I
suffered more than you know, hut I've got straightened
out here and I want to do the best I can . .
500 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. K. J. Tliat's right, Hugh. We were sorry we didn't take better
care of you.
now for evei'ybody. I worked . .
I worked faithfully when I could.
N. B. J. That's right. You did. (to R. H.) We had much regret
about this man.
forgive my failings as Mr. Ben has already.
Some day you'll know me better.
N. B. J. Hugh, I don't think you had a fair show in this life.
Well, I guess you're about right my friend, but I have no
fault to find now. I'm glad I'm living that's all I I've
got to say, and I'll find Rounder and send him back to
you.
N. B. J. Good, that's all right.
Think of me as I am and not as I was if you can.
N. B. J. That's right, we will.
Can I do anything for you.
N. B. J. Only help take care of Bennie.
sure he's all right
a right good lad. I often with him. I'll bid you good bye
now let me know if I can do anything for you H E ^
(at end of line and sheet. Sheet turned.)
N. B. J. It's H I, isn't it 1
R. H. (to N. B. J.) No. H E.
(Meanwhile was written) I.
[Query, possible connection between presence of N. B. J.'s
father and interpolation of N in above communica-
tion of Hugh. A few words from N. B. J.'s father come
next.—R. H.]
(Hand makes gentle drawing motion as if pulling on some
delicate threads.)
^ See p. 492 where the name "Irving" is given , by R. H. as "Erwin."
LXi.] Re-port on the Junot Sittings vjith Mrs. Piper. 501
N. B J. (to Pv. H.) Something wanted here.
Well. My son glad to see yon. Do the best you can.
Gone.
N. B J. Who was it 1
Dad are you here?
Grandpa said I wonder if he is as self willed as he used to
be.
N.B.J. Which grandpa 1 Which grandpa was itl
J unot.
N. B. J. Yes.
Speak to him father. (Hand points to Spirit.)
N. B. J. Yes.
he is waiting.
N. B. J. Yes, father, I'm glad to meet you here, and I take it very
kindly that you look after my boy so well.
Do you remember what you thought al)Out my . .
perhaps you thought I did not help you . .
don't you think so . .
[There were matters to be regretted in the treatment by the
sitter's father of his children and here, as a number of
times elsewhere, this is indicated by the father in his
brief communications.—N. B. J.]
N. B. J. I was young when you left this life.
Yes true but rather stubborn weren't you
N. B. J. Probably.
forgot it.
N. B. J. Do you know about my work in this life 1
There is little I do not know and I am glad you have
made your life so useful.
502 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. Thank you.
It is the best reward I can give you.
gone.
father.
father dear they tell me I must soon stop talking.
R. H. Yes, time's practically up.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, and I shall not see you to-morrow. Mother
will come alone. Don't forget daddie.
No not for a moment talk to me father when you go
to the grave and I will U. I), you.
25TfT Sitting.
Februari/ 12, 1902. Present: Mrs. Junot and B. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Well my dear Mother I am so glad to meet you here once
more.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I am glad to be with you once again.
Are you well dear Mother.
Mrs. J. Pretty well, Bennie, not so well as I should like to be.
Mother I see what I do not like to see, you are not well
dear and I must now help you.
Oh do }ou can you know how much we are together I
have enjoyed dad so much and when you all come to
this side you will U. D. it all
I want to talk with you dear.
Do you hear me.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, it's very plain and clear.
I have looked forward to seeing you since Imperator told
me you would soon speak.
Glad to see lioble. I wonder if he U. D.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 503
Mrs. J. Yes, he understands and thinks that lie is with you.
Well I am glad.
Mother did you U. D. about the Yine.^
Mrs. J. No, what about the vine 1
The Howers I saw you put in my room.
R. H. (to Mrs. J.) Bennie said yesterday that he saw you putting
flowers in connection with his picture in his room, and
he could not recall the name, he saw yelloio something
and Rector got the word vim.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, but it may come to me as I think it over.
After I saw you here I saw you go into my room and place
quite near one of my pictures some yellow blossoms and
with them were a Yine . . was.
[Not long after the sittings of the prior year we went to
our country place and Mrs. J. was in the habit of there
placing honey-suckle vines with the flowers under Bennie's
picture in the sitting room, but not in Bennie's room.
N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. I don't remember, Bennie, but I may have done so. In
your room, was it ?
It was some time ago and I will not be positive about the
room but the picture flowers etc. I am sure of, dear.
R. H. (to Mrs. J.) Perhaps he means about a year ago.
Mrs. J. Bennie, can you tell me any time when you were with me
so that I can recall it?
this was one, but since you do not recall it I will remind
you of one evening as we used to speak of time, when
Aunt Alice was there you and father were talking about
me and you got one of my books and showed her some-
thing in it remember.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I think I recall the flower incident, it was
at the farm.
Yes, dear Mother, it was.
iSee p. 491.
504 Helen de G. Verrall. '
' '
'
[part
Mrs. J. I have your picture on the wall, and put flowers near it.
Is that the time you mean 1
Yes and the Vine.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie.
1 stood just behind you dearest Mother and the thoughts
you sent to me attracted me to it and 1 said I will
remember this and tell her when I can speak through
the lighted window.
Mrs. J. Bennie, tell me about yourself.
Do you remember the evening I speak of dear.
Mks. J. No, Bennie, no.
Do you remember C ^ dear Mother
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, we live in C . What will you say about
it^
Are you going to leave it 1
[We had been talking a great deal about living in the
country. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. We do talk jokingly of living in tlie country, but not at
present.
How can you on account of Helen.
Mrs. J. Helen loves the country,
Yes I know but the school.
Mrs. J. We cannot until she is throuErh school.
I thought so dear, don't leave her. I heard all this talk
about going into the country dear but I could not
make it clear to my mind.
Got it.
R. H. Yes.
'Mentioned by N. B. J., see p. 355.
LXi.] Report on the Jimot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 505
Mes. J. Tell me about Helen. I have not seen her for several days.
Wait a moment dear.
(Hand disturbed.)
She is all right. (Disturbance in hand. Sheet turned.)
She is all right.
I see you elsewhere and nearer Roble.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie. Roble will be with me to . . Sunday.
Sunday
Mes. J. Yes, I shall see him to-day. I had forgotten.
Give my best love and tell him to keep with me in thought,
think of me often.
Mes. J. Yes, he will.
Mother I am very happy over here. They are all very
good to me and when we go to church we think of
you. I often see you and Helen together at the place
of Music.
Mes. J. Sometimes, Bennie.
I love to watch you and hear you talk of things I used to
do. Mother I think you feel my presence sometimes I
try very hard to make you see me.
Mes. J. Oh I do feel your presence, Bennie, but I wish that I might
see you.
I wonder if j'ou could. I'll try to stand before you very
soon to see if you can see me.
I am glad to see you my friend, are you quite well. (To
R. H.)
R. H. Yes, thank you, Bennie.
Did you find Mother and bring her to me.
R. H. Yes, they came together from their home to Boston and
met me there.
I am verj^ glad to know.
Mother what did you do with my sleeve buttons.
2k
500 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. I gave tliem to Charlie.^
Do you know that pleases me very much.
What else of mine did you give him.
Mrs. J. Do you remember your books, Tlie llirec Musketeers.
Yes very well, did you give him those.
Mrs. J. Yes. You remember how mucli you liked them, and he
said he would rather have one of your books than
anything else.
Good.
Mrs. J. Bennie, can you tell me anything between yourself and
Charlie, any incident that happened . . tell me . .
Did you say accident dear.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, Mcident.
incident, yes. I think so.
do you wish to help him to know where I am
Mrs. J. Yes.
Well ask Charlie if he remembers the little song I copied
out for him.
yes and the walk we took one evening in the or through
the park when we whistled the tune to the song I
copied out for him and the laugh we had over the
discords.
Mrs. J. Yes, I will ask him.
[We have as yet had no opportunity to speak with "Charlie"
about the above. —N. B. J.]
Oh I remember it so well.
and he said I do not see how you can walk so fast and
keep it up.
Mrs. J. Yes. Can you tell me the nickname he had for you 1
1 Charlie D. See p. 390.
Lxr.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Pipei'. 507
Nick B . .
Nick name . .
Ask him if he remembers B . . S [?] . . what is that . .
(Pause) • •
B . . Bee . . let me see . .
BO \1] B..BOB.. Benjamin . . Oh it is coming into
my mind now I have not thought it for so long.
I'll tell you presently. And now while I think it over
let me ask if you remember the day he and I went
down to the Meadow together for the Misses . . M . .
Misses . . no M 0 S S es.
Mrs. J. I will ask him about it. Do you remember the time you
made him a visit at Chatham 1 Tell me something you
did at . .
(Hand points to writing.)
Mrs. J. Tell me something else.
We had such fun the day we went to the meadow and
ask him if he remembers the Lobster man.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Do you remember going with Charlie and his
father to see the soldiers ?
yes soldiers I remember Very well what about them . .
ask Chat [I] if he remembers the Lobster man.
R. H. " ask " something.
Chas.
R. H. "Charles."
Mrs. J. Yes Bennie.
and the net we saw him working on.
I have got to go a moment, will be back soon I want to
clear up a little what I had in my mind before I came
in.
I wonder if you will remember your father.
Mrs. J. Oh, yes.
508 • > Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Do speak to me and tell me where you are now.
(R. H. signs to Mrs. J. to speak.)
Mks. J. Bennie . .
R. H. (to Mrs. J.) No, your father.
Mrs. J. Oh, is that my father ?
Mrs. J. I am in Boston talking to Bennie by the help of Dr.
Hodgson.
Boston . . I remember Boston very well.
Mrs. J. Yes, have you anj^ message to send by me 1
to . . where is Willie and Mother and George . . yes and
do you remember Clara.
Mrs. J. No, not Clara. Willie is in Chicago and doing well.
And will he remember me.
Mrs. J. Yes.
I am so glad to speak . . my thoughts run so fast . .
Caroline . . . . ,
'
Mrs. J. No.
Yes. Car [i]
Mrs. J. For Clara I think he means.
She is on this side.
R. H. Rector, please get the name right if possible.
he speaks very rapidly
and . . do you remember Clara . .
Mrs. J. No, I do not recognize the name.
She was my mother's sister.
Mrs. J. I will ask about it.
do not know . .
I wish to know about Will
lxl] Report on the Jiniot Sittings with Mrs. Prper. 509
Mrs. J. He is well and in business now.
Glad to hear it. How are you and . .
(Hand motions in a different direction towards the right.)
friend here comes another.
Mother how . . [This is probably Bennie again. —R. H.]
Mrs. J. Yes. Who is it?
Sister.
Mrs. J. Sister? (Hand points to Spirit.)
Margaret . . do not know . . going . .
[Probably an interruption from some other communicator.—
H. de G. v.]
Mother I am here again . . , . . .
R. H. (to Mrs. J.) Bennie.
,^ Did grandpa keep his thoughts clear Mother.
Mrs. J. I did not recognize all the names he spoke, but they may
be his relatives.
I think he knows, mother, they are all over here,
how is . . how are tlie Clarks . . and Charlie.
Mrs. J. They . . I think, are well. They were, the last I heard
from them.
help me a moment I am labouring under difficulties
Where is my Cabinet . . I w [?] speak.
Mrs. J. Your cabinet is in your room now. I moved it from the
hall into your bedroom.
Oh that is it, things look differently to me now.
Mother do you think of me as I am and do you think if
I came closer to you, you could see me possibly.
Mrs. J. It is my one desire, Bennie. If I could see you once I
should be satisfied.
510 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
I hope you will. Now I had it on my mind to tell you
about the Picnic. ^
Do you remember the N. girls . .
[Miss N. mentioned by Roble. See p. 486.—R. H.]
N -?
Mrs. J. No, but you spoke to Roble about them and I think he
remembered.
You do not. do you remember Sam.-
Mrs. .J. Tell me about him.
he is with me a great deal did you know he came rather
suddenlj' . .
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, send a message to his mother,
he will do it. (Hand points to Spirit.)
I ask you if you are Mrs. Junot to tell my mother I am
well and happy and better off than I was in the body,
tell her to keep the mo [I] mor [?] . . can't hear it . .
Mansfield Photographs because they are not good enough
to let go. I hope I have made it clear do you re-
member Carl
Boardman . .
Mrs. J. Is this from Sam 1 i.
Yes. S B.
Mrs. J. Yes. I will ask about him. Was Sam with him ?
Yes.
Mrs. J. I will try to find out.
and Dan . .
gone.
[Sam B. died rather suddenly not long before this sitting.
His mother upon reading this sitting said that about
this time she and one of her sons had been looking
over and discussing a great deal the various photographs
i«ee p. 483. -See p. 483.
LXi.] Report on the Jimot Sittings with Airs. Piper. 511
of Sam to determine which were the best. They con-
cluded that the ones last taken were not good enough
to give to his friends. AVhen speaking she was awav
from home and could not remember the name of the
photographer.
Mrs. B. also said that "Carl" and "Dan" were friends of
Sam but that Carl's name was not "Boardman."—She
gave the name, but we cannot recall it. —N. B. J.]
Mother speak to me dear.
I feel now that I want to be alone with 3'ou.
it * *
(R. H. goes out.)
Speak mother.
Mrs. J. I want you to help lioble and Helen.
I will of all things. I think they need help.
Do you U.D.
Mks. J. I understand.
I remember now . . and T think he used to call me Ben.^
Mrs. J. Yes, but he had a pet name for you.
(Mrs. J. started to say that Bennie could think it over and
tell R. H. but the hand interrupted her by writing :)
I will tell that gentleman later. Mother.
Mrs. J. Yes, tell Dr. Hodgson and he will send word to us.
Yes I will think it over and tell him . .
better so, dear.
and dear dad too he is so tired.
(Continuing the thought about helping Roble and Helen
etc. interrupted by the recollection of the cjuestion about
the nickname.)
Mrs. J. What shall I do?
go to the farm for a long time.
Mrs. J. We're going very soon.
^ See p. 506.
512 Helen de G. Vermll. [part
I am glad it will help him more than anything else.
Oh yes dear Mother but I think he needs rest.
And Roble will do better now.
Mes. J. Yes, he is doing well.
Yes, dear, yes, but I mean in Studying.^
Mrs. J. I thought he studied.
his studies are hard, and I will help him dear.
Oh mother I cannot say all I wish.
Mrs. J. You are doing very well. The writing is clear and plain.
better than it was before I found you dear.
Mrs. J. Do you like to have me come here and talk with you 1
I long to see you here.
God has been good to me.
Mrs. J. I'm thankful and grateful to be permitted to come.
Yes dear Mother we have found each other once more and
I live to thank God for His goodness and help.
(Mrs. J. remarks to effect that she would see him and be
with him in his world before so very long.)
Yes dear only a short few years.
Mother I love you as ever and I think how kind you
were to me before I left mj^ body.
Do you remember the play we gave . .
we got up . .
Mrs. J. Yes.
Do you remember the Song.-
Mrs. .J. Yes.
It was the one I tried to recall. I sang it for them that
evening.
Mrs. J. Can you tell me the icords ?
I sang Home . . HOME
^See p. 478. -See p. 394.
LXi.] lieport on the Junot Sittmgs with Mrs. Piper. 513
Mrs. J. Yes.
once more.
I used to play it on the harmonica.
Swanee River.^
Mrs. J. Yes, but that's not the song I was thinking of.
and that is the one I sang that evening.
Oh I remember it so well but when you asked me before
I could not think of it dear.
Mrs. J. Bennie, what are you doing over there ?
I am progressing dear all the time, living in the highest
life, it is one steady state of progression all the time.
(R. H. returns.)
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, do you wish Dr. Hodgson?
Yes, now I do.
I have got C|uite clear again my good friend.
and I am going to surprise you some time with my Pet
name from Carlie
I am so glad I can think it over
Do you remember what I meant about Spot.-
Mrs. J. Yes, I think so, Bennie. I think you meant the Holstein
cow. (Assent.)
Yes, and do you remember S p i der.
Mrs. J. No, Benny. (Hand negatives, apparently indicating Rector's
consciousness of his mistake.)
S N i der.
I^Irs. J. Not now, Bennie, but it may come to me.
do think of it dear.
Mrs. J. I will, Bennie.
And one thing more dear, is Helen better.
1 See p. 367. = See p. 403.
51-t . Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, she is much stronger, I think. '
.
Didn't I tell you I would help he . . her.
Mrs. J. Yes, and you have kept your word.
I hope to always dear and send Rounder back.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, if you can.
If he is in that world I can.
Mrs. .J. Yes.
but if in this I will surely let you know.
Mrs. .J. Yes, Bennie, we would like to have him.
Do you remember S t ar . . Bright .
Mns. J. No, Bennie.
and Gee Bright.
Mrs. .J. No, Bennie.
Mother do you remember the 0 X
Mrs. .J. Where was the ox 1
At the farm when Uncle Willie had it I think.
I cannot think any more now, dear.
(Writing growing fainter.)
R. H. No, the light's nearly over.
(Waking Stage.)
(Mrs. P. tries over and over vainly to articulate clearly a
word vaguely like :)
Peekun . .
R. H. Pee what ? Which 1
* * (not caught) all holding [?] Bennie look at
them.
One, two, three, four.
LXi.] Report on the Juvot Sittings with ^Ifrs. PiiDcr. 515
This is I ;
I, m}- name's Bennie.
Tell him, tell him, not to worry.
["Peekun" may possibly be an attempt to give Bennie's
nickname. See p. 507, where the letters Bee . . are
given. These attempts bear no resemblance to the real
name. —H. de G. V.]
26th SiTTlN'G.
March 12, 1902. Presmit: ILH.
One word about Bennie. he followed his father again to
the grave and saw him place the leaves there and called
at our mansion and requested us to mention it to thee
at our first meeting with thee here.
R. H. Yes, I will send it.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, March 17, 1902.
" We had not been out to the Cemetery since Dec. 27,
after which our words at the grave were accurately
reported back to us through Mrs. P. But on Sunday
March 9th, the weather being good, we drove out and
placed on the grave a bunch of roses. They were "long
cut'' and there were "leaves" on the branches of the
long stems. Then at your next sitting (alone) after our
visit to the Cemetery you get the report."]
27th Sitting.
April 2, 1902. Present: 11 H.
(Waking Stage.)
John Welsh has Rounder.
R. H. "John Welsh was round her?"
John Welsh has Rounder
Tell this . . tell . . tell . . tell . .
John Welsh has Rounder.
R. H. "John Welsh is rourd her"?
has . . has . . It's I, Benny, don't you see me ? I, Benny.
516 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. "John Welsh has Rounder." Yes, I understand. [I here
recalled Mr. Junot's enquiry about the dog Eounder.
See p. 492.—R.H.]
Tell Dad.
R. H. Yes, I'll tell him. (Pause)
Imperator took that tall young man with the light hair
and put him out, put his hand round him, and pulled
the shade right down . . I always see . . the cross . .
I didn't know you Mr. Hodgson. Do you hear my head
snap ?
[Letter from N. B. J. June 17, 1902.
" You will rememlaer that I reported to you that after receiving
the brief communication to the effect that '
John Welch ' had the
dog '
Rounder,' I set about finding John Welch and was unable
to find him, but in the process, found the dog in the hands of
James M. and recovered him. This dog is a champion ratter.
Hugh was, I am told, in the habit of entering him in rat killing
matches for money, so that it was apparent that any of the dog-
men would like to have the dog. Men who are in the dog business
are often not of a high character and the word of such is not
worth much.
James M. was formerly a coachman in our neighborhood. He
claims that Hugh gave hitn the dog. He seemed over-anxious
that I should not think that he had come by the dog wrongfully,
and I was not much impressed with his statements.
About teii days ago, it occurred to me to renew my inquiries
through Walter W., who is a fine fellow, being dejjuty sheriff
for our immediate district. It is one of his duties to keep acquainted
with every one in the neighbourhood. I asked him if he knew
John Welch. He answered at once as follows: 'Yes; that's "old
Happy." He works for Conrad M. He was a great friend of
Hugh. They "worked the growler" together of nights.' I then
said: 'How do you know that his name is John Welch?' The
answer was :
'
That's his real name. I had him registered to vote.
Everybody knows him as " Old Happy " but his right name is John
Welch.' I then told Walter W. why I wanted to know about
this, and he said he would get one of the printed lists of the
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivUIl Mrs. Fiper. 517
registered voters of the precinct east of our own precinct, and it
would show 'Old Happy ' registered as a voter, and to-day he brought
me the list Mdiich I enclose to you. It shows at the top of second
column '
John Walsh ' registered from 2807 Avenue. Walter
W. says, however, that '
Old Happy '
called himself '
Welch ' or
'Welsh,' and that he was so registered on former registrations.
The enclosed list is for the last election. It will be difficult to get
any of the former lists, as they are commonl}^ destroyed after the
respective election, but I will get one if practicable.
Walter W. said that he talked with '
Old Happy '
this morning
and '
Old Happy ' knew all about the dog, but became suspicious,
and demanded to know why W. questioned him, because he said :
'They've got the dog back and why do you want to knowl'
W. says, 'It's no use to bother with the old "boozer" any more.'"]
[List Encloseil.
Registered Voters
Election of
April 1st, 1902.
Precinct IS
Ward 2.
with name of JoJin JJ'alsh, 2807,
Issued by
Board of Election
Commissioners
of the
City of C.
— Ave.
R. H.l
[Letter from Walter W., July 22, 1902.
"I knew Bennie Junot during his whole life-time—having always
lived near Mr. Junot's home. I also knew the colored man, Hugh
Irving, who was Mr. Junot's coachman for about 20 years.
Hugh Irving had a friend, still living in the neighbourhood, by
name John Walsh. Walsh is a working man who lived near. He
and Hugh were much togethei'. Walsh is commonly known as
'
Old Happy.' I don't know whether Bennie Junot knew Walsh
or not, but he probably did. I supposed that the name was JFelsh
until I lately made enquiry from members of his family as to how
they spelt their name,' and have sometimes addressed him as
Welsh.
At Mr. Junot's recjuest I visited Walsh, or Welsh, and asked
518 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
him about the dog Rounder. He quickly became suspicious and
would not talk, saying '
What are you asking about the dog for ?
They have got him back.'
The dog liounder is well known in the neighbourhood. Lately
I have again called on Walsh and asked about Hugh and the dog.
He now says that Hugh not long before his death gave Rounder
to a colored man, whom he knows by sight, but not by name.
Some time ago Walsh's mother in talking with my wife called their
name as Welsh."]
[It will be seen from the above statements that Bennie's asser-
tion about Rounder is not shown to be accurate. But it is interesting
that the name he gives should be that of a man closely associated
with Hugh Irving and therefore very likely to have known the
whereabouts of the dog, even if he never had it in his own
possession. —H. de G. V.]
28th Sitting.
May 7, 1902. Presevt: R H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Give my dearest love to daddie mother Roble and say I
am still with them dail}-. the white flowers were
superb. I saw mother when she arranged them for me
at the grave.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, May 15, 1902.
" Two or three days before May 7, Mrs. J. being about
to go to our farm for the season, visited Bennie's grave
and placed there a lot of flowers—not white however—
but pansies, his favourite flowers."]
29th Sitting.
June 10, 1902. Present: Sifter^ and B. H.
Bennie saith tell thee first dad Mother and Helen went to
the grave with some beautiful flowers on Sunday, the
pink and white ones were especially beautiful the spirits
of which he now has
^ The sitter present on this occasion was not in any way connected with Bennie
Junot.—H. de G. Y.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings loitli Mrs. Piper. 51&
R. H. Yes.
* * *
[There is no contemporary note as to the correctness of
this statement. When Bennie next communicates on
October 15, 1902, and asks wliether his father has been
told about " the floAvers I told you I saw them put
on the grave," R. H. replies " Yes, it was all right,"
see below. It seems probable that it is the statement
of June 10 that is here alluded to, but the reference
is not clear. —H. de G. V.]
30th Sitting.
, Odoher 15, 1902. Present: R. H.
Ere we go we wish thee to give Bennie's love to all his
friends and family on thy side.
R. H. Yes, I heard his message last time and sent it.
He saw dad at the farm not long ago and was rejoiced.
R. H. Yes.
Did you tell him about the flowers I told you I saw
them put on the grave.
R. H. Yes, and . . he and your mother? (Assent.)
R. H. Yes, it was all right.
Y^ou told him
thank you very much.
3 1st Sitting.
November 12, 1902. Present: B.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
I am Bennie and I wish to greet you my dear kind friend
and ask you if you will kindly tell dad I thank him
for the white and yellow flowers he put on my grave
recently. I think it was on a Sunday as I saw every
one in the body praying.
520 .
Helen de G. Verrall.
R. H. Yes, I will, Beniiie. Go on.
[part
and tell him I saw the wreath also made of green which
Aunt Alice suggested.
Tell Dad I think of him so often, and Roble mother and
Helen. I think Roble has been doing better . work.
R. H. Yes. Your father wrote me recently to say how pleased he
was to get your messages and how he welcomes any
news about you. He expects to come to meet you at
his usual time somewhere about ten Sabbaths after
Xmas, in the month of March.
Yes I U. D. thank you very much. I hope they will go
into the country as they often plan to do as dad works
too hard.
R. H. Yes.
I often wonder if spirits from our world will ever be able
to speak without the light as we often try to do, but
we are glad to welcome any of our friends here. I can
tell you.
Helen never seemed so well as she does now.
R. H. I'm very glad.
She has only had a cold and you know what colds are in
the body.
R. H. Yes.
You have been so kind to me always I feel as though I
had always known you.
R. H. I feel as if you were an old friend.
Well I think I am.
[Extract from N. B.J.'s letter, Nov. 19, 1902.
"Everything [in the communication of Nov. 12] is natural and
right save the reference to the wreath. You will remember about
the wreath found on his grave during the holidays last year. We
never found out who placed it on his grave. He has two aunts
LXi.] Re-port on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Pi]oer. 521
named Alice, but one was abroad at that time and the other knows
nothing about any wreath.
On Sunday morning Oct. 12th, I was moved to visit the
Cemetery, though it was raining. I went out alone and placed a
bunch of flowers upon his grave. My recollection is that they were
all white, but there may have been some yellow ones. I can't be
certain as to that. I had never been there Sunday morn'mg before.
His mother and I drove out there Sunday afternoon Nov.
2nd, and she placed some white flowers. She and I go there not
infrequently—always on Sunday afternoons."]
32nd Sitting.
December 2, 1902. Present: B.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
did you tell dear old dad what I said about those flowers.
R. H. Yes, Bennie. He remembered about the white flowers, I
think he said, but did not remember the yellow. He
said also that he does not know about Aunt Alice's
having anything to do with a wreath.
I hope he will later as I know what I mean perfectly.
R. H. Which Aunt Alice 1
Aunt Clarke. Aunt Alice.
33rd Sitting.
December 31, 1902. Present : Mrs. L.
* * *
and a young man here sends much love to his father and
mother and thanks them for the green wreath. B. J.
B. J. tell Hodgson he will U. D. B. J.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, Jan. 11, 1908.
"On Christmas day (Dec. 25, 1902) Mrs. Junot and I drove
out to 0 and placed a large green wreath on Bennie's
grave.
I carried the wreath from the carriage and placed it upon the
522 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
grave. Afterwurds Mrs. Junot left the carriage and went up to
the grave. It was a dark cold afternoon and she remained at
the grave only a few moments."]
34th Sitting.
January 28, 1903. Present: B. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Good morning my good friend I am so glad to have you
call for me B
P^. H. Bennie ...
Yes I am here.
R. H. Your flither writes this :
" Dear Bennie, our good friend Dr. Hodgson has sent
us your messages and they give us gi'eat happiness, for
they show us that you do not forget us in your new
life. We want you to be good and obedient to all the
rules and laws where you are, but we also hope that your
new surroundings and interests and duties may not lead
you to forget us. We think of you always, and always
will, until you come to meet us when we leave this eaith
life. I often think of my dear mother when thinking of
you. 1 want you to tell her that I hold her in most
loving memory and seek to live in this life in such way
as she desired and that I often talk of her with Alice,
lioble and Helen are both well and happy. They are
nearly grown up. Helen is a tall beautiful girl and last
summer she used your Kodak as you wished her to do
and took a number of very nice pictui-es down at the
farm. Roble is a large man now in size and is more
than half way through college. He often speaks of you.
Helen drove your horse Klondyke a great deal last
summer and had much pleasure with him. I am about
to buy a new saddle horse for her. Roble will soon be
home for Christmas."
Bennie, your father wrote this several weeks before
Christmas.
Yes. I U. D. Xmas is over.
LXi.] Rejwrt on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 523
R. H. "also Charlie D. Also, your cousin Katie is going to
be married soon. Your uncle Willie spends much time
with us at the farm and speaks of you. Better send a
message to him. Do you sometimes go to the farm ?
One day not long ago when I was there alone I thought
that you and Mother were there. You never told me
who gave you your Shetland pony Walter. Better ask
Hugh. He may remember better than you. And tell
him that we srot Rounder back all risrht and that
Rounder is very happy, but is getting old. Your pony
Walter is fat and last summer I got on him and made
him carry me quite a Avay. While I was on him Helen
took a picture of me with the Kodak. Can you see
what new building we have lieen doing at the farm
and tell Dr. Hodgson?"
Yes, it looks like a new Shed, it is very near the ham.
I saw it being built.
R. H. Yes.
and saw the man at work there just before you went there
last summer.
R. H. " We are coming soon to talk with you at Dr. Hodgson's.
So don't forget us, dear Bennie, and may God have you
in his Holy keeping. With much love. Daddy."
I cannot tell you how happy I am to hear from you in this
way. I am well dear father and very happy. I spend
much time with you all at home in C . I often
see you reading and mother talking with Helen about
her music. I think she has done splendidl}' the past
year as we used to say in her Studies.
Give her ever so much love and tell dear mother how much
I love and think of her. tell Uncle Willie I shall never
forget the good times we had to gether at Osterville and
tell him I can see him just as he looks now
ask him if he remembers what we did to the boat one Sunday.
I will tell you
We went down and found it full of water. We took our . .
an old can we found and bailed it all out I wonder if
524 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
he will remember, the day was sunny and bright, after
a heavy rain we had the day before. We put the Sails
out to dry also. I am sure it was uncle Willie.
Give him my love.
Tell Roble not to forget me even though he may not be
able to U. D. the conditions of my life.
Was it a flute Charlie and Roble were trying to play on,
I do not suppose I ought to stay longer.
35th Sitting,
February 23, 1903. Present: N.B.J, and R.H.
(Parcel unwrapped and Bennie's articles placed on table.)
(Bennie communicating.)
Good morning Dad.
N. B. .1. Yes, Bennie, dear. Yes, I'm here. (N. B. J. moves the L.
bust back a little. Hand touches it and pushes it again
slightl}' forward.)
AL.
I see you dear I see you.
I am so glad to see you so glad
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie dear, we're glad too.
So much to tell you. S 0 much.
N. B. J. Ye.s, go on, dear.
I pray for you daily dad and that God will watch over you.
I remember your prayer too. Grandma was so glad to
hear from you. She said she would come here with me
to greet you.
N. B. .J. Is she here, Bennie ? Is grandma here with you 1
Yes dad she is. and she will speak as I do soon,
do you U. D.
N. B. .J. Yes, Bennie.
tell me Dad if you are not better now.
LXi.] Report on the Jtmot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 525
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. I'm much better.
I know it dear. I have been with 3-ou all the time since *I
spoke to you here before.
N. B. J. Yes, dear boy. I understand.
I am very proud of Helen.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. So are Mamma and Papa.
She will be a great comfort to you.
N. B. J. Yes.
I know it.
do you hear me when I call you to sleep, dadi
N. B. J. No, Bennie, I do not hear, but sometimes I think you
are helping me.
I am glad you feel me because I am often there.
I remember Charlie tell me is he going away dear.
N. B. J. Which Charlie do you mean ?
I am thinking about . . li 0 ble and Charlie dad.
[Eoble and Charlie D , Bennie's best friend, were with
us at our hotel on the day prior to this sitting, Boble
having met Charlie unexpectedly. —N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Yes. You mean Charlie D 1
(Assents.)
Yes I do.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. Roble and Charlie D were with us last
night.
I saw them that is why I think of them now.
N. B. J. Bennie. What other boys did you see with them 1
two. I do not know . them.
N. B. J. Oh, yes, you do. You know the other tAvo.
Wait, and I'll tell you dear.
526 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Is Charlie not going away.
[Charlie spoke of going to Europe in the summer and also
said he must go back to New Haven the next day.
N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Yes, Charlie has gone back to school.
I heard him say he was going away tomorrow.
N. B. J. Yes, that's what he said.
I stood at his back, and heard much that he said.
I must wait a moment dear. (Hand turns to Spirit then to
N. B. J. then gives a slight jerk.)
H. how are you.^ I sent him out a moment.
R. H. All right, George,
back soon.
(Hand points to Spirit.)
here is your father sir. wishes to be remembered to you
and hopes you realize he is ever ready to help you.
N. B. J. Is it my father 1
Yes but he was peculiar.
N. B. J. I thank him, and wish him to help me still, while I am in
this life.
H. I will wait B's return,
here is Mrs. J U n o t.
N. B. J. Yes, dear mother. Speak to me.
tell me do you realise what life means now.
N. B. J. I think I do, more than ever before. Speak on.
do you remember my talks with you.
N. B. J. Yes, nearly all of them. Good mother,
remember. I believed in God always.
'George Pelham communicating.
LXi.] Report on tJte Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 527
N. B. J. Yes, always. And so do I.
and His great goodness to us all. keep to Him.
[Very characteristic of her. —N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Yes, dear mother. Send word to Alice about her daughter.
I will. I feel I feel she has not been well. I mean Alice,
her her head troubles her some times tell her not to
worry about Frank I wish she was as well off.
Yes, dear Mother. But she wants to hear about her
daughter.
Yes I'll go and bring her.
all right, (between Spirits.)
here I am dear father was it the addition to the new barn
you meant 1
Have you been at the old farm lately 1
Yes I go often. I saw you working there last summer with
a man.
N. B. J. Yes.
What was it you did to the house.
N. B. J. Built more. . . added more house.
I saw a shed like part on it. looks strange to me. can't
cjuite make it out dad.
[A large piazza was lately built at end of the house. The
gable roof of the house was cariied out over it and
before it was finished it had a peculiar appearance.
N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Will you come to the farm next summer when dad is there 1
Oh yes certainly I will. I will.
I forgot my horses iiame. . . horse.
almost.
N.B.J. What is it? What is the name I
N. B. J.
N. B. J.
i^ee p. 523.
528 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
What is it.
Oh I never can U. D. it E.
K.
N. B. J. That starts right.
Come on B give it me. (Rector to Bennie)
K . .
yes certainly. . . louder dear. (Rector to Bennie)
L
N. B. J. That's right.
0
N. B. J. That's right.
N
N. B. J. That's right.
DI
N. B. J. That's right.
KE
N. B. J. That's right.
N.B.J, (to R.H.) Can you read it now?
R. H. " Klondike."
N. B. J. That's just right. [The name of the horse Klondyke is
given in the letter to Bennie read aloud by R. H. See
p. 522.—R. H.]
and one thing more. dear, dad what did you do to the
well.
N. B. J. The old hundred-year-old well went dry, and we bored a
new one.
I could not quite U. D. bored, but I saw them working on
it last summer.
N. B. J. Yes, they bored the well with a great derrick and engine.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 529
I saw the work I heard, them talk. I only tell you dear
that you may TJ. D. I keep up my interest in all you do.
I love the place and all in it. you know.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, that's right. Don't forget us.
do you remember the Sunday you and Mother and Helen
walked in the ivoods.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
I was with you.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
I saw Helen P i ok some green and take it to the house . .
Vine. I think.
[This walk when we got the vine is now well remembered,
but was not recalled at the time of the sitting. —N. B. J.^
N. B. J. Yes ?
do you remember.
N. B. J. Ferns.
Yes ferns he said ferns. but sounded like Vines. [The
suggestion of the sitter is here accepted by the controls,
though it appears from N. B. J.'s note that the original
statement was correct. The remark " Yes ferns . . . like
Vines " is doubtless from Rector, explaining that he had
misunderstood Bennie's message. At a later sitting, how-
ever, see p. 550, Bennie referring to this incident says
"Do you remember what I told dear father about
Helen's gathering vines 1
" thus returning to his original
statement.—H. de G. V.]
I also saw her riding my horse the day you spoke of . or
referred to in your letter . to me.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I understand.
do you know what mother did with my Hat black hat dad.
N. B. J. No, I do not.
530 Helen de 0. Verrall. [part
I saw her, holding it in her hand not very long ago. I
want you to U. D. everything I think about and see.
[A few days before going to Boston for this sitting Mrs. J.
took a black cap of Bennie's out of its drawer and con-
sidered carrying it to the sittings. —N. B. J.]
I saw them plowing up out by the barn dad.
N. B. J. When ?
taking up Stone . Stone.
[At the time of this sitting, and for several days prior thereto,
workmen had been engaged in moving a large old barn
at our farm. It stands upon sand stone blocks and brick.
I have not been there since the moving began.—N. B. J.]
N. B. J. Go on.
when you went there.
tell Mother I like the wreath she put near my picture
[Nothing understood as to the wreath. —N. B. J.]
got to go out now dear.
Helen most through school.
N. B. J. Yes, nearly through.
Stick to music.
I am Hugh^ God forgive me why not you.
[At this point, with the appearance of Hugh Irving, the
writing changes and " there is a tendency to make extra
curling loops to the strokes." When the sitters complain
of illegibility, Rector apologizes on the ground that "he
(that is H. I.) speaks queerly." It appears that peculiarity
of speech on the part of a communicator is here repre-
sented by peculiarity of writing on the part of the control.
—H.deG. v.]
N. B. J. Why, of course, Hugh. You're all right. Speak on.
I want to know if I can do anything for you.
[Owing to the curious looping, neither N. B. J. nor li. H.
could make this out at first. —E. H.]
N. B. J. (to R. H.) Can't read, can you 1
'
Hugh Irving. See p. 491.
lxl] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 531
R. H. One moment.
(From Rector.) AVait a moment, Sir.
he speaks queerly friend,
want to know if I can do anything.
I long to help you.
N.B.J. Who is it speaking?
Your boy is all right, how is the dog now.
N. B. J. Rounder is all right, Hugh. He's so glad to get back.
faith and Im glad too.
did Welch have him.
N. B. J. No, some other man had him and brought him back.
Welch. Welch.
N. B. J. Did you give him to Welsh ]
No I saw him at Welchs house in the body, and prayed
him to send him to you. then Mr Benny got hold and
we worked to get him back.
I hope you keep him now look out for him.
(Hand turns to Spirit. Cross in air.)
U. D.
JSr. B. J. Yes, Hugh.
[The next two phrases probably between Spirits. —R. H.]
I held to it.
Getting on all right. . . held
here I am dad.
Dad do you remember what I said about putting that
wreath on my grave dear.^
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
Do you remember the one I mean.
N. B. J. The first one, do you mean ? Do you speak of the first one 1
(Dissent.)
^See p. 521.
532 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
N.B.J. Of the last one? (Assent.)
last one. I told liim. (Hand turns to K. H.)
did you tell my father.
R. H. Yes, he knows all about it.
Oh father by the way dear, did you say you gave my
desk to Helen.
N. B. J. No, / have your desk.
I
I wanted you to use it always just as long as you were in
the body.
N. B. J. Yes, I will, Bennie.
and the diary I had . .
R. H. What about the diari/ ?
I forgot in my talks to tell him about it. I left it in my
pocket.
N. B. J. I don't know about that.
Mother does. I think.
do you remember a friend of mine named Dwight^ dad.
N. B. J. Yes, I know whom you mean.
does he know I am alive, or any the rest of the boys.
N. B. J. I've told uncle Willie and uncle Charlie. That's all the
boys I've spoken to.
give my love to Uncle Willie do . .
N. B. J. Yes.
and tell him I never forget the good times we had together
father I don't believe it was a hurt I got at all. I got
cold.2
N. B. J. I understand.
Im so glad I came, it seems as though I could not say
half I have in my mind.
'See p. 480. "See p. 386.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings toith Mrs. Pi'per. 533
dad what did you tell Aunt Alice about giving up and
going into the country.
N. B. J. I don't remember what I said.
you said you wished you could go into the country you
were tired. We have helped you to get over being
tired.
got to go now.
head a little confused
want to say so much.
Annie. (Pause.)
here is frank.
N, B. J. Yes, Frank.
and L 0 u i se.
Where is Addie.
A d die.
this belongs to the young mans mother, in the body.
(Pause. Slight thump of hand.)
[Bennie's mother has two sisters, long since deceased, whose
names were Annie Louise and Hattie. —N. B. J.]
Dad Roble is doing finely again. I never saw him trying
to do better, he is not lazy now.
N.B.J. Sure no! Surely no!
he takes to his work like a soldier and is looking forward
to getting through, father he appreciates all only give
him time dear he is all right.
N. B. J. Bennie, did you not see Tommy with him ?
(Excitement.)
SURE I did. Why do you ash dad.
N. B. J. Because . . because I asked and you did not answer.^
Well dad I don't mean to do so but I have everything on
my mind. When I get here and they don't always U. D.
what I do say. you will know when you get here how
hard I try to tell you all that you may it it is really I.
iSee p. 525.
534 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. Bennie, tell me about yourself.
about myself dear. Well dad I am progressing all the time
I am very happy helping others learning all I can
about this life and the Philosophy of life in the body
before we enter this.
N. B. J. Yes. Go on. Tell me.
I look over my life in the body and wonder what I could
have done more for you and Mother dear. I wonder if
you U. D. all I feel for you both.
N. B. J. We know y^ou love us, Bennie.
love you well I do you know.
before the light grows too dark I want to ask for Mother
and will she speak with me soon.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, to-morrow, next time, to-morrow.
Will you remember that I am working for those who come
to this world and who do not U. D. as much about it
as / do. now.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we understand.
I shall watch out for you all and when God calls you to
this world I shall be at the door to meet you
and you will know me instantly dad.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
I shall not go so far away but what I will meet you.
Oh the boat was all painted new. when I went to the pier
dear . .
R. H. "to the pier" "pier" ?
(From Rector.) shore I think he means, he U. D. do you
remember how I used to play for you dad.
N. B. J. Yes. Bennie.
tell me about my Kodac before I go too far away.
Lxr.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 535-
N. B. J. Helen has it, Bennie. She takes pictures now.
I am awfully glad.
don't you think she is a fine girl now dear.
N. B. J. Yes, indeed.
she loves you dearly.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
and when she plays I U. D. perfectly, but why does she
not like it better.
N. B. J. I don't know.
She studies that's why.
too much work. I U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, she studies too much.
Yes I say she does, don't crowd her so.
I am going to help her. from now on so she can get
through A 1.
N. B. J. That's right.
U. D.
N. B. J. That's right, Bennie.
dad do you want me to give you some more tests.
N. B. J. Surely, if you can.
W [?] well when I go out and come back 111 tell you a.
lot of things.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
you and dear Mother too.
Give my love to Roble and tell him I'll never forget the
good old days at the farm.
N. B. J. He sent his love to you, Bennie.
God bless him dad.
I shall not forget you 111 think up some things and tell
you next time.
536 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
36th Sitting.
February 24, 1903. Present: Mr. and Mrs. J. and R.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Got all over your cold dear.
N. B. J. Yes, I'm better, Bennie.
I know now let me tell you one thing, don't question the
right and wrong of my returning because there are no
wrongs in it.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, it gave us a little anxiety as to whether we
were doing right in calling you to us.
I heard it all and it made me uneasy dear so thought I
would settle it for you.
[We had upon the evening before been asking ourselves
whether it might not influence him away from his duties
in his new life to call him back to us. The conversation
on this subject had been quite extended. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Thank you, Bennie.
I pray you all to feel that I am all right and doing right.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I understand you.
Don't feel troubled any more.
Mrs. J. No, not after this. Can you tell me a little about Helen 1
I think so as I feel I know a good deal about her dear But
first promise me you will no longer question, dear.
Mrs. J. No, I am convinced that it is right for you to come to us,
and that it helps us.
I am freer now and you must also be.
let me help you dear.
one thing about Helen do not let her study too hard as
she will get through finely I see it.
Mrs. J. I will watch her carefully. She is studying hard now.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 537
She will come out all right Mamma I am sure. , ;
only one thing her throat.
Mrs. J. Her throat 'i (Assent.) :'
May trouble in a few days but don't mind. I see it beginning.
[Upon our return three days later we found her quite ill
with a sore throat and under the doctor's care. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Yes, we will try to break up the trouble with her throat.
. I hear you so well dearest Mother.
her music helps me to reach her at home.
I fear she has neglected it of late. She is going to be a
fine girl and a comfort to yoii, all. hear me.
Mrs. J. I think that we do not appreciate Helen as we do you and
Roble.
I think it so dear. I feel it all the time. So I'll stand
behind her. , .
Mrs. J. Bennie, it is not that we do not love her as well.
I know perfectly dear I U. D. just how you feel, but cling
to her I love her dearly dear. I see her thoughts are a
little Stubborn but do not mind. She will out grow it.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I think you are right.
But you humor her a great deal and it is better so. Roble
is doing splendidly.
Mrs. J. Yes, I saw him yesterday.
I think he is growing fine and and handsome as well the im-
provement to his mind tell him I think of him a great
deal and the good times we had at the farm Mamma
do you remember anything about a Squirrel.
Mrs. J. A Squirrel No, Bennie.
Ask Roble if he remembers the Squirrel hole in the barn,
will you.
2 M
538 • Helen de G. VerraJl. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, he probably will remember.
[Not remembered in connection with the farm.. They had
a squirrel in the stable in the city. —N. B. J.]
Who put the corn cob in it.'
Mrs. J. Yes ? I will ask him and send his answer to Dr. Hodgson.
(Hand turns enquiringly to E. H.)
R. H. Yes.
We had two Sleds. Where are the}' I cannot see them
anywhere. [They had 2 sleds. They have long since
disappeared. —N. B. J.]
do you remember the visit we made there one winter dad.
N. B. J. No, Bennie, I don't know what you mean.
Mes. J. Do you mean that we went to the farm in winter 1
One winter before I came to this world,
we went out there when it was winter.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, not to the farm.
Yes listen we went out away down and got
Roble father and I went together think,
don't you know what I mean dear.
Mrs. J. No, I don't, Bennie. But I will try later to recall this
incident.
N. B. J. (to Mrs. J.) Let him go on. He can tell.
I remember going perfectly well and going . .
do you remember who took care of the horses,
we went to see him. [Not remembered.—N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I can't seem to remember.
dad ask Roble, if he remembers the time we went down
opened the house, got out some . .
Oh I know what I mean. We Stayed longer behind . .
let me go out and I'll tell you.
1 See p. 433.
LXi.] Rejyort on the Junot Sittings loith Mrs. Piper. 539
X. B. J. Bennie, when you come back, tell us who gave you your
pony. Ask Hugh.
(From Rector.) friend did those names register rightly.
R. H. Which?
those he spoke . as he went out last time ? ^ R.
R. H. Do you mean Annie and Addie 1 (Assent.)
Mrs. J. Not quite right.
he was speaking about his cousin he told me. R.
Mrs. J. No. He had two aunts, and the two names may have
been intended for their names.
he spoke of them before but as he left he called out tell
father I'll find Addie.
[On p. 423 Bennie says " Allie Clark is here and sends love
to sister Alice in the body;" on p. 456 he asks "Do you
remember a little girl who came here long ago by the
name Alice 1
" Eventually (see p. 495) he says that
" Alice "is " Aunt Alice's " daughter. It is probably
a confused recollection of these early attempts that
makes Bennie assign the name Addie to his cousin.
On p. 533 where the name first occurs, it is said
to "belong to the young man's mother," and was
conjectured to be an attempt at " Hattie," the name of
Mrs. J.'s sister.—H. de G. v.]
Where is my son N tell him I would like him to help
Alice to U. D.
When she dreamed of light . that we were there.
[Sister Alice states that she has often dreamed of our mother.
But does not understand about the light. —N. B. J.]
here are two Spirits a lady and a . . four . . a lady a
young lady a gentleman and a young gentleman all
belonging to her. Alice, her Mother her companion .
her son her daughter.
[Correct.—N. B. J.]
iSee p. 533.
540 '
Helen de 0. VerralL [part
N.'B. J. Yes. Please give the names for Alice. '
•
here are two franks . .
[Alice has upon the other side her husband and a son and
daughter. Her husband and son each bore the name of
Frank.—N. B. J.]
N. B. J. That's right.
for her. , . ,
Mrs. J. Will you send her a message from her daughter 1 She
wants it more than anything else.
Yes we will awaken her to speak to thee, certainly we
will.
Mother I want very much to make you U. D. about our
trip to the farm don't you remember when we went
to the farm together.
Mrs. J. That's Bennie. •
'
'
do help me . to recall it I know so well vvhat I want to
say.
Mrs. J. Who is this speaking? .
'
.
,
•
:
It is I Mamma, don't you remember before I passed out
: you and I and Roble went together dad.
N. B. J. No, Bennie, I do not remember.
Mrs. J. Not just now, Bennie, but I have an indistinct recol-
lection that you all went down together.
I know we did. I wish you could U.D. it would help me
so well never mind I tell you something else.
Yes I know about the Pony dad. and who gave him to
me.
N. B. J. (sotto voce to R. H.) Ask George to help him to give the
name 1
R.
better spell it out first before giving it me. R.
JO . . JO . .
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 541
can't quite U. D.
think about something else and it will seem clearer to thee.
(Rector to Bennie.)
X.B.J, (to R. H.) What are those two letters'!
R. H. J . 0.
N. B. J. (to R. H.) It started right.
JOHN.
N. B. J. That's right. (Assent.) Now go on. •
gave it me. .
.
SON.
[These letters are perhaps intended to be a continuation of
the name John, N. B. J.'s remark "Now go on" having
been interpreted as meaning that the name was not
yet complete. —H. de G. V.]
I remember so well our last talk together
Mes. J. Yes'? Tell me about it.
You said I was going. I said no.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I had no idea.
You said I vjas sick, that is it. but I felt strange about
it. did I tell you.
Mrs. J. No. But I think you felt strange, and felt that you were
very sick.
Yes, I remember how I felt . but I thought you said I
feel as if you were hurt . . HURT.
Mrs. J. No, your father thought that perhaps you had been hurt,
but I never thought it.
Oh yes but it was a cold 1 knoiv.
' '
Mrs. J. Yes. Bennie, you gave us just now part of the name of
the person who gave you the pony. Can you give us
;
the rest of the name ?
J.O.H.N.
542 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. That is right, but there's . is another name. Give it if you
can. (Pause. Hand listens to Spirit.)
M. C.
N. B. J. (to R. H.) Mr. ?
R. H. No. M . 0.
N. B. .J. (to R. H.) No, that's * * (Not caught.)
JO . .
L . .
N.B.J. (toR. H.) What's that letter. Doctor?
R. H. (to N. B. J.) L.
N.B.J. (toR. H.) It wasn't intended for that.
I am trying to spell it for E,
Mes. J. Yes. Take time.
don't bother. Go on. Where is Abraham Lincoln.
(R. H. moves the bust to hand.)
N.B.J. (toR. H.) Tell him to get Mr. Pelham to help him.
R. H. Rector, better perhaps ask George to get it and bring it
himself.
I'll call him friend. (Hand turns to Mrs. J.)
Mrs. J. What is it, Bennie'?
I vpant to talk to you so much.
Mrs. J. Bennie, did you know that Katie was married lately 1
Yes Dad told me.^
She happy.
Mrs. J. Yes, very happy. Do you know all that happens to us, and
that interests us ?
All to my immediate family yes. i.e. you dad Roble Helen.
1 See p. 523. •
-
LXi.] Report on the Jmiot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 543
Mrs. J. Yes, but others do not concern you. But you cannot always
tell what happens to other people that you know 1
Yes and no. I can if I think specially about any one friend
and wish to know, otherwise I do not.
Mrs. J, (to R. H.) Can I ask him to get a message for me from a
person that he didn't know very well '?
R. H. (to Mrs. J. ) Yes.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I wish you would try to do something for me.
do something for you. Well I will dear Mother with
pleasure What is it.
Mrs. J. Get a message from a young boy, Lawrence L , and send
through me to his mother who is grieving for him.
Your messages to me which I have given her to read
have given her great comfort.
Oh yes.
hasn't he got a brother.
Mrs. J. Yes, a young brother.
Yes a Httle brother, i.e. in the body.
Mrs. J. Yes. Yes. You knew this boy a little.
Yes I vaguely remember him. I will find him.
Arthur. After (slowly Avritten. Evidently Arthur was a
mishearing for after.)
I go out. do you (Slight disturbance in hand.)
S.
DA . .
Ni . .
Ill give it up.
N. B. .J. (to R. H.) Tell him he started right . . rightly.
if you don't speak louder . and slower dear boy . .
(Pause.)
D. . . A. . . (Hand dissents.)
(From G. P.) I don't think he quite remembers himself. H.
1 Interpreted by Sitters as a further attempt at the name of the man who
gave him the pony.
544 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Well, George, don't bother about this now. Talk to him,
and, if possible, bring it to his mother next meeting.
Good enough. I uill. • -
«
Mrs. J. (to R. H.) Tell him to ask Hugh.
Sure I will.
hes got the boy.^
Mrs. J. Yes ?
Who is Elmer, tell
him I am all right.
give Mother this ask her if she remembers the . . telling
me not to go over to Charlie Richards.
And ask her if she remembers my S Kates,
love to her too weak no more H.
[These messages were not understood by Mrs. L , who
suggests however that " Elmer " may be an attempt to
give her husband's name Ellsworth. —H. de G. V.]
R, H. George. What is the Elmer business 1
a friend of his in the body.
R. H. Of Lawrence L 1
Yes.
R. H. Sure of the name 1
Yes Elmer.
R. H. All right. •
speak to me. Mother dear.
Mrs. J. Bennie, does Elmer refer to Lawrence L ,
or to yourself?
to both dear. We kneiv him.
Mother I am sorry I can't say more, but you know how I
feel dear.
do you remember what I said about Rounder.
^i.e. Lawrence L -. • . '
'
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings vnth Mrs. Piiyer. 545
Mrs. J. Yes. We have Eounder, and are taking good care of him.
* * *•
You must tell me more.
Mrs. J. Bennie, you gave two names, Annie and Addie. The last
name is not quite correct. Send a message to m?/
mother from them. Annie and Addie I mean, if you can.
Yes I will.
(Waking stage.)
* * * (Not caught.)
John Junot gave him to me.^
Mr. G over there . . Mr. G over there.
[This is the name of an old friend of our family lately
deceased, and about the last person of whom we would
think in connection with the sitting. —N. B. J.]
37th Sitting.
February 25, 1903. Present: Mrs. J.
(Hand gives a slight thump.)
(G. P. communicating.)
How are you H.
R. H. Hallo, George.
Saw B and Hugh talked with them both, found the
name. J U D D . .
[Judd—John Judd was a friend of Hugh the coachman.
John Judd is a horse-shoer who shod our horses all during
Hugh's service of twenty years. It would seem that
George P. had asked Hugh for the name of the neighbor
who gave the pony and Hugh being mixed up gave the
horse-shoer's name instead of the name John D .
—N. B. J.]
[Evidently John Judd is a correction of the name John Junot
given at the previous sitting.—H. de G. V.]
here is B
^ See p. 540.
^In connexion with the "John Welsh" incident (seep. 515) it is interesting
to find another allusion to a " friend of Hugh."
546 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
(Bennie communicating.)
Good morning Mama dear.
Mrs. J. Good morning, Bennie dear. It is good to speak with you
again. Tell me first this morning all that you have
prepared for me.
I want to tell you about Alice and L au . . Lawrence.
he says tell his Mother he often thinks of and sees her
and remembers the good advice she gave once when he
had objected to one of his friends Willie . and
helped him to U. D.
Mrs. J. Yes. Go on, Bennie.
he also said her dream about waking with him he U. D.
perfectly. She must remember. Let me think he said
something about the Polo Stick.
Mother do you remember a friend of ours whom we called
Sargent.
Mes. J. No, Bennie. Have you the word Sargent right 1
D i ck was his first name dear.
R. H. Bennie, is this Sargent from you or from Lawrence 1:
from him he told me all this.
R. H. Yes. Fire ahead.
and spoke of the stick he gave him.
R. H. Do you mean that Lawrence gave a Polo stick to a fellow
named Dick Sargent ?
No he gave it to him.
R. H. Sargent gave it to Lawrence? (Assent.)
R. H. Are you sure that the name is correctly registered? (Assent.)
Yes. SARGENT.
R. H. Yes ? •
•
that is about all I remember.
LXi.] Re-port on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 547
[These messages from Lawrence L were not understood.
George Sargent was spoken of at an earlier sitting in
connexion with Bennie's fishing rods, see p. 416. The
name was not recognized by the sitters. —H. de G. V.]
Mrs. J. Yes ? It is very good.
Mama are you well.
Mrs. J. Yes.
do you think I like the horse.
Mrs. J. What do you mean, Bennie?
the Pony dear. I see him often.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I don't understand. What pony do you mean ?
I mean my. Pony. Walter.
Mrs. J. Yes. He is very old now.
Yes but fat.i
Mrs. J. Yes. Very fat.
John Judd [?] gave him to me. did he not.
R. H. "John Judd"?
JUDGE.2
I wish I could U. D. it.
Mrs. J. Never mind about this now, Bennie. Tell me about Alice's
daughter.
Yes. but Aunt Annie first said tell you to U. D. that
grandma had rheumatism. [Not correct. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Not that I know of, Bennie.
got it in her kjiee.
Mrs. J. Perhaps so. I have been away several days.
You will know dear,
does she remember me.
iSeep. 523. .
.
2 gee p. 443.
548 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J 0 yes, Bennie.
and will she U. D. about my new life here.
Mbs. J. Yes. She understands.
Mother dear do you remember M a r i o n.^
M a r . . i o n.
Mrs. J. I think that I know whom you mean, but the name is not
quite right.
did I speak it too fast.
Mrs. J. Bennie, who is Marion?
(Hand points to Spirit.)
Mrs. J. She is standing over there? (Assent.) Who is she?
She is my cousin. [Correct. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Bennie, to whom does she belong?
Uncle Frank.
Mrs. J. Yes, that is right. Tell me more about her.
Mary . . Ma . . li [?]
She wants very much to send her love and greetings to
Aunt Alice. I brought her here.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. That is one thing that I asked from you
yesterday. Bennie, yesterday you said you would go
and awaken her. What did you mean by awaken 1
make her U. D. how to speak to you here dearest Mother.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Have you anything more to tell me of her?
Oh yes she is just beginning to U. D. what we want of
her. She sees Aunt Alice often and yet she could not
U. D. this way of speech.
I am so glad to see you dear.
Mrs. J. Bennie, tell me about yourself, now.
I thought if Mabl . .
^ See p. 556. • •
LXI.] Rejjort on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 549
R. H. Mabel? (Assent.) - .
'
.::
Mes. J. No, not right. .. . \
Marg . . Marion, could finish I would tell you all
about it.
R. H. Yes. Bennie, perhaps better do what you can with Alice's
. . ^ daughter, and afterwards talk freely with your mother.
: She is so glad to U. D. now. I talked and talked with
her insisting upon her coming with me here now. She
is so glad to come and see you.
Mes. J. Bennie, what is she doing in your world ?
She looks after some of the other children here.
I wish I could make U D what I mean.
She sends great love to her Mother do you remember
when she passed out, Mother.
Mes. J. Yes.
do you U. D. how she looks now. she hopes you may
see her. here, what did Aunt Alice mean by saying
if I were here why did she not come too.
[His Aunt Alice had made just that statement to N. B J.
and that led to our insistence at this sitting that a
message should be sent by her daughter.—N. B. J.]
Mes. J. Bennie, she thought perhaps her daughter had forgotten
about her.
Oh if you could hear her speak of her you would not think
it. I know.
Mes. .J. Bennie, tell me how she looks.
She looks much as she did when she came here, her eyes
are lovely and bright.
[Extract from Mrs. Clarke's letter, March 23, 1903.
"Her eyes and her very sweet, gentle disposition were her only
beauties. She was remarkably kind to the younger children and
Bennie said that was her ofBce now."]
^ Rector.
550 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
She hears she is laughing at my words, about her. I
can't tell you just how she does look as as she
/ stands here, do you remember a little round photo of
her.
Mrs. J. I will ask Aunt Alice, Bennie.
it was taken when she was a little . . a very little girl.
[Her mother has only two photos of her—one of which
is a baby picture and has always been in a small round
walnut frame. —N. B. J.]
R. H. Bennie, does she look now older than you ?
Yes a little.
She came here first.
Mrs. J. Yes. That is right,
some time before.
[She died two years before Bennie was born. —N. B. J.]
R. H. Bennie, has she not got specific remembrances about her
mother that she could send ?
I am not quite sure as she only just begins to U. D.
She will have soon and I'll tell you later.
When Mother is not here.
R. H. Yes. Bennie, do you want to talk with your mother now
yourself, and leave Alice's daughter for the present 1
May I.
R. H. Yes. Go on.
I want so much to see her. do you remember now about
our going to the country dear.^
Mrs. J. No, Bennie. I have not seen Roble to ask him about it.
do you remember what I told dear father about Helens
gathering vines dear.'-
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. We did go out one Sunday, and Helen
gathered vines and we brought them back to the house.
iSee p. 538. -See p. 529.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings rcith Mrs. Pi2:>er. 551
then one other day
I saw you dad and Helen and another lady going for a
'
drive.
Mrs. J. Yes, we did. I think it was grandma who was with us.
Yes I think so too. but I saw you heard you speak of
me.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. We often speak of you.
Mother what do you think of the new house is that a
Piazza.i
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. We have built a piazza at one end, and a
new room for Helen.
The piazza confused me a little I mistook it for a Shed.
Mrs. J. Yes. Before it was finished it looked like a shed.
You U. D. just what I am thinking about all the time. I
am so near you. do you know dear I saw the gate too.
Mrs. J. Which gate, Bennie 1
the new one.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie. We have no new gate.
It is new to me. the one out back of the barn.
Mrs. J. Yes, we have one there, Bennie. I had a new fence
' built and a gate.
Yes I know I like it too.
You hear me well.
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you see Uncle Willie when he is with us at the
farm 1
Oh yes often, how good he used to be.
Mrs. J. Yes ?
Give my love to him won't you. -
552 ,. . . Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Bennie, did you see me the other day when I was looking
over some of your things and reading some letters 1
Yes. some days ago.
Mrs. J. The lettei's were some you had written to your father the
summer you were at Osterville. Do you remember the
good times we had ?
0 yes I do very well, dear Mother and never even though
it were a thousand years I could not forget. . . Eoble.
Mrs. .J. Yes ? Why did you write Eoble ?
1 was thinking of the good old time he and I had to-
gether.
Mrs. .J. Yes. We were all so happy that summer.
Yes I know it. do you remember how I used to come in
playing on . . can't you call it something else I . .
[He always carried a harmonica in his pocket and frequently
played upon it. —N. B. J.]
Mrs. .J. Yes, Bennie, that is the right shape.
do you remember one evening Roble and I went out on
the water with some other fellows I think Uncle Willie
went too. and we came home and I played on it as
we came into the yard.
Mrs. J. Yes, I remember, Bennie.
tell me more about my letters to dad. I saw you putting
them together.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. They are with a number of your things that I
treasured dearly. I was surprised to find what a fine
manly letter you had written to your father.
Surprised. I don't know as they were particularly were
they dear.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 553
Mrs. J. Yes. I had not read them for some time, and there is a
fine manly spirit in them that . . which pleased me
very much.
Well mother I am glad for one thing i.e. that I never gave
you any more trouble, than I did. I hoped to do the
best I could.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. We have only the most beautiful memories
of you.
don't you want to come over here some times.
Mrs. J. Oh yes, Bennie. At any time now.
Mother it is a beautiful world, if you can only U. D.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, what can I do to bring you near me ?
pray for me.
Mrs. J. Yes. Do you hear me when I ask you for help ?
Yes I often do.
I know a great deal that goes on with you dear, and when
grandma says you humor Helen I think she don't U. D.
Mrs. .J. Yes?
I help you with her often.
Mrs. J. I want you to watch over Helen and Roble and help
them all you can.
1 will I do. don't you see how well E is doing.
lately dear, at College.
Mrs. J. Yes. Are you helping himl
Always.
there was a time when he got a little careless but he is
getting over it.
Mrs. J. Yes. He is more interested in his college life now.
We all prayed for it here. Mother do you U. D. the
philosophy of prayer.
2n
554 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Just what do you mean, Benniel
how necessary it is to pray for what you wish. I U. D. it
since I came to to this life.
Mrs. J. Yes, Benaie. I shall pray more after this.
prayer is everything to us here.
(Hand turns to Spirit.)
ready 1 (Hand turns again to Spirit.)
U.D. me.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. I will obey.
Will you keep Helen to music.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. She is very bus3- over other things now.
Yes I know it almost too busy, but I will help her.
Remember she goes through finely.
Mrs. J. Yes, she is doing well.
Yes. I am so glad to hear you say it. I U. D. perfectly.
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you often see Grandma Junot 1
Oh yes she is with me nearly all the time.
Mother do you realize what a good woman she really is.
Mrs. J. Yes. She had much trouljle in this life, but she always
believed in the goodness of God.
Yes and she docs 'now. She often says Bennie dear we
must help our beloved ones on the earth and teach
them to be more patient.
[Characteristic of his grandmother to an exact degree.
—N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. Is Aunt Alice's daughter with Grandma Junot too?
Yes a great deal.
Abbie is with her too.
Mrs. J. I do not recognize the name Abbie.
What is it.
LXi.] Report on the Jttnot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 555
Mes. J. I do not know the name of Ahhie.
AddiEi . . A.d.e . . A.d.a.
R. H. Rector . .
A d d i e
R. H. The name is not right, Rector. Better get George to get
it and not make the attempts on the machine in this
way to get the sounds registered when it is so difficult.
We thank thee. We do not clearly see the registering as
thou dost. We repeat by sound and it tries us some
times to U. D.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I am very grateful to have had these talks with
you.
I feel sorry when I cannot make my words clear, but I
have tried to remember all I could so that you might
know it really was B— speaking to you.
Mks. J. I know that it is. After this, when you can, send me a
message of any kind.
to . . through you. (Hand turns to R. H.)
R. H. Yes, through me.
You certainly are good.
I will dear Mother you may be sure.
Mother is there anything at the Farm that I haven't seen,
and told you about that you would like me to tell
you. . .
Mrs J. No. You have seen and spoken about all the changes that
we have made.
Only Helens Garden. Oh what does she call it. near the
door.
Mrs. J. (to R. H.) near the drive, isn't it ?
as we enter.
iSee p. 5.33.
556 , Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, the garden is not near the door. ;
I don't mean door exactly, but as we go in.
Mes. J. I think I know what you are trying to say.
it is in the . . yard more.
Mrs. J. Yes. Near the old drive.
Yes drive that is right. I could not think of drive.
* * *
I will look for you always. Mother I will try and get
all those names straight and tell him.
Mrs. J. I know how hard names are.
I do myself overlook or forget some things. I know but
many I remember, look out for the new horse.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. The one papa bought for Roble ? Is he
not safe.
Oh yes only he is pretty fast I think.
Mrs. J. Yes 1 Shall we not keep him ?
Oh yes I would dear, do not be alarmed he will be all
right sure.
(Waking Stage.)
There's a lady . . . Marian . . Marian . . Mirian . . Miriam.
R. H. Miriam 1
Miriam.
[Miriam is the name of Aunt Alice's daughter, Bennie's
cousin; she was always called "Mamie." On p. 409
Bennie speaks of a " little girl who came here before I
did " and then tries apparently to say she is his cousin.
Later on in the sitting attempts are made to give a
name like Marie, Maria, Mama. On p. 548 the name
appears as Marion, Mary, Mali. Finally the name is
correctly given in the waking stage. —H. de G. V.]
LXi.] Report on the Jtmot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 557
I've seen you before.
I want to go . . I want to go.
Mr. . . Mrs. .
G over tliere.^
I don't know who John is
R. H. John wlio 1 John what 1
I don't know who John is.
38th Sitting.
March 4, 1903. Present: B.E.
(Bennie communicating.)
R. H. Your father and mother were both very pleased. The name
[Miriam] came through the light herself as she returned.
I gave it to a spirit returning to its body.
R. H. Yes. Thank you.
My cousin I mean.
R. H. Yes. Alice's daughter.
Yes.
39th Sitting.
March m, Present R. H.
and Bennie said he saw a man digging something on his
grave also
he saw his father put some yellow flowers there,
and green leaves.
R. H. Yes. All right.
he saw Helen with them.
R. H. Yes. Good.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, May 3, 1903.
"For some time prior to March 30 I had not visited his
grave. Soon after receiving yours of Mch. 31st I went out to
^ See p. 545.
558 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
the cemetery and found that the gardeners had lately dug over
and cleaned up the flower bed which is close to the grave, but I
had not placed any flowers on the grave since Christmas nor had
Helen been there for a long time. I had no way of finding out
just when the men had been working over the flower bed."]
* * *
40th Sitting.
April 22, 1903. Present: 11 H.
(Rector communicating.)
Bennie wished us to give his great love and say it was
only a slight cold with Aunt Alice, and that she would
soon be all right.
R. H. Yes. I will send.
[Extract from Mrs. Clarke's letter, April 28, 1903.
" I have been very unwell. Bennie is probably right in
attributing the illness to 'cold.' I am also much better."]
kindly speak to Beiniie.
(Bennie communicating.)
R. H. Bennie, I am delighted to take your message. I have a
word that your aunt sent me some time ago. She, I
think, was speaking of Miriam, and she said, what about
her old playmates Bertie and Charlie 1
I told mother I think about Charlie,
but whats the other one.
R. H. Bertie . . Bertie.
what is the question kindly.
Iv. H. She apparently wants to know if Miriam has anything to
say about those persons, Bertie and Charlie.
She is ivith them.
R. H. " with them " ?
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luitk Mrs. Piper. 559
Yes. Charlie I hnow for a fact, the other I will find out
about, and let her hnow.
R. H. Well, Bennie, do you mean that Charlie is in . .
our world yes. lie is.
[Not correct. —A. J. C]
E. H. The friend of Miriam?
Yes the friend of niy cousin Miriam.
R. H. All right. Can you tell me, I mean later, unless you
already know, anything more about him 1 Charlie is
a common name.
Yes I U. D. what you mean. I cannot tell you at the
moment but I will after I have a talk with her.
R. H. Yes ?
* * *
tell mother I am delighted with Helens work.
R. H. Yes.
She is doing finely. those little discouragements mean
little.
thanks good btje.
4 1st Sitting.
April 29, 1903. Present: R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
R. H. Any news about Bertie and Charlie ?
Oh yes glad you spoke.
I saw Charlie, as I told you but Bertie is still in the
Body.
H. H. Now, Bennie . .
if she refers refers to Bert Hayes. [Not recognized.
—N. B. J.] [Roble and Bennie had a friend called Bert,
referred to again at a later sitting. See p. 637.
H. de G. v.]
560 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. Bonnie, were these—Bertie and Charlie—old playmates of
Miriam 1
Oh no Bert was our friend Eobles and mine. Yes.
R. H. Bennie . .
lie and Charlie were with Roble to see Dad the night
before I saw him here.^
Oh you refer to Clarke. Yes I see. I will ask you to put
those questions to me again. You see she had two
friends one Bertie who came over here with Scarlet
fever, and something else I forget the name of it. I
will ask Miriam, about it.
R. H. Yes, Bennie. Don't . .
Isn't it getting too dark don't you think ?
R. H. Yes, I think this is probably not very clear. Don't say
anything at all about them unless you have got the
exact thing clearly from Miriam.
Scarlet fever I know.
R. H. Is that her friend Bertie 1
Yes sure.
the rest 111 find out again and tell you when it is brighter
. don't forget love to all at home. Benny.
[It is evident that when the question about Bertie and
Charlie was first put to him, Bennie did not clearly
realise the import of it. For he says, "I told mother
I think about Charlie," thus showing that he has not
distinguished this " Charlie " from the two boys of that
name previously mentioned, his cousin and his friend.
On the other hand he asserts that Charlie is a friend of
Miriam and is " with her," that is to say, dead. At the
next sitting the confusion persists, until Bennie at last
realises his own mistake and after asking that the
questions may be put to him again, makes a partly
correct statement about Bertie. —H. de G. V.]
igee p. 525.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luitJi Mrs. Piper. 561
[Extract from Mrs. C.'s letter, May 9, 1903.
" Miriam died 24 years ago this month. The next May just the
next year the two youngest children in this family of our neigh-
bors and her intimate friends died of scarlet fever both within one
week. But Bertie had scarlet fever and recovered, lived to be grown
and died about twelve years ago of some form of consumption or
scrofula. Of course there is a possibility that the scarlet fever may
have been the cause of Bertie's later illness."]
[It should be noted that Bennie does not give scarlet fever as
the only cause of death, but says there Avas " something else, I
forget the name of it."—H. de G. V.]
What I wished to say was that Benny Junot and myself
went at his request to his grave and saw his father and
mother placing some green wreaths upon it about . .
either two or three Sabbaths ago.
R. H. Yes. I , .
One was at the top or head and the other just below it.
42nd Sitting.
October 28, 1903. Present : E. H.
(G. P. communicating.)
something like that.
R. H. You mean one near the other.
R. H. Did you try to give that before ?
Yes twice.
562 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. No, I did not get that. I got practically only your love to
Mar}' and James.
But I called Hodgson three times and said Pelham. wreaths.
R. H. I heard Felham this morning, but not ivreaths. And Mrs.
Piper said George several times, meaning you.
Yes all right. We both came and called to 3'ou hoping you
U. D.
I now tell you, and long ago before the light closed " or
about that time, we saw his Mother and father and
sister, patting some Pansies there.
that is all for the present.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, Nov. 3, 1903.
" Sunday Sept. 20. Mrs. Junot and I visited Bennie's grave and
placed flowers—white and green —upon his little mound. No wreath
Avas placed by us, but my wife arranged the flowers over the grave."]
[Extract from Mrs. J.'s letter, Dec. 13, 1903.
'You sent us lately a record in which Bennie speaks of seeing
me put pansies on his grave. When Mr. Junot wrote, I could not
remember the exact time of my doing so, but I have since recalled
that it was in Jul}', the twentieth day. Pansies were his favourite
flower, but this was only known by me and I am the only one
who ever places them on his grave."]
4:3rd Sitting.
Decemhcr 15, 1903. Present: li.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
R. H. Beunis, I am delighted to meet you. I will read the letter
from your father.
It is mutual I assure you. thanks, very much.
R. II. (reads) "Dear Bennie, We think of you all the time. We
cannot see }'ou or hear you when you come to us at
'Mr. and Mis. Howard, see Proc. Vol. XIII.
-I.e., before the summer break in the sittings. The last sitting of this
sumnaer took place on June 24th.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings loith Mrs. Pvper. 563
home. The only words we get from you come to us
through Dr. Hodgson, our good friend. We wish you
again to thank Rector and George Pelham and all the
kind and loving ones upon your side who have helped
us to hear from you. What they have done for us
has been of inestimable value. It has given us the
greatest happiness. We hope that it may be per-
mitted that you some day make yourself heard and
seen directly by Mamma and Daddy. Daddy has many
worldly cares and is very often very weary. He is sur-
rounded by men and women, manj' of whom never
uttered a prayer and think or seem to think that there
is no life but this life in the body. Daddy is strong
in the faith that there is a better life after the death
of the body and that God, the Father, loA^es and will
keep all his children safe. But the doubts and unbelief
of others make Daddj' want always and again to hear
from you and from Daddy's dear Mother."
Grandma.
R. H. Yes.
dear daddie she has been here much longer than I have
but she never forgets you for a moment and she often
comes with me here also when I visit you at home.
I shall help her to speak with you when I see you again
at the end of tliis line over which I speak to you now
do you U. D.
R. H. Yes. (reads) " So help him all you can and make him to
know that it is you who is sending the words. Roble is
nearly through College and will soon be home with
us to study and follow Daddy's business. He is a large
fine man now and Helen is soon to go away to school.
To-day Helen has been skating where you used to go
skating so often."
I think we talked of this here, did we not?^
R. H. I have a vague remembrance only.
go on.
1 See p. 494.
564 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. (reads) " Cannot yon tell us about the boys and girls you
used to meet at the skating pond, and tell us about
your friend Frank who lived near us 1 He is on your
side now ; and send a message from Daddy's mother when
you can. And may God have you in his holy keeping.
Much love from Daddy. Don't forget us ever."
I shall go out happy and think this all over and think
about the boys and when I see our mutual friend again
I will tell him all I remember. Meanwhile I will talk
with grandma and see what she has to say.
44th Sitting.
December 16, 1903. Present: 11. H.
[I place Bennie's articles to ray left, behind arm of Mrs.
P. —cap, harmonica, spur, and A. L. bust, and then place
A. L. bust immediately in front of sheets. —E. H.]
(Bennie communicating.)
I see it. A.L.
[In arranging the articles my hand with fountain pen in
it passes in front of Mrs. P.'s hand, which takes hold
of cap of jmL, and this cap comes off, hand retains it,
and moves forward with it, holding it up somewhat as
though showing it to Spirit. —E.. H.]
R. H. That's mine. Rector. That's mine.
I see let him have a look at it.
[I then move my hand forward in front of and close to
Mrs. P.'s hand, presenting my pen for inspection, as it
were. —R. H.]
I had one almost the same . . yes. Almost like it only
smaller I think a little smaller.
[Bennie had a fountain—the ordinary size. —N. B. J.]
R. H. " Smaller." Yes, probably. [This fountain pen is large size
and holds perhaps twice as much ink as the common-
sized pen. —R. H.]
Yes ask dad if I didn't. He will tell you right quickly
that I did.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivitli Mrs. Piper. 565
R. H. Yes. (Hand moves cap to pen in R. H.'s hand and puts it on
end. Hand moves spur forward to the A. L. bust.)
I am the happiest boy in all this world did you know it.
R. H. I am very glad.
I wonder if I got the messages all in last time.
Will you ask dad if he remembers the Mcliellan [?] boys.
R. H. the " Mac " something " boys 1
"
Mc hellan[?]
R. H. Capitals, please.
L E L L e N.
R. H. "McLellan?" (Assent.)
Greorge and Frank. I know them both.
[We do not know who he means by "McClellan boys."
—N. B. J.]
What is the matter with D ^ . .
(Hand touches li. H.'s neck undei- jaw on left side.)
R. H. Left jaw 1
No throat.
R. H. Oh.
I will help him.
[Bennie's friend just back from college yesterday, Dec. 20.
He says that he has been quite well and looks so.
—N. B. J.]
I do not care for the red coat Helen wears, do you.
R. H. I have not seen it.
[Helen has a new coat, but it is blue, though it has a red
lining.—N. B. J.]
[The red coat may be a red sweater which Helen wore last
fall when in the country. It did not look very well.
—K. H. J.]
i«.e. Charlie D .
566 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
Ask Mama if those are . .
Chrysanthemums, near my desk.
R. H. Yes 1
they are very beautiful.
[Cannot understand about the chrysanthemums. —N. B. J.]
Oil I want to tell you so much, that I have seen since I
was here, last time.
R. H. Take your time, Bennie. I shall be delighted. Tell me
everything. '
I heard them talking about having Aunt Alice spending
a few days with them.
R. H. Yes 1
very soon, almost within a few days now. what do you
call. week. I forget. I wonder if she will and I see
Roble there too later. All this has been going on
since I came before.
[Roble and his mother were talking in New York at
Thanksirivins; about a visit from his Aunt Alice and
she has been visiting us for several days. —N. B. J.]
(Hand holds .'^x/r up two or three seconds.)
my things help me very much . . (Pause.)
ask Mama if she remembers the friend who used to call
me Benjamin.
R. H. Yes.
Charlie . did but don't you tell her I said it.
n. H. All right.
[We recall rather indistinctly that Charlie D. did at times
call him Benjamin. —N. B. J.]
[Bennie had been asked at a previous sitting to give the
nickname by which ' Charlie ' called him, see p. 507.
Whilst trying, unsuccessfully, to answer this question^
he gave the name Benjamin.—H. de G. V.]
I know about the house and all the changes they made
last summer.i
igee p. 527.
LXi.] RejJort on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 567
R. H. Yes 1
Ask Eoble if he got his hat iuto the paint.
R. H. I will.
[Roble painted his old straw hat green and wore it about
the farm all summer. —N.B. J.]
Read to me please.
R. H. Your mother's letter 1
Yes. Rector told me about it.
[At the beginning of the sitting before Bennie's arrival,
R. H. had told Rector that he had a letter from Mrs.
J.—H. de G. v.]
R. H. (reads) " My dear Bennie, I long to see and hear you.
The messages you send are my great consolation and
they, with my unshaken belief in the goodness of
God, sustain and comfort me in all my sorrow. I
want you to be with me, if it is permitted you ; and
also want you to watch over and help Roble and Helen
always. I think of you ever and always with a
feeling of happiness and gratefulness for all that you
were, and are, to me that nothing can take away."
dearest Mother I know practically all that goes on at
home I ain there a great deal and I am very often
surprised at Helen's wonderful growth she is such a
big tall girl but she does not keep to her music as
I wish she did. Won't you tell her I wish her to
practise more. I shall always look out fur her and
see that no harm comes to her.
[Helen's music is burdensome to her. —N. B. J.]
R. H. (reads) " Send me a message whenever you can, and tell
me how I can come nearer to you."
Only through prayer dear.
R. H. (reads) " Thank your good friends who are helping you,
for me, and tell them how unspeakably glad I am
that you are with them. Your loving mother." [Dated,
December 13, 1903.]
568 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
Oh friend can you U. D. what this all means to me. I
am so helped by their words. they help me to U.D.
better how to reach them. I often hear and see
things taking place at home and fail to report them
here.
R. H. Why, Bennie, I shall be glad and your father and mother
would be overjoyed for you to tell me all you see,
especially immediately.
Yes well this is a little thing but I noticed it shall I
tell you 1 I saw Roble fussing about his clothes the
other day and I wondered what it was all about when
I learned that he was trying on a new suit of clothes
which did not fit to suit him and he took them
back.
R. H. I understand. Good.
I stood there and watched him for some time.
[At Thanksgiving time in New York Roble tried on his
dress suit which his mother had brought to him. He
said it needed some changes and his mother brought
it home to have it changed at his request. —N. B. J.]
He is going home, and I with him.
[Roble starts home from College to-morrow, Dec. 22. —N. B. J.]
Grandma Junot says. N . is. getting rather tired.
and should try and rest more.
How is Rounder, stiff, very stiff.^
R. H. Do you mean old ?
in his legs.
R. H. Anything the matter with him 1
Yes rheumatism.
R. H. Does your father know?
I am sure he will vvlien you tell him.
R. H. Can't he run well ?
iSee p. 523.
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 569
fairly, but stiff after lying a while.
I often pat him. and talk to him. I think he sees me.
really I do.
R. H. Does he wag his tail ?
Yes and sniffs at me when I approach him.
[Rounder, the dog, is growing old and stiff, but is having
a happy old age. He seldom leaves the stable nov/,
—N. B. J.]
(Hand touches sj;;//', then holds up the A. L. bust.)
May I stay longer.
R. H. Certainly.
let me tell you. (Pause.)
R. H. Yes?
Mother must not worry about me at all I wish they were
all as well off and as happy as I am.
do you hear Helen recite to dad ?
R. H. No.
her lessons. I mean. / do.
[Helen has frequentlj' of late recited poetr}' to me. For-
merly this occurred very seldom. —N. B. J.]
The photographs of my Pony are great. I like them ever
so much. Ask dad to send you. you one.
R. H. I will.
Helen took them.
R. H. Really !
Yes isn't it splendid.
R. H. Yes.
[Helen has taken two or three pictures of his pony—one
we remember particularly. —N. B. J.]
the old farm looks just about the same to me. only I
cannot U. D. what is over the front door . .
70
R. H. Yes ?
Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
looks like posts, queer isn't it.
R. H. Yes.
I think I'll go and have another look at it. and report later.
R. H. Yes, do, kindly.
(Hand slowly moves slightly forward and up, as though
following some upward flight.)
* * *
Well I see it is the stoop. I saw. It is stoop I see. or
porch, it confused me a little as I never noticed it before.
[We made a number of changes last summer at our summer
home. The front door was changed, so that it opens
westward, instead of north, and a large porch was built
over it.— N. B. J.]
by the way please ask Roble what he was trying to do
with the sail boat one Sunday last summer. I saw him
and two other fellows trying to take out the sails, but
what for I never U. D.
[Roble tells me that one Sunday early last fall he was
caught out, while sailing, in a very severe storm. He
and the boys with him were very busy taking in the
sails. —K. H. J.]
that is all I can say now on]y send my love to all at home
tell them I shall be with them watch over and love
them more and more uncle Frank comes with me and
sends love also. When I see anything unusual I will
come in and tell you.
45th Sitting.
December 30, 1903. Present: R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Did you tell Dad all I said.
R. H. Yes, he was very pleased. I think all were understood but
two points, one concerning D .
tell me.
LXi.] Report on the Jiniot Sittivgs tvith Ilrs. Piper. 571
R. H. I am not sure at present about the other. The . . didn't
you think that D was hurt 1
You may leave them and bring them to me later, and let
me straighten them all out for you.
R. H. Yes, better another time when the light is good.
Yes I cannot tell you now just as I wish. But if you will
answer me one question, i.e. about Helens coat.
R. H. Yes, it is not red, but it has a red lining.
Y'es I thought it was not quite right yet what attracted
me was the red.
R. H. Yes, and Roble had painted his hat green, I think, with
some green paint.
Yes. I laughed at this, more than I can tell you it
struck me as being so funny.
What about his suit.
R. H. Yes, that was practically all right.
I saw him wriggling in & out of it and that too struck
me.
Well my friend give them all a great deal of love and tell
them 1 shall be with them always.
R. H. Y'^es. Rounder is old and stiff', as you said, and I think
your Aunt was staying with them.
Oh yes I know but Rounder's movements when he lies
down and gets up attract me very much.
R. H. Yes.
I try to help him all I can from this side.
46th Sitting.
Januanj 11, 1904. Present: E. 11.
(Bennie communicating.)
I may make some few mistakes. I do not claim to do
otherwise when I see so much.
572 Helen de G. Verrcdl. [part
R. H. Your father did not know whom jou meant by the
McClellan boy?,^ but he said he would ask Koble.
Ask Roble for me if he does not remember a boy or two
boys one George the other Frank whose names were if
I remember riyhtly McClellan. George and Fraidi
McClellan. tlie name if not quite right was very nearly
so.
R. H. Then . .
ask him if he remembers hockej'.
R. H. Yes. D was just back from College and he said that
he had been quite well.
What did I say about him.
R. H. I am not sure ; I think you said that he had . .
got hurt . .
R. H. Yes. Hurt his arm, I think.
I saw him strike his elbow or a part of his arm many
Sabbaths ago perhaps he may have forgotten.
R. H. Yes.
but this is a fact.
R. H. Yes.
[Iv. El.'s memory is here at fault. It was to Charlie D.'s
throat, not his arm, that Beniiie had referred, see p. 565.
Heie, however, he accepts li. H.'s suggestion and even
provides an explanation of the supposed injury. In-
stances of this kind are not very frequent, tlie memory-
of the controls with regard to statements made at pre-
vious sittings being usually good, see e.g. p. 475.
H. de G. v.]
R. H. The^^ could not understand about the chrysanthemums.'-'
You said what . .
See p. 56.5. 2 See p. 566.
LXI.] Report on the Jwnot Sittings ivith Afrs. Pij^er. 573
Yes I remember.
Please ask mother what tlie large flowers were that attracted
me. and seemed to be growing in a pot.
R. H. Yes.
R. H. I think eveiything else was understood.
[R. H. then enumerates correct statements made by the
communicator at the sitting of Dec. 16 (q.v.). —H. deG. V.]
47th Sitting.
Fchnmry 22, 1904. Present: N.B.J., R.B.J., and R.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Get all the paint ofT your hatP
R. No, not yet. That was funnj', your seeing that hat.
funny oh I don't know about it. I see you often when
you don't know it.
I am always with you R
R. Did you ever come into my room down at V and
tap on the bed?
Well I have tried hard enough but why don't you answer
me . .
R. I didn't know it was you, Bennie, I didn't think.
Well 111 try it again. You ask me something and I'll
knock twice.
R. Yes, I'll do that, Bennie.
just to let you know that I am with you, see '?
R. Yes, Bennie, I'll do that some day and answer you.
H*bso (letters scrawly and doubtful) you here . .
[Possibly Bennie said Hodgson or some approximation to
it.—R. H.]
why I just noticed you . . I just noticed you.
^See p. 567.
574 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. All right, Bemiie, never mind me.
No I won't . .
tell nie Koble get through soon I am al\va3's interested in
you and your work. Going to lieljj Dad when you are
throuifh 1
R. Yes, Bennie. I've got three months more, then I'm going
to work in the office.
Good enough I have been praying for you do you U. D.
what it is to pray over here ?
R. No, Bennie, I don't believe I do.
Don't speak too fast Roble if you [do] I can't hear you
U.D.
R. All riirht, Bennie.
I came to see you three different times knocked & waited
for you to answer me . .
You did not speak so I went awa}^ ask me next time.
anything you wish Si I'll reply.
R. Bennie, if I speak out loud when you knock, can you under-
stand me'i
surely I shall reply.
R. How will you reply, Bennie?
(Interruption on account of super].>osing.)
to go back and answer your question my dear fellow I shall
speak if possible so you shall hear my voice, if not
possible I will knock
R. Good, Bennie. I will know when you come next time.
I U.D.
two. Remember I am not isolated although you cannot
always see me. U. D.
R. Yes, Bennie, I understand.
Now let me ask you who was singing in your room the
other day 1
LXi.] Report on the Jmxot Sittings ivith Mrs. Pilfer. 575
R. I don't know. I don't know just what day you mean,
Bennie.
about four Sabbaths ago. if I remember rightly.
R. Yes, Bennie, but we sing a great deal, and I don't know
just who it was that day.
I only hope you will U. D. because it will help you when
I hear & see you clearly U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. Do you want Daddie to speak now ?
Yes do speak to me. I love to hear you.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. Have you any message for your mamma ?
Yes a good many, first let me ask if you got all I sent you. .
R. H. Yes, everything.
N. B. J. Yes we got it all, and understood all except about the
McClellan boys.
(Hand turns in direction of E. then to Spirit.)
I will not take light to tell you that now . .
(Hand turns to Spirit. Assent.)
but when I come some day & [I think R. H. was
indicated here, but no note made at moment. —R. H.] is
alone I will explain —U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, that's right.
I thought Mama had a cold.
N. B. J. Yes, but she is well now.
I know that too. You don't forget me do you.
N. B. J. Never, never, and you must not forget us any.
Don't worry about that. I wish you knew how much
nearer I am to you as time goes on. that is why I see
so many things clearly U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, we understand.
Papa don't get tired rest & it will do me good too.
576 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. Yes, yes, Bennie. I'll try to rest.
I am gl.ad Mama's better.
I also see Helen every day of her life.
I think she is is [evidently for a] fine great girl.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. She's growing to be a fine girl. You must
help her all you can.
surely I will. I know she will be a great help &
comfort to you all.
N. B. J. Yes. She works over her music all the time.
(Excitement in hand. Pencil scrabbles heavily round and
round in one spot.)
that is what I long for her to do U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. We thought you helped her.
I do I do I will I will. Music is the inspiration of the
soul. dad.
N B. J. Yes . .
I Avanted you to U. D. how happy it all made me. can't
you tell her I love to hear her play it practise.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. That's right.
Dad is that coat Blue.^
N. B. J. Yes, with red inside.
the red looked so funny to me when I see her put it on
& take it off. you see I often help her give my love
love to dearest Mother & tell her I want to speak
with her. here.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. She came over not long ago here but could
not speak to j^ou. She will come again before long.
Meanwhile will you tell her I hear every prayer she says
& I know.
listen to me . . (to R. H. 1 who is recording N. B. J.'s remarks.)
^See pp. 565 and 571. Note that R. H. did not mention that the coat was
blue.
Lxr.] Report on fJte Jmiot Sitthigs iviilt Mrs. Piper. 577
N. B J. Yes, Betinie, I will.
tell her I love her & I will watch over & care for her
alwa) s no matter where she is or how long I seem absent.
N. B. J. That's good, Bennie.
I shall not forget her nor anything concerning her ever you
may rest assured I will not.
N. B. J. Bennie, have you any message to Aunt Alice from Cousin
Frank 1
Oh yes but may I give it Avhen I return.
N. B. J. All right, all right.
You will come again. & let me finish all I have on my
mind 1
N. B. J. Yes, dearie.
Tell me what Mother meant when she paid she dreamed I
was with her.
N. B. J. I think that she thought you were with her.
Can't she U. D. when I speak with her dad.
N. B. J. No, Bennie, she does not understand.
Well I am going to do something. so she will know,
when I see her sleeping I often talk with her. Do you
U. D. what a beautiful place this is dad.
N. B. J. We do not fully understand, Bennie. Tell us when you
can. (Hand points to Spirit.)
Grandma Junot. says, in a little while you will all be
here, won't that be great.
N. B. J. Splendid, Bennie, when we all meet together again.
Do the best you can dad & don't worry about anything
take care of Mama & Helen & the rest will all go
right until you come over.
I must go out a moment but I'll be light back.
578 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. (to R.) Very clear.
(Hand bows on block book as if in pra3'er.)
I do not want to seem selfish but you cannot U. D. how
glad I am to speak.
R. H. Who is this'?
Oh it is I B can't you see me 1
R. H. No.
Mr. Pelham came back with me to help me until I go.
Did Mama say anything for me.
N. B. J. She said she would write a letter. I think it will come
to morrow.
that's fine.
I shall U. D. letter.
Dear Mother I know you will be glad if I send you one
little word from this side. I am so glad to see you
well again & if 3'ou will only take care you will keep
well for a very long while. I know this dear because I
can see it. When I come to you in your dream do not
be afraid I shall only give you strength to U. D. give
my love to Aunt Alice & tell her I have a message
from uncle Frank & cousin Frank which I will give
to dad next time
How is Charlie D . .
R. Bennie, Charlie is very well. He often speaks of you to me
and thinks of you.
Roble did you gi\e him one of my photographs.
N. B. J. I don't know.
R. I don't remember, Bennie, but we will do so.
I wish you would if you did not so I can see something
that will attract me to him. then I can come here
& give you some test about him. U. D.
R. Yes, Bennie. He lias your books, the Three Musketeers.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 579
Good I remember them very well but jou SL-e I want liim
to have something thut looks like me U D . .
R. Yes, Bennie. I will give him jour picture.
I heard every word so clearly thank you.
R. Yes, Bennie. Are you ever with me 1
I should say I was. how did I know about your suit if
I am not with you tell me Roble ?
R. Yes, Bennie, that was good. Tell me do you know how
your old runaliout was broken last summer ? Did you
see that 1
Painabout oh. Y^es I think I do. I'll come here some day
and tell H. how it happened will that do lioble.
R. Yes, Bennie.
(Hand turns to Spirit. Cross in air.)
You see Eoble they say here if I tell think is . . gs
when . .
(Harmonica falls on floor as block-book is shifted. R. H.
replaces it. Hand seeks excitedly towards articles, and
begins touching them.)
Grive me A L.
(R. H. gives A. L. bust to hand, which holds it up a
moment or two, then rejilaces it in front of sheets.)
It is better so.
You U. D. don't you 1 (Hand turns to R. H.)
R. H. Yes, I understand.
R. Yes, Bennie.
Want to say something.
R. Yes, Bennie. Do you remember the school where you made
the head of Abraham Lincoln 1
Most certainly I do. I remember well, do you remember,
what I said about, about that party
R. No, Bennie. What party do you mean 1
Do you remember, about skating.
580 Helen de G. Verrall. [paut
R. Yes, indeed. We used to have a fine time.
Do you remember the day my skate came off . .
R. No, Bennie.
You were there. & I took my knife made a hole in
the heel of my (pencil slips over edge of block-book.)
R. No, Bennie. I can't remember that day specially.
how clearly I hear you. I am speaking of the last time
I ever I ever went . .
R. Yes, Bennie.
skating with you in the body.
R. Yes, Bennie. I don't remember about your skate coming
off, though.
do you remember sitting down on my coat, my sitting
down on my coat & fixing my skate . . remember
anything about the water on the ice.
R No, Bennie. I don't remember that.
Weren't you with me. surely you were,
tliiiik it over R
R Yes, Bennie. Do you remember the last time we went
swimming down at Osterville ?
Oh yes I do very well. You always thought I got hurt
that day but I did not I caught cold that Sunday going
without my cap.
R. Yes, Brnnie. You mean when you and papa went walking.
Yes & he told me to go back & get my caj).
R. Yes, Bennie, I remember about that.
Did you think I got hurt in swimming tell me right out.
R. Yes, Bennie, I thought you got hurt because you tore your
shirt on a rock on the bottom.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith 3]rs. Piper. 581
Oh yes I remember it but you are mistaken really I know
Roble dear.
You must feel that I know. & I want you to know U. D.
don't worry about it any more.
R. Yes, Bennie. I will not worry any more.
I am glad to hear you say this L'. do you remember
about the hou . . [?]
HO . .
spell it I do not U. D. Rector . .
HOCkEy .
R. Yes, indeed. I remember about playing hockey.
N. B. J. (to R.) Ask him about when he was a little boy.
Don't you think I was a good shot [?]
My skate came off.
R. Yes, I remember,
good enough.
I want to ask you about a boy we called El something
I cannot remember his
other name.
NED.
R. I remember Ed, but I can't remember his last name.
I cannot either but after . .
(Spur falls off table. Pencil drops from hand.)
R. H. Kindly wait. (R. H. replaces spur.)
(Pause.)
I want to recall, liim very much and perhajis I shall after
I go out,
do you remember. Sawyer, or Saw . .
R. Do you mean Adrian Sawyer ?
Yes.
R. Yes, I remember him. He went to school with you.
Yes tell me if if you know what became of him . .
582 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. I think he is worlving in C .
if you ever see him again ask liim if he remembers ,Beiiny
Jmiot will 3-011.
R. Yes, indeed. I will ask him.
I U. D. you perfectly now. but when they take my things
away it confuses me greatly,
are you going home soon.
R. Yes, Bennie. Another month now.
how many Sundays Roble. would that be. I want to go
to your room two or three times before you go.
R. Three Sundays more, Bennie.
then I shall count as well as I can and I shall go with you
then but meanwhile I sliall see j'ou at your room. Roble
tell me is that a tree or plant.
R. I don't quite understand what thing you mean.
Well listen.
near j'our bed is a chair & a kind of table, near . the
window I see a green thing which looks like a plant.
R. No, Bennie.
Is it a cushion.
R. Do you mean the sticks in my bedroom or something out
in the study ?
in your bedroom, they must be sticks I think, but what
I wanted to say was that 1 would try & move one of
them, or it . .
R. Yes, Bennie. There are two hockey sticks in the corner by
the window.
I shall see what I can do with the help of George.
R. All right, Bennie. I will understand when it happens,
dad speak, do you remember Gridley,
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 583
N. B. J. No, Bennie, I do not understand.
do you remember Gridlej'.
N. B. J. Where . . where did he live 1
he used to go witli Sawyer.
R. No, Bennie. I don't remember him.
Was it spelled wrong . .
help me keep my thoughts clear . .
N. B. J. We do not understand the name.
Dad who is the boy at the stable.
think I will go out a moment & think it over.
I mean.
George Gately.
I do not think I have got it just right friend R.
N. B. J. Wait, Bennie. Is he in our world or your world 1
he is in your world now.
N.B.J. Where . . What does he do?
Eoble do you remember a fellow who wore a queer shoe.
R. No, Bennie. But when we go home we will look up the
name in your school catalogue.
All right, then tell him ^ Sc he will tell me.
I want very much to return here again & finish up what I
cannot say now may I ?
R. H. Bennie, your father is coming next time, but Koble Avill
come also if you wish ?
I want to see him very much U. D. this time so I can go
with him. watch him & tell dad what I see him doins
U. D.
1 Probably R. H.
584 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
48th Sitting.
February 23, 1904. Present: N. B. J., R. B. J. and It. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
I had a long talk with cousin Frank & he is . . says tell
(l)ause) he saj's tell his mother that if she will send
him some message he will reply with earthly remem-
brances Q. D. he also says give her his love also uncle
Franks and when the time is presented he will meet her
& give some sign of his existence. U. D. got it.
I saw Aunt Alice, so did he. trying to . . to write some-
thing which looked like Verses, do you know what
they were dad.
N. B. J. She wrote a message to you, Bennie. I have it here.
good please give it me. papa yourself.
. . papa.
N.B.J. Yes, here it is. (reads) "Say to Bennie that every word
that comes from him is a pleasure and comfort to me,
and thank him for the smallest message. Ti-ll Frank
and liis father that in my troubles I have turned to
them."
thanks to God.
N". B. J. "I l>eg them to help me take care of Lucinda." (Hand
shows excitement.)
N. B. J. "I need their help all the time."
(From G. P.) You will not only awaken these two friends
to the reality of communication but they will be clearer
for this G. P.
N. B. .J. Yes, Bennie. Please thank Mr. Pelham for Iielping you
and us.
All he U. U. & he likes it as well as we do.
now give me Mamas.
N. B. J. Bennie, Mama's letter has not yet come, but she sent her
love and will soon come here to see you.
LXI.] Report on the Jimot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 585
thank you for telling me I shall think up many things to
remind her.
I feel for Aunt Alice very much & we shall do all in our
power jointly to help her.
Hallo Roble how goes everything with you 1
R. Hallo, Bennie, I'm all right.
I have been thinking if I could play Swanee River for you.
it would help you to U. D. me when I come to you.
don't you think so.
help me a moment.
(Hand moves towards R. H. who repeats the sentence above
"I have been thinking, etc.," but hand points to the words
help me a moment, and turns to R. H. again. R. H. puts
his hand forward. Hand rests lightly on it for two
or three seconds, then touches articles.)
I have been thinking if I could play Swanee River for you
even though faintly you would U. D. me better when
I come to you do you think I could possibly make
you U. D.
R. I will try to listen for you, Bennie.
Just as you try to sleep I will watch & come to you.
if you have light & I think you have enough so I
can reach you strongly I shall certainly speak or whistle
or do something that you may be sure it is I.
R. All right, Bennie.
Roble why do you put your feet up so high.
R._ What do you mean I When I study 1
Yes when you have in your hands a book 'I
R. I put my feet on a chair to be comfortable.
I see you almost constantly, doing this.
R. Yes, I always do it when I read.
how -well you speak, to me today R.
You remember cousin Frank Clark don't you.
,2p
586 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. Yes, Bennie.
he wants to send his love to you. U. D.
R. Yes, Bennie, and give my love to him and Uncle Frank.
Surely.
R. H. One moment.
(Pencil dropped. Hand subsides somewhat. R. H. has pre-
viously given R. a pencil to hold in his hands and
rub so as to have R.'s "influence." This is given.)
I like this better, thanks.
Roble did you have Franks knife.
R. No, Bennie. I don't know about his knife.
tell Aunt to give it to j'ou please.
R. All right, Bennie.
Will you.
R. Yes, I will tell her.
he says so.
don't forget it I beg of you.
R. No, I won't forget.
Did you remember who Gridley was.^
and those other boys were McVeigh.
[Perhaps McVeigh is intended as a correction of McLellan.
See pp. 565 and 572.—H. de G. V.]
don't you remember the one who had red hair.
R. No, Bennie. Where did we know them ?
in C .
R. I don't remember them now.
You will, later.
remember anything, about the minstrel Show."
iSee p. 583.
-See p. 394, where "the minstrel show" was mentioned by Mrs. J.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 587
R. Yes, I do, at Harvard school 1 (Assent.) Was the boy Ed
in this show 1.
Yes indeed.
R. Do you mean Ed Cushberger 1
Oh yes I forgot his name. I remembered Ed all right.
Who was interlocutor [interlocturer]
I cannot exactly get that word, friend.
R. It was Irwin G .
tell me about the one who had red hair & he laughed
so because he thought it would give him away.
R. I remember him now, but don't know his name.
When you go back to your room think it over & it.
will all come back to you. you see you have one
advantage over me R. & that is you can still be
associated in actual conversation with the boys while
I have to speak over the line to you & I cannot
always make the sounds audible to those to whom I
speak. You ought to remember better than I.
R. Yes, I understand, and I will try to think who these
boys were.
do you remember. Hill.
R. N-no. Where did we know him ?
he skated, with us. & a young fellow named. Arthur.
R. I do not remember them now.
by the way I saw you skating recently.
R. Yes, I have been skating often.
that is a fine place too. don't get hurt I am watching
over you.
R. All right. Thank you, Bennie.
tell me something about, your studies can't you.
588 , Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. Yes, I am interested in the courses I'm taking, and am
studying law.
Yes I know, tliat but tell me. about languages & latin
especially.
R. I haven't had any Latin for three years now.
You must keep up & help Helen U. D.
R. Yes, papa helps her with her Latin now.
"Well she is going to need you more than ever later . .
R. All right. I will try to help her.
Good I am so glad to hear you say it.
Papa dear tell me what she got so excited over, the other
day Was it essay.
N. B. J. Yes. I think it was somethins; she was goins; to write
about.
I heard her fuming about it, but don't mind her she will
get over it when she gets through school U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. She fusses a good deal.
Well I think I know it dad.
You see I am doing all I can to help her & I do think
she is improving don't you ?
N.B.J. Yes, indeed. She's changing every day, now.
Yes & I do Avish Aunt Alice would not think her lazy.
She is not. but she can't do everj'thing. . . cannot
do everything. her music I want kept up U. D.
I Jiever was good at preaching but I know perfectly
well what is best for her.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. We'll try to keep Tip her music.
they [say] Mama humors her too much but I don't think
so. She is a good girl & if she is nervous she can't
help it.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings vjith Mrs. Piper. 589
N. B. J. Bennie, what are you working at in your life 1
didn't I tell you 1
N. B. J. Not lately.
I am studying the laws of this life, and the ex . . planation
of returning.
N. B. J. All right. I understand.
Well I am not sure that you do. but I hope I can
make it clear, but I can't stop to explain it now. I
have so much more to say tell Mama I wish she could
U. D. what I meant about the flowers.^
N. B. J. She did not understand about flowers on cabinet.
What is the earthly word, for it.
N.B.J. Perhaps you meant your grave, was that it?
No I saw those too. but I saw at home.
some flowers just before I came here & told him. (Hand
points to E. H.)
and they were standing on something like table I know it
surely . .
N. B. J. Bennie, in what room were they ?
they were in the the room where you . .
"
near [?] . . dining room,
dear can't you remember R.
Yes dining room dad.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we had flowers there on the table.
Well what is the name of the thing in the same room on
which silver thinirs are. . - .....
N. B. J. Sideboard ? .
.
l'"es sideboard, cabinet.
1 See p. 566.
590 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
N. B. J. Yes, we sometimes call it cabinet.
Well I saw. at that time those flowers on that place &
they attracted me to them,
do you U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we understand.
I am glad you do. even if yoa can't U. D. about my life
here & I don't believe you ever will quite.
Roble did Klondike kick ?
R. Yes, he used to kick, and ran away.
/ thought so . .
R. Bennie, do you remember now how your old runabout was
broken 1
surely I do & told you I would come here some day &
(Hand points to R. H.) tell him just how it happened.
R. All right, Bennie.
then you can't say I got it out of your mind see . .
[This apparently reproduces an old misapprehension of
G. P. in his earliest communications. See Pm. S.P.R.,
Vol. XIII., p. .303.—R. H.]
[The same idea was evidently in the communicator's mind
when the question about the runabout was asked before.
—H. de G. v.]
R. Yes, I understand.
George is always talking about this to me.
R. All right, Bennie.
McVeigh. 2
I speak about uncle "Will.
R. Do you mean McVeigh in V 1
SURE .
'See p. 579. -See p. ,586.
LXI.] Report on the Jmiot Sittings ^vith Mrs. Piper. 591
R. You <lid not . .
No but I heard you say this again & again.
R. You mean uncle Willie and I ?
Yes, do you know now 1
R. Yes, I understand about McVeigh now.
[Roble says that " Uncle Willie " was very friendly at
V one summer with a young man named
McVeigh. This intimacy was after Bennie's death.
N. B.J.]
[When the name McVeigh first occurs, it appears to be
given as a correction of the name McLellan. Then it
is connected, rightly, with Uncle Will. There are in
these sittings several instances of the preliminary emer-
gence of significant names together with some imaginary
interpretation, for which a correct or partly correct
interpretation is afterwards substituted. See Intr.
p. 352.—H. de a. v.]
I am gUnl I ha\'e made two things straight,
the flowers are U. D. aren't they.
R. H. Yes.
thank you.
I think I shall go out a moment I can't quite get my
thoughts clear.
(Hand touches cap and spur, moving the spur back, then
returning it to front.)
Hello R
R. Hallo, Bennie.
Didn't you have the boat painted new last summer.
N. B. J. Buggy.
What do you call the thing we used to ride in.
R. Runabout.
Yes. didn't you have it painted new last summer 1
592 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. Yes, we had it painted in June.
June dear me I forgot all about June, but I want to be
sure so when I describe the break down I can make
it clear to you.
R. Yes, Bennie, I understand that.
[At the sitting of Feb. 23, 1903, Bennie said that
" the boat was all painted new." Perhaps his thoughts
have here gone back to this. His question as to " the
name of the thing we used to ride in " is subsequent to
N. B. J.'s suggestion of "Buggy" and does not therefore
prove that Bennie had the runabout in his mind when
he spoke of the boat. —H. de G. V.]
how would you like to join me R.
R. Yes, I would like to see yon again very much, Bennie.
I tell you K. it is not all over with us.
Well I will go on with my remembrances.
Will you give Charlie the photo ?
R. Yes, we will give him one of your pictures at once.
thank you and be sure & tell Aunt Alice we shall help
her but she must give you the knife, the next time I
see you here Pa. I want you to bring something
belonging to her. Will you 1
K B. J. Yes, I will, I will.
It will help us so much.
Y"ou cannot U. D. but we can.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
dad what happened to the harness, when you went to my
grave.
N. B. J. I don't remember.
Ask Mother.
You drew it uji. (Hand makes a quick drawing up
motion.)
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tuith Mrs. Piper. 593
I saw you do it.
Well never mind you will remember soon.
(Hand points to Spirit.)
Grandma sends her love to you & wants to know if she
can help you any ?
N. B. J. Yes, help me to be well and do my duty.
Well. Well you are well dad & not so tired as you were
a while ago. You see I am looking after you.
I feel t. I must get. Mama over her cold too.
R. H. "I felt I must get Mama over her cold too."
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. Thank you.
Mr H listen kindly.
Please tell ni}' father what I said before that will youl
(E. H. reads over again from "Grandma sends" down to
"looking after you.")
R. H. (to N. B. J.) He apparently wants your comment on \o\iv not
being so tired as before, etc.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I am.
Please tell him.
N.B.J. Bettor than heretofore, but am often very tired.
Oh yes I know it very well, but I mean generally tired.
N. B. J. My health is generally better.
thank you.
Eoble you are a great help to me you give me strength
did you know it.
R. No, Bennie. But I wish you would be with me and help
me when you can.
I shall always do that. You may be sure.
R. Do you remember you said before you would help me to
what I wanted in college ?
Yes I do. k I . .
59:t Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. Well, I have gotten what I wanted.
I know & you must U. D. what prayer does.
R. I understand what it is with us, but did not know yesterday
quite what you meant by prayer in your life.
Ah had I never prayed, I should not be speaking with
you now.
R. I understand, I think.
There is law in prnyer. & it means everything to us
on our side. & whenever we see our friends in the
body in diificulty we pray for them instantly, which
often helps them greatly U. D. It.
R. Yes, I understand now, Bennie.
I went away & followed you & prayed for your success,
as we shall all pray now for Helen. & Aunt Alice.
R. Good, Bennie. I understand now.
give all my love to dearest mother Si tell her a word
to me will help me much. When she can you will take
it to me won't you (Hand turns to li. H.) . .
R. H. Yes, with pleasure.
& I will, when I see you alone tell you some more good
things about my people it what goes on with them, this
will be my way of repaying you.
R. H. Good.
U.D.
R. Yes, Bennie, we understand.
tell me did you like the books dad gave you 1
R. Yes, I am reading it now.
Isn't it fine.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 595
R. Yes, I like it very much so far.
keep straight on. & I will watch over your shoulder.
R. All right, Bennie.
have a good time while you may . .
Go out a good deal, stick to your studies & you will get
through splendidly.
R. All right, Bennie. Do you ever see me on the river 'I
You mean. Water.
R. Yes, I mean the water.
Oh yes often but not for a long time.
No, I have not been on the water for several months,
but will start again soon.
I shall be with you. to see that all goes well. I saw you
with a lot of other fellows in a long (pause) something
a Ions; time ago. cannot remember it.
You mean sail-boat 1 sailing 1
No.
R. You mean canoe 1
Yes.
R. I often go canoeing with some other boys.
that is what I mean. & that is why I go with you.
to see that all goes well.
49th Sitting.
Februarij ii, mn. Present: R. H.
(Rector communicating.)
R. H. I have a short letter to Bennie from his mother which
was intended for his father to bring, but reached him
only after he left. (Hand points to Spirit. Cross in air.)
596 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Please give it him as he hath asked specially for it several
times during this intervening period. We will bring
him.
R. H. Yes. (Hand talks with Spirit.)
(Bennie communicating.)
How are you ?
Got something for me.
R. H. Yes, Bennie. Your father . .
here is George perhaps you would better greet him too. he
has been a good friend to me. and when the light has
been especially drawn upon by myself he has been my
support . .
R. H. Yes, George, very grateful for all your help.
(G. P. communicating.)
Just say good morning that will do. yuu know I U. D.
it is only to please the boy U. D.
R. H. Yes. Your father, Bennie, got this at his hotel after his
return yesterday.
I U. D. thank yon.
R. H. Your mother says :
" My dear Bennie, the last messages
received from you were full of interest and show that
yuu are with us constantly. I wish that you could tell
us more concerning your life, your duties and your
pleasures. Do not think that we forget you as the
years pass. On the contrary we think of you constantly
and you become dearer every day. Send a message to
me by your father and be with me and help me.
Watch over Roble and Helen and help them all you
J?
can.
I think I have said all this?
R. H. Ye.«, you have, Bennie. Then comes just her signature
"Your loving mother," with the date February 21, that
is, the Sabbath before your father had his first meeting.
The letter was doubtless delayed by the slow trains in
bad weathei'.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 597
Oh yes all right. I remember a little about such things.
C ?
R. H. Yes, from C .
Oh yes thanks.
50th Sitting.
June 27, 190+. Present: Mrs. J., Miss Helen J., and E. II.
(Bennie communicating.)
I see some one in the body with you. I think . .
Mrs. J. (to H. J.) Move over a little. (H. J. draws closer to table.)
it is my sister . . Oh I am so glad you are here, tell me
me you are glad to see me I am so glad you got through
so nicely. I saw Eoble too & I helped you both did
you U. D. it.
H. J. Yes, Bennie. I am glad to be here.
I U. D. you do not see me but I look about the same.
You look much larger Helen havent you grown . .
H. J. Yes.
Mrs. J. Bennie, yon know several years have passed since you left
us, and Helen is almost a young lady.
I U. D. isn't that fine 1 I am glad she is so well & you
also mother dear. I hope you will keep on with your
studies Helen & do all you can . .
H. J. I thought often of you when away at school.
I was often with you when you did not know it. I am
glad Roble is through & I am glad he is to be with dad.^
Mrs. J. Yes. Your father could not be with us to-day. Do you
think that he is well 1
No not so well as I wish. I think he is very tired &
needs rest greatly.
1 See p. .374.
598 Helen de G. Vermll. [part
Mrs. J. Can you not influence him to take a rest ?
Uncle Frank &, I are both pra3'ing for this. We will make
him do so.
Mrs. J. I wish him to take a long rest this summer.
Yes so do we. & I think he will. I am much concerned
about him & I have been for some weeks 1 think.
(Hand takes up spur and feels and replaces it.)
weeks isn't it.
R. H. Yes, probabl}', . . or months 1
yes months, since I saw him here ^ . .
Mrs. J. What can / do for him, Bennie 1
tell him he should take a rest because he owes it to him-
self to you all & to me.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, as soon as I go back we are going to the farm.
I know it it I want dad to sleep rest ik take good care of
himself. I will help him do so.
Mrs. J. Bennie, is the farm the best place for him ?
Yes for the present, tell him to let repairs go & rest this
summer. .• '•
'>
Mrs. J. Yes, I will do so. Is that all he needs, rest alone ?
Yes . .
don't let him take anything, he is all right except very
tired, he is overdoing all the time. & his talking tires
him very much.
[The weariness of N. B. J. is most marked in consultations.
Talking seems to be the main source of the weariness.
—N. B. J.]
Mrs. J. He is very much troubled about some of his business
affairs.
AVell dear he ought not to be because dad will be all right
I know this.
' It was on February 23, 1904.
LXi.] Re-port on the Jimot Sittings ivitli Mrs. Piyer. 599
Mrs. J. He sent his love to you.
I am so glad give mine to him & tell him I love him very
dearly I am happier as time goes on & I live to wait
for you all. We shall U. D. everything, then tell him
so for me.
Helen what made you let Klo n d i ke run away . .
Mes. J. (toH. J.) Tell him that he didn't run away—did he?
H. J. I don't remember . .
he did.
H. J. Last summer 'I
Yes. .
Mrs. J. He did not behave very well, Bennie.
he turned everything upside down. I saw him.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I think that was Roble's horse that ran away.
So it was. that's so. I remember now but mine kicked
up a good deal . .
H. J. Yes, he was very mean last summer.
Very what Helen ?
H. J. Mean.
do you mean that . .
H. J. He was ugly, and my driving worried him.
Oh yes. I U. D. what you mean, but he is getting old . .
Mrs. J. Yes, we thought best to sell him, because your father was
afraid he would hurt Helen.
I think he got that from me. because I tried to tell him
to look out for him & I say it now more than ever.
Better let him go on leave him alone don't try to drive
him any more . .
600 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Bennie, I think you mean Roble's horse.
I am afraid of him really & T fear the worst . .
Mrs. J. I do not think he is a safe horse.
I know he is not mother & I tell you now do be careful
it tell dad also.
When I saw Helen it brought it all back to my mind
because I wanted her to have my horse.
Mrs. J. Yes 1 She did have Klondike, and enjoyed him.
Yes I remember. & I am glad hes gone.
Mrs. .J. Is Roble's horse safe to ride horseback ?
No mother dear he is not. & he will hurt him. if he
rides him.
Mrs. J. I will tell your father and try to have him sold.
Oh I shall be so glad if you do. & I will rest in peace.
jNIrs. J. Your father will surely sell him.
I shall be happier then. I know many things I cannot say.
[Roble's horse ran away and turned his run-about upside
down. This was not Klondike, but the latter horse
became ill-tempered and was sold. —'N. B. J.]
[At the sitting of Feb. 23, 1904, Ruble said that Klondike
ran away, see p. 590. This discrepancy in the statements
made by sitters is no doul)t partly responsible for
Bennie's confusion about the horses. —H. de G. V.]
Mrs. J. Bennie, tell us about Frank B .
he . . do you mean B or C .
Mrs. J. B , Bennie. Frank B , I mean.
I will in a moment dear let me tell you this first I
want dad to know that I saw him at my grave & I saw
him put some flowers there thank him for me.
i.See p. .371.
LXi.] Re2?0Tt on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 601
Mes. J. I shall. He wrote me that he went out to your grave a
week ago yesterday. Was that the time you saw him?
I don't know but it was on the day on which everybody
prays.
Mrs. J. Yes, we call that day Sunday.
Oh yes I forgot for the moment.
H. J. (to Mrs. J. ) Ask him if I ought to go back to school next year.
I saw him & I was so glad to see him there. I saw him
stoop & lay something down, he seemed to be without
you because I looked & you were not there.
Mrs. J. No, I was not with him.
[Two Sundays before this sitting I visited Bennie's grave
alone and placed some flowers there. —N. B. J.]
Ask Roble if he heard me a few days before his examina-
tions I was in his room & I saw two other fellows with
him just after they left I tried to speak with him.^
Mrs. J. I shall ask him and will tell you to-morrow.
ask him also what made the flag fall in his room.-
Mrs. J. Yes, I shall ask him.
Helen what do you wish . .
Mrs. J. (to H. J.) Ask him now—tell him you're going to school next
year.
H. J. I expect to go back to school next year; is it best?
I am very glad & shall help you all I can . .
don't worry about your studies Helen dear you will get on
first rate I know you will. I know how you feel but
don't mind stick to it & you will be glad some time.
Mrs. J. She did not feel very well this spring while at school.
I know it. but do be careful about those colds. Helen &
never mind you will be better oft' for going back.
You don't think so now.
^See p. 607. -See p. 605.
2q
602 •
Helen de G. VerralL.
H. J. Yes, I do. I want to go back.
[part
I am glad very very glad. Eoble can help you now he is
through.
Mes. J. He will help Helen this suraniei-. Is that what you mean?
Yes & help her for the next term, or year. U. D.
I will go out a moment . .
(Hand takes and feels over cap.)
I want grandpa Junot to give his message first.
Please give my love to N- & his children in the body
& assure him that his interests are mine, tell him he
lias a great deal to be grateful for & he must take care
of himself, to do his allotted work, in that life. I
want him to know tliat we are all together & we are
watching over you all. there is no misunderstanding in
this life, his mother sends much love also.
Mrs. J. I shall give him the message.
all right dear.
[Characteristic, and reference again to the misunderstandings
of mother and father in this life. —N. B. J,]
Helen how about those photographs . .
H. J. What photographs do you mean ?
I saw you take some at the wharf last summer
]yiKS. J. (to H. J.) At Lake Geneva?
Was it boat.
H. J. At Lake Geneva, do you mean ?
I never saw the place before.
H. J. It must have been at Uncle Charlie's.
Oh I thiidv it was. tell me did you get the boat, in one
of them.
H. .J. I did not, but Aunt Frances did.
LXl.] Report on the Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Fiper. 603
Oh I saw the boat & the photo, quite plainly, at the
time. I tell you that you may know I am near you
often.
Mrs. J. Helen takes many pictures with her kodak and enjoys
doing so very much.
I knew she would & I am very glad.
•
tell me about the cart . .
H. J. I still have the cart, but have not ridden in it this year
yet.
When you do I shall be with you Helen surely.
I thought I would tell you about B because he is
all right . .
Mrs. J. Yes^
Can't you U. D. that when he returns I will give a
message . .
Mrs. J. Yes *
tell me about his mother, did she ask this.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, His mother is with him.
his mother asked dad this same question.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I think you have the two Franks confused.
Oh I mean Aunt Alice dear.
Mrs. J. Yes. Will you send a message to her'?
I will tell her how glad I am that she will hear what I
have to tell you from this side.
[When Mrs. J. asks for information about Frank B ,
see p. 600, Bennie replies; "Do you mean B or
C ," showing that he had both Franks in his mind.
H. de G. v.]
My thoughts wander 111 go out a moment.
(Hand holds cap a few seconds.)
Helen you look so well in that white. I like it so much I
mean the one you had on the other day . .
604 .
'
Helen de G. Verrall. [part
H. J. You mean yesterday on the beach 1
Yes it looked so pretty.
I saw your coat but I told dad I did not care for it the
red I mean . .
H. J. Did you see Eoble and I go in bathing yesterday'?
I [saw the water, quite clearly. & I saw you in white . .
Mes. J. Bennie, Helen has not been very well.
I know it mother but she will be now, better all the time.
Mrs. J. Yes, I think she is growing stronger.
Ill ask Doctor to look at her.
[Medical diagnosis follows.]
Helen skate dear when you can do you remember how I
used to help you.
Mes. J. Yes, I remember. And I remember how fond you were of
skating.
great fun don't you think so H . .
H. -J. Yes, I like it better than anything else.
Who is that girl you call Edith . .
Mes. J. (toH. .J.) Is there an Edith at school"?
H. J. Edith Waterman, do you mean"?
I do not care for her for j'ou . .
•
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you mean a girl at school?
Yes . .
Mes. J. But there is no one at school by that name.
Edith was with Helen on the ice.
H. J. I do not know her.
Yes think dear.
She has black hair.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 605
•Mks. J. I cannot recall her now. Can you tell me something about
her 1
Helen tell me dear which girl gave you two little books.
H. J. Elsa, do you mean ?
Yes . .
H. J. Do you not like her?
I thought I did not. because I thought she was not
sincere.
K. H. I think, Bennie, you must stop this time.
I will come again.
[" Edith " not understood, though Mrs. Junot possibly
knows who was intended. —N. B. J.]
5 1st Sitting.
June 28, 1904. Present: Mrs. J., B. B. /., and B. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Is that you Roble well I am glad to see you.
R. Hallo, Bennie, I am glad to be here again.
I have seen you in so many places since I spoke with you.
You got on finely didnt you.
R. Yes, Bennie, very well.
I told you so.
[Roble has just graduated with honors. —N. B.J.]
Did you U. D. about the flag.^
R. Do you mean the Hag we took down from the wall?
Yes . .
R. Yes, I understood.
iSee p. 601.
606 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
[We had several college fl ags in our room. In May we
took them all down for a while, and at another time
one was blown down and I tacked it up again. —R. B. J.]
going to the farm soon.
K. Yes, Bennie, in about a week.
Now Roble I can see better than 3'ou can. & I want you
to look out for that horse U. D.^
~R. All right, I'll watch him.
I am not going to let you get hurt.
tell me about your work I shall be so glad when you get
settled down with father.
E. Yes, I expect to study law next fall.
Good.
What did you want to ask me about something I said that
you did not U. D.
R. No, I don't know what you mean.
I thought I heard you tell mother you did not know what
I meant about something I said to her . .
R. I don't remember now, Bennie.
(Hand turns to Mrs. J.)
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I don't know to what you refer.
I think it was golf sticks, in your room, but I did intend
to misplace them.
R. H. (to Mrs. J.) He probably means about whether Noble was aware
of his presence by any disturbance of objects.
R. I did not see the sticks move, but I thought I heard you
one night and spoke to you about t\vo weeks ago.
I heard you say I hear hut I also thought you said I don't
U.D. did you . .
iSee p. GOO.
LXI.] Report on the Janet Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 607
R. No, I asked if you were there.
I remember that but I heard or got your thought so I
U. D. you were uncertain about something I said but if
you don't remember it I will not bother about it now &
I will see you again before long.
E. All right, Bennie.
[Bennie said in the sittings in February that he would
try to let me know of his presence by moving some
hockejr sticks in my room, see p. 582. One night
during the latter part of May, my two room-mates had
gone out, and I had gone to bed. Just as I was almost
asleep, I awoke suddenly thinking something had hit the
side bar of my bed near my head. I said "Bennie, is
that you 'I
"
—R. B. J.] [Note that Bennie says, " I saw
two other fellows with him just after they left I tried
to speak with him," see p. 601. —H. deG. V.]
I wish I could tell you how happy I am over here Roble
I want you to be sure that I am your brother, & while
I come to you there I want you to know & U. D. that
I am looking after you. I saw you in a boat, the other
day. & I was near enough to touch you.
H. Yes, Bennie, about two weeks ago. (Assent.)
Just about the time I was in your room.
R. Yes, Bennie.
[I was on the water a great part of the time either row-
ing, sailing, or canoeing. The reason I said " two weeks
ago " was because on that day we had taken a long sail
down to Newport. II. B. J.]
say Roble what was the matter with your ibot.
R. I cut my toe in swimming.
I thought so. I heard you sing out but I saw it bleed.
R. Yes, Bennie, I cut it badly.
AVas that your handkerchief you put on to it.
608 Helen de G. Verrall. '
[part
R. No, I borrowed one from another boy.
I thought so, I saw the influence but it didnt look just
like yours, do look out.
R. All right, Bennie, I'll be careful.
You see I am watching you. of course you don't mind.
R. No, I like to have you watch me, Bennie.
[I cut my toe in swimming April 5th and was on crutches
some time. 1 borrowed a handkerchief to tie up my
toe.—E. B. J.]
I hear every word you say R but Helen got her words
so mixed I could not U. D. very well.
Mrs. .J. She is not used to talking to you and did not understand
how.
Oh I see well she is all right only I wanted you to know
I could not hear her very well.
Now everything looks lost in your room E & I am going
to watch out closely & when I get back here. I shall
tell you much I have seen you do.
R. Yes, Bennie.
[College was over and we had packed up part of our things^
before going home. —E. B. J.]
What would you like me to do most.
(Hand touches cap, and then takes up harmonica a few
seconds.)
tell me about D has he got through yet.
R. Yes, Bennie, he finishes this week,
first rate isn't it.
[Charlie D , a great friend of Bennie, graduating from
college that week.—E. B. J.]
Did you remember about my photographs.^
R. Yes, Bennie, I gave one to his mother and she said she
Avould give it to him, but I don't know that she did.
^ See p, 578,
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 60^
Yes. I think she did. thank you R.
What good times we used to have at the farm R. I live
all over those old days again & again.
R. Yes, Bennie, we had lots of fun there, and I wish you
were there with me now.
I am in a way R. & I am happier because I can be there-
to see all you do.
Do you remember anything about climbing trees R . .
R. You mean cherry trees ?
Yes.
R, I remember very well.
isn't it about time to get them now.
R. They are just about ripe now, Bennie.
[We used to climb two old cherry trees and had hammocks
slung from the branches. —R. B. J.]
I tried my best to see this so I could remind you of our
climbing for them.
(Hand turns to R. then to Mrs. J.)
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie.
Do you know about it . .
Mrs. J. Yes, I remember that you used to climb the trees at the
farm.
Oh yes dear of course. I wanted you to remind me of
something so I would not get weak. While speaking.
R. H. (to Mrs. J.) Remind him of something at the farm.
Mrs. J. Do you . . have you seen your father at the farm, lately?
Yes I think so do you mean within a few days.
Mrs. J. Within a week.
Yes. but I saw him at my grave first.
610 • Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mes. J. Yes, he was there before he went to the farm. Do you
remember the pony at the farm 1
Oh yes I spoke about him. don't you remember.
Mrs. J. Yes, I remember.
I want to know what dad is doing with the spring.
Mes. J. I don't know, Bennie.
(Hand turns to R.)
R. I don't know 7ioiv, unless he is having it cleared.
that must be it ask him I saw him talking to a man
about it. the very day I was here before.
Mes. J. Yesterday ? He may have been at the farm yesterday.
it was when I came here before & spoke with you &, Helen.
Mes. J. That may be. He is troubled about the new well and
pump.
that is what I see surely. & I am sorry to have him
worried about it because he ought not to be & he said
to the man I can't see why it could not be fixed
differently.
[When at the farm 3 days before this sitting I had an
animated discussion with the man who tends the hot-air
pump. It was working badly. —N. B. J.]
Mes. J. I will ask him about this when I see him.
all right mother. I only want you to know I see.
he made them take away some boards near the barn. &
put them in the inside. What's he going to do with
them . .
Mes. J. I do not know now but I will ask him later.
[Lately I ordered an old shed near the farm barn to be
taken down. That has been done, but I do not think
the boards were placed in the barn. —N. B. J.]
You tell him to rest. & drive & take care of his. health,
he is tired.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 611
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I intend to have him do very little this
summer. We will be very quiet while at the farm.
do you think he has a pain in his back.
Mks. J. Yes, he complains of it.
I want very much to have him take a long rest & get over
it. Do tell him for me I love my father dearly & I
want him loell . .
Mes. J. Bennie, your father wants to know if you ever see Cousin
May and Aunt Susan, My Cousin May.
Oh yes I do often didn't I tell you about them when I
first talked with you mother dear.
Mrs. J. Yes. You said that Cousin May met you when you first
passed over to the other side.i
So she did. & we have very happy times together. & do
you remember Marion.
Mes. J. Miriam, you mean, I think? (Assent.)
Yes Clarke.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie. Have you a message from her to her mother?
Yes she wanted me to tell Aunt Alice how well &, happy
she is & how glad she is when she hears her speak of
her.
Mes. J. Yes?
she was with you a short time ago mother I saw her.
Roble you remember Miriam don't you 1
R. No, Bennie.
You remember hearing me speak of her.
R. Yes, but you know I never saw her.
let me think. No I don't know as you did but I knew
& she is a fine girl. & very fond of her father & mother.
iSee p. 385.
612 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R, Yes, she ought to be a fine girl.
Slie is & we have such good times together.
She wants to know you & Helen very much.
Susan is all right too & sends her love to you now . .
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie. Aunt Susan, you mean 1
Yes. (Hand moves from side to side rapidly several times
as though disturbed. Pause.)
I had to go out a moment. (Hand touches harmonica.)
E.oble do you remember, about that fellow in our show
that to whom I referred. ^
R. Yes, I think I know the one.
All right I got a little confused about them,
do you remember the Swallow nests . .
R. At the farm 1
Yes. in barn.
R. Yes, and the bats.
Oh yes I tried to remember that name but it would not
come back to my memory.
[In the farm barns there are swallows' nests and many bats.
—R. B. J.]
R. Do you remember how they hang on the beam 1
Oh certainly I do I can see them perfectly just as the)'
looked then. What a good time we had there I hope
dad will always keep that old place.
R. Yes, he will, Bennie.
that carriage with its new paint bothered me a little.
R. The runabout?
Yes.
Mrs. J. (sotto voce) I wonder if that's . .
iSee p. 587. 2 See p. 591.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 613
.
I tried to look it over but it looked differently somehow.
Mrs. J. Bennie, yon mean the carriage, I tliiuk, which has been
painted a different colour.
What did you say Roble. What about . .
R. I thought you meant your old runabout.
Oh that was painted before I think, but this is still newer.
Mrs. J. I don't remember . .
R. (to Mrs. J.) Last summer.
Mrs. J. The runabout was painted last summer.
last summer 1
help me Mr Hodgson.
(Hand touches E,. H.'s lightly as he puts it forward.)
I mean listen.
What did you want to know about Frank B . .
Mrs. J. Nothing special, Bennie, only I always cared a great deal
for Frank B . Do you see him ever 1
Oh yes I do often I told you about my friend Frank
my Cousin Frank & uncle Frank, don't j'ou remember.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I remember.
We meet often & we are splendid friends. & they all
want to send love to you & to dad will you tell him.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I will give him any message you wish to
send.
tell we all think a great deal of him & want to help him
in every possible way.
Roble tell me about your Gym.
& are you going to give it up 1
R. No, Bennie, I expect to have some fan in the Gymnasium
next year.
[I was in the gymnasium a great deal while at college.
E. B. J.]
Capital, but you are doing finely, did you know it.
614 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. I have had lots of fun there, Bennie, playing games.
tell me about that new lift, of yours.
R. H. "that new lift"^
Yes it seems with a weight.
R. Do you mean nearer the river 1
Yes near the water.
R. I remember pulling on a weight-machine last week, when
we were canoeing.
that is what I saw but to U. D. it I could not.
R. Yes, we tried to see who could pull the heaviest weight.
Isn't it .something new with you'?
R. Yes, Bennie, that was the first time I had tried it.
I stood behind you And I could not help laughing to see
you trying to lift it. .
R. Yes, Bennie. Did you see any one that was with me 1
Yes I saw three other fellows.
R. Yes, there were several others.
but I saw three in particular,
one quite large.
R. Yes, there were three of us lifting.
I did not notice in particular only three.
[While canoeing up the river, we landed, and two girls,
another boy and I tried a slot machine where one sees
how much he can lift. One of the girls was extremely
tall for a girl, being 6 feet tall. —R. B. J.]
(Hand feels harmonica.)
What to say something mother, ask dad if he didn't put
some flowers at my grave ?
LXi.] Report on the Jimot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 615^
Mes. J. Yes, I will ask him in a few days.
grandma Junot sends very much love to him.
Mrs. J. I will tell him, Bennie. What can I do for him '?
make him rest.
Mes. J. Yes, I think it would be a good ^l&n for Koble and him.
to go away together.
that is so it would be fine. I want him to stop worrying
about things at the farm & in his business. & leave
it all . . before he breaks down altogether.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, but I have not been able to have him stop.
Well I know dad would do anything for me & I want you
to tell him I want him to take a rest now right off.
Mes. J. Yes, I will tell him and you must try to influence him to-
do so.
I will surely & you will hear him say he v:ill.
Mes. J. That will be good.
tell me about your horse Roble don't you think he is a
high headed fellow for you to ride.
R. He is a very fast single-footer, Bennie.
Yes but I mean nervous.
R. Yes, he is a bit nervous.
do look out for him won't you I
R. Yes, Bennie. I can make him behave.
fine.
Why don't you & dad take a trip over the water for a
little while?
R. I would like to, but he is very busy now.
I know it but I mean a little later.
616 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. I wish that he would and will tiy to have him.
It would do him so much good mother.
Do you know what troubled him so about the R. R.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie. But I think he was over anxious.
[I had some months ago a period of r/reat anxiety about
some railroad business. I was thinking of it constantly
for weeks, and it is not yet settled to my entire
satisfaction.-—N. B. J.]
I know he was. & it will come out all right Uncle Frank
says so.
Mrs. J. I will tell your father and I hope that he will not worry
about it longer.
I feel sure if he can believe me & feel that we do know
he will stop worrying about that.
Mrs. J. This talk with you will do him lots of good, I know.
Well it helps me very much & it helps me keep in touch
with you all at home God bless & keep you one & all.
I am going out a moment to get a fresh . .
. . fresh breath.
(Hand turns to Spirit. Then takes up harmonica, bends
under at wrist, still holding it, lays it down again.)
I did not finish about Helens friend.^
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I was going to ask about her.
I wondered if she U. D. the girl I meant I thought she
called her Edith it was something like it.
Mrs. J. I do not know any friend of Helen's named Edith. Helen
thought you might have meant Elsa, but we all like
Elsa very much.
She is all right too but she is not the one I mean, the
girl I mean is not fond of Helen . .
Mrs. J. Tell me how she looks.
She is tall & has very dark hair & she has dark eyes too . .
1 See p. 604.
LXI.]
Mes. J.
Report on the Junot Sittings xvith Mrs. Piper. 617
Does she live near us '?
Yes I think she does but she is jealous of Helen & I am
sorry she is so I want Helen not to feel troubled
about her.
ask Helen if she can remember seeing lier at a party not
long befcire she left school.
Mrs. J. I will ask Helen. Can you not tell me her name ?
It begins with E. it may be Edna . .
Mrs. J. I do not know any girl of that name.
She plays, on Violin I think.
Mrs. J. Is she in school with Helen ?
I think she is. I have seen her near her very often.
Mrs. J. I will try to recall her, but I cannot now.
I feel a little troubled about Helens beina; with her. that
is all & if you can place her it will help very much.
Mrs. J. I will watch over Helen and will try to place this girl.
I do see it mother dear.
[This girl is not satisfactorily recognized. —N. B. J.]
speak to me R ask me anything you wish.
R. Bennie, do you ever see me rowing or canoeing^
Oh yes indeed I do. didn't I tell you I would watch
over you & see that nothing happened to you when
rowing.
R. Yes, I remember.
I think you have great fun. & I am glad you do it makes
me as happy as it does you.
R. That is good.
Isn't that the same River I used to 2:0 on . .
2 11
618 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. No, Bennie, you never went on this river. " .
'
'
What it is not near the farm, is it.
R. No, Bennie, it is at college.
Oh yes I U. D.
[I had been rowing in the summer time on the river near
the farm, on which Bennie had been.—R. B. J.]
but what place was it where I saw you skating it looked
as if they made it on purpose. . .
R. I think that is home, where you and I used to skate.
Just think a moment & see if you & some other fellows
didnt skate some where else, once or twice.
R. Oh, yes, we skate at college.
that is what I mean.
R. We skate near the river on a pond, and I have skated in
New York where they freeze the ice artificially.
That is what I mean but I could not express it as I
wished.
R. Yes, we played games then in the rink.
Yes that is right & where I saw yon. but I could not
locate it.
[St. Nicholas Skating Eink in New York City where the
intercollegiate hockey league plays its games. —R. B. J.]
52nd Sittinc4.
.My 13, 1904. Present: B. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
I want to send one word to my people.
Benny.
I want you to assure them of my love my watchfulness
& & care, for them. I saw Helen driving out the day
before Sunday with another friend girl ... a girl.^
There is no comment on this statement.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings loith Mrs. Pilfer. 619
53rd Sitting.
October 31, 1904. Present: R. H.
(Rector communicating.)
We have fir.st a message from Benny, which we give now.
Dear Mr. Hodgson. I am glad to greet you. Please
tell my dear ones in the earthly world that I am
still with & watching over them. When I can con-
veniently do so I shall tell about some of their doings
since we last met, do you hear me ?
R. H. Yes, Bennie, quite clearly. I have a letter received this
morning from your father.
When is morning do you mean day this day ?
R. H. Yes.
Oh I am so glad, please tell me all he says to me &
God bless you.
R. H. He says "Bennie, we have often spoken of you during
the summer and have looked forward eagerly to hear
from you again. I have just been looking about your
room and thinking of you. Were you with us any
at the farm this summer 1
"
Yes I should say I was. I have been wondering if you
were at all conscious of my presence, if so please tell
me. besides answer all my questions on those which I
gave when 1 last spoke to Mr Hodgson.
R. H. Yes 1 He goes on " And what did you see and hear
there —"
Oh I have many recollections which I shall narrate
eventually.
R. H. " Roble is home with us now and '
Schless '
"
Eoble & what ?
Spell it to me . .
620 . Helen de G. Verrall. [part
R. H. S c h 1 e ss. .
Oh you mean his friend.
[Correct. Was a friend of Bennie also. —N. B. J.]
R. H. He says " Schless was in to see us a few evenings ago.
He made us think of you."
evenings 1
R. H. Yes.
good enough I have it.
give him my warmest greetings & say I will look him
up & tell you some of his movements in his room.
R. H. Yes. (reads) " Don't foi'get us. We love j'ou the same as
ever and long to hear from you. Send us a message
when ever you can. Daddy."
I am delighted, thank you. Now cannot you help me.
by corroborating, all that I have previously mentioned
that was clear ? it will enable me to avoid repetition.
R. H. I can look up your last statements, but I cannot do this
at the moment, Bennie.
Can you do so next time?
R. H. I think so.
I will ask +. (Hand turns to Spirit.)
It will be well + .
Daddie is it all new paint. I think the house looks queer
ljut I like it very very much. The farm house I mean.
R. H. Yes 1
[Have lately been painting the large barns and outhouses
at the farm white—but not the dwelling house. —N. B.J.]
I also saw the new stall.
R. H. What kind of stall 1
horse stall. I thoutrht it was for Iloble's horse, ask liim.
Lxr.] Report on the Junot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 621
R. H. I will.
[Have lately had a set of new stalls built into the cow
house, but not in the horse stable. —N. B. J.]
I saw Helen & a j'oung lady both in a swing reading logic
&. .
& laughing, venj. loudly over something they were reading.
Ask her.
R. H. Yes.
It occurred several times,
R. H. Yes 1
Which attracted my attention.
R. H. Yes ?
[Helen is away at school. Don't understand about this
unless it refers to a swinging seat jit the farm where
Helen sat often during the summer. —N. B. J,]
Ask Roble what he was trying to do with that plat form
down at the shore.
I saw him dive . from it. & then come up and push it
& hammer it . . Push. I think he put new . . what
did we call them ?
R. H. AVas it a float ?
Yes but new . . walks.
R. H. Springboard 1
boards on it. or he was telling another man how to do it.
U. D. what I mean.
R. H. Springboard?
Yes.
(Hand imitates diving motion.)
R. H. How to dive. (Assent. Hand repeats diving motion.)
^ See p. G25.
622 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Oh what a i^ood time, they all seemed to be having. I
am glad Helen is back at school. it is better for her.
give them all my deepest love & assure them that I am
watching over them one and all. thank you. B
54th Sitting.
November 2, 190-i. Present: R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Tell mother I like that white lace affair she wears so often
near her neck tfe shoulders. It attracts me as did Helens
coat.
R. H. Yes 1 From Bennie.
Yes. ife tell her those yellow flowers attack me attract me also,
they were in the dining room.
[Extract from Mrs. J.'s letter, Nov. 4, 1904.
" I have no lace scarf or fichu, but I have worn white a great
deal this summer, and 1 have a gown with white lace about the
neck and sleeves, which the other members of the family like very
much. This gown I wore often last spring and am again wearing
it this autumn.
I used yellow flowers constantly in the dining room this summer.
I was particularly fond of Eschscholtzias, of which flower there was
an abundance in the garden. I used it with Golden Glow in the
dining room all summer long. Both of these flowers, as you know,
are yellow."]
55th Sitting.
November 15, 1904. Present: R. H.
(Waking Stage.)
Bennie. Yes please tell Mr. Hodgson (stumbling over the
name Hodgson.)
We are happy [ ?
]
Tell dad I will see to everything at the office later. (Not
absolutely sure of every word : R. H. repeated the words,
and some of them were said two or three times by
Mrs. Piper.)
That's what I say.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 623
56th Sitting.
November 16, 1904. Present: R.H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Can't you tell me about that pump,
at the farm 1
R. H. I don't know anything of the pump.^ The . .
I told Eoble. don't you recall ?
R. H. I do not at this moment.
Well go on I am trying to help you.
R. H. I think that practically all you told Eoble and Helen when
they met you was right. There was a girl you referred
to whose influence you said was not good, and I think
they were uncertain about this. What you said at the
beginning this season is partly right, but the enquiry
lias not been pushed enough yet. The painting at the
farm concerns the eow stall.
Oh yes I am glad to U. D. because I saw the stall as I told
you but had an idea it was the horse stall.'-'
R.H. Yes.
I may have been a little disturbed in giving it while fresh
in my memory.
R.H. Then . .
are you tired ?
R. H. No, I don't think so.
Well lets clear these all up.
R. H. Yes. Eoble was in the water a good deal, but he doesn't
quite know what you meant by your description about
the boards and so on.
^Seep. 610. -Seep. 620.
624 Helen cle G. Verrall. [part
I saw him arranging a board a plank for jumping i
ask
him to recall this.
R. H. Yes?
Surely I know.
It may have been for another purpose than connected with
his swimming but I saw him for a moment, arranging
one.
R. H. Helen, I think, was not directly asked about the other girl
and the swinging. Your father thought it might refer
to some swing or hammock at the farm.
It was at the farm I thought I told you this.
R. H. Perhaps you did, Bennie. I sent it as you gave it.
thank you.
* * *
R. H. Bennie, what was the mes.5age you tried to give through
the returning spirit of the light last time 1
Oh. I said help me dad & I will help you at the office."
X- * *
Helen must be going to a party. I think I see a very
pretty . .
looks like Pink gown, pink & something white with it.
U. D.
R. H. Yes. A new gown, you think?
Yes I never noticed it before, very pretty.
[Extract from N. B. J.'s letter, Jan. 5, 1905.
" We talked with Helen when she was home on her Christmas
vacation. She read the record about her dressing for a party,
etc. She could not recall the occurrence with any clearness."]
Give them all my love and tell Eoble to be as happy as
he can.
'(See p. 621. = 8ee p. 62-2.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tuitJt. Mrs. Pvper. 625
[Extract from K. B. J.'s letter, Nov. 23, 1904.
"In the notes of Nov. 16, Bennie says 'tell Roble to be as
happy as he can.' This may have some connection with a family
joke to the eifect that I said, when I started to work this fall,
that I never expected to have a good time again. This has grown
to be quite a phra«e in our family."]
57th Sitting.
January 9, 1905. Present: li. II.
(Bennie communicating.)
(R. H. put Bennie's articles in front of sheets.)
tell Dad not to hurry so when eating.
(Hand listens to E. H.)
R. H. First, Eoble finally thought that what you said about his
diving and the water and so on was about his diving
from a raft at Nantucket, and it was a hard raft to
climb upon, although there was no spring board. You
must have had a glimpse of him scrambling up on to
the raft.^
I did I think Ijecause I saw him greatly Ijothered about it
& I saw him pulling away at it & it resembled a
board. I thought.
5Sth Sitting.
'February 27, 1905. Present: Mr. and Mrs. J. and 11. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
I often look into the office & at home I live constantly.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I feel very conscious of your presence often.
I see nearly everything j'ou do. I saw you the last day
when you went to the cemetery I saw you talking with
Helen about her music,
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, she has not done anything about her music
lately.
iSee p. 621.
626 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
I know it but c;ive her time & when she sets through
school I shall help her with it.
Mks. J. I wish she had more talent for music.
don't worry about it. let it come as it will. & she will
be helped greatly. (3h I am so glad to see you. please.
tell Aunt Alice. I I'.ave a message for her from cousin
Frank, before I go.
do you hear me when I talk with you when you seem to
pray mother.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, tell me how I can, hear you.
I think if you listen 30U can hear me say good night. I
never forget to visit you then. dad did you have a
cold was that it ?
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I had a very bail cold.
I tried to help you all through it. I know so well when
anything is the matter with any of you. I know better
if possible than you do U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, help us all you can.
Oh yes. I shall do that. cV; I am not going so far from
you that I shall not be ready when you come remember.
I shall be ready to meet each of you.
jST. B. J. That's what we want, more than anything else, Bennie.
I heard you talking about my going a long way i'rom you.
not so dad I am growing all the time in knowledge of
this new life but not that I shall leave you. don't
forget that.
[At one time we talked of the possibility of changes in the
other life and that Bennie m ight have to pass on and
away from remembrance of us. —N. B. J.]
did you U. D. that I heard you talking about my going
so far away . .
Mrs. J. No, but, Bennie, in your thought to care for us, you must
not do anything to prevent your own progress.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvifli Mrs. Piper. 627
No how could I dear mother, there are kws connected
with this life & its conditions which enable me to
progress constantly yet. while progressing I am better
able to if possible to help you. than otherwise.
Mks. J. Yes, Bennie. Tell me about Helen.
Helen is all right if you will only think so, she will go
through school & . . (Hand moves back and makes a big
line on table behind sheet, curving back to block-book.
This was perhaps in connection with some remark by
a communicator to which the next sentence is apparently
Rector's reply. —R. H.)
No not at all. E.
. . take up her music later.
I saw her not feeling well a little while ago but she is
very careless.
Mks. J. She is not well at all.
She will be. I am telling you dear.
/ uill take care of Helen surely.
Mks. J. Thank you, Bennie. Sometimes I feel troubled as to the
best thing to do for her.
look out for her dress she is so careless mama dear.
Mrs. J. Yes, that is true.
* * *
N. B. .J. Bennie, do you ever see Hugh ?
Of course I do. I told you about him dad . .
N. B. .J. Bennie, tell Hugh that dad never ceases to be sorry that
he didn't take care of Hugh better.
he will be glad to hear from you oh so glad because he
often goes with me to the office & stable & everywhere
I go. & dad he is very fond of you. he said I don't
think your father quite U. D. me.
628 Helen de G. VerralL [PAUT
N. B. J. That's right, Bennie, I did not understand Hugh.
You won't worry about it will you 1
Do you remember the day I brought him here . .
N. B. J. Oh yes, Bennie, he talked himself.
Yes he often refers to it. & is so glad he saw you in that
way. he wants to know if you U. D. about Eounder.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we did. Do you sometimes see Rounder now?
Oh yes often. Please tell me dad what the place was
N. B. J. Yes, we got him through Welsh.
Yes didn't I tell it you?
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, we followed your directions and got Eounder
Now I shall talk with Hugh & he will so glad to hear
from you. he said you Avere stern at times but he
U. D. it all now. I am going out a moment . . (Hand
drops pencil, slight disturbance, feels cap about inside,
holds it up, replaces it in front of sheets.)
I did not wish to get confused so got refreshed.
Mks. J. Bennie, a very dear friend of ours has gone over to your
life lately. Can you tell us anything about it?
I don't know as I can at the moment dear but I will fiml
out & tell you if I can did I know him in the body 1
Mrs. J. Y''es, Bennie. Perhaps you can tell me about him the next
time I come.
I will if I knew him I can find him. I do not see every
body whom I knew when they come dear because I
meet so many but I can easily find any one by looking
for him.
When I stop speaking.
dad did you want anything?
back.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 629
N. B. J. Onlj' to know that you are happy, and progressing,
happy.
Oh I wish you knew.
]\I other will you tell me who all those people were at the
house the other day or what they were there for ?
Mes. J. I think y^ou mean some friends of Roble's who came to
rehearse a play.
I thoudit I heard so much talking- it confused me somewhat.
[Eoble lately had a number of young friends at our home
rehearsing for private theatricals. They were very
merry.^—N. B. J.]
Do you see how perfectly well Eoble is 1
Mrs. J. Yes, and very happy and contented.
Yes I knew it. isn't he a good l)oy dad?
N. B. J. Indeed he is, a great pleasure and comfort.
he loves you all dearly & is I think very unselfish for
which I am so thankful I have prayed for him so much.
Mrs. J. Bennie, he sent his love to you, and said that he regretted
that he could not come with us.
Oh give him all the love possible & tell liim I am always
interested in everything he does I think his work with
dad is just the best thing in your world for him.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I'm teaching him every moment, and he
learns quickly.
I. I praj' for all those people and I hope some day your
world will grow better.
N. B. J. Yes, Betmie. Have you any message from my mother and
father ? (Hand points to Spirit.)
Grandma is so interested in my talks with you that when I
finish here she gets close to me & asks me all sorts of
questions. & I have to tell her everything about you
all as I hear it from you. She says the only thing she
G30 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
cannot forget is the conditions of her earthly life &
how often she misunderstood her children. She sends
her love to you every time I come & if you could see
her as she looks now you would be delighted I know.
Dad do you think everything is all right at the farm.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, Roble tends to the farm now.
did you U. D. about that i)ump.^
N. B. J. No, Bennie, we're going to have a veiv pump now.
Well I knew- it long gone. & I told (Hand turns and
points to li. H.) you about it.
here comes cousin Frank, he was sorry his mother was not
well.
R. H. Bennie, I have some articles of Frank's. Shall I produce
them now 1
Better avoid confusion friend & present them at the beginning
of our next meeting t^i 11.
R. H. Very good.
N. B. J. Bennie, tell cousin Frank that his mother has gone away
from home for a change, and that 1 hope that she will
be better.
he has talked constantly about his mother & does not like
to see her feeling so poorly, he has asked again ct again
to see her influences can't you bring them here dad or
give them to . . (Hand points to R. H.)
R. H. I shall see about this, Bennie.
She is lonely & worries a great deal, which he does not
like to see neither does Uncle Frank or grandma,
tell her we all love her & we are not annihilated
Mrs. J. I do not believe she thinks you are annihilated. Has she
not faith in another life ?
Oh yes she has. much but she gets very lonely & sad at
times 1 myself see it too.
iSee p. 610.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 631
Mks. J. She is happy in Brandon's wife.
I am glad of that & it will please Uncle Frank very much
to U.D.
Dad don't work too hard I see how anxious you are at
times take care of your health &, I will take care of
Helen.
N.B.J. Good boy, Good boy.
Helen is not very strong & she is very apt to overtax her
strength besides she does not wear warm clothing I see
it.
* * *
Mks. J. Bennie, tell me something else that you have seen me do,—
something going on in the house about Eoble or myself
or any of us.
Mother I saw about ten Sabbaths ago you & dad driving to
my grave do you remember it 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, it was about Christmas time.
I saw you oh so clearly & I saw what seemed to be
wreaths
I saw you telling a woman about some curtains & she
took all the things out of the room. What did you do
with it dad. It looks so light now.
K B. J. I don't understand, Bennie.
listen.
don't you remember, after you came from the farm you
had somethincf done to Robles room 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I had his rooms put in order. You remember
your room in our home ?
Yes I do very well, (emphatically written.)
Mrs. J. They had not been used much since you left us, but last
fall Eoble came . . went back to them, and I had them
all freshened up and put in order.
632 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
I conkl not tell exactly what you did do but just after
you came froui the farm I was attracted by Robles being
there & I saw great confusion . .
I saw they looked so light & cheerful after all the things
were removed & changed about after which I saw Eoble
in them.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, I took out some of the old things and had
the rooms repapered the . . .
..'
that is what I was trying to recall . .
Re papered
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, the study was repapered and your room cleaned
and put in order.
You wished me to tell you something I saw at home so I
remember this & all seemed so bright & light there to me.
Mrs. J. Yes, it looks very pretty.
I see my desk just the same, but I cannot find that
script,! where is it.
Mrs. J. What do you mean by script '?
(N. B. .J. puts what looks like a fragment of an old dollar
bill to the hand, which touches it.)
N. B. J. Is this it 1
Y^es. it is the one I had so long ago & I missed it from
my room.
Mrs. J. You told your father at one of these meetings to get it
and carry it with him.
so I did I remember well . .
I never forget anything as you will U. D. if you follow me
but at times I look for my different things & if I do
not see them where I used to see them while I am speaking
I ask.
Do you remember a polished stone 1 used to have on my
desk ?
iSee p. 414.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 633
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, I think that it is in your room now, on
the mantel-shelf.
On what?
Mes. J. On the mantel—in your bedroom—over the fireplace. Do
you not understand 1
I cannot remember, the name,
say it once more.
Mes. J. Mantel.
is it a shelf dear ?
Mes. J. Yes. Over . .
Oh yes I recall. I will look & see.
did Roble tell you about a dream he had about me recently.
Mes. J. No, Bennie. Can you tell me the dream 1
he saw me in my shirt sleeves with my trouser legs turned
up.
ask him if he does not remember it.
Mes. J. I shall, Bennie.
[Roble says he cannot remember anything about the dream.
—N. B. J.]
do you remember, a nest he & I got at the farm & we
took it home on a stick . .
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, perfectly.
Can I find it there 1
Mes. J. No, Bennie, we threw it away before you left us.
did you I am thinking, of many little things just as tests
to assure you I am Benny,
they are calling me.
R. H. Yes.
to come away.
tell me what I can do for you.
2S
634 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Tell me about the friend who came over recently to your
side.
Yes & what else. .
Mes. J. About Frank, and about yourself. ... ,
I will not forget.
(Sheet turned. Hand follows it as though for article,
perhaps supposing I had removed article. I conjecture
that hand may want Frank C.'s articles. R. H.)
R. H. Frank's? .
(Hand moves forward and feels Bennie's articles.)
... . Please help me to U. D. HOW to talk like other friends
of mine I am Frank if you U. D. me . .
(R. H. gestures to Mrs. J. to put F.'s articles near block-
book. She does.)
help me Benny. I wish mother would hear me does she
remember, about Bobbie [Robbie ?J
. ? & me 1
(R. H. hesitates a moment over deciphering of Bobbie.)
N.B.J. "Bobbie."
(F.'s necktie and book are near hand. Hand touches them
and feels tie a little, as if with earnest interest.)
Oh I am so glad so glad to come here will you help me
to talk?
E. H. Yes, take your time. (R. H. gestures to Sitters to talk.)
N. B. J. Yes, Frank, we'll help you. But send word to your mother.
She wants to hear from you. Tell about yourself.
(Hand vibrates somewhat, turning for some seconds to Spirit
then to R. H. and Mrs. J. and back.)
Oh yes I U. D. will you tell mama how I know about
her. Is it uncle N . .
59th Sittinc4.
Febrnari/ 28, 1905. Mr. and Mrs. J. and B. H.
(Frank C. communicating.)
I
LXi.] Report on tJte Junot Sittings luith Mrs. Piper. 635
N.B.J. Yes, Frank, this is Uncle N :
—. I want a message to
your mother from you.
I want you to ask her if she remembers. Georgie &
Bobbie, he came to see me just before I left my body
& tell her I. want her to recall, the. last . . . Water.
Water . . tell her I U. D.
Where are my things now.
[Water is probably an automatism, due to Frank's feeling
as if he was losing consciousness, and so calling for
water as he might if feeling faint when incarnate. —R. H.]
Come with me & I will explain again to you. G [1]
Pelham.
[These names are not recognized. —A. J. C.^]
Good morning dad.
N. B. -J. Yes, Bennie, good morning, dearie.
did you see anything of Frank he will U. D. later & will
help us all greatly don't get impatient.
Mother dear why didn't I think of paper can you tell me."
Was it Charlie you wanted to know about ?
Was he in m\' play . .
(Hand moves F.'s necktie forward, and puts it by B.'s
articles.)
let him stay with me. (F.'s tie wnth B.'s articles.)
. . Was it Charlie. . . know about.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, it was not Charlie. But if you have anything
to tell about him, tell it to us. '
'
I don't believe you U. D. me very well,
listen.
I went & told Hugh what you said about him & he said
if God U. D. all you must U. D. also that all is well
with him. don't worry about anything he had his faults
& many of them. .
.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, but we did not know that he was sick, else
we would have taken care of him.
^ Mrs. Clarke, Frank's mother.
. -See p. 632 on the repapering of the room. —H. de G. V. _ , .
636 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
he U. D. that fully, don't I beg of you think more about
it. you didn't U. D. We must all turn to Helen now
& help her get well. •
•
Mrs. J. Yes, I am doing all that I can,
•
I think I can do much for her. shall I tell you about the
farm ?
Mrs. J. Yes, go on.
You U. D. what I see & think it over so you can U. D.
Do you remember that tree they cut down tell me was it
dead . .
Mrs. J. Yes, a number of trees died last summer and I had them
cut down and burned.
I missed them one day & first I knew I U. D. they were
cut. down.
Was it the cows pen which was painted.^
N. B. J. It was the big barn, Bennie.
Oh yes. Well you U. I). I see what goes on with you &
most of all I want you to know about it.
N. B. J. Yes, Eennie, we like for you to see and tell us.
did you U. D. about that plank 1
Mrs. J. What do you . . to what do you refer, Bennie 1
Eoble jumped off from it & I feared he would get injured.
Mrs. J. I think you mean the platform at the seashore . . the raft
at the seashore 1
Raft yes that the name of it.
tell me who the fellow was in liobles room last night.
Mrs. J. I shall ask him later and send you word,
such fun I never heard.
'See p. 623 where R. H. says, ''The painting at the farm concerns the
cowstalL" This statement is incorrect; see N. B. J.'s note on p. &21.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 637
Mes. J. What were they doing?
he was playing, on a banjo. . , . .
,
Mrs. J. I shall ask him when I see hira.
he & another fellow were there together, playing & one
sang something.
Mrs. J. Go on, Bennie.
like. Dellia.
X. B. J. and Mrs. J. "Delia."
I could not catch it.
(Hand turns to E. H.)
R. H. Delia?
I cannot tell you I got it so mixed up in my thoughts,
say it again.
R. H. Delia ? . . Dellia 1
Mrs. J. Bennie, perhaps you mean Burdelia. Budelia? It is a song
that the boys sing.
Yes I think so. say it again it sounded so queer to me.
N. B. .J. It's Obedelia.
Mrs. J. Obedelia? Bedelia?
Yes.
Mrs. J. You got it very nearly right.
I heard O I heard Steel ing I heard Delia . .
I heard Roble laughing merrily.
Mrs. J. Go on, Bennie.
I wondered if he knew I was there,
he and . .
do j'ou know Bert . .
Mrs. J. No, Bennie . .
63'S .
'
' Hden de G. Verrall. '
'
[pakt
N. B. J. {to Mrs. J. soito voce.) Yes, you do. ' •
•
. .
Mrs. J. . . but go on, this is very interesting.
Mrs. .J. (to N. B. J.) Who is Bert^
N. B. J. (to Mrs. J.) Bert B :
I think they have some joke on him.
R. H. Kindly wait.
I have so much to tell you . .
do let me tell you . .
(Hand moves a little to\yards E. H.)
R. H. Kindly wait.
(Hand feels articles. N. B. J. takes tie away. Hand seeks
it again. He replaces it. Hand feels the articles while
E. H. completes the record.)
R. H. Eeady.
leave Frank with me.
E. H. Yes. (i.e. leave F.'s article with B.'s.)
I heard Eoble say Walter & something about joke & Burt.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I was mistaken. I do know Bert.
[Extract from letter of R.B.J. March 5, 1905.
" Referring to the sitting of February 28th, on pages six and seven
of the typewritten notes, Benny speaks of a boy playing on a banjo
last night. The night before this sitting I was with a party of
young people and we played the piano and sang, but did not
sing Bedelia. Then he says 'Steeling.' The words of the song
are '0, Bedelia, I've made up my mind to steal you.' Bert was
my room-mate at college, and he was the first one I heard sing
Bedelia. We very often sang it together, and when I was East in
November, I saw Bert and I remember a lot of us singing Bedelia.
Then speaking of Bert, he says '
I think they have some joke on
him.' Now, Bert was always getting into trouble, and the joke
was always on him, so much so, that we always called him Bertie
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 639
the Goat. Below that he saj's 'I heard Roble say Walter and
something about joke and Bert.' Now, our phrase always was
'joke on Bert,' and we used it very often."]
[The reference to Walter is not understood. —N. B. J.]
All right mother we U. D. each other very well, how is
KLON . .
my pony 1 . :
, ^
'
. ;
N. B. J. Klondike turned bad, and we sold him to the butcher.
I feared, for him. & Helen. : . .
,r
Did you say sold him ?
jST. B. J. Yes, he came near hurting Helen.
Do you think I could see & permit that.?
Mrs. J. Did you tell us to get rid of him 1
I \varned dad. & when he said sold I was very glad, you
do not U. D. how you often do the very things I tell
you . .
(Hand jjoints to Spirit.)
I want to helj) find our friend who has just come over
& I have asked George to help me in finding him.^
I'll bring him here to you if he does not come today.
(Hand moves a little towards E. H.)
Mrs. J. Thank you, Bennie.
What's the word Dellia. (Hand turns to E, H.)
K. H. Obedelia.
all right.
tell me about the horse Eoble had . .
IST. B. .J. He's at the farm still, Bennie.
Yes, but he is bad too.
B. J. Yes, Bennie, I'W have him sold, and get Eoble another
horse.
iSee p. 628.
640 : • v . Helen de G. Verrall. ' VrO' [part
do . .
-' '
I tell you father dear you don't U. D. everything. I see.
(Slight disturbance in hand. Pencil dropped. Hand points
to Spirit. Fresh pencil given,)
Sallie.
Where is May . .
- !
--^
Mes. J. Whom do you mean, Bennie ?
May . .
. ; '
;
Mrs. J. Cousin May is on your side.
I am May . .
N. B. J. (to Mrs. J.) Tell her to go on.
Mrs. J. Talk to me, May.
I found you at last & you will hear more about me . .
Mrs. J. Tell me anything you have on your mind.
do you U D me now . .
Mrs. J. No, May, did you write Sallie?
I did . .
N. B. J. Who is Sally ?
do you remember Sarah . .
Mrs. J. Yes.
I called her Sallie. here.
N. B. J. (to Mrs. J.) Tell her to send a message to us.
I wanted to know about her & send my love . .
Mrs. J. Send a message to her.
ask her if she remembers anything about my ear . .
W^as it Rheumatism she had . .
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Piper. 641
Mrs. J. No, I think not.
Back . .
'
t
Mrs. J. She had a serious fever, and has lately had the grippe.
Grippe 1
Mrs. J. Yes.
Back . .
I want her to know where I am . . tell her not to take
any more of those powders I do not like them for her.
She will U. D.
Mrs. J. Tell me more definitely who you mean by Sarah.
She is . Sister . . your . . aunt.
I'll tell you. I am her . .
Mrs. J. Tell me what relation you are to her.
Are you A . . I forget. I can't think, possibly.
(Slight disturbance in hand. Pencil dropped. Pause. Evi-
dently "May" was drifting off into unconsciousness just
as "Frank" did previously.)
[The person now in life to whom May, Bennie's cousin,
was most attached is her Aunt Sarah—Bennie's grand-
mother. We have never known her to be called " Sally
"
by any of her family. —N. B. J.]
I want Marion to tell her mother not to worry so about
that house I saw her with you not long ago.
All is well with me.
Mrs. J. Who is this talking 1
Frank.
I am learning how to speak.
(Bennie communicating.)
Well Dad I am back I feel that you are going to be
better now than ever before help me talk to me.
N. B. J. Bennie, who was May, that was speaking just a little while
ago, before you came back ?
She was here before long ago don't you remember her.
Helen de G. Verrall. '
.
'. ;.='.. [part
I think she was cousin May, who met you when you went
over to your side 1
yes I told you all this long ago.
& she wanted me to let her speak & send a message . .
Did she do so mother dear . . . .
Mrs. J. Yes, I was very glad to hear from hei'. . . .
You must talk to me now. . .
I want to know if that was.
Pine, at the cemetery or evergreen we used to call it.
Mes. J. Yes, the grave is covered with evergreen boughs.
I saw it so clearly I wondered if it was pine,
dad do you remember the kind of gum Roble Hen [for
Helen 1] & I got in the woods at the farm.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I remember that.
did we call it pine or s . . S P E U C E.
N. B. J. I don't remember that.
ask Roble 1
N. B. J. All right, we will.
tell me mother what those little red berries were Helen
got last summer on those green vines 1
Mrs. J. I think they were from a honeysuckle bush.
I did not see so many photographs taken as usual why 1
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, neither lioble nor Helen took many last
summer. I don't know why it was.
tell them I am watching all they do so I can come & tell
you for what this man calls tests.
Mrs. J. Yes, we are glad to have you do so. But I feel sure that
it is you.
Yes I know I am Benny & I am all right but I like to tell
you what goes on with you all so far as I can I'ecall . .
642
Mrs. J.
LXi.] Report on the Jiivot Sittivgs with Mrs. Piper. 643
Mes. J. Yes, it makes these sittings very precious and valuable. .
Dad aren't you tired of your work 1
Did you say you were going over the water with Roble . .
N. B. J. No, I did not, Bennie. I would rather go to the farm.
farm. I too dad any day . .
Mrs. J. But he did say that he would like to go to Japan.
Oh yes I heard him talking about it I know . . But I
don't want him to I have reasons.
Mes. J. Very well, he will not go.
I want you to U. D. about my condition here can you 1
(Hand turns to K. H.)
R. H. Yes. (Taking it to be an enquiry as to whether there was
time.)
You see I have my home, my work & all grandma
Junot [Juny] often says nothing can compare with it.
Don't you think William was good about the Pony ?
(E. H. in reading over reads "grandma Juny")
I didn't say Juni . .
R. H. Junot, Junot.
my name isn't Juny. ,
.
R. H. Bennie, that's all right. It was just the machine slip.
Oh yes.
dad talk to me.
N. B. .J. Bennie, do you see Roble working in the office with me 1
Yes indeed I do. & it makes me feel very happy. I
longed to see him with you.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie.
he is a good brother I tell you dad & I couldn't find a
better one but he must have some fun you U. D.
G44 Helen de G. Verrall. '
' '
''^ [part
N.B.J. Yes, surely, he shall have that. .'
'
dad what was the matter with his teeth.
*
N. B. .J. I don't remember.
Just after he got home from college.
Mrs. J. He had some trouble with his teeth, but the dentist made
it all right.
I was sorry to see that but glad to hear he is over it.
dad I don't like law very well wouldn't you like me to
be a doctor or something worth Avhile so I could help
people 1
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I think that would be better.
I do too.
N. B. .J. Bennie, are you studying law now?
Yes no.
I am studying one kind of law but not as I used.
I am studying the laws of the mortal & spiritual life which
interests me greatly. I love to help you in U. D. where
I really am etc etc etc.
Mrs. J. Bennie, do all the people in your life help some one on our
side?
invariably, except the children here & we have to help
them ourselves.
Mrs. J. Tell me how you look now. Have you grown older, or do
you look as you did 1
Older no dear not in looks, I look about the same. Y"ou
will not have any trouble recognizing me when 3'ou
come.
Mrs. J. No, only I have often wondered if people change in your
life.
that depends mother dear on the conditions under which
they passed over & the condition of their lives while
in the body.
LXi.] Report on the Jiinot Sittings ivith Mrs. Piper. 645
Mes. J. Do you grow old as we do ? , .
, ,
, .. ,
No not in spirit mother.
R. H. Bennie, I think your mother wants to know whether there
is growth, for example, from children up, and whether
old people remain very old, and so on.
I U. D. no . . old people grow younger in a sense while
children grow to the years of maturity as you would
express it.
Mes. J. I feel sui'e there is growth, but I wanted to ask about the
ajypearance of people.
have I answered? (Hand turns to R. H.)
R. H. She means what they look like in their figure and face
appearance.
Why I don't know how to answer this question so you can
U. D. it I can only say we look as we did when in the
body with the exception of looking old.
I do not grow wrinkles lose my hair etc.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, I understand.
I retain my looks so you would know me. perfectly well.
I wonder if I will ever, speak with you again here.
Mes. J. I hope so, Bennie.
Will I Mr Hodgson think?
R. H. You doubtless will, Bennie, if the light continues to burn.
It is growing dim now . .
60th Sitting.
Mai/ 8, 1905. Present: R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
Good morning Mr Hodgson will you give my love to all
at my home and ask about the evening I heard that
song. Benny.
646 • Helen de G. Verrall.
K. H. You mean since 1
[PAUT
No.
(R. H. pauses two or three seconds, trj'ing to recall.)
Cant you speak slowly ? .
'
'
R. H. The boy or young fellow with Eoble did sing that song
about Bedelia, and so on. I forget just how it goes.
he didi
R. H. Yes.
Well I heard him & I heard him say something about
stealing her . .
R. H. Yes, I think that's tight.
Well it was so queer to me I laughed & laughed to hear
him say it it sounded so unlike our music over here.
R. H. Yes, I suppose it did.
how is Helen?
R. H. I was just going to ask you. I don't know.
She is much better.
R. H. Good.
and will get on all right. I feel sure, any word from dad ?
R. H. No. It seems, however, that Frank Clarke doesn't succeed
very well yet as a communicator.
I know it.
I do my best to help him. I wish Aunt Clarke would
come here some day when no one knows it. and wake
him up. so he can remember about his earthly life.
Cant you help us arrange it 1
R. H. I shall be glad.
& do so before the light goes out will you 1
tell dad.
It will be such a help to us all. . ...
LXI.] Report on the Junot Sittings rvith Mrs. Piper. 647
61ST Sitting.
June 12, 1905. Present: R H.
Benny saj-s. Helen is better and will greatlj- improve as
time goes on. my dearest love to all at home God
bless them. B
E. H. All right, Bennie.
[Extract from letter of X. B. J.'s, June IS, 190-5. "It is
true that Helen appears considerably improved in health."]
62nd Sitting.
June 29, 1905. Present: R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
One word for Helen.
tell dad please that I saw the flowers on mj' grave some
time ago j'et it seemed recent!}-, if you can U. D.
this seeming contradiction. And thank them for their
thoughtfulness of me in this way.i
Say to Helen I shall be witli and watch over her during
the long silence, my love. Bennj'.
63 rd Sitting.
November 20, 1905. Present: Mr. and Mrs. J. and B. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
. . Good morning mother I am so glad to see j'ou again in
this waj' and come so near to you. do not feel disturbed
when you and dad go to that grave if I do [_not omitted?]
refer to it because the light is not always convenient for
me Hallo dad ?
X. B. J. Yes, Bennie, I'm here.
I see you.
^ There is no comment on this statement. —H. de G. V. •
648 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Good morning, Bennie, dear.
Oh I am so glad so glad to see you.
I was with you all and saw mucli that you did. Do you
not U. D. how much better Helen is 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, she is much better, but not well yet.
No but she will be don't worry, about her. keep her from
over doing and she will be all right,
give her a great deal of love for me and tell her I will
watch over [her] always. She is a good girl
I love you all so much and when you speak of me I U. D.
so well.
Mother was it a cold you had 1
Mrs. J. I may have had, Bennie, but I have been very well.
I know.
but do not hurry. 1 have much to say to you.
Dad is better too and I'm so glad.
(Hand reaches towards N. B. J.)
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie. I'm much better.
Amen . .
My prayers help you I know they do.
I got Kector to help me pray for Helen.
I feel troubled about Aunt Alice, but U. D. it in a
way.
Can't you help me"?
Mrs. J. What . . how can I help you, Bennie?
help me to U. D. what troubles Aunt Alice so much.
Mrs. J. I do not know, Bennie. Last summer she seemed very
happy, I thought.
no it is not her mind but her body.
Is it rheumatism 1
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, partly.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings vnth Mrs. Piper, 649
I think I can help her too. I'll keep on trying.
Grandpa Junot saj's. it's no use. worrying all things are
right with God.
I saw one of the horses go and glad I am.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, we had a bad horse, and your father sold him.
Glad I am. glad . .
tell me is Roble U. D. law any better . .
Mrs. J. Yes. Tell me what you know about Roble.
I am much amused re . . in regard to him.
I am not sure he will be altofrether interested in law.
he has other things on his mind . .
I feel all he feels and am with him a great deal,
ask him what happened to his hat last summer did he tell
you 1
1
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, I don't remember.
N. B. J. Bennie, do you know where Eoble now is 1
I saw him going on a boat.
. . sounds like Boat. •
'
(Mrs. J. shakes her head negativelJ^)
he lost his hat, anyway.
Mrs. J. No, I do not think he was on a boat.
Yes mother you are mistaken he was and his hat fell into
the water ask him.
Dad I'll answer you in a moment . .
Mrs. J. Bennie, Roble is not with us now. I wish that you could
tell us about him later.
I will tell you all.
but please follow me do you remember early after the
light went out he went sailing.
Mrs. J. No, Bennie, he may have. I will ask him and let you know^
^This is perhaps a vague reminiscence of the incident of painting the hat.
See p. 567.—H. de G. V.
2t
650 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Can't 3'ou tell him for me 1
I saw him. but I saw him with a lady and was much
amused over it all.
tell him about the boat and he will remember,
speak to me. (Hand feels articles.)
Mrs. J. Bennie, tell me about yourself.
I want to tell you all that is on my mind.
Frank is Avith me now, and for the moment I was confused.
Do j'ou remember a young friend of mine named Williams
dad?
K B. J. No, I do not.
Mrs. J. Not this moment, Bennie, tell me something about him.
he came over here after I saw you.
I knew him at College.
Mrs. J. No, I cannot jilace him. Tell me what you have on your
mind about him.
he wants to find his mother and asked me to help him.
Arthur Williams is his name, and he used to room with
Nichols. . . N i c h ol s.
Ask Roble about Nichols.
Mrs. J. Bennie, I will try to recall this boy.
I want to say more but will tell you later.
[Not understood.—N. B. J ]
Dad did you say you would give Eoble the farm.
N. B. J. Yes, I did.
good I am glad of it then I can see him there.
I U. D. all. better than I can tell you.
(Hand seeks about as for article. Mrs. J. moves the A. L.
bust nearer; which the hand previously had moved from
front of sheets to under wrist, and was now apparently
seeking on block-book.)
I want you to hear me out.
I saw you talking to the. Judge we used to call him.
LXi.] Report on the Jiinot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 651
R. H. " Judge" 1 . . Judd. . . sounds like Judd.
[Cf. the confusion between "Judge" and "Judd" on p. 547.
-H. de G. v.]
wake up dad dear.
N. B. J. Where was it ?
' . .
Don't you remember Judd? •
N". B. J. No, but I remember the Judge.
say it again.
N. B. J. The Judge.
Oh [?] yes that's it.
All right.
Mrs. J. Bennie, what about the Judge'?
I heard dad talkina; with him.
You don't U. D. very well. or I am in too much ot a
hurry to get my thoughts to you.
find Williams mother and we will all be happy,
did you say Helen could not go back to school . .
Mks. J. She was not strong enough, we thought, so we kept her at
home, and she is trying to get entirely well.
that is fine.
She is not lazy. I dislike that word applied to her.
She grew too fast and used up all the strength she had in
growing.
Mrs. J. Yes ? Her nervous energy was stronger than her physical
endurance.
Vitality . . the Dr says keep her out doors a good deal.
Mrs. J. Yes. I wish that I had understood her condition long ago.
Didn't I keep telling you dear that she was not well and if
she did not practise she was not to blame 1
652 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, you did, Bennie. And I thought that I was doing my
best for her.
So you did and when they said she was lazy I did not like
it because I could see how she felt and I wanted to help
her . . I U. D. her very well and shall help her until
she is well . . I shall take care of her so do not worry.
Mrs. J. I . . it is very hard to know the right thing to do, Bennie.
I know and feel the importance of looking after her and
they told me here to tell you all about her. I'll speak
to Dr.
[Medical advice follows.]
I shall return again soon when I have much to tell you
about lioble.
it all comes back to me now.
N. B. J. Bennie, find Eoble and tell us where he is now and what
he's doing.
Surely I will when I return I'll tell you. all . .
R. H. Finish please.
I wanted to tell you about Rounder but I'll wait I want
Helen taken care of most of all. Good bye . .
64th Sitting.
November 21, 1905. Present: Mr. and BIrs. J. and R. H.
(Bennie communicating.)
I hope I shall make all clear to you to-day.
I had so much to say I could not say all.
I found Roble, after I saw you . .
He seems to be very busy. I saw him looking through
some books, after I saw you.
he has now taken up a new life which will help him
greatly.
I saw his . . what shall I call it room.
Does he need more help or study, I wonder.
Lxi.] Report on the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 653
What I see is clear & he. got his. own. Ideas about his
business.
I think he is . .
Started for himself,
how can I tell j'ou?
N. B. J. Bennie, what kind of a room was it that you saw Roble in ?
looked large with a . . (hand waves round in front.)
case or desk in it. with some large books
N. B. J. ''beds."
on it. had a kind of map. behind him on the side of the
room, had lines all drawn across it i.e. the map.
looked like a chart of some kind.
Can you see it "?
(Hand turns to R. H.)
R. H. I know nothing of it.
I saw a chair, and he was sitting on it.
the other thing looked like a bed.^
N. B. J. Go on, Bennie, tell us all about it.
I saw a little stand or table, beside it.
It looks like many places I see often.
looked like a large building as I went in. and looked at
him for a few moments. I wondered if he fits [feels ?]
all. well.
he had his hand on his head.
Oh I saw him dad surely.
there is no mistake about it.
N. B. J. Bennie, could you tell whether he was at home or in a
foreign land ?
way off verj^ far away it took me ever since I saw you . .
to find locate him and return here to tell you about
him.
^ The communicator apparently accepts N. B. J. 's misreading of the word
" books ^'
as " beds." -H. de G. V.
654 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
I heard a man say to him this is the beginning of your
education.
but before I saw you here tlie day before this I saw him
on a boat and the wind blew his hat off. that was
long before I came to tell you. of it here.
he does not remain all the time in this big room but he
was in it when I found him. he goes on what we
used to call cars, and carriages.
Mrs. J. Bennie, can you see any one with him?
I saw a gentleman with him and he said, let us plan for it.
Do you U. D. about his hat and the boat ?
Mrs. J. Not yet, Bennie. But this may have happened.
It certainly did and after he gets back he will tell you all
about it.
N. B. J. Bennie, can you tell what language they speak where
Eoble is ?
language.
Mes. J. Yes.
Sounds like German.
but I cannot exactly tell you.
[Eoble was at his mining property in lower Mexico at this
time. Spanish is the language spoken by all the em-
ployes there. —N. B. J.]
I am not sure about it dad but if you will let me follow
him for a little while I can tell this gentleman the next
time I see him.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, please do that. And tell us now if you can,
what business he is interested in.
I will tell you all I can I saw the lines, all drawn out
on this chart . .
Do you know what I saw at all?
Mbs. J. Yes, I think I understand what you mean.
Are you Mr Hodgson
LXI.] Report on the Jwnot Sittings with Mrs. Pijper. 655
R. H. Yes, Bennie, never mind me.
don't get out of sorts with me if I cannot see straight
when I am speaking,
my thoughts travel very much faster than I can speak them
for E.
I think Roble will please you greatly dad because he is as
good boy as ever lived and will succeed. U. D.
N. B. J. Yes, dearie, we understand. But you must watch over
him and help him.
I certainly do try always.
he has some light Roble has and I often guide him when
he gets a little uncertain,
ask him if he doesn't realize that I am with him %
I said it looked like summer all the time.
I U. D. better than I can sa}'. Did he tell you that I was
with him at the office, one day before he went away.
Mrs. J. No. But he often dreams about you, and feels that you
are with him.
Did he tell you about our running'?
what are the dark lines dad.
they look like rail roads,
all over the chart in his room.
N. B. J. I cannot tell, Bennie, I have not been there.
I U. D. every word you say dad you speak so clearly. I
wish I could speak to you that way.
We used to say abroad when I was in the body.
All is well.
Dad what did you say about that lot at the cemetery do
you not like it . .
What did the man do 1
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, the lot is all right now.
AVhat did you do to iti
Mrs. J. It was not kept in good order.
Is that what you told him %
656 . . Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, and it looks very well now. ...
I heard you and I U. D. you were troubled about it.
N. B. J. Bennie, have you seen the Major since he came to your
world ?
I tried to tell you about him but Rector would say Judge.
I tried to tell him last time.^
(N. B. J. gestures to Mrs. J. and makes a sound not caught
by E.H.)
Mrs. J. (to N. B. J.) Yes, I thought of it afterwards.
Indeed I have seen him many many times,
he often refers to you and when he can he will speak
with you.
I shall help him give you what we call tests later.
N. B. J. Bennie, if you can, give us the Major's other name so we
will be certain.
he constantly repeated it as Judge but I could not help
it some how.
I U. D. and know him perfectly well.
When I return here I will tell you a great deal about him.
the only thing I do not like is you do not reply quickly
enough dad.
N. B. J. Bennie, give the Major's other name so we'll feel certain.
Major . .
I got it right R.
W. . .
•.. Oh . .
JUDD.
Mrs. J. Bennie, if you cannot give it now, give it to Dr. Hodgson
at another time.
I am a little confused.
What do you say ?
Oh I got it. Alright.
i.See p. 651.
l.xi.] Report on the Junot Sittings tvith Mrs. Pirj^er. 657
I say [?] when I go out and return I will bring it.
(Hand seizes cap and spur and holds them for several
seconds.)
Welch ...
N. B. J. Go on, that's right. Give the rest of it. (N. B. J. had
misinterpreted the name as JVilbur.)
(Hand seizes articles as before.)
Major Welch,
got it?
R. H. Major Welch.
N. B. J. No, that's Wilbur . . plainly. (Pointing to the first Welch
which I at first thought might be JVeJd, and copied it
as such.)
Wil . .
W i 1 CO r. .
I cannot do more.
Mrs. J. Do not try now, Bennie. Perhaps you will have an
opportunity to give it to Dr. Hodgson later.
Yes and glad I will be.
N. B. J. (to R. H.) That wasn't Weld. That was plainly Wilbur
in the first place, Doctor.
Rounder is all right.
Why don't you speak 1
I Avant you to listen,
listen to me.
Mrs. J. Bennie, do you want me to .speak, or Dr. Hodgson ?
I want you to speak to me mother.
I love you dearly.
Mrs. J. Bennie, tell me about yourself.
What can I tell you I am so well and so happy and with
Miriam and Frank all the time they are well and
happy also We are helping each other I am teaching
school now and I like it very much.
658 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Do you see cousin May ? Mij cousin 1
Oh yes I do I think mother you forget I told you this
before dear long ago.
Mes. .T. Yes, she met you.
Yes and she was a great help to me.
dad do you remember WE L C h.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, we got Rounder back through him.
I told you about him. did I not ?
Mrs. J. Yes.
The children are doing well. We are doing all we can
to help them I often walk out with them see me mother
do you ?
Of course you do not U. D. fully, and never can until
you come over.
Father did you say I might go so far away you could
not find me when you came.
N. B. J. Yes, Bennie, we were talking about that, and I was afraid
you might have to go far away.
I do not wish you to think this my ties are too strong
for that and when you are called to this beautiful
world I shall be the first to greet and help you don't
worry about that.
N. B. J. Thank you, Bennie, I believe you.
you may . .
surely I will.
I can only give you glimpses of what it really is but I
am glad to do even this.
Mrs. J. Bennie, are you with me constantly 1
Yes mother I am with you what you call every day I go
to Eoble I pray for him I go to Helen I pray for
her I find dad I pray for him and then I go all over
it again and nothing gives me so much pleasure . .
LXi.] Report on the Jimot Sittings with Mrs. Piper. 659
Mes. J. When I think of you, does it bring you to me ?
Almost invariably and is a great help.
Don't you U. D. how I do this Hodgson Mr.
R. H. Yes, I do, I think, in a way.
(Mrs. P.'s breathing rather heavy. K. H. changes position
of head.)
Every thought is registered upon what you call air it is
ether really, and your thought waves reach me just
as mine do you U. D.
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, I understand. But are both good and evil
thoughts registered 1
Evil thoughts become purified by the ether before they
reach us.
What is wrong friend your body seems not right.
[Any connection with soreness in my back muscles'?—R. H.]
R. H. I attended to the li^ht.
that cannot be it.
N. B. J. To whom was that addressed ?
Are you alright Mother?
Mes. J. No, Bennie, I have not felt cjuite well lately.
Are you alright this minute?
Mrs. J. Oh yes, oh yes. But I have been troubled about Helen's
illness, and I miss lioble very much.
I know but do not feel troubled about either I assure you
they are both alright.
Mrs. J. Yes, I feel sure that they are.
/ will take care of them . .
Mes. J. Yes, Bennie, but you know there are many things in this
life to trouble us.
660 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Yes but trouble comes without bringing it mother dear so
do not worry for my sake as I know . .
E. H. "without beginning it."
. . brincrino; it.
All is well and will be.
When you . . how shall I express it mother . .
go home I think.
give Helen a good thought think she is going to be well
and keep this in your mind and it will help you both
U. D. dear.
Mrs. J. Yes, but, Bennie, we do not see and understand as you
do, and we have not the strength of mind that you
have.
I U. D. what you mean but the more you believe in the
thought that all will be well the happier you will be
don't you feel it so dad?
N. B. J. Yes, I have no doubt but that you are right.
Now I said help me to keep my father in the body well
and strong he needs strength for his work, and I kept
saying it over and over again and you began to feel
better . .
Mrs. J. Bennie, tell me more about yourself. Do you ever regret
that you left this world so early ?
Eegret 1
Mrs. J. Yes.
Why no mother I have nothing to regret dear I am very
happy here and I have greater privileges than you can
possibly have I can see you all just as often as I wish
and I U. D. you are coming to me some day,
therefore I am not only glad I came but I am supremely
happy if you can U. D. it.
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, but sometimes I feel that every one should
have a lono; life in this world of ours.
Report on the Junot Sitting.'^ ivith Mrs. Piper. 6G1
but God thinks differently, and this is the way of all all
must come sooner or later.
He knows better than any of us either on our side or on
yours.
I get dads thoughts some times when he is surrounded by
curious etc [I] influences giving advice and help and I
say . .
Oh how much better off I am and how I wish he could
see me as I am.
Did you ever find those letters I referred to
Mrs. J. Yes, Bennie, don't you remember I told you about them ?
Oh I believe I do.
thank you do you remember, when I was ill you did not
think I was coming over did you ?
Mks. J. No, Bennie.
I did not get injured I caught cold going without my hat.
Mother what kind of a flower is that in the dinins; room ?
Mrs. J. I have been away from home for some time, so I do not
know.
It is large and green
Mrs. J. There was a very pretty Boston fern in the room.
fern 1
Mrs. J. Fern.
long green leaves on it 1
Mrs. J. Yes, that is it.
I saw it and I saw a woman putting water on it after I
spoke with you last time, when I was hunting for
Ptoble.
Mrs. J. Yes, probably you did. Did you see Helen?
Helen was up in the . . 1 i . .
Study.
LXI.]
662 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
Mrs. J. Yes, probably.
She was but Robles clothes were some of them in his own
room in a small place, but I found him way across the
water. I have so longed . .
R. H. Five minutes more.
Yes I'll tell Hodgson Mr a . . about the Major I won't
forget . .
65th Sitting. ...
November 22, 1905. Present: 11. U.
(Bennie communicating.)
Good morning Mr H
E. H. Good morning, Bennie.
I want to U. D. if I can also make you U. D. what name
it was you and dad were discussing about.
if you think I do not speak clearly now I want to make
myself clear.
R. H. Quite clear, Bennie.
That name was not intended for W a Ich.
I had it on my mind however with reference to Eounder.
[Bennie here accepts R. H.'s interpretation of the name given
on p. 657.-H.deG. v.]
R. H. Yes, I understand exactly, Bennie, I knew that.
his name was something like this . .
Wilb . . .
R. H. W.i.l.b.
Wilb [? Wileb ^]
Ee . .
Wilbre . .
(Thump of hand.)
Good morning H. (Arrival of G. P.)
he means Jap.
LXi.] Report on the Junot Sittings xvith Mrs. Piper. 663
R. H. "Jap."
What ?
R. H. "Jap." J.a.p. "Jap."
["Jap" appears to be a ' pormanteau ' word produced by
Rector's confusion between "Judge" and "Major."
H, de G. v.]
how absurd is that what you got 1
R. H. Yes. Jap.
Maj . .
Maj.
R. H. M.a.j. . . Major.
Yes.
Walb.
E S. force.
R. H. "Walb"^
It is not a it is i.
R. H. " Wilbesforce " ?
Yes.
R. H. " Wilberforce " ?
say it slowly. (G. P. to Bennie ?)
Yes that is it.
R. H. " Wilberforce."
got it. yes.
Wake up.
I U. D. that Roble is not here, he is in the country called.
No I cannot give it now.
I'll have to try again, and come in first. Benny.
R. H. All right, Bennie. Take your time. Always glad to
welcome you.
664 Helen de G. Verrall. [part
No further allusions to Bennie Junot occurred uj) to the time
of Dr. Hodgson's death. Mr. Junot has had several sittings with
Mrs. Piper since then. But as these sittings were held after a long
interval and under somewhat different circumstances, and, moreover,
contain but few statements purporting to be evidential, it seemed
best not to include them in this report.
LXI.] Review. 665
SUPPLEMENT.
I.
SOME RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN PSYCHOTHERAPY.
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
In the earlier volumes of these Proceedings may be found
more or less detailed accounts of certain researches which to a
great extent originated in connection with inquiries regarding
the causation and cure of various mental and bodily disorders.
Mr. Myers's conception of the Subliminal Consciousness was in
no small measure influenced by the work of investigators who
were primarily interested in psychopathology and psychothera-
peutics, and these subjects were often referred to in Mr. Myers's
writings. The psychological and therapeutic aspects of hypnotism
have ever been closely associated, and the further developments
of a subject for which Mr. Myers and Mr. Gurney did so much
should be of interest to all who are interested in psychical
research. It may not then be out of place to review briefly
some of the more recent work which has been done in this
department, irrespective of any immediate bearing which it may
apjDear to have on the problems with which as a Society we are
mainly concerned.
The occasion for such a review is afforded by the publication
in the June-July (1909) number of the Journal of Abnormal
Psychology of a series of papers which were read at a symposium
on Psychotherapy arranged by the American Therapeutic Society
for their annual meeting on May 6th, 1909.
The President of the Society, Dr. Frederick Henry Gerrish,
took as the subject of his presidential address The Therapeutic
Value of Hypnotic Suggestion. He said he did not wish to enter
2u
666 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
into any discussion of the various theories which have been
advanced to account for hypnotic phenomena. His desire was
rather
'
' to set forth the practical usefulness of hypnotism in the
daily routine of medical work, and to clear away many miscon-
ceptions which have prevented the general employment of this
agency." In doing so he showed the same enthusiasm as is
always shown by those who have had much experience of the
use of hypnotic suggestion in general practice.
We are constantly told that hypnotism is only of value in
dealing with functional nervous disorders, and we might suppose
that its most enthusiastic supporters would be found among the
neurologists, and that the general practitioner would find it of
comparatively little use in his daily work. But as a matter of
fact it is only when it is used in the great variety of bodily and
mental disorders which come under the care of the general
practitioner that the extent of* its field of usefulness becomes
clearly manifest. It is then also that its limitations become
accepted in the same spirit as are the limitations of other thera-
peutic measures. The specialist, on the other hand, whether he
be a specialist in neurology or a specialist in hypnotism, is very
apt to have these limitations forced too prominently on his
attention, and it is not uncommon to find men writing dis-
paragingly of hypnotism who in their earlier studies had been
favourably im^Dressed by its therapeutic value, and even enthusi-
astic in its advocacy as a mode of treatment. Whatever be the
reason, there is a tendency at the present time to decry the use
of hypnotism and to extol other forms of psychic treatment which
have arisen in conjunction with modern studies in abnormal
psychology. A good introduction to these newer forms of treat-
ment may be found in Dr. Morton Prince's j^a-pei' on The
Psychological Pri7icij)les and Field of Psychotherapy
It is a fundamental law of the structure and growth of the
mind that ideas, feelings, emotions, movements, sensations,
associated in experience, tend to become linked together into a
system or group in such fashion that the stimulation of one
element in the group stimulates the activity of the rest. Such
a system or group Dr. Prince calls a complex.
A complex may be composed almost entirely of ideas and
feelings or of physiological processes, although more frequently
it is made up partly of psychical and partly of jihysiological
elements. In every pulse of consciousness the potentiality of
LXI.] Review. 667
complex formation exists, but it is only under certain conditions
that tlie psycho-physical disposition of the moment becomes so
organised that anything like complete reproduction of all its
elements can afterwards be brought about. There are two main
conditions on which the formation of complexes depends. In
the formation of normal complexes the most important factor is
repetition: it is on this that the efficacy of education depends.
In the formation of abnormal complexes the nature of the emotion
or feeling tone accompanying the experience is the most frequent
cause of the organisation of its elements into a complex.
Since past experiences may be revived in consciousness, we
must believe that somehow and somewhere they are preserved,
and Dr. Prince thinks that conscious memory of any past experi-
ence would be impossible unless there was some jDhysical arrange-
ment for preserving it. However this may be, we have good
grounds for believing that every element in an experience is
correlated with some alteration in the nervous system, "and we
must infer that some kind of residue or impi'essiou, chemical or
physical, is left in the neurones, in consequence of which they
have a disposition to reproduce, when again stimulated, the
original experience, whether an idea or physiological reaction."
The neuronic residua of a mental complex Dr. Prince terms
an "unconscious complex," and it is on the organisation of the
unconscious complexes that the conservation of mental and
physiological complexes depends. The factors which determine
the conservation of complexes are in the main the same as those
which lead to their formation, namely, repetition and emotion or
feeling tone. Both repetition and the intensity of emotional
tone in an experience seem to intensify the impression made upon
the brain, and the greater the impression made upon the brain
the more readily is the unconscious complex aroused to function.
Of course the doctrine of neurone residua as the substratum of
memory is a commonjDlace of physiological psychology ; the point
insisted on here is that the elements of an experience which from
any cause has led to the formation of a complex are not only
conserved as neurone residua, but that they are conserved as a
residuum complex whose re-excitation will be accompanied by a
reproduction of the original experience.
Without the organisation and conservation of comjDlexes their
voluntary recall would be impossible, but the fact that an experi-
ence has been conserved as a complex is no guarantee that it can
668 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
be recalled voluntarily ; and the fact that an experience cannot
be recalled voluntarily is no proof that it has not been conserved
as a complex. An experience of childhood may be completely
forgotten so far as our waking recollection is concerned, yet it
may be recalled in detail during hypnosis or in dream. When a
complex which is well organised and conserved cannot be recalled
voluntarily there is said to be mental dissociation, and the correlated
neural state is said to be one of cerebral dissociation. Dr. Prince
believes that dissociation is "a general principle governing the
normal psycho-nervous mechanism, and therefore in a highly
marked form only is pathological. . . . Among the normal
phenomena of dissociation are to be reckoned temporary and
some permanent forms of forgetfulness, the limitation of the field
of consciousness in absentmindedness, moods, anger, and other
strong emotional states, and sleep. Amongst the artificial and
pathological conditions characterising largely or chiefly the dis-
sociations are hyjDnotic and hypnoidal states ;
suggested and
hysterical amnesia, paralyses, contractures, anaesthesia, etc.
somnambulism, trance, psycholeptic attacks, etc."
When an unconscious complex is stimulated the correlated
mental complex arises in consciousness as a memory of which we
are aware ; but when a complex which is dissociated from the
great mass of complexes which form the waking personality is
stimulated "ideas are awakened, but we are not aware of them.
These are what are called subconscious, or better, co-conscious
ideas, which means ideas dissociated from, split off from the main
consciousness."
Well organised complexes have a tendency to function more
or less automatically and thus to determine the direction of our
thought and its content. This is well illustrated by those patho-
logical fixed ideas which rush into consciousness unbidden and
undesired. The automatic functioning of complexes is most
marked when they are dissociated and thus freed from the
inhibitory control of the personal consciousness. The threshold
of stimulation of dissociated complexes is lowered, their activity
is easily aroused, and they are capable of extremely independent
functioning. The type of this form of automatism is the sub-
conscious fixed ideas of hysteria.
The relation of emotion to the formation, functioning, con-
servation and dissociation of complexes is very important and in
many respects obscure. As already said, the intensity of emotion
LXI.] Review. 669
accompanying an experience seems more than anything else to
determine the formation and conservation of the mental complex.
But if the emotion be of a painful or distressing character, in
addition to its effect in stamping the experience indelibly on the
mind, it may also have a disintegrating effect on consciousness
as a whole. The complex formed by the experience may become
dissociated from the personal consciousness so that its voluntary
recall may be impossible. On the other hand, exalting emotions
have an integrating effect, and are accompanied by an invigoration
of the whole organism.
One of the most interesting and most important features in
the relation between an ideational complex and the emotions
which accompany its revival in consciousness is the fact that when
a dissociated complex is roused to function co-consciously, the
personal or primary consciousness may be strongly affected by
the emotion although unaware of the ideational content of the
co-conscious thought.
Personality, character, thoughts, hopes and aspirations, even
bodily well-being, depend on the nature of the mental and
physiological complexes which have been formed in the course of
experience. And it does not matter in what state a complex
has been formed, whether in waking life, sleep, trance, or in
hypnosis. So long as it is conserved it becomes part of our
personality, and may at any time affect our life for good or evil
according to its nature. Intellectual and ethical growth and
much of our bodily well-being are the result of the formation,
by the slow process of education, of complexes whose essential
elements are conserved by means of repetition. And in the
treatment of mental, moral and physical disorders which are due
to the functioning of unhealthy complexes, there is no way of
cure but by the formation of new complexes of a different
character. The old morbid complexes must be broken up and
new ones substituted for them, and whatever method may be
emjDloyed to effect this, the process is essentially an educative
one.
In the treatment of the simpler psycho-neuroses of the neuras-
thenic type where the disturbance can be traced to the formation
of morbid associations, to unhealthy ideas, self-examination,
worry, erroneous beliefs in and apprehension of disease with the
depressive emotional tones that go with such states, the main
principle to be made use of is the substitution of healthy com-
670 T. W. Mitchell, M D. [part
plexes in place of the unhealthy ones. "The point of view, the
attitude of mind, the beliefs, the habits of thought, must be
modified by the introduction of new points of view, of data
jDreviously unknown to the patient and drawn from the wider
experience of the physician ; by instruction in the meaning of
symptoms and in their organisation and causes ;
by the suggestion
of expectations that justly may be fulfilled ; of ambitions that
ought rightfully to be entertained ; of duties to be assumed but
too long neglected ; of confidence and hope, and above all, by
the suggestion of the emotion and joy that go with success and
a roseate vista of a new life."
The relative advantages of education in hypnosis and in the
waking state is a much discussed question. From Dr. Prince's
point of view it matters little in what state therapeutic systems
of ideas are formed, whether in hypnosis or in the waking state.
In obstinate cases he thinks hypnosis has the advantage that
suggestibility being increased and antagonistic ideas being dis-
sociated or inhibited, the new ideas are more readily accejoted
and firmly organised.
When dissociation exists the disturbing subconscious ideas need
either to be so modified that they cease to function or they must
be reintegrated with the personal consciousness and thereby
realised in all their meaning, rearranged and modified. There
are various ways of doing this. " So-called psycho-analysis,
suggestion in the waking state and abstraction, in so-called
hypnoidal states and hypnosis, mental and physical hygiene, all
have proved to be eflBcient in bringing about a reintegration of
dissociated functions. But all these methods are only different
forms of education."
So also in dealing with the more profound psycho-neuroses,
those of the severer hysterias, reassociation of the dissociated
functions is the essential principle. Sometimes reintegration can
be formed in a special state of hypnosis ; sometimes by suggestion
in hypnosis or in the waking state, sometimes by recalling the
dissociated ideas into the full light of the waking consciousness.
Some writers think that when hysterical manifestations are due
to the functioning of dissociated subconscious ideas it is always
necessary to recall those ideas to the j^ersonal waking conscious-
ness ; but Dr. Prince says "It is enough to break up the
subconscious complex or to suggest antagonistic ideas, or to
resynthesise the ideas in the manner already described, into a
LXI.] Review. 671
healthy complex which gives a true appreciation of the facts
which they represent. This can be done in hypnosis. After
waking, though amnesia for the previous subconscious ideas may
persist, the symptoms disappear, for those harmful subconscious
ideas which caused the trouble have ceased to exist."
It may be seen from this short summary of Dr. Prince's paper
that he restricts the field of psychotherapy to those disorders
which depend on the functioning of abnormal complexes ; that
the psycho-neuroses so produced may be roughly divided into two
great groups according to whether the abnormal comjDlexes are
or are not dissociated from the waking personality ; that the
treatment of the psycho-neuroses is always in essence an educative
process, whereby the old abnormal complexes are broken up or
destroyed and new healthy complexes formed in their stead ; and
finally, that various methods may be employed for the purpose
of rendering the re-education of the patient easier and the result
more permanent.
Accepting the view that treatment consists in the formation
of healthy complexes we may classify the methods adopted by
reference to the mental state in which the educative process is
attempted. This may be the waking state, or hypnosis, or any
intermediate state which may be found between the waking state
and hypnosis. Another classification may be made in reference
to the method employed in presenting the ideas whose acceptance
is necessary for the formation of healthy complexes. We may
use simple explanation and persuasion, suggestion, or psycho-
analysis. In practice, however, an artificial classification, resulting
from the use of particular methods by individual therapeutists
is adopted, and it is to a consideration of the more important of
these methods, as illustrated by the writers in the Journal under
review, that we must now direct our attention.
Dr. E. W. Taylor discusses Simple Explanation and Re-educa-
tion as a Therapeutic Method, and this method is also advocated
by Dr. G. A. Waterman in a paper on The Treatment of Fatigue
States. The treatment of fatigue states by this method was
introduced by Dejerine as an auxiliary to the plan of trusting
to isolation, rest, over-feeding and electricity, advocated by Weir
Mitchell. Its wider application to the psycho-neuroses as a whole
and to other disorders we owe to Professor Dubois of Berne. In
Dubois' book, The Psychic Treatment of Nervous Disorders, we
Jaave an interesting and able contribution to psycho-therapeutics,
672 T. W. Mitchell, M.B. [part
marred however by extreme prejudice in regard to the employ-
ment of hypnotism and uncritical denunciation of suggestion as
a curative measure. His work is the product of a mind trained
in the traditions of a past generation and almost unaffected by
the trend of modern psychological and philosophical speculation.
He mourns over the suggestibility of mankind, and would rather
not cure sick peoj^le at all than do so by utilising the very weak-
ness which has led to their sickness. He shows a pathetic respect
for human reason, and follows the rationalist philosophers in
ascribing to it a supremacy in matters of belief and conduct which
is denied by the majority of modern thinkers. He confesses that
giving to the patient the conviction of cure is the most important
feature of his method, and he admits that there is faith in all
conviction, but faith without reason he will have none of. He
therefore apjDeals to the reason of his patients, and when he finds
that they get cured he supposes that the cure is due solely to the
rational acceptance of his explanations. Knowing as much as he
does about suggestion and its possibilities, it is astonishing how
Professor Dubois can commit such an obvious fallacy.
Apart, however, from his rejection of suggestion deliberately
used as a therapeutic agent, and his denial in reference to his
own method of the part played by the suggestive influences which
he admits to be inherent in almost every other form of treatment,
the procedure which he recommends is based upon sound prin-
ciples and is an important feature in almost every form of
psychotherapy. The essential points in Dubois' system are well
summarised by Dr. Taylor in the paper previously referred to.
They are as follows
"First. After eliminating or properly estimating physical
causes the mental attitude of the patient toward his ailment
should be carefully determined ; in other words, a diagnosis should
be made.
"Second. This is best accomplished by allowing him to tell
his com^Dlete story rather than by a primary process of interroga-
tion on the part of the physician.
"Third. Having determined the false point of view almost
invariably revealed which has led up to the neurosis, the attempt
is made to explain why such a series of events as that disclosed
would be likely to lead to this result.
"Fourth. Having impressed the patient with the correctness
of the physician's point of view, the process of readjustment
LXI.] Revieiv. 673
begins, or, to use the more popular but possibly too comprehensive
term, his re-education.
"Fifth. This is accomplished by pointing out in a painstaking
way the correct way to mental health through a realization on
the part of the patient of his previous misconceptions and through
an accompanying effort toward the establishment of more rational
mental adjustment."
Dr. Taylor follows Dubois in thinking that the value of this
method lies in its appeal to the reason, and that some special
virtue must inhere in such a " commonsense basis of procedure,
free from all subtlety or demand for highly specialized training."
He considers the analysis of the mental state to be the essential
feature of the method, and thinks that "this certainly recjuires
no special personal attributes on the part of the physician, and
is surely available for practitioners of no special education in this
field." It would seem as if Dr. Taylor had not fully appreciated
the difficulties encountered by those who without special education
in this field try to analyse abnormal mental states, and it must
surely be a misconception of the nature of other psychotherapeutic
methods which leads him to suppose that they necessitate the
possession of special attributes on the part of the physician.
Taking the phrase "personal attributes" in its most general sense,
we shall probably find that no method of psychic treatment is so
dependent for success on the personal attributes of the physician
as the method of Rational Therapeutics advocated by Dubois.
The truth of this is evidently felt by Dr. Waterman, who says
"Whether this method can be generally adopted by practitioners
is a great question. The remarkable personality of Dubois, and
his firm conviction as to the ethical and therapeutic value of his
method, render it peculiarly efficient. It is difficult to conceive
of a patient not being strongly moved by his remarks, which are
presented by him so forcibly, and clinched by his frequent repeti-
tion of his favourite phrase, '
C'est la verite !
'
Whatever doubts may be entertained as to the necessity for
special training in the employment of the mode of treatment just
referred to, there can be no doubt on this point in regard to the
method of psycho-analysis elaborated by Professor Freud of
Vienna, of which an excellent account is given by Dr. Ernest
Jones of the University of Toronto in his contribution to the
symposium. Psycho-analysis in Psychotherapy.
The psycho-analytic form of psychotherapy is specially applicable
674 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
to those psycho-neuroses in which a mental complex has become
dissociated from the personal consciousness, and it is carried out
by simultaneously laying bare and remedying the pathological
mechanism at the basis of the malady. Hysteria may be taken
as the type of these psycho-neuroses, and in order to understand
what is meant by psycho-analysis it is necessary to have some
knowledge of Freud's views on the nature and causation of
hysteria.
It is acknowledged by the majority of modern observers that
the occurrence of hysterical symjotoms is associated with a splitting
of consciousness and the subconscious functioning of dissociated
mental states. Myers regarded stratification of consciousness as
part of the normal structure of the mind, and he ascribed
hysterical manifestations to a dream-like action of the subliminal
consciousness at the hypnotic level, whereby powers or faculties
that ought to be retained in the supraliminal become submerged
and lost to the waking self. According to Janet hysterical
symptoms are the result of a splitting of consciousness, and all
subconscious manifestations are due to pathological dissociation.
In people who are lacking in cajjacity for psychic synthesis, in
whom there is narrowing of the field of consciousness, some of the
ideas that enter into the formation of personality tend to become
dissociated from the waking consciousness and to take on indepen-
dent functioning on their own account. Inability to keep a hold
on the whole of the conscious field is the cause of the splitting of
consciousness, and the stigmata of hysteria are the consequences.
Freud's views regarding the origin of the mental dissociation
manifested in hysteria are quite different from those of Myers or
Janet, and in some respects are totally opposed to them. Far
from thinking it due to a dream-like action of the subliminal
at the hypnotic level, or a merely accidental result of misere
psycholoffique, Freud believes that the splitting of consciousness
met with in hysteria is caused by a deliberate act of will on the
part of the j^atient. He does not, of course, mean to imply that
the jDatient intends to produce a splitting of consciousness. The
patient's intention is different, but in trying to attain its aim it
jjrovokes a splitting of consciousness.
Psychic health may exist so long as there is no hopeless incom-
patibility between the ideas which enter into consciousness. But
it may happen that an experience or an idea or a feeling may
arise which is so incompatible with all the ideas and feelings that
lxl] Reviexo. 675
enter into the formation of the personality, that a jjsychical pain
ensues which is felt to be unbearable. If this unbearable idea is
fairly faced, and if it can by any means be adjusted within the
personal consciousness, no harm will follow ; but if such adjust-
ment cannot be effected, if the personal consciousness will have
nothing to do with the idea that has arisen, the unbearable idea
is repressed by an act of will. The personal consciousness tries
to forget it and to treat it as if it had never occurred. This can
only be done by taking away from it the emotional excitement
which adheres to it, thereby changing the strong idea into a weak
one which will have little claim on the associative processes. But
the sum of the excitement thus fi'eed must be utilised in some
other direction, and in j^eople who develop hysterical symptoms
there seems to be some psycho-physical adaptation which enables
the emotional excitement to be transformed into bodily innerva-
tion. In hysteria the unbearable idea is rendered psychically
harmless because the sum of excitement is transformed into
physical manifestations. This transformation, for which Freud
proposes the term conversion, is to be regarded as a defence
reaction of the Ego against unbearable ideas.
If there does not happen to be any adaptation for conversion
to take place, and still for the purpose of defence a separation
of the unbearable i-dea from its painful feeling-tone is necessary,
the emotional excitement must then remain in the psychic sphere.
But it separates from the unbearable idea and attaches itself to
some other idea not in itself unbearable, and in this way gives
rise to obsessions or phobias.
From his later work Freud has come to the conclusion that the
repressed idea is always of the nature of a wish, and that the
hysterical symptom is a symbolic expression of its realisation.
A wish whose realisation would be incompatible with the whole
personality of the patient is realised symbolically as a tremor or
a paralysis, and the hysterical symptom serves as a sort of uncon-
scious gratification to the patient. When an unbearable idea is
successfully repressed a splitting of consciousness takes place, the
repressed complex takes on an automatic activity, and its function-
ing is manifested in the symptoms of the psycho-neurosis.
The aim of psycho-analysis is to discover the repressed complex
which underlies the hysterical symptom, to reveal it in all its
relations and to bring it back into the waking consciousness of the
patient. When the defence reaction of the Ego has been sue-
676 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
cessful, when conversion has taken place, the repressed wish and
the circumstances under which it came to be entertained may be
completely forgotten by the patient, and the distorted form in
which the activity of the repressed complex becomes manifest
forms the chief difficulty in discovering the real nature of the
wish which is thus symbolised. Perhaps the most striking feature
of the psycho-analytic method is the extraordinary ingenuity that
has been displayed by Freud and his disciples in elaborating a
technique which is effective in unravelling the tangled skein of
psycho-neural processes involved in the production of psycho-
neurotic symptoms.
The procedure most generally employed for the purpose of
resuscitating forgotten memories related to the repressed complex
is to ask the patient to concentrate his mind on a given idea,
generally one in relation to a symptom, and to relate in the order
of their appearance all the thoughts that come to his mind. If
he does this quite honestly and without reservation, important
clues as to the nature of the disturbing complex are very soon
discovered. In most of the recent work in psycho-analysis very
effective use has been made of a method elaborated by Jung of
Zurich. Sei'ies of test- words are called out to the patient, who
has to respond as quickly as possible by the first word or thought
which arises in his mind in association with each test- word. Much
may be learned from the nature of the responses so given, but by
noting certain peculiarities in regard to these responses we are
able to find with great certainty the elements of certain mental
complexes which possess for the patient a high emotional value
generally of a disagreeable nature. The first thing that may be
noticed in regard to these responses is that the reaction-time for
certain test- words is lengthened. In illustration of the delayed
reaction-time, when the test-word is associated with an emotional
complex, the instance taken from Jung, shown in the table on the
following page, may be given.
Another peculiarity which this table shows is that on asking the
subject to repeat one by one the answers to the test-words the
reproductions are incorrect in all the instances in which the
original reaction-time was prolonged. In this case it was evident
that some strong feeling-tone was associated with the words
water, ship, lake, swim, and the patient, when cautiously ques-
tioned, confessed that a short time previously she had seriously
thought of committing suicide by drowning.
LXI.] Revieiu. 677
stimulus word. Reaction.
Reaction-time
(seconds).
Reproduction.
Head Hair 1.4
Green Meadow 1.6
Water Deep 5 Swim
Stab Knife 1.6
Long Table 1.2 ...
Ship Wreck 3.4 Steamer
Question Answer 1.6
Vv 001 Knit 1 o
l.D
Insolent Gentle 1.4
Lake Water 4 Blue
III Well 1.8
Ink Black 1.2
Swim Know 3.8 Water
For the discovery of emotional complexes another test of great
delicacy has been elaborated by the Zurich investigators. It is
found that if a galvanic current of low tension is passed through
the human body, the amount of current passing, as shown by a
galvanometer placed in the circuit, is increased when sensory
stimuli of a certain strength are applied to the subject. But
the diminished resistance of the body thus shown varies not so
much with the strength of the stimulus as with the intensity of
the resulting feeling-tone. Thus when the stimulus is a test-
word in the word-association reaction experiment, very striking
deflections of the galvanometer are observed when the association
arouses an emotional complex.
Prince and Petersen have shown that rises in the galvano-
metric curves can be obtained in cases of double personality
where the emotional complex stimulated by the test-word is
definitely co-conscious. Coriat has worked out the jDulse reactions
to test-words in states of induced distraction, and he has found
that lengthened reaction times and high galvauometric curves
are accompanied by acceleration of the pulse rate.
There are other peculiarities which may be observed in these
association experiments which need not be referred to here.
SuflSce it to say that by the methods just outlined, combined
with an analysis of the patient's dreams by means of the special
technique introduced by Freud, it is possible to trace the origin
of a symptom to its underlying complex, and the advocates of
psycho-analysis as a therapeutic method maintain that by bringing
submerged complexes to light and by enabling the patient to
678 T. W. Mitchell, M.R [part
understand and appreciate their significance in relation to his
malady, "he is able to free his personality from the constraining
force of these complexes, and, by taking ujj an independent
attitude towards them, to gain a degree of self-control over his
aberrant thoughts and wishes that was previously impossible."
The repressed complex, after being dissected and analysed in
all its relations, becomes assimilated by the personal consciousness
and the patient is thereby cured of his disorder.
In every attempt at scientific treatment of disease an accurate
diagnosis is the most essential preliminary. This is as true of
psychotherapy as of treatment by physical or chemical measures.
And just as in ordinary medical treatment accurate diagnosis
has been one of the latest phases in the history of the art, so
in psychotherapy the empirical methods of earlier workers are
being modified by the more accurate methods of investigation
which are being evolved at the present time. The psycho-analytic
procedures elaborated by the Vienna and Zurich schools are the
most delicate instruments of psychical diagnosis which we at
present possess, and their value in this connection cannot fail
to be recognised ; but when it is maintained that these pro-
cedures are in themselves curative as well as diagnostic, there
are good grounds for disputing the validity of the claim. To
trace the psychogenesis of a symptom is not in itself to modify
the complex which causes it, and if the psycho-analysis cannot
be successfully jDcrformed without at the same time so modifying
the complex that the symptom disappears, the influences which
lead to such modification—whether rational explanation, per-
suasion, or suggestion—must be given their share of credit in
regard to the therapeutic result.
So far we have been dealing with methods of treatment which
are generally applicable to patients in the ordinary waking state.
But these methods may also be used in conjunction with the
artificial induction of more or less profound alterations of con-
sciousness. Moreover, it is maintained by some observers that
not only is the analysis of the mental state rendered easier by
the presence of these alterations of consciousness, but also that
the necessary therapeutic measures are thereby more easily and
more effectively applied. In the practice of hypnotic suggestion
it has been observed that patients are sometimes amenable to
curative suggestions when no objective signs of hypnosis can be
discovered. And although response to suggestion in these cases
LXI.] Review. 679
is generally obtained only after some preliminary hypnotic process
has been employed, or when the suggestions are given in par-
ticular ways or under peculiar circumstances, it is not uncommon
to have the results recorded as being due to suggestion in the
waking state. The assumptions made are that since no signs of
hypnosis can be detected, or since no formal hypnotic procedure
has been attempted, the patient is not hypnotised ; and that if
he is not hypnotised he must necessarily be in the ordinary
waking state. All these assumptions may be false. Using the
term hypnosis in the elastic sense in which it has been used in
modern writings, we may say legitimately enough that there
may be a first stage or degree of hypnosis, the existence of which
is only shown by response to certain therapeutic suggestions
further, a true hypnosis may be induced without any deliberate
or formal attempt to hj^pnotise ; and finally, we have no reason
to suppose that no intermediate state of consciousness may occur
between the normal waking state and definite hypnosis. The
existence of such an intermediate state characterised by
increased suggestibility has been suspected by some observers,
but until comparatively recently little evidence has been forth-
coming in support of their opinion. During the last thirteen
years, however, Dr. Boris Sidis of Brookline has brought forward
a considerable amount of evidence pointing to the existence of
such a state, and has furnished some definite data in regard to
its peculiar characteristics. A summary of his researches and
his most important conclusions are given by Dr. Sidis in his
contribution to the Symposium entitled The Psychotherapeutic
Value of the Hypnoidal State.
In his earlier studies on the Psychology of Suggestion, Sidis
found that any arrangement tending to produce monotony and
limitation of voluntary activity brings about a state of suggesti-
bility termed by him suhwaking or hypnoidal, a state in which
mental life can be affected with ease. "The subwaking or
hypnoidal state is essentially an intermediate state belonging to
the borderland of mental life. On the one hand the hypnoidal
state closely touches on the waking state, on the other it merges
into hypnosis and sleep. A close study of the subwaking state
shows that it differs from the hypnotic state proper, and that it
cannot be identified with light hyj^nosis."
In the course of a valuable experimental study of sleep in
the lower animals and in man Sidis found that the hypnoidal
C80 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
state becomes a more prominent feature in connection with bodily
rest and recuperation the farther we descend in the scale of
animal life. Indeed he concludes that the hypnoidal state is the
primitive rest state out of which both sleeji and hypnosis have
been evolved.
The hypnoidal state is on the borderland of waking, sleep,
and hypnosis. It is a phase of consciousness which must be passed
through in every transition from one of these states to another.
In passing from the waking state into ordinary sleep, or from
sleep to waking ; from waking to hypnosis, or from hypnosis to
waking ; from hypnosis to sleep, or from sleep to hypnosis, we
pass through a hypnoidal state of longer or shorter duration.
The state is very unstable, and varies greatly as regards its
depth. Sometimes it passes into sleep, sometimes into a true
hypnosis. In its deeper stages the j^fitient hovers between sleep
and hypnosis.
The spontaneous occiirrence of the hypnoidal state in man is,
as a rule, merely a transitory stage in the alternation of waking
and sleep, but its artificial induction may be very easily accom-
plished. There is nothing rigid about the method of doing so;
it admits of many modifications. "The jarincipal object consists
in bringing about the conditions of monotony and limitation of
voluntary movements requisite for normal and abnormal suggesti-
bility. The patient is put in a relaxed, recumbent position; he
is asked to put himself in as comfortable a position as possible,
close his eyes, and attend to some monotonous stimulus such as
the regular beats of a metronome or the buzzing of an induc-
torium. . . . When respiration and jDulse become reduced,
sensory-motor reaction diminished, sensory hypoesthesia becoming
occasionally hyperesthesia, with occasional disturbances of pulse
and resjoiration, with sudden apparently unaccountable starts,
with tendencies of retention of position of limbs, and now and
then with a slight tendency to resist actively any change of
position of limbs or of body without the actual presence of
catalepsy, the whole feeling tone becoming one of acquiescence
and indifference, while memory with amnesic gaps begins to find
the lost links, and even to become hypermnesic—when we observe
all those symptoms we know we have before us the subconscious
hypnoidal state."
In the hypnoidal state there is a surging up of subconscious
memories, and this peculiarity makes it a valuable instrument
lxl] Review. 681
in tracing the origin of the symptoms of psychopathic maladies.
But Sidis does not claim for it in this respect any therapeutic
value. He thinks that the information gained by the patient in
this way as to the origin of his troubles is valuable "only in
so far as by a systematic course of direct and indirect suggestion,
by mediate associative and immediate associative suggestion, by
substitution, disintegration, and synthesis, both in the waking
and hypnoidal states, we help to transform the associative course
and emotional tone of the patient's mental life."
The practical value of the hypnoidal state lies chiefly in its
therapeutic possibilities. Being a state in which the patient is
amenable to suggestion, many of the advantages of the hypnotic
state may be obtained withotit the necessity of inducing hypnosis.
But apart from its affording an easily induced state characterised
by suggestibility, Sidis claims for it therajDeutic virtues of a
unique kind. He maintains that the main therapeutic value of
the hypnoidal state consists in the liberation of reserve energy
potential in the nervous system, and the synthesis of dissociated
complexes which is thereby brought about.
The principle of reserve energy is based upon a broad generali-
sation of facts, namely, that far less energy is utilised by the
individual than is actually at his disposal. In the struggle for
existence the importance of a reserve of energy which can be
drawn upon in emergencies is very great, and the accumulation
of such a store of energy is a feature of the evolutionary process
in all highly specialised organisms. The most important factor
conducing to a reserve of potential energy is the increase of
inhibitions that accompanies the growth in complexity which
characterises the evolution of the nervous system. Unrestrained
reaction to the multitude of stimuli to which highly differentiated
organisms are exposed would be extremely wasteful, and successful
adaptation to a complex environment is invariably found to be
accompanied by an increase of nervous inhibitions. The thres-
holds of stimulation of a complex system rise in proportion to
its complexity, and with the rise of thresholds energy, which
would otherwise have been imnecessarily expended, becomes locked
ujD in the nervous system for future use.
A high degree of inhibition is a characteristic of all civilised
races, but occasionally in the life of the individual the inhibitory
tendency becomes too intense, and by interfering with normal
and necessary reactions has a disastrous effect on the personality.
682 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
A whole system or complex may thus be rendered inactive and
cut off from the personal life, and the dissociated complex and
its stored energy are rendered useless in the adjustment of the
individual to his environment. By removing the inhibitions
access is gained to the dormant energy of the inhibited systems,
and the energy so released helps towards their reintegration and
synthesis. Now Sidis claims that the hypnoidal state "helps us
to reach the inaccessible regions of dormant energy, it helps to
break down inhibitions, liberate reserve energies, and repair the
breaches of mental activity. The painful systems become dis-
sociated, disintegrated, and again transformed, reformed, and
reintegrated into new systems full of energy, and joy, and life."
In the course of his experience Dr. Sidis seems to have modified
his opinions in some ways regarding the nature and importance
of the hypnoidal state. In his earlier writings little stress was
laid on the employment of hyjDnoidisation as a means of unlocking
the reserve energy of the nervous system. It was rather as a
jarocedure that induced a state in which suggestion was effective
and in which forgotten memories could be recovered that it was
recommended. And there can be no doubt that in these respects
it is a very valuable measure in the diagnosis and treatment of
the psycho-neuroses. In my own experience I have found it
inferior to hypnosis in both of these resjDects, but of very definite
value when for any reason hypnosis cannot be induced. In regard
also to the liberation of reserve energy the hypnotic state should
be more useful than the hyiDUoidal. For in the hypnoidal state
there is merely a fluctuation and redistribution of thresholds,
whilst in hypnosis there is a general lowering of thresholds and
a consequent removal of inhibitions that tend to block the free
circulation of the energy of dissociated systems. Indeed the
principle of dormant reserve energy and its liberation in the
course of successful treatment must be applicable to almost every
psychotherapeutic method ; for in whatever way the reintegration
of inhibited systems may be brought about, the energy so liberated
must go to swell the total amount of energy available and assist
in the re-establishment of normal associations.
Although I can endorse from my own experience the usefulness
of the method of hypnoidisation advocated by Sidis, and although
I think it is well to distinguish by a special name the inter-
mediary state which is to be observed between waking and
hypnosis, it seems to me doubtful whether the hypnoidal state
lxl] Review. 683
can be regarded as a state of consciousness clearly marked off
from light hypnosis. Sidis admits that it is a very unstable
condition, sometimes differing hardly at all from the waking
state, sometimes deepening into definite hypnosis : and it seems
probable that its therapeutic value may be due to the hypnotic
element, which is almost invariably present in greater or less
degree. In discussing this matter we are of course hampered by
the absence of any recognised definition of hypnosis and of any
distinguishing feature which will enable us in every case to
differentiate the hyjjnotic state from other states of conscious-
ness. In the deeper degrees of hypnosis the peculiarities of the
state are clearly marked off from the phenomena observable in
waking life, but as we approach the lighter stages it becomes
more and more difficult to say in what hypnosis really consists.
In Bernheim's hands hypnosis disappears altogether, and nothing
is left but suggestibility, or, at most, increased suggestibility
normal suggestibility becomes increased suggestibility by means
of suggestion. But although it is commonly held that some people
are responsive to direct suggestion in the waking state, there
are good grounds for holding that such resjDonsiveness is always
preceded by some change in consciousness of the nature of what
in its more marked stages we know as hypnosis. This applies
whether the preliminary change in consciousness occurs spon-
taneously or is artificially produced ; and in either case the
observable departure from normal waking may be so slight that
we are tempted to think that we have to do with effective
suggestion in the waking state. On the other hand, the change
from ordinary waking may be apparent while none of the
recognised peculiarities of definite hypnosis are to be found, so
that we may be led to believe that we are dealing with a phase
of consciousness which is neither the waking state nor hypnosis.
The hypnoidal state described by Sidis seems to include all the
stages which lie between the waking state and definite hypnosis,
and in view of the difficulty of saying where waking ends and
hypnosis begins it is convenient and desirable to have some term
which will cover this ill-defined territory.
As I have already said, some men who formerly used hypnotism
in the practice of treatment by suggestion now maintain that
the "sleep" is unnecessary, and they teach that suggestion
without hypnosis is equally efficacious. The most distinguished
exponent of this view in this country is Dr. Milne Bramwell,
684- T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
who after many years of remarkable success as a hypnotist has
practically given up attempting to hypnotise his patients. Yet
he tells us his results have in no way suffered, and he naturally
regards the induction of hypnosis as simply a waste of time.
In view of the admittedly greater susceptibility to suggestion
which characterises hypnosis as compared with that of the waking
state, and in view of the doubts expressed by many observers
as to the possibility of getting response to direct suggestion in
normal life without some prior change in consciousness, it is
interesting to examine Dr. Bramwell's method of giving the
suggestions which prove so efficacious.
Dr. Bramwell asks the patient to sit in a comfortable arm
chair, close his eyes, and concentrate his attention on some
restful mental picture. While the patient rests thus Dr. Bramwell
quietly and monotonously makes suggestions which the patient
is not supposed to attend to. The hypothesis on which the
method is based is that we have a secondary consciousness which
possesses powers over the organism greater than those of the
ordinary one, and that if the primary consciousness is absorbed
in some restful train of thought the suggestions more easily
reach the secondary one and call its powers into play. It is the
repetition of the impression made in this particular way which
gives it its j^ower. Dr. Bramwell tells the patient beforehand
that he does not wish him to go to sleep, but that if he can get
into the drowsy condition which precedes normal sleep the
curative suggestions are likely to be responded to more quickly.
In describing the condition brought about by these methods. Dr.
Bramwell says the patient " often passes into a drowsy, day-dreamy
state. Sometimes the condition becomes one of slight natural
sleep ; the patient ceases to hear my voice, and loses conscious-
ness for a moment or two, then drifts back to consciousness
again."
Before giving systematised suggestions to his patients in this
way, Dr. Bramwell always studies their m^ental condition in
reference to their symptoms. When these are all of nervous
origin he carefully explains, step by step, how they have arisen
and have been maintained by morbid self-suggestion, and that
the remedy lies in re-education and the development of will
power and self-control. But while this appeal to the patient's
intelligence is often helpful, it is not the most important part
'Bramwell, Hypnotism and Treatment hy Suggestion (1909), p. 168.
LXI.] Review. 685
of the treatment. The essential thing is the systematised sugges-
tions under the conditions described.
In the method of Dr. Bramwell we find all the conditions
which Sidis desiderates for the production of the hypnoidal state.
There is monotony and restriction of voluntary movement. The
monotonous repetition of suggestions v/ill have an effect similar
to that produced by the beats of a metronome or the buzzing
of an inductorium, and increased suggestibility will be brought
about, not altogether by the content of the suggested ideas, but
partly by the manner in which they are presented. In the state
of consciousness produced by this method of giving suggestions,
we see the same instability and variableness which Sidis tells
us characterises the hypnoidal state, and it would seem as if
Dr. Bramwell really treats his patients by hypnoidisation, com-
bined with suggestion given in a joarticular way. Monotonous
reiteration of the curative suggestions is a characteristic feature
of the method, and the efficacy of this may be correlated with
what we know of the importance of repetition in the formation
and conservation of new mental complexes.
It will probably be found that all successful therapeutic
suggestion without hypnosis, where direct verbal suggestion has
been employed, is to be explained by the production of the
hypnoidal state ; for we have no evidence at present that direct
verbal suggestion in the normal waking state can produce the
mental and physiological changes which are implied in the cure
of mental and physiological disorders. Indirect suggestion is
another matter, and its elusiveness is one of our main difficulties
in estimating the value of any form of treatment whatsoever
but we are probably right in supporting the view put forward
by Sidis in his study of the Psychology of Suggestion, that in
the waking state suggestion is least effective when most direct,
and most effective when least direct.
The different methods of psychotherapy which I have described
are all developments which have arisen out of the study of
hypnotic suggestion, and it is as a rule the expressed purpose
of their originators to offer them as substitutes for and improve-
ments on the older method. But although their superiority may
be admitted under certain circumstances or in the treatment of
particular morbid states, it is doubtful if any of them by itself,
or all of them combined, will ever take the place of suggestion
during hypnosis as a widely applicable therapeutic measure.
686 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
Yet each is of value in its own way. Simple explanation and
re-education is and always has been an important feature in
every form of psychotherapy. Psycho-analysis jDi-oves of un-
doubted value in dealing with certain psychopathic conditions.
Hypnoidisation provides an easy method of inducing a state of
consciousness which facilitates psycho-analysis and increases
suggestibility. The value of hypnotic suggestion is well estab-
lished and needs no defence, and unless it can be shown that
other methods are as effective, as easily applied, and as widely
applicable, we cannot afford to dispense with it as a therapeutic
measure. Why there should be any desire to dispense with it
before some better way is found is hard to understand. Prejudice
should have no place among the influences which determine our
estimate of the value of any form of treatment, but it cannot
be denied that in the writings of some therapeutists we find
evidence of a mental attitude towards hypnotism which is un-
worthy of scientific men.
LXI.] Review. 687
II.
REVIEW.
Mesmerism and Christian Science: a short history of mental
healing. By Frank Podmore. (Methuen & Co., London, 1909.
Pp. 306. Price, 10s. 6d. net.)
In setting out to write a short history of mental healing, Mr.
Podmore may well have been embarrassed by the amount of
material at his disposal, and he must have had difficulty in
deciding where to begin and where to end. For the beginnings
of mental healing must be looked for in the opening chapters
of man's history, its persistence through the ages may be dis-
covered in the records of all peojjles, its development in our own
time has taken place along widely diverging paths, and in no
direction can it be said that the end has yet come. Instead of
beginning with Mesmerism, which was really the first attempt
at rationalising the mystical practices of former generations, he
might have traced these practices to their roots in the super-
stitions of barbarism or in the magical rites of early civilisations.
Instead of ending with Christian Science, which seems the final
abandonment of reason in the interpretation of the results
obtained by mental healing, he might have traced the vicissitudes
of hypnotism since the days of Braid and brought his story to a
close with an account of the psychotherapeutic methods of the
present day. We are told in the preface that "the aim of the
present work is briefly to describe the various phases of the
movement initiated by Mesmer, and to trace the successive
attempts made by those who came after him to get below the
surface to the underlying reality."
It cannot be Mr. Podmore's intention to imply that after a
hundred years of striving to get below the surface to the under-
688 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
lying reality the att-empt must be abandoned, or that all the
phases of the movement initiated by Mesmer culminate in the
doctrines and practice of Mrs. Eddy. Yet there is no break in
the story from Mesmerism to Christian Science just as there is
no real discontinuity between Mesmerism and the psychic treat-
ment of orthodox physicians at the present time. With the rise
of Mesmerism two lines of thought which had existed for hundreds
of years, at first inextricably mingled, then side by side, came
once more for a time into contact with each other. At the
close of the Mesmeric period these lines again diverged, there
was a parting of the ways, and it is along only one of these
ways that Mr. Podmore leads us.
For a long time after the Renaissance the practice of the art
of healing displayed a curious blend of occultism and empiricism.
Natural remedies were eagerly sought after and employed with
effect in the treatment of disease, yet the virtues of medicaments
were almost universally believed to depend on the due performance
of magical rites. The desire for natural explanations was frus-
trated by the uncertainty of the results, and such definite
therapeutic effects as were obtained seemed to receive their most
reasonable interpretation in the doctrines of Hermetic Science.
With the dawn of the scientific era an ever widening gulf
developed between occultism and physical jDhilosophy, and towards
the close of the eighteenth century a mystical explanation of
any natural phenomenon was as little likely to obtain credence
as it would be at the present day. Yet about this time certain
teachings of the mystical writers of an earlier period were forced
upon the attention of the scientific world by the work of Mesmer.
And although Mesmer failed to convince his scientific contem-
poraries of the truth of his doctrines, or even of the genuineness
of the phenomena on which he based his claim to be heard, he
was without doubt the means of bringing under the scrutiny of
science certain facts of nature which in the Age of Reason were
only too likely to be neglected and forgotten. Mr. Podmore
says that
'
' Mesmer's first claim to our remembrance lies in
this—that he wrested the privilege of healing from the Churches,
and gave it to mankind as a general possession." But if Christian
Science were to be regarded as the sole outcome of the movement
initiated by Mesmer, it would seem as if his work had been in
vain. Rather should we say that Mesmer's first claim to our
remembrance lies in this—that he compelled scientific men to
Revieiv. 689
investigate a class of natural phenomena whose very existence
they vk^oulcl fain have denied.
Mr. Podmore dismisses in a few pages the scientific work that
has been done in connection with this subject since the close of
the Mesmeric period. It is no part of his plan to record the
history of Hypnotism which is, he says, "only the youngest and
at present by no means the most prominent of the progeny of
Mesmer." His purpose rather is to trace the pedigree of
Christian Science and allied schools of thought from their roots
in "that universal system of knowledge whose boast it was to
unite two well known sciences—Astronomy and Medicine." And
in doing so he has given us a most fascinating work. The
fullness of knowledge which he shows in regard to every stage
in the development of his story marks him out as peculiarly
fitted for the task, while the impartiality of judgment and the
critical acumen which he brings to bear on all the subjects dealt
with are in striking contrast with the mental attitude of most
writers who have dealt with these matters in the past.
The first half of the book is devoted to the history of Animal
Magnetism, and it is doubtful if there exists in any language
so complete and yet so succinct an account of that extraordinary
movement. The book opens with a short description of Mesmer's
early life and studies, followed by a rapid survey of the main
incidents which attended his first appearance in Pai'is in 1778.
His methods are described, and a record of some of the cases
of cure by Animal Magnetism is given. Before proceeding to
treat of Mesmer's later life and the recejotion which he met with
at the hands of the medical faculty and scientific authorities
generally, Mr. Podmore shows how Mesmer derived his methods
and his doctrines from the faith healers and the mystical
philosophers of a former generation.
Many features of Mesmer's practice at the beginning of his
career may be found in the methods employed by Valentine
Greatrakes and Gassner, and the philosophical doctrines sum-
marised in the famous twenty-seven jDropositions are implicitly
contained in the writings of Paracelsus, Van Helmont, Fludd,
and Maxwell. "To Van Helmont the Magnetic system is still
pi'imarily a spiritual affair, a link between the heavens and the
earth. Man can only obtain a complete mastery over the powers
which sleep in his own nature by assimilating his will to the
Divine Will. In the writings of Maxwell and Fludd greater
690 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
stress is laid upon the material operations of the fluid ; the
theory tends to become less mystical and more scientific. . . .
But in Mesmer's exposition this sjoiritual aspect of the doctrine
has entirely disappeared. For him the Magnetic system is purely
a question of matter and motion."
Such at all events was the claim put forward by Mesmer in
the paper which he presented to the Academy of Sciences in
1778. It was as a physicist rather than as a physician that he
asked to be recognised. It was not so much a new method of
treating disease, but a new physical force which he claimed to
have discovered. But apart from cases of alleged cure of disease,
the only evidence he could bring forward in supjDort of his
contention was the subjective sensations of those operated upon.
"When Leroy and his colleagues undertook to explain all these
sensations as due simply to imagination, Mesmer was confounded.
He forgot his resolve not to leave his great discovery to the
uncertain arbitrament of the consulting room, his reluctance to
embroil himself with the medical faculty, and he decided against
his better judgment to offer the proofs demanded of him."
Then followed the long series of abortive attempts to have
Mesmer's claims investigated by the learned Societies of Paris,
culminating finally in the appointment by the Government of
two commissions, one chosen from the Faculty of Medicine and
the Academy of Sciences, and one from the Royal Society of
Medicine. The reports of both commissions were unfavourable
to the claims of the Animal Magnetists. The commissioners
appointed by the Faculty of Medicine contented themselves with
showing that there was no proof of the existence of Mesmer's
postulated fluid, and since the fluid did not exist they thought
there was no need to inquire into its utility. This Report,
drawn up with great skill by Bailly, was signed on the eleventh
of August, and as Mr. Podmore says in his preface, this date
"should be observed as a day of humiliation by every learned
Society in the civilised world, for on that date in 1784 a Com-
mission, consisting of the most distinguished representatives of
Science in the most enlightened cajDital in Europe, pronounced
the rejection of a pregnant scientific discovery—a discovery
possibly rivalling in permanent significance all the contributions
to the physical Sciences made by the two most famous members
of the Commission—Lavoisier and Benjamin Franklin."
The Report of the Royal Society Commission was to the same
LXI.] Review. 691
effect, although one of its members, Jussieu, issued a separate
Report on his own account, in which he showed himself to be
a better obsei-ver than his colleagues. But Jussieu's Report had
as little effect on his scientific contemporaries as the Report of
Bailly's Commission had on the wider public who were interested
in Animal Magnetism, and the movement continued to sjjread
up to the time of the Revolution.
The most important names connected with this period are
those of Puysegur, Petetin, and Deleuze, and Mr. Podmore
gives an adequate account of the work of these three men. The
discovery of Somnambulism by Puysegur marks an important
stage in the history of the subject, and in his belief in the
influence of the will in directing and controlling the magnetic
fluid we may recognise the growing tendency towards the inclusion
of the human element in the interpretation of Mesmeric phe-
nomena and so towards what we regard as the true explanation.
With the outbreak of the Revolution the progress of Animal
Magnetism almost stopped, but after the Restoration it reap-
peared and flourished more vigorously than ever. So widespread
did its practice become that in 1825 it was again brought before
the Academy of Medicine, and a Committee of investigation
was appointed in February of the following year. The Report
of this Commission, prepared by Husson and delivered in 1831,
was as indiscriminately favourable to the claims of the Animal
Magnetists as Bailly's Report had been unfavourable. But
although the Commissioners were men of scientific standing,
their favourable judgment had but little influence on the medical
profession, and did nothing to alter its resolute determination
to have nothing to do with Animal Magnetism. The attitude
of the official medical world may be judged from the sjDlenetic
work of Burdin and Dubois. In their Histoire Academique du
Magnetisme Animcd, published ten years after the issue of
Husson's Report, these authors poured out their contempt on
everything and everybody connected with the subject. So blinded
by prejudice were they that they could see nothing of truth or
of value in any part of the story from Mesmer to Teste.
The final abandonment of Animal Magnetism by the medical
faculty in France came about through the repeated discovery
of fraud in connection with the Magnetists' attempts to demon-
strate the reality of clairvoyance by their magnetised subjects.
As so often happens in research on matters of this kind, the
692 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
discovery of fraud was held to justify the investigators in dis-
jjensing with further inquiry into related jjhenoniena in which
fraud had not been discovered.
It was in the period following the Restoration that Alexander
Bertrand lectured and wrote on Animal Magnetism, and although
his work had but little effect on his contemporaries, it may
now be recognised that he alone of all the medical men of that
time succeeded in distinguishing in some measure between the
false and the true in Animal Magnetism. It is surprising how
modern much of Bertrand's writing appears, and it was perhaps
inevitable that the importance of his views should have been
missed by his contemporaries and by later writers. His work
has hardly yet had justice done to it, and it is gratifying to
find that Mr. Podmore has clone something to restore to its
proper place in the history of the subject the name of one of
the most careful observers in the annals of Animal Magnetism.
There was in Paris about this time another Magnetist, to
whose merit Mr. Podmore hardly, perhaps, does justice. The
Abbe Faria was one of the most successful operators of his day,
and his doctrine of Suggestion as the cause of the Mesmeric
state and its associated phenomena is more modern even than
that of Bertrand. The name of Faria is of particular interest
to us in this country, for it was he who taught Richard Chenevix
to magnetise, and it was Chenevix who introduced Elliotson to
the study of Mesmerism. If Elliotson had only paid some regard
to the teachings of Faria, the story of Mesmerism in England
might have been very different, and we might have been spared
the most deplorable chapter in the annals of British Medicine.
Mr. Podmore brings his history of Animal Magnetism to a
close with an admirable chapter, in which he recounts the main
incidents of the struggle with official medical science in this
country. As he well says, "The intolerance of the medical
profession from 1839 onwards to Mesmerism, and especially its
obstinate rejection of the cumulative evidence of the relief from
pain occasionally afforded by its means in surgical operations,
is one of the most noteworthy episodes in the history of medical
science." But recognition of the reality of some of the facts
of Mesmerism and some insight into their probable explanation
must surely have followed the work of Braid had it not been
for the discovery of chloroform and the rise of modern
Spiritualism. To the few unprejudiced medical men who were
LXI.] Review. 693
inclined to look with favour on the practice of Mesmerism, the
hope that it might become of use in surgical work was the main
incentive to its study, and the introduction of an anaesthetic,
which was found to act with certainty in all cases, seemed to
deprive the less reliable method of the Mesmerists of all utility.
The effect of the rise of Spiritualism on the progress of Animal
Magnetism is well told by Mr. Podmore. "When table-turning
and spirit-rapping were introduced into this country from
America, the Mesmerists soon identified the mysterious force
which caused the jDhenomena with the mesmeric or neuro-vital
fluid. A little later, when the trance and its manifestations
were exploited in the interests of the new gospel of Spiritualism,
many of the English Mesmerists, v/ho had been j^^'eparecl by
the utterances of their own clairvoyants for some such develop-
ment, proclaimed themselves adherents of the new faith. Elliotson
himself before his death became a convert to Spiritualism. The
Mesmerists generally found the marvels of the magnetic fluid
insignificant in face of the new revelation. Mesmeric operators
became spiritual healers, and their subjects trance mediums ; the
spiritualist platforms were thronged with magnetic clairvoyants
who had developed into '
inspirational ' speakers. The two
movements naturally became identified in the minds of the
public, and shared in a common condemnation. No physician
who valued his professional reputation could afford to meddle
with the subject, and the study of the induced trance and its
attendant phenomena was relegated to oblivion, in these islands
at any rate, for more than a generation."
But the cessation of scientific interest in Mesmerism did not
stop the development of the movement, and the outcome of this
development is not to be measured by the amount of scientific
work that has been done in this connection since the days of
Braid, or by the conclusions that have been arrived at in the
course of the rise of modern psychotherapy as practised by more
or less orthodox physicians. As Mr. Podmore says, "The
deliberate negligence of the scientific world left the whole field
to be cultivated by the visionary and the charlatan. The
abundant crop of false beliefs and extravagant systems which
flourish at the jDreseut time is the direct result of the apathy
or obstinate incredulity shown by the physicians of two generations
ago."
All the mysticisms and pseudo-sciences of the present day no
694 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PAKT
doubt owe something to Mesmer, but there are, as Mr. Podmore
shows, three distinct schools of thought, each claiming a scientific
foundation, whose descent may be traced directly back to the
system of knowledge on which Mesmer's work was based. "The
three faiths in question are the fluidic theory, which finds its
headquarters, appropriately enough, in modern Paris ; the religion
of Modern Spiritualism ; and the movement of Mental Healing,
of which the sect known as Christian Scientists are the most
prominent repi'esentatives." It is to tracing the connection
between Mesmerism and these modern phases of thought that
the second half of Mr. Podmore's book is devoted.
Believers in Animal Magnetism had, in the face of all adverse
criticism, persistently clung to a belief in the existence of some
form of fluid emanation which passed from the operator to the
subject in the process of magnetising, although they were often
hard pressed to explain how the fluid operated in producing the
so-called higher phenomena of Mesmerism. A welcome support
to £heir belief was found in the experimental researches of
Reiclienbacli, and although counter experiments were made by
Braid which jjointed the way to the true explanation, Reichen-
bach's work exercised considerable influence in this country. But
still the higher phenomena called for some further explanation,
and the growing wonders of clairvoyance recorded on all sides
at this time gradually convinced the most orthodox of the
fiuidists that in clairvoyance there was something which tran-
scended all their physical interj^retations and compelled them to
revert to the mystical explanations of earlier times. Even
Deleuze thought that the phenomena of somnambulism proved
clearly the spiritual nature of the soul, and that the soul, "though
it generally makes use of the sense organs, can in certain states
receive ideas and sensations without the mediation of these
organs." As Mr. Podmore says, "If a man, gifted with such
sobriety of judgment as Deleuze, could write in that strain, it
is not to be wondered at that less cautious students should see
in the magnetic trance an open door into the spiritual world."
During the next few years their expectations seemed to be
abundantly realised. Under the influence of the teachings of
Swedenborg revelations of a spiritual world had formed a not
infrequent feature of magnetic or spontaneous trance, especially
in Germany, from the beginning of the Mesmeric movement
and at the time when Husson's Commission was investigating
LXI.] Review. 695
the claims of the magnetists, Justinus Kerner was recording the
sayings and doings of the Seeress of Prevorst. At a later date
revelations of a similar kind were given through Adele Maginot,
one of Cahagnet's somnambules, and other less notorious clair-
voyants, and the avidity with which such outpourings were
accepted as authentic revelations from another world is an
indication of the prevalence of the ideas and beliefs that made
possible the rise of Modern SjDiritualism.
The insistence by the Mesmerists on the reality of clairvoyance
was always the chief stumbling block in the way of general
recognition of the truth tliat was in Mesmerism, and the clair-
voyant records of this period still give rise to our main difficulty
when we endeavour to interpret the results which were claimed
to have been obtained. Mr. Podmore devotes a chapter to the
more important of these records which is a model of scientific
caution. In summing up his discussion, he says "the so-called
clairvoyance at close quarters, when not due to fraud, would
seem to indicate extreme acuteness of vision, the result sometimes
of training, sometimes apjDarently of hyperaesthesia in the trance.
But the manifestations of community of sensation and of clair-
voyance at a distance, so far as they appear to be genuine,
furnish some support to the hyjDothesis of thought transference."
But he admits that there are a few cases "which compel us at
least to enlarge the meaning of thought transference."
The final stage in the history of the movement initiated by
Mesmer is reached with the " Coming of the Prophets." This
is the title which Mr. Podmore gives to the chapter in which he
describes the development of mental healing in America after
1848. Prior to this date magnetic clairvoyants and spirit
mediums laid claim to no special sanctity, they arrogated to
themselves no spiritual authority. "But in the land of
democracy we are confronted with a singular development un-
known to the older monarchies. The transatlantic seers constantly
tend to be independent ; they assume the authority of the
prophet ;
they grasp at a spiritual autocracy—an autocracy by
no means confined to the spiritual concerns of those subject to it."
This tendency was prominently shown in the careers of Andrew
Jackson Davis and Thomas Lake Harris, but the supreme
example of it is to be found in the person of Mrs. Eddy, the
founder of Christian Science.
Although Davis at the beginning of his career essayed to
696 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
diagnose and treat disease when in trance, both he and Harris
are chiefly noteworthy, in connection with mental healing, for
the systems of philosophy which were founded on the contents
of their automatic writings. For in their scheme of things the
unreality of disease and its conquest by spiritual regeneration
are first clearly insisted on, and this revelation of divine truth
becomes later the foundation stone of the doctrines of Christian
Science. But of more immediate importance in the development
of Mrs. Eddy's opinions regarding the nature and treatment of
disease was the teaching of Phineas Parkhurst Quimby. After
starting his healing career as a professional mesmerist Quimby
came to the conclusion that the cures which he effected must really
have been due to faith and expectation on the part of the
patients. He became convinced that all disease is a delusion,
an error of the mind, and, discarding Mesmerism, he set himself
to cure diseased bodies by ministering to sick souls. In doing so
he appealed exclusively to the understanding of his patients, and
it is interesting to observe that this mode of psychic treatment
has been rediscovered within recent years by orthodox physicians
who believe that all that has hitherto been achieved by sugges-
tion may be as certainly and more reasonably attained by
persuasion. The descrijotion of Quimby's procedure, quoted by
Mr. Podmore from Mrs. Julius Dresser, might have been writt-en
yesterday by a patient of Dubois or of Dejerine :
"... instead
of telling me that I was not sick, he sat beside me and explained
to me all that my sickness was, how I got into the condition, and
the way I could have been taken out of it by the right under-
standing. ... I felt the spirit and life that came with his
words, and I found myself gaining steadily."
But although Quimby may be regarded as the founder of the
modern movement of Mental Healing and the original source of
all that is most characteristic in the doctrine and practice of the
Christian Scientists, he is not the only link between the past and
the present. The various phases of the New Thought movement
have also had some influence in shaping the form which the
development of Quimby's teaching was ultimately to take. While
Quimby in his reliance on appeal to the reason in the treatment
of disease showed himself to be a modern of the moderns, the
mind-curers generally tended to revert to the old view of the
Animal Magnetists in believing in some specific action of the
operator on the subject. A patient may, they say, be healed
LXI.] Review. 697
without his consent and even without his knowledge, so that
"absent" treatment is as efficacious as treatment when healer
and patient sit and converse in the same room. But in a wicked
world such a power may be used in injurious ways, and we have
in Mrs. Eddy's denunciations of Malicious Animal Magnetism an
indication of the terror that may be inspired by such a reversion
to belief in the bewitchments of ancient Magic.
Notwithstanding all the vagaries and strange philosophies of
the Mind Healers and Christian Scientists, notwithstanding the
remoteness of their mental outlook from that of ordinary men
and women, there is one matter connected with their teaching
which must interest every one. Do they really cure disease?
Mr. Podmore says, as does every unbiassed person who has taken
the trouble to investigate the facts, that they unquestiona"bly do.
There are no good grounds for doubting the testimony of
thousands of honest people who describe the relief from suffering
and the mental and bodily vigour which have come to them with
their acceptance of Christian Science as the true gospel. But
when we are asked for the explanation of these extraordinary
stories our only answer is "suggestion." That is as far as science
authorises us to go, and there for the present the matter must
rest. But in reading Mr. Podmore's story from Mesmer to Mrs.
Eddy, we cannot help speculating on the evolutionary significance
of the movement and the bearing which the growth of this phase
of thought may have on man's life and destiny in the future.
Nor can we help feeling that behind all the extravagances of
Animal Magnetism, behind all the futilities of Christian Science,
there lies some profound truth which we have not as yet even
dimly comprehended.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL
RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, ------ 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, ------ 1888-1892.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, Harvard, U.S.A., - - - 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., ------ 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, ------- 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., ------- 1901-1903.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., - - - - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet,- ------ 1905.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, - - . - 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, ------- 1908-1909.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOE 1910.
PRESIDENT.
H. Arthur Smith.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Loud Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., D.Sc.
The Rt. Rev. The Bishop of Ripon.
COUNCIL.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL. D.
J. G. PiDDlNGTON.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
Lieut.-Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. a. W. Verrall.
v. j. woolley.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal^
CARRES, K.T., F.R.S.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Si I!, Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, M.Sc, M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 7 Queen's Marsioiis, Brook Green, London, W.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Newnham College, Cambridge.
The Hon. Everard Feilding, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
RESEARCH OFFICER AND EDITOR.
Miss Alice Johnson, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
SECRETARY AND SUB-EDITOR.
Mi>s I. Newton, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
ASSISTANT RESEARCH OFFICER.
Miss H. de G. Verrall.
HON. SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 5 Panteleiuionovskaia, St. Petersburo-,
AGENT FOR AMERICA.
The W. B. Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
November, 1910.
President—H. Arthur Smith.
Vice-Presidents.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., The University, Birmingham.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., D. Sc. ,
Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
The Right Rev. the Bishop of Ripon, The Palace, Ripon.
Honorary Members.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S. , 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, F.R.S., Holmleigh, West Road, Cambridge.
Alfred Russel Wallace, O.M., F.R.S., Broadstone, Wimhorne, Dorset.
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Printemps, Le Cannet (Alpes Mari-
times), France.
Professor H. Bergson, Villa Montmorency, 18 Avenue des Tilleuls,
Paris.
[part lxi.] Members and Associates. 701
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy, France.
Professor H. P. Bowditch, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6 Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, 31 Goltz Strasse, Berlin, W.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Pien-e Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, "VII^, Paris.
Dr. Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Professor Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue Philosophique, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de I'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., The Rectory, Hertingfordbury, Hertford.
Edmunds, Miss L., Wood River Junction, R.I., U.S.A.
Eeden, Frederik van, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., St. James' Vicarage, Walthamstow, London, N.E.
Grubb, Edward, 3 George Street, Croydon, Surrey.
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., Wista, Silesia.
Reed, Miss E. M., 2 Gledhow Gardens, S. Kensington, London, W.
Robertson, Miss N., Lewes Villa, Uckfield, Sussex.
Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIV^ Arrt., Paris.
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
Abbott, E. J. W.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Acland-Hood, Rev. R., Rodsall, Shackleford, nr. Godalming, Surrey.
Adamowska, Madame S., 163 Walnut Street, Brookline, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Adams, Mrs., 4 Brookside, Cambridge.
702 Members and Associates. [part
Adamson, Rev. H., P.O. Box 241, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Adderley, Hon. and Rev. James, Saltley, Birmingham.
Addison, Miss Ina, c/o Mrs. H. J. Wilson, 12 Cheyne Court,
London, S.W.
Adkin, Mrs. G. E., HTorfield Rectory, Bristol, Gloucestei'shire.
Agelasto, Michael A., Box 485, Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
Alabaster, Edward P., Kil worth Hotel, Kildare Street, Dublin.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allen, B. M., 14 Gainsborough Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Allen, George B., Free Chase, Warningiid, Sussex.
Allen, Professor H. J., The Presidency College, Madras, India.
Allen, Mrs. M. S., Bowry House, Wraysbury, Staines.
Allen, William, M.B., 4 Newton Terrace, Charing Cross, Glasgow.
Alston, Mrs. Rowland, Turvey Abbey, Turvey, Beds.
Ames, Miss Evelyn, 355 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, F., Medical Director U.S. Naval Examining Board, Navy
Yard, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Andersson, A. A., Daily News Building, McKeesport, Pa., U.S.A.
*Antrobus, Miss Lily, 69 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Armitstead, G. H., Queen Anne Mansions, 87 Wimpole Street,
London, W.
Armstrong, Miss C. M., 31 Hereford Square, London, S.W.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
Arnold, Major Ernest C, Junior United Service Club, London, S.W.
Arnott, T. Davidson, Port of Spain, Trinidad, B.W.I.
*Ashley, Mrs. Wilfred, 32 Bruton Street, London, W.
Askew, Claude, 2h Portman Mansions, Gloucester Place, London, W.
Askew, Mrs. Claude, 2h Portman Mansions, Gloucester Place,
London, W.
Aspinwall, Rev. C. F., Tregenna, Decoy Road, Newton Abbot, Devon.
Assheton-Smith, Mrs., Vaynol, Bangor, N. Wales.
*Astley, H. D., Benham-Valence, Newbury, Berks.
Astley, Miss, Cowrie Haven, Poundstock, nr. Bude, N. Cornwall.
*Astor, William Waldorf, Cliveden, near Maidenhead.
Atkinson, Mrs., 224 Hereford Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Auden, Harold A., 13 Broughton Drive, Grassendale, Liverpool.
*Austen, Harold W. C. ,
M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London, W.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 703
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, 59 Shrewsbury Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
Badland, Rev. C. D., Short Heath, Kidderminster.
*Baggally, Wortley W., 23 Lower Phillimore Place, Kensington,
London, W.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 23 Lower Phillimore Place, Kensington,
London, W.
*Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
*Bailie, Mrs., 54 Sloane Street, London, S.W.
Baker, Alfred L., Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S.A.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 161 Westbourne Grove, London, W.
Baker, Miss Mabel, St. John's Schools, Eton, Windsor.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Ball, Mrs. Sidney, St. John's House, St. Giles', Oxford.
Ballard, Rev. Frank, D.D., Langbar, Harrogate.
*Bancroft, Miss M., Haddonfield Training School, Haddonfield,
N.J., U.S.A.
Barclay, Rev. Charles W., The Vicarage, Hertford Heath, tiertford.
*Barclay, Edwyn, 12 York House, Kensington, London, W.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., 3942 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, HI., U.S.A.
Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Nash Court, Marnhull, Dorset.
Barlow, Miss Jane, D.Litt., The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
*Barlow, Rev. J. W., The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
*Barnes, C. T., P.O. Box 1199, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Barnes, Rev. Walter W., 92 Warwick Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
Barrett, Harrison D.
Barrows, Miss, Malvern, Jamaica, B.W.I.
Barrows, C. M., 1121 Nelson Ave., New York City, U.S.A.
*Barry, Major S. L.,D.S.O., Pitsford Hall, Northampton.
Baruch, Edgar, Rooms 805-6 Wright & Callender Building, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
*Batclielor, E., I.C.S., Bilaspur, Central Provinces, India.
Bath, Hubert, 7d Grove End Road, St. John's Wood, London, N.W.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring, Herts.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 344 East Main Street, Haddonfield,
N.J., U.S.A.
704. Members and Associates. [part
Baynes, W. E. C, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt.
Bean, Rev. Edwin, The School House, Brentwood, Essex.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
*Bedford, Adeline Duchess of, Chenies, Rickmansworth.
Beeching, Miss Nelly, The Priory, Tonbridge.
*Begbie, Hai'old, Carbis Bay, S.O., Cornwall.
*Behrens, Captain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward, 79 Albert Hall Mansions, London, S.W.
Belaribi, Mrs.
Belhaven, The Master of, 41 Lennox Gardens, London, S.W.
*Bell, Miss A. E., 5 Gray's Inn Square, London, W.C.
Bell, Miss Alison H., 1 1 St. Luke's Road, Westbourne Park, London, W.
Bennett, Ernest N., Hertford College, Oxford.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., Cama Hospital, Bombay, India.
*Benson, Mrs., Tremans, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College,
Cambridge.
Bentham, Mrs., 30 Lexham Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
*Berens, Rev. Randolph, 14 Princes Gardens, London, S.W.
*Berens, Mrs. Richard, Marlings Hall, Chislehurst.
Bergen, Axel von. Abbey Road, Darlington, Durham.
*Bergheim, John S., Belsize Court, Belsize Park, London, N.W.
Berry, Mrs. Arthur, Meadowside, Grantchester Meadows, Cam-
bridge.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Best, Mrs.
Best, Robert, 146 Hamstead Road, Llandsworth, Birmingham.
Bethell, Mrs., 57 The Common, Woolwich, London, S.E.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Bevan, Rev. W. O., Richmond Hill, Galle, Ceylon.
*Beveridge, Erskine, LL.D., St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Beverley, Mrs., Nascot Lodge, Watford, Herts.
Bickersteth, Miss E. F., West Lodge, Ripon.
Bicknell, Clarence, Villa Rosa, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Richmond, Surrey.
Birley, Miss Florence H., Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London,
S.E.
Bishop, Edward Thomas, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
Lxi.] Members and Associates. 705
Blackburn, E. M., Little Thakeham, Pulborough, Sussex.
Blackburne, F. E. I., Hazel Hall, Gomshall, Surrey.
Blacklock, Miss C, Chapel House, Ditchling, Sussex.
Blackman, J. F., R.N., 47 Grafton Road, Acton, London, W.
Blackwood, Miss, 26 George Street, Hanover Square, London, W.
Blane, Missi Edith H., Winkfield Cottage, Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Blatliwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, Westminster, London, S.W.
Blodgett, Mrs. C, 1958 2nd Street, San Diego, Calif., U.S.A.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Bishop of. Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Bloxsome, C. H., The Croft House, Fairford, Gloucestershire.
Bodley, Mrs., 41 Gloucester Place, Portman Square, London, W.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. J. M. Robertson & Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Bonazza, Carlo.
*Bond, Frederick Bligh, 16 Brook Street, Bath.
Booth, H. L., Market Place, Thirsk, Yorks.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 150 Lefferts Place, Brooklyn, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Bouwens, B. G., Eastmoor House, Harpenden, Herts.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., rue Maze, St. Martin's, Guernsey.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Bowditch, C. P., 28 State Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
Bowley, Miss S. M., 29 Croftdown Road, Highgate Road, London,
N.W.
Box, Alfred Marshall, c/'o The Lancashire and Yorkshire Bank,
Huddersfield.
Boys, Major R. H. H., D.S.O., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W.
Bozzano, E., Salita Emanuele Cavallo, N. 92, Genoa.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., 178 Bedford Hill, Balham,
London, S.W.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
*Bradley, Arthur C, Newport, New Hampshire, U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 9 Edwardes Square, Kensington,
London, W.
Bradley, F. H., Merton College, Oxford.
Bramly, Mrs. Jennings, Castel di Poggio, Fiesole, Italy. ^
Pramston, Miss M., Kingshot, St. Cross, Winchester.
706 Memhtrs and Associates. [part
*Bramwell, J. Milne, M.B., 33 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Brandretli, Henry S., Haddon House, Weybridge.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.G.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brazier-Creagh, Mrs., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Brendon, William T., Whistley, Yelverton, S. Devon.
Brewster, Bertram, Rose Lodge, Coombe Lane, Kingston Hill,
Surrey.
Briantchaninoff, Alexandre N., 11 Grand Monetnaia, St. Peters-
burg, Russia.
Bristowe, The Hon. Mr. Justice, Supreme Court, Pretoria, South
Africa.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
Brooke, Miss Emma F., 6 Pembroke Square, Kensington,
London, W.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, Lady, Colebrooke, Brookeborough,Co. Fermanagh, Ireland.
*Brookes-Smith, Mrs., The Lodge, Hurst Green, Sussex.
Brooks, George L., 903 West Copper Ave., Albuquerque, N.M.,
U.S.A.
*Brown, B. G., 46 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Brown, Dr. Gustavus R., 900 14th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Brown, Miss May, 62 Carlisle Mansions, Westminster, London, S.W.
Brown, Mrs. Robert, Tankerville, Boscombe, Hants.
Brown, William, St. Paul's School, West Kensington, London, W.
Browne, Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Browne, J. Stark, The Red House, Mount Avenue, Ealing,
London, W.
Browning, Oscar, King's College, Cambridge.
Brownrigg, Lady, 55 Zaimsku Cho, Azabu, Tokio, Japan.
Bruce, James, Craik, Sask., Canada.
Brush, W. Franklin, 16 E. 37th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15 Campden Hill Square, London, W.
*Bubb, Henry, J. P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winni-
peg, Canada.
Buller, Mrs. C. F., 46 Clarendon Road, Bedford.
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 707
Bullock, A. H., 24 Goldsmiths' Avenue, Acton, London, W.
*Bullougli, Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
*Bullough, Mrs. Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burghard, Mrs., 86 Harley Street, London, W.
Burnliam, Mrs., Barnfield, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Bury, Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
*Bushell, Rev. W. D., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Butcher, W. Deane, M.R.C.S., Holyrood, Cleveland Road, Ealing,
London, W.
*Butler, Mrs., 20 Park Side, Albert Gate, London, S.W.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Syon House, East Budleigh, Devon.
*Butt, Lady, 9 Albert Hall Mansions, Kensington Gore, London,
S.W.
*Butt, Rev. Walter, Oakwood, Chepstow, Monmouthshire.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., The Bungalow, West Ivirby, Cheshire.
Cade, F. J., Mosborough, The Park, Cheltenham.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Cadenas, Delgado F., Caracas, Venezuela, S. America.
Calderon, George Leslie, Heatliland Lodge, Hampstead Heath,
London, N.W.
*Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire.
Campbell, Colin E., 34 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W.
Campbell, Mrs., Arduaine, Lochgilphead, N.B.
Campbell, Cajjtain N. D. H., 7th Dragoon Guards, Trimulgherry,
Deccan, India.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., King's Weigh House Parsonage, Thomas
Street, Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Campbell-Lang, Miss, c/o Professor Brunton, LL.B., 48 West
Regent Street, Glasgow.
Campion, Rev. C. T., Aberford Vicarage, Leeds.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road, London, E.
Cantacuzene, Princess Helene, Edintzy, Bessarabia, Russia.
Capper, Thomas, 17 Hale Grove, Edgware, Middlesex.
Capron, Mrs. Cynthia J., 340 S. Galena Avenue, Freeport, 111.,
U.S.A.
Carey, Mrs. A. A., 50 Fayerweather Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
708 Members and Associates. [part
Carlisle, Mrs. A. M., 12 Hyde Park Place, London, W.
Carnahan, Charles Tingley, 951 Logan Avenue, Denver, Colo.,
U.S.A.
*Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13 Berkeley Square, London, W.
Carnsew, Miss Rosamund, Bungalow, Sutton, Pulborough, Sussex.
Carpenter, Mrs., Withleigh, Shoot-up-PIill, Brondesbury, London,
N.W.
Carpenter, Miss A. C, 10 Arlington Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Carr, Lucien, 163 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Carrington, Hereward, 130 West 34th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Carter, Mrs., Springhaven, Cross Oak Road, Berkhampstead, Herts.
Case, Miss A. J., 26 Denning Road, Ilampstead, London, N.W.
Casey, Hon. J. J., C.M.G., K.C., Ibrickane, Acland Street, St.
Kilda, Melbourne, Australia.
Cassatt, Miss Mary, 10 Rue de Marignan, Paris.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
Cather, Miss A. S., York House, 3 Bedford Place, Russell Square,
London, W.C.
Cautley, Mrs. R. Iv., Heaton Moor House, Heaton Moor Rd., near
Stockport.
*Cave, Charles, J. P., Ditcham Park, Petersfield, Hants.
Cawley, T. A., Lea Dale, New Bedford Road, Luton, Beds.
Cayley, H. S., Box 128, Vancouver, B.C., Canada.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Alford House, Alford, Somerset.
*Centeno, Mrs. A., 25 Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
^Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
Chance, Clinton F., Lawnside, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W.
Chase, G. N., 1725 De La Vina Str., Santa Barbara, Cal., U.S.A.
Chattock, Professor Arthur P., 24 Royal York Crescent, Clifton,
Bristol.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 126 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Chevne, C. A., c/o Arthur Lomax, Esq., Heilbron, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H., 12 Portman Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Childers, Miss F. I., Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
€hilders, Miss S. R., 14 Embankment Gardens, Chelsea, London,
S.W.
Lxi.] Members and Associates. 709
Chitty, Hubert, M.B., F.R.C.S., etc., Royal Infirmary, Bristol.
Chubb, Mrs. C. A., Oldfield, Parkside Avenue, Wimbledon
Common, London, S.W.
Clapham, Rev. H. Horace, Trinity Rectory, 312 North K. Street,
Tacoma, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
Clapp, Mrs. Emma A., 5310 Lexington Avenue, Chicago, 111.,
U.S.A.
Clapp, James, 28 Avenue Villas, Cricklewood, London, N.W.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, Trobridge House, Crediton, Devon.
Clark-Kennedy, Rev. A. E., Ewhurst Rectory, Guildford, Surrey.
*Clavering, Miss, New County Club, 21 Hanover Square, London, W.
*Clawson, G. W., 9th and Baltimore Streets, Kansas City, Mo.,
U.S.A.
Clissold, Edward M., Ravensworth, Cheltenham.
Clive, Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 1359 Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
Coates, C. J., The Thornton Woollen Mill Co., St. Petersburg.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., The Rectory, Swinford, Co. Mayo, Ireland.
Coe, Miss M. A., 96 Chestnut Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C.B., Castle Townshend, nr. Skibbereen,
Co. Cork, Ireland.
*Coit, Stanton, Ph.D., 30 Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
*Cole, Arthur, West Dene, Pendennis Road, Streatham, London, S.W.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
*Collins, Mrs. Churton.
Collison, Harry, 1 Temple Gardens, London, E.C.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., High Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Colthurst, George O., The Castle, Blarney, Co. Cork, Irelaiid.
Compton, Lady Alwyne, 7 Balfour Place, London, W.
Connell, J. Harvey, 110 Front Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Connor, Rev. David, The Knowe Manse, Bewcastle, East Cumber-
land. '
*Constable, F. C, Wick Court, near Bristol.
Conway, Lady, Allington Castle, Maidstone, Kent.
*Cooke, Mrs., Hadley House, North Finchley, London, N.
Cooke, Miss Mabel, Dana Hall School, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Cooper, Rev. Canon A. W. F., Killanne Rectory, Enniscorthy,
Ireland.
710
1
Members and Associates. [part
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Mrs. M. A., Woodville, London Road, Gloucester.
Cooper, Rear-Admiral P. H., Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
*Cooper, Sir W. E., C.I.E., Hume Towers, Bournemouth.
Copland, Howard, Villa Copland, Interlaken, Switzerland.
Corry, Miss Lucy, Rosenheim, Cx'oydon, Surrey.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, Groenhove,
The Hague.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W.
Cotterell, Miss Alice, 1g Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Coupland, W. C, D.Sc., 33 Peml)roke Crescent, Hove, Brighton.
Courtauld, George, Junr., The Waver, Wethersfield, Essex.
Courtauld, R. M., M.B., Borough Sanatorium, Brighton.
*Cowan, W. H., The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield, Sussex.
Cowell, Miss Marion A., 2 Westbourne Square, London, W.
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Coxe, Mr. Justice Henry R. H., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co.,
54 Parliament Street, London, S.W.
Coxeter, Harold, 34 Holland Park Rd., Kensington, London, W.
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
Craige, Wm. C, 409 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Crane, Rev. W. M., Ph.D., Richmond, Berkshire County, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Crawford and Balcarres, The Earl of, K.T., F.R.S., 2 Cavendish
Square, London, W.
Crawford, W. C, 1 Lockharton Gardens, Colinton Road, Edinburgh.
Critchley, W. A. Paget, 15 Parkside, Albert Gate, London, S.W.
Crook, A. H., Queen's College, Hong Kong.
*Crookes, Lady, 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
*Crooks, Miss Marianne, Achintorlie, Norwood, South Australia.
Crouch, H. N., AdditionalJudicial Commissioner of Sind, Karachi,
Sind, India.
Cunard, Cyril G., 95 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Currie, Mrs., Warders, 10 Crescent Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 10 Barton Street, Westminster, Lon-
don, S.W.
Curwen, Mrs., Horncop, Heversham, Milnthorpe, Westmorland.
Dakin, W. R., M.D., F.R.C.P., 8 Grosvenor Street, London, W.
LXi.] Members and Associates. 711
Dakyns, Henry Graham, Higher Coombe, Haslemere, Surrey.
Dale, Alan, 110 St. Nicholas Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
*Dale, J. Gilbert, 31 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, North End Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
*Dalton, J. H. C, M.D., The Plot, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Damant, Mrs. H. C, Lammas, Cowes, Isle of Wight.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
Danzas, Mile. Julie, 26 Moika, St. Petersburg,
Darbyshire, Rev. H. S., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Methley, Leeds.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
Darton, Hugh, Beninghoe, Hertford.
*Davidson, J. Mackenzie, M.B., CM., 76 Portland Place, London, W.
Davies, Benjamin, Welford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middle-
sex.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., c/o Miss E. M. Reynolds, 44 Egerton Crescent,
London, S.W.
Davies, Mrs., The Goodwyns, East Coshani, Hants.
*Davis, Charles, 29 Gloucester Place, Portman Square, London, W.
Davis, Mrs., 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Trelinda, St. Merryn, Padstow.
Davison, Miss Annie, Albemarle Club, 37 Dover Street, London, W.
Dawes, Miss E. A. S., Heathlands, Weybridge, Surrey.
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington, Burnsall, Skipton.
Dawson, Miles M.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. IT., Pickwell Rectory, Oakham, Rutland.
Day, Miss Mabel K., Gershom, Reigate, Surrey.
*Dayton, Mrs. Elizabeth, Box 258, South Kaukauna, Wisconsin,
U.S.A.
Dearmer, Rev. Percy, St. Mary's Vicarage, Primrose Hill, London,
N.W.
Delanne, Gabriel, 40 Boulevard Exelmans, Paris.
Delap, Alfred D., Rosslare Harbour, Kilrane, Wexford.
De Lissa, Mrs. F., 22 Down Street, Piccadilly, London, W.
Demming, Benj. W., 1518 State Street, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Denovan, Wm., Ventura Avenue, Ventura, Cal., U.S.A.
Densham, William, c/o M. W. T. Co., Ltd., 9 Hall Street, Chelms-
ford, Essex.
Derby, Dr. Hasket, 352 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Despard, Mrs., 2 Currie Street, Nine Elms, London, S.W.
Devitt, Mrs. J. A., Oskaloosa, Iowa, U.S.A.
712 Members and Associates. [PAilT
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, Scotland.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Vice-Consulate, Kertch, Crimea, Russia.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W., and
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, A.R.A., Greville House, 3 Greville Place, St.
John's Wood, London, N.W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.B., 6 Brunswick Place, Brighton.
*Dixon, Edward T., Racketts, Hythe.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow, W.
Doan, Professor F. C, 911 Grove Street, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Dobbie, A. W., Gawler Place, Adelaide, South Australia.
*Dodge, Miss Mary H., Warwick House, St. James's, London, S.W.
Doherty, J. J., LL.D., 29 Grosvenor Place, Rathmines, Co. Dublin.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W.
Dorr, George B., 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Dougall, Miss Lily, East Undercliff, Exmouth.
Douglas, Mrs., 51 Palace Gardens Terrace, Campden Hill, Lon-
don, W.
Douglas, Mrs. Charles, Auchlochan, Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., Tuxedo Park, Orange County, New
York, U.S.A.
*Douglas-Pennant, Hon. Violet, 19 Queen Street, Mayfair, Lon-
don, W.
Doveton, F. B., Karsfield, Torquay.
Dowson, Mrs. W. E., Felixstowe, The Park, Nottingham.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex.
Doyle, Theodore, M.D., 1001 East 15th Street, Kansas City, Mo.,
U.S.A.
Drake, Mrs. A. J., 24 Bennington Street, Newton, Mass., U.S.A.
*Drew, Professor Eric.
Drew, Ringrose C, 8 Grove Park, Rathmines, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Drewry, Mrs. George, c/o S. Hicks, J. P., Rostherne, Upper
Colwyn Bay, N. Wales.
*Dreyer, R. H., San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Duff, Miss H. A., 27 Chester Street, London, S.W.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 713
Duggin, Mrs. Chas., 25 East 38tli Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Dulley, Rev. B., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
*Duncan, Harold M., Fairlawn, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunham, Miss Helen, c/o Messrs. Baring Bros. & Co., London, E.C.
Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
Dyce, Capt. Cecil, 69 Linden Gardens, Bayswater, London, W.
Dyson, Rev. W. H., Edgerton, 1a Weld Road, Birkdale, Southport.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., Heathercliffe, Frodsham, Cheshire.
*Edge, Selwyn Francis, 14 New Burlington Street, Regent Street,
London, W.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.C.
*Elder, Frederick, 21 Cleveland Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Eldred, Fleet-Paymaster E. H., R.N., H.M.S. "Bulwark,"
Channel Fleet.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E.
Elliot, Gilbert C, 10 Hanover Square, London, W.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, Kasr el Nuzha, Cairo, Egypt.
Elliott, E. T., Hawarden, Iowa, U.S.A.
Elliott, Captain W. R., Sherbrooke, Quebec.
Ellis, Herbert, 120 Regent Road, Leicester.
Emmerson, Robert, M.D., Calle Victoria 714, Chihuahua, Cliih.,
Mexico.
Emmet, Rev. C. W., West Hendred Vicarage, Steventon, Berks.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W.
Eno, H. L., 8 East 61st Street, New York, U.S.A.
*Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Entee, Pi'ofessor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhavnagar, India.
Evans, Frank Gwynne, The Tower House, Woodchester, Stroud.
Evans, W. A., The Brackley, Stoneygate Avenue, Leicester.
*Fabbri, Alessandro, 11 East 62nd Str., New York City, U.S.A.
Fabbri, Ernesto G., 11 East 62nd Str., New York City, U.S.A.
Farquharson, L. H., Trainmaster's OlBce, Panama Railway Co.,
Cristobal, Canal Zone, Republic of Panama.
Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
Farrington, Ernest A., M.D., Haddonfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W.
Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Ffoulkes, Mrs., 4 Nevern Square, Earl's Court, London, S.W.
714 Members and Associates. [part
Field, Allan B., P.O. Box 274, East Liberty Station, Pittsburg,
Pa., U.S.A.
Fillmer, Horatio R., 52 Ship Street, Brighton, Sussex.
Finch, H. Wynne, The Manor House, Stokesley, R..S.O., Yorks.
Fliigel, J. C, Cravenhurst, Reigate, Surrey.
Foote, Geo. W., 34 Bull Street, Newport, R.I., U.S.A.
Ford, Miss Emily S., 44 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Forman, Colonel R. H., A. M.S., P.M.O. Bombay Brigade,
Brigade Staff Office, Fort, Bombay.
Forrest-er, Mrs., Tullibody House, Cambus, by Stirling, N.B.
Fortescue, Miss Frances, 79 Gloucester Terrace, Hyde Park,
London, W.
*Foster, Rev. J. Edgar, Lindsey Vicarage, Ipswich.
Fotheringham, W. B., 24 Teville Road, Worthing.
Fournier d'Albe, E. E.
Francis, Arthur, P. O. Kelowna, British Columbia.
*Francis, Mrs. Francis, Palace House, Beaulieu, Hants.
Franklin, Hon. Mrs. E. L., 50 Porchester Terrace, London, W.
Freas, W. R., 7114 Greenway Avenue, Paschal, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor
Gardens, London, S.W.
*Frith, Mrs., Swynnerton Rectory, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Frost, Miss Annie, Carnelloe Cottage, Zennor, nr. St. Ives, Corn-
wall.
Fry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpslield, Surrey.
Fry, T. Hallett, 3 (N.) King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.C.
Funk, Dr. I. K., 195 Washington Park, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Gaff, T. T., 1520 20th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., The Rectory, Norton-in-Hales, Market Drayton.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23 Crafts Avenue, Northampton,
Mass., U.S.A.
Gardner, Harold E., 4 Harrington Street, Liverpool.
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
*Gayer, Gustav A., Ph.D., 131 West 63rd Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Gearn, Dr. George C, 2545 Front Street, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Gehring, J. G., M.D., Bethel, Maine, U.S.A.
*Geikie, Sir Archibald, D.C.L., F.R.S., Shepherd's Down, Hasle-
mere, Surrey.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 715
*George, Mrs., Cottage-on-the-Links, Hindhead, Haslemere, Surrey.
George, Walter C, Wayside, St. James Avenue, Beckenliam,
Kent.
Gibson, Miss Winifred, 108 Alexandra Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W.
Giddings, Miss H. M., 810-11 New England Building, Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Gidney, A. R., Aylsham, Norfolk.
Gillard, Mrs., Heinerweg 3, Wiesbaden, Germany.
Gittermann, Rudolph C, Odessa, Russia.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, 16 Wilton Street, Grosvenor iPlace,
London, S.W.
Goldstein, Dr. phil. J., Rossdorferstrasse 81, Darmstadt, Germany.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W.
Goodall, Charles Henry, Lucknow Avenue, Nottingham.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford, Essex.
Goore, Albert, Rose Mount, Meadvale, Redhill, Surrey.
Gover, J. M., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Gower, John H., Mus. Doc. (Oxon.), 19 Steele Block, Denver,
Colo., U.S.A.
Graham, Mrs. Perceval Gore, Ghezireh, Cairo, Egypt.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
*Grant-Suttie, H. F., R.F.A., R.A. Mess, Bordon Camp, Hants.
Graveson, Miss C, Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London, S.E.
Gray, Rev. Arthur Romeyn, Univ. of the South, Sewanee, Tenn.,
U.S.A.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., tJ.S.A.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Hogarth House, Bushey Heath, Herts.
Greene, Mrs. Bertram, 2 Louisburg Square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Greene, J. G., 34 Stiles Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Green-Thompson, Mrs., Bridekirk, Cockermouth, Cumberland.
Greet, Mrs., Caens Wood, Weybridge, Surrey.
Greg, Miss Mary S., 19 Kensington Gate, London, W.
Grenfell, Mrs., Sea Front Hotel, 152 Marine Parade, Brighton.
Grew, Mrs. Joseph Clark, Matthaiskirchstrasse 6, Berlin, Germany.
Gribble, Miss F. M., 32 Chester Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
Griffith, Miss Mary F., 41 Leinster Square, Bayswater, London, W.
Griffith, Rev. R. G., Riversley, Bakewell, Derbyshire.
*Grignon, Miss A. E., 24 Melrose Avenue, Ciicklewood, London, N.W.
*Grimshaw, Mrs., 109 Cromwell Road, London, S.W.
•2z
716 Members and Associates. [part
Gripper, Mrs. Harold, 11 Eliot Vale, Blackheath, Kent.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. R. C, Morrisburne House, Woking, Surrey.
Grottendieck, W. G., 2de Adelheid Straat 153, The Hague.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Soutliwold, Suffolk.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Hackett, James T., 95 King William Street, Adelaide, Australia.
*Haggard, Miss S. E., 5 Selwyn Avenue, Richmond, Surrey.
*Haig, Mrs. G. Ogilvy, 65 Brook Street, Grosvenor Square, Lon-
don, W.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E., 24 Holland Street, Campden Hill,
London, W.
*Hall, Mrs. Basil, 31 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
*Hall, J. P., Gorse Bank, Wernetli, Oldham.
Hall, Wilfr-ed, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
Hallett, Henry Hiram, Bridge House, Taunton.
Halls, Robert, 34 Royal Avenue, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Hamar-Nemespaun, La Baronne de, Hohe Warte 50, Vienna XIX,
Austria.
*Hambro, Mrs. Eric, 70 Princes Gate, London, S.W.
Hamilton, Col. G. Rowan, Killyleagh Castle, Co. Down, Ireland.
Hamilton, James, Heversham School, Milnthorpe, Westmorland.
Hamilton, J. J., 80 Woodland Rise, Muswell Hill, London, N.
Hamilton, W. Bernard, The Dale House, Hassocks, Sussex.
Hamilton-Hoare, Miss Sybil H., 96 Ebui^y Street, Chester Square,
London, S.W.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 386 Catlin Avenue, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
Handcock, Dr. Charles L., J. P., Ashburton, New Zealand.
Hankow, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Hankow, China.
Hannay, Mrs. Hugh B., Wren's Nest, Wellington Road, Broms-
grove, Worcester.
Hansard, Mrs., 12 Cowley Street, Dean's Yard, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Hanson, H. P., Box 39, R.F.D. Route No. 5, Harlan, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hanson, Mrs., 7 Canning Place, Kensington, London, W.
Hardeman, Miss Frances E., Westfield, Sefton Park, Liverpool.
Hardie, Miss Mabel, M.B., Candello, 577 Finchley Road, London, N.W.
Harding, Miss A. K., c/o Nevett & Co., 21 Park Road, Crouch
End, London, N.
Hare, Cyril Lockhart, Abbotsholme, Dunstable, Bedfordshire.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 717
Hargreaves, Miss, 115 Clarence Gate Gardens, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Harris, Alan Campbell, Staufenberg Str. 28, Annaberg, Baden-
Baden, Germany.
Harris, Capt. C. S., 90 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
*Harris, Mrs. H. Percy, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W.
*Harris, Hon. J., East India United Service Club, 16 St. James's
Square, London, S.W.
Harrison, Rev. Arthur S., 28 Eastgate, Stafford.
Hari'ison, H. Leeds, M.B., 104 Marine Pax'ade, Worthing.
Harrison, Miss Jane E., Newnham College, Cambridge.
*Hart, Colonel H. H., R.E., c/o Messrs. King, King & Co.,
Bombay, India.
Hart, Lieut. -General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O.,
United Service Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W.
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont, U.S.A.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, c/o Messrs. Brown, Shipley, 123 Pall
Mall, London, S.W.
Hartshorne, Charles H., 35 South Willow Street, Montclair, N.J.,
U.S.A.
Harvey, Mrs. P. E., 85 Isabella Street, Toronto, Ontario.
Haslam, Mrs. F. W., Sainte Barbe, Christchurch, Canterbury,
New Zealand.
Haslehurst, E. W., 72 Burnt Ash Hill, Lee, London, S.E.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancaster.
Hauxhurst, Mrs. W., c/o W. Hauxhurst, The Calumet Club, 267
Fifth Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Hawarden, The Viscountess, 18 Chelsea Court, London, S.W.
Hawkins, E. F., Villa des Troenes, Livry (S. et O.), France.
Hawkins, H. P., M.D., F.R.C.P., 56 Portland Place, London, W.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., West Thurrock Vicarage, Grays, Essex.
Haynes, Henry W., 239 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Head, Miss Alice L., 26 Leinster Square, London, W.
*Heard, G. H., 2 Fairfax Road, Bedford Park, London, W.
Heaton, Guy, 51 West Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
Heath, George H., 277 Brockley Road, London, S.E.
Heath, Mrs., North Breach Manor, Ewhurst, Guildford.
Henderson, J. J., Cairnmuir Cottage, Murthly, Perthshire, N.B.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street,
London, W.
718 Mevibers and Associates. [part
Henly, Mrs. Albert W., Gwydyr House, Bromley, Kent.
Henrici, Jacob, 6126 Penn. Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Ai-gyll Villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert- Smith, Miss Evelyn E., Raymead, Park Road, Watford,
Herts.
Herschel, Colonel John, Royal Engineers, Slough, Bucks.
Hessel, Miss K. A., 14 Waterlow Court, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W.
Heuss, Otto, 13 Stanley Crescent, London, W.
Heysinger, Dr. Isaac W., 1521 Poplar Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Hichens, Rev. Thomas S., Guilsborough Vicarage, Northampton.
Hielle, Robert, xix/1 Karl-Ludwig Str. 62, Vienna.
Higbee, Colonel George H., Burlington, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hildyard, F. W., 77a Lexham Gardens, London, S.W.
Hill, J. Arthur, Wensley Bank, Thornton, Bradford.
Hill, Mrs. John Howard, 272 State Street, Portland, Maine,
U.S.A.
*Hillard, Miss Mary E,., Westover School, Middlebury, Conn., U.S.A.
Hinkle, Beatrice M., M.D., 110 Madison Ave., New York City,
U.S.A.
Hinton, Mrs. Howard, Tyson, Bearsden, Glasgow, N.B.
Hoare, F. PI., 67 Fitzjohn's Avenue, London, N.W.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London, W.
Hocken, Thos. M., M.R.C.S., Moray Place, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, Springdale, Uppingham.
Hodding, Miss, 2 The Avenue, Bedford Park, London, W.
Hodgkin, Robert Howard, Queen's College, Oxford.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, South African College, Cape Town.
*Hogg, Sir Frederick Russell, Oriental Club, Hanover Square,
London, W.
*Hogg, Henry R., 2 Vicai'age Gate, Kensington, London, W.
Holland, Miss, Niddry Lodge, Campden Hill, London, W.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., L.R.C.P., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Hollins, Mrs., 24 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
HoUins, Mrs. A. E., 3 Maid's Causeway, Cambridge.
*Hollond, John R., c/o Miss E. M. Every, 18 Montagu Street,
Portman Square, London, W.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Holms, Mrs. Douglas, 16 South Street, Thurloe Square, London,
S.W.
LXI.] Member's and Associates. 719
*Holt, Henry, 34 West 33rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Holt-White, Mrs., Duchy Hotel, Prince Town, Dartmoor, Devon.
Homan, C. H., 24 Oscarsgade, Christiania, Norway.
*Home, Mrs. Robert, b/78 Portsdown Road, Maida Vale, Lon-
don, W.
Hoppin, J. C, 1527 18th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Hormusji, B., Solikoti Buildings, Bombay, India.
Horn, W. J., Woldingham, Surrey.
Horridge, Miss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southport.
Horton, W. Claude, 81 Church Road, Hove, Sussex.
*Hoskins, Edmond J., M.D., Hammam Chambers, 76 Jermyn
Street, London, S.W.
Hotchkin, Mrs., The Dower House, Woodhall Spa, Lincolnshire.
*Hough, Joseph Fairhurst, Lowood Cottage, Moor Park, Great
Crosby, Liverpool.
Houston, James, 1 Hereford Mansions, Hereford Road, Bayswater,
London, W.
Howson, Richard, M.I.C.E., 5 Southfield Terrace, Middlesbrough,
Yorkshire
Hubbell, Geo. Allen, Ph.D., Cumberland Gap, Tennessee, Lincoln
Memorial University, U.S.A.
Hubbell, G. G., S.W. Cor. Floral and Hudson Avenues, Norwood,
Ohio, U.S.A.
*Hudleston, R. W., 68 Parliament Hill, London, N.W.
Hudson, Morris, Aldersey Croft, Guildford.
Hughes, Major H. M., c/'o Aston House Hotel, Seoul, Korea.
*Hull, Mrs. C. G., 112 Academy Street, Poughkeepsie, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., The Pines, Tivoli, Cheltenham.
Humphrey, Miss Ola, 57 Davies Street, Berkeley Square, London, W.
Hunt, Guy W., Southport, Queensland, Australia.
*Hunt, Mrs. Warwick, 12 Lansdowne Road, Holland Park, London,.
W.
Huntingford, Miss, Exeter Lodge, Bournemouth.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Hei-ts.
*Hyslop, Professor J. H., 519 West 149th Street, New York City,,
U.S.A.
Infield, H. J., 130 North Street, Brighton.
Ingalls, Mrs. Joseph A., Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., Great Missenden, Bucks.
Innes, Miss H. K., Raemoir, Banchory, Scotland.
720 Members and Associates. [part
Ireland, Gordon, 32 Nassau Sfcr., New York City, U.S.A.
•'Izod, C. H., 7 Malwood Road, Balham Hill, Loudon, S.W.
Jacks, L. P., 28 Holywell, Oxford.
Jackson, Mrs.
Jackson, Mrs., 44 Park Street, Calcutta, India.
Jaguaribe, Dr. Domingos, Rua d. Viridiana 30, Sao Paulo, Brazil.
*Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Jaye, William R., Springwood Lodge, Oakfield Road, Clapton,
London, N.E.
*Jeakes, Rev. Prebendary, 4 Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Jenkinson, W. E., 8 Albert Promenade, Savile Park, Halifax.
Johnson, Miss Alice, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Johnson, Chiarles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnston, Miss M. ¥., The Writers' Club, Hastings House, Norfolk
Street, Strand, London, W.C. ,
Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cardfields, Hatfield Peverel, Essex.
Jones, Lady, Cardfields, Hatfield Peverel, Essex.
Jones, Miss Lilian I., 120 Maida Vale, London, W.
Josling, Lieut. -Colonel C. L., Junior United Service Club, London,
S.W.
""Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Judd, Mrs. Sylvestre Dwight, 164 Summer Street, Maiden, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Kaleta, Georg, Griesgasse 27/11, Salzburg, Austria.
Kallen, Horace Meyer, 28 Lynde Str., Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Kaufman, Mrs. Irene M., Hamilton Apartments, 3312 Hamilton
Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Keene, The Most Rev. J. B., D.D., Bishop of Meath, Navan,
Co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, The Hut, Holmwood, Dorking.
"-Kellogg, Spencer, Junr., Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
"Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
Kilroe, E. G., Jubbulpore, Central Provinces, India.
Kingsmill, Miss Agnes, 26 George Street, Hanover Square,
London, W.
Members and Associates. 721
Kirkwood, J. H. M., M.P., 62 Sloane Street, London, S.W.
*Kittel, T. B., Vane House, Hampstead, London, N.W.
*Klincko\vstroem, Count Carl, Elisabethstrasse 40, Munich, Bavaria.
Kniglit, Charles N., 36 Kensington Park Road, London, W.
KnoUer, Richard, 1 Riemerstrasse 8, Vienna.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27 Mikealsgat-en, Helsingfors, Finland.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., Swarthmore, Pa., U.S.A.
Kress, Miss Anne, Lock Haven, Pa., U.S.A.
Kwang, Sim Boon, 73 Scott's Road, Singapore, S.S.
Labouchere, Rev. J. A., Sculthorpe Rectoiy, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W. S., Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford, Essex.
*Lacon, Mrs. Sidney, Ormesby Hall, Great Yarmouth, Norfolk.
*Laflin, Mrs. Louis E., Ellslloyd, Lake Forest, HI., U.S.A.
Lafone, A. W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R. M., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, 77 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
Lambert, Miss Ada R., c/o Miss Lambert, Ivy Cottage, Newick,
Sussex.
Lambert, Mrs. Helen C, Lambert Pharmacal Co., 2101 Locust
Street, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Lambert, Jordan W., Lambert Pharmacal Co., 2101 Locust Street,
St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Landman, S., 9 Gower Street, London, W.C.
Lane, Miss E. Abbott, 131 East 21st Street, New York City, U.S. A.
Lane-Poole, Professor Stanley, Litt.D., Dunganstown Castle,
Wicklow, Ireland.
*Lang, Andrew, 1 Marloes Road, London, W., and AUeyne House,
St. Andrews, Scotland.
Larken, E. P., Les Garennes, Wimereux, Pas de Calais, France.
Latham, Miss Edith, 3 Avenue Bugeaud, Paris.
Latshaw, Allen, 3414 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Layman, Alfred, M.D., 1630 North 18th Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss Ellen, 6 Airlie Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough, Wilts.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 SussexPlace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y., U.S.A.
22 Members and Associates. [part
Lee, Rev. A. H. E., 156 Albany Street, London, N.W.
Lee, Blewett, 1 Park Row, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Lee, Mrs. Henry Thomas, 414 West Adams Street, Los Angeles,
Cal., U.S.A.
Lee, L. G. H., Kingswood, Rannds, North Wellingborough. :
Leedham, Isaac S., 1 The Cloisters, Temple, London, E.G.
•Lees, Robert James, Craigmore, Ilfracombe.
•Legg, W. A., P.O. Box 1621, Cape Town, South Africa.
Leggatt, Edward O. Every, I.C.S., Saharanpur, U.P., India.
''Leigh, Mrs. Gerard.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
Leigh, W. Austen, Hartfield, Roehampton, London, S.W.
Leith, J. S., Nevada, Ohio, U.S.A.
Lenon, J. W., Kianiara Estate, Nairobi, British East Africa.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m; Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Leonard, Thomas, 628 N. 22nd Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Leslie-Melville, Mrs. A. B., 51 Hans Road, London, S.W.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St. Barnabas Vicarage, North Rockhampton,
Queensland, Australia.
Lewis, David J., Walsh Building, Cumberland, Md., U.S.A.
Lewis, Francis B., Box 5, Maraisburg, Transvaal, South Africa.
Librarian, Public Library of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librai'ian, Public Library, etc.. Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Colorado Springs, Colo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 723
Libi-ariau, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librai'ian, Public Librarj^, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.PI., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs.
Truslove & Planson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W.
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Somerville Public Library, Somerville, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 106 New Bond Street, London, W.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Bibliotheque Victor Cousin, L'Universite de Paris.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Librarian, Vancouver Medical Association Library, 633 Hastings
Street, Vancouver, B.C., Canada.
Librarian, Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams's Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Fi'ee Public Library, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
*Lindsell, Mrs. J. B., 19 Weymouth Street, Portland Place, London, W.
Livingstone, Rev. W. O., 355 Greenwood Avenue, Kankakee, 111.,
U.S.A.'
*Llewellin, Mrs. W., Upton House, nr. Poole, Dorset.
Lloyd, Brig. -General Francis.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
Lloyd, Rev. John, 1542 Main Street, Marinette, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
*Lockhart, Lady, 187 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
724 Members and Associates. [part
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Loewenstein, Amtsrichter Dr., 43a Maria-Louisen Str., Hamburg.
Lomax, Arthur, Heilbron, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Lombardi, C, 2331 Leconte Avenue, Berkeley, Cal., U.S.A.
Long, George E., Box D., Jersey City, N.J., U.S.A.
Lonsada, Duchesse de, 4 Lancaster Street, Hyde Park, London, W.
Ludwig, Professor Dr. Hofrat Alfred, c/o Herren J. G. Calve'sche,
Kleiner Ring 12, Pi'ag, Bohemia.
Luke, James, Box No. 183, G.P.O., Calcutta.
Lumsden, Miss K. M., 17 Richmondhill Place, Aberdeen.
Lyall, Sir Charles James, 82 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
*Lyall, Edward, Barton, R.S.O., Darlington.
Lyell, D., United Empire Club, 117 Piccadilly, London, W.
Lyon, Miss C. C, 117 Keuilworth Court, Putney, London, S.W.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Lieut. -Colonel F., Resident in Nepal, India.
Macdonald, Hon. Mrs. Godfrey, Portree House, Portree, Isle of
Skye, N.B.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Macdonald, Mrs., Chalfont St. Peter, Bucks.
Macfarlane, Mrs., 74 Finnart Street, Greenock, N.B.
MacGregor, Arthur C, 8 Longford Terrace, Monkstown, Co. Dublin.
Mackintosh, R. D., M.B., The Bungalow, Mortlake, Surrey.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W.
Macnaughtan, Miss, 61 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Madocks, Major H. J., 1a Ovington Square, London, S.W.
Mainwaring, Mrs.
Mallet, Miss A. V., Anlaby House, 25 Highbury New Park,
London, N.
Mallet, Louis.
Mander, Charles A., The Mount, Wolverhampton, Staffs.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
Mangin, Marcel, 102 Rue Erlanger, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Temple Ewell Vicarage, Dover.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Mount Vernon, Melton Mowbray, Tasmania.
*Mansfield, Mrs. Richard, c/o Morgan, Harjes & Co., 31 Boulevard
Haussmann, Paris.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 725
Mantell, Lieut. -Colonel A. M., Villa Trollops, Piazza dell' Indi-
pendenza, Florence, Italy.
Mantell, Miss Bertha, 6 Shalston Villas, Ewell Road, Surbiton Hill,
Surrey.
Marks, Mrs. Claude.
Marsh, Edward H., 3 Gray's Inn Place, London, W.C.
Marshall, Mrs. F., 36 Drayton Court, London, S.W.
Marshall, William Cecil, Tweenways, Hindhead, Haslemere.
Marston, Charles, J. P., Afcot, Compton, nr. Wolverhampton.
*Marston, Commander G. M., R.N., Park Lodge, Albert Gate,
Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Martin, Miss Florence R., 65 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury
Martin, Thomas Beecham, Wanstead College, South Woodford,
London, N.E.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Delhi, Punjab, India.
Maskell, Miss E. M., 21 Thornsett Road, Anerley, London, S.E.
Mason, J. T., L572 Race Str., Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
Mason, Miss M. H., 5 Vincent Square Mansions, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Massey, Hon. Mary, 80 Royal Hospital Road, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Mathews, Mrs., 15 Stanley Gardens, London, W.
Mattiesen, Emil, Ph.D., Witzleben Str. 3, Charlottenburg, Berlin,
Germany.
Mavrogordato, John N., 52 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W.
Maxim, Sir Hiram S., Ryecotes, Dulwich Common, London, S.E.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 6 Rue Villaret-de-Joyeuse, Paris.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., 48 Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W.
M'Adam, D. J., Jr., Ph.D., Leonard Hall, S. Bethlehem, Penna.,
U.S.A.
M'Alpine, Robert, Balclutha, Greenock, N.B.
M'Clellan, Mrs. Clara D., Briarcliff Manor, New York City, U.S.A.
M'Clure, Henry, M.D., 30 Portland Court, Portland Place,
London, W.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
M'Cormick, Alfred, Sunny View, The Mall, Lahore, India.
M'Dorxgall, Dugald W., c/o R. J. Turnbull & Co., 4 Lloyds
Avenue, London, E.C.
726 Members and Associates. [part
-'"M'Dougall, Isaac S., The Orchard, ofE Arthog Road, Hale, Cheshire.
M'Dougall, William, M.Sc, M.B., Woodsend, Foxcombe Hill, nr.
Oxford
M'Keever, Buell, 3900 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
M'Kellar, Miss J. L., c/o National Bank of Australasia, 123
Bishopsgate Street Within, London, E.C.
M'Lean, Mrs., 186 St. James's Court, Buckingham Gate, London,
S.W.
Meek, Maximilian de, Russian Consulate, Newcastle-on-Tyne.
Meebold, Alfred, Ileidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 340 Grant Road, Bombay.
Mellone, Rev. Sydney Herbert, D.Sc, 10 Hartington Gardens,
Edinburgh.
Metcalfe, Mrs. G. R., The Aberdeen, St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Meyer, Rev. F. B., Regent's Park Chapel, Park Squ are, London, N.W.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
Milburn, Rev. R. Gordon, Bishop's College, Calcutta, India.
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Millard, Mrs. Almira B., 2505 Farnam Str., Omaha, Neb., U.S.A.
Millard, Charles Killick, M.D., D.Sc, Gilroes, Leicester.
Milne, A. M. Lees, Ribbesford ITouse, Bewdley, Worcestershire.
Mitchell, Sidney J., c/o D. Mitchell & Co., Box 77, G.P.O., Newcastle,
N.S.VV., Australia.
*Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
Moggridge, Miss Edith, Stanfield House, High Street, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
*Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Moimt Trenchard, Foynes, Co.
Limerick.
Moore, Major H. G. A., Army and Navy Club, London, S.W.
*Moore, Admiral W. Usborne, 8 Western Parade, Southsea.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 4 Randolph Cliff, Edinburgh, and Morison
House, Hetland, Ruthwell, N.B.
Morries, J. M., Gogar House, Stirling, N.B.
Morrish, Harold G., Leonard House, Grange Rd., Sutton, Surrey.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., Calcutta.
*Moss-Cockle, Mrs., 26 Hertford Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Moultrie, Miss A. J. C, 11 Burstock Road, Putney, London, S.W.
Mower, Mrs. George, Winona, Lovelace Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., 1 York Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
LXI.] Mevihers and Associates. 727
Miiller, Fraulein A., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheatli, London, S.E.
Munro, Hugh F., 1740 Germantown Avenue, Philadelpliia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Murray, Donald, ]\Iildmay Park Works, Mildmay Avenue, London, X.
*Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., 131 Banbury Road, Oxford.
Murray, T. Douglas, Iver Place, Iver, Bucks.
Murtou, Miss Josephine, c/o C. Holmes, Court Street, Faversham,
Kent.
Myers, Professor Charles S., M.D., Galewood Tower, Great Shel-
ford, Cambs.
*Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
*Myers, L. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, W. Wykeham, M.B., H.B.M.'s Consular Agency, Pagoda
Anchorage, China.
Nash, Joseph, The \Yhite House, Somerleyton, Lowestoft.
Neate, P. J.
Neeld, A. D., 10 Bradford Avenue, Crafton, Pa., U.S.A.
Neild, Miss Maria, 83 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Neustadter, Louis W., 3501 Jackson Street, San Francisco, Cal.,
U.S.A.
*Newcastle, The Duke of. Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
Newill, George E., Guadalupe Mine, Inde, Durango, Mexico.
*Newmann, Oscar P., 84 Newman Street, London, W.
Newton, Miss I., 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, D.D., East Hampton, Suffolk County,
N.Y., U.S.A.
*Nicoll, Mrs. De Lancey, 23 East 39th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Nicolson, Right Hon. Sir Arthur, Bart., G.C.B., etc., Foreign
Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
*Nisbet, E. T., 13 Beverley Ten-ace, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
*Niven, Mrs. Graham, The Golden Farm, Cirencester, Gloucestei'-
shire.
*Noble, Mrs. Saxton, 69 Eaton Place, London, S.W.
Noel, Miss Frances, 40 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Noel-Cox., H. L., M.B., Elcove, Elms Avenue, Eastbourne.
*Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., The Laboratory,
Yardley Fields, Yardley, Birmingham.
Northcote, Rev. H., Chimere, Parame, Ille et Vilaine, France.
*Nugent, Mrs. Arthur, 5 Temple Gardens, Brighton.
Nunn, T. Percy, D.Sc, London Day Training College, Southamp-
ton Row, London, W.C.
728 Members and Associates. [part
Nutter, Miss H. G., Beechcroft, The Avenue, Cambridge.
Gates, R. Crosbie, Moyallen, Ness Holt, nr. Nestou, Clieshire.
*Odell, L. E., 2055 Rodriguez Pena, Buenos Ayres, Argentine
Republic.
Odell, S. W., 202 Boston Building, Pasadena, Cal., U.S.A.
Ogden, Mrs., Heatli Brow, tiampstead Heath, London, N.W.
Ogden, William Edward, Gravenhurst, Ontario, Canada.
Ogilvie, Mrs. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, 10 Hill Street, Edinburgh.
Ogle, Nathaniel, 67th Punjabis, Multan, Punjab, India.
Oldham, G. P., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Rostrevor, Langton Green,
Tunbridge Wells.
O'Leary, Miss Katherine W.
Oliver, Mrs., 26 Brunswick Terrace, Brighton.
*01ivier. Sir Sydney, K.C.M.G., King's House, Jamaica, B.W.I.
Oman, Professor Charles W. C, Frewin Hall, Oxford.
Onslow, Lady, Chevin Bank, Duffield, Derbyshire.
O'Reilly, Miss B., 10 King Street, Covent Garden, London, W.C.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Pleath Street, Hamp-
stead, London, N.W.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Pack Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagenalstown, Co. Carlow.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Sir Arthur, 9 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.C.
Paley, Mrs., Ampton Hall, Bury St. Edmunds.
Parke, Roderick J., 179 Cottingham Street, Toronto, Canada.
Parker, Edward W., 168 Brookline Avenue, Brookline, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Parker, Sir Gilbert, D.C.L., M.P., 20 Carlton House Terrace,
London, S.W.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
Parkin, Mrs., The Mount, Sheffield.
*Parsons, J. Denham, 58 St. Oswald's Road, West Brompton,
London, S.W.
Parsons, N. M., New College, Oxford.
Pask, A. F., 50 Bensham Manor Road, Thornton Heath, Surrey.
*Passingham, Mrs., Berrow House, nr. Ledbury, Hereford.
Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., 3 Church Gate Street, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., 3 Devonshire Terrace, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Payne, Ernest, 10 Wellington Court, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 729
Peacock, W. H., M.B., Abok, via Torcados, Southern Nigeria.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Hesslewood, Hessle, Yorks.
Peckliam, Miss Ella, 246 Gano Street, Pi'ovidence, R.I., U.S.A.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Pedley, Charles Herbert, Dee Lodge, Chester.
Penha, Alfred de la, Long Wall House, Oxford.
Penha, Paul de la.
Pennington, Mrs. Henry, Silverthorne, King's Ride, Camberley,
Surrey.
Penny, W. R., Office of the Chief Railway Storekeeper, Cape
Town, South Africa.
Percival, Mrs., 1 Chesham Street, Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
*Perdicaris, Ion, Shandon, Tunbridge Wells.
*Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Isles.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Dr. Perkins, 8 Mansfield Street, London, W.
*Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Count, 5 Panteleimonovskaia, St.
Petersburg.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Superintendent's House, Guy's
Hospital, London, S.E.
Perry, Thos. S., c/o Perier & Cie, 59 I'ue de Province, Paris.
Peters, Mrs. F. A., 362 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass. , U.S. A.
Philipse, Miss Margaret Gouverneur, 142 West 71st Street, New
York City, U.S.A.
*Philliinore, Mrs., Battler's Green, Letchmore Heath, Herts.
Phillips, John, Haverford College, Haverford, Pa., U.S.A.
*Pickering, J. F., Camden Ridge, Chislehurst, Kent.
Pickering, J. W., D.Sc, Sylvadene, Cumberland Road, Bromley,
Kent.
*Piddington, J. G., Holy Well, Hook Heath, Woking, Surrey.
*Piercy, Major B. H., Marchwiel Hall, Wrexham.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treryn, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Pilkington, Guy Brabazon, 3 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown, Co.
Dublin.
Pinchot, Mrs. Amos, 1021 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Pinchot, Gifford, 1615 R.I. Avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, Wandsworth
Common, London, S.W.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
*Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, 48 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
730 Members and Associates. [part
*Platt, Mrs. Hartford.
Plowdeii, Mrs., Strachur Park, Loch Fyne Side, Argyllshire.
Plumer-Willson, Mrs. W., 20 Laurence Road, Hove, Brighton.
Pogson Smith, Mrs. E., Bourkes, Blackball Rd., Oxford.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B., 14 West Halkin Street, London, S.W.
Pontifex, Dudley, 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London, S.E.
Pope, George H., 60 Banbury Road, Oxford.
*Pope, Miss Tbeodate, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
Popoff, General James, Sosnitza, Gov. Chernigow, Russia.
Porter, Miss Agatha, M.D., 18 Kensington Park Road, Notting
Hill, London, W.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch.
Post, Mrs. Wm., St. Lucie, Fla., and Buckhannon, W. Va., U.S.A.
*Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J. P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Powles, Lewis Charles, The Highlands, Rye, Sussex.
Price, Miss Elizabeth, The Elms, Newport Pagnel, Bucks.
Pumplirey, Mrs., Minster Acres, Riding Mill, Northumberland.
Purdie, Mrs., 27 Palace Court, London, W.
Putnam, Miss Irene, Bennington, Vt., U.S.A.
Pym, Mrs. Guy, 35 Cranley Gardens, South Kensington, London,
S.W.
Pym, Leslie Ruthven, Alnwick, Northumberland.
Quackenbos, John D., M.D., 331 West 28th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
Quincy, Josiah P., 82 Charles Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
Rae, James, Villa Laurel, San Jacopo, Livorno, Italy.
Raggett, Mrs., 70 Maida Vale, London, W.
Raikes, E. B., Malabar Hill, Bombay, India.
Raikes, Mrs., Beomonds, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Raj, Des, Pasrur, Dist. Sialkot, Punjab, India.
Ramsden, Miss, Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks. =
Ransom, Francis, Chilterns, Hitchin, Herts.
Ransom, Frank H., 137 Main Street, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Ransom, H. B., 28 Belsize Park Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W
Ransom, Mrs., 22 Dartmouth Row, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Raper, R. W., Trinity College, Oxford.
*Rashdall, Rev. Hastings, New College, Oxford.
XXI.] Members and Associates. 731
*Rashleigb, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton.
Reade, Herbert V., 32 Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington,
London, W.
*Reckett, Miss Juliet E., 20 Dulwich Wood Park, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E.
*Reeves, Mrs., 6 Sterling Street, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
*Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Charterhouse, Godalming, Surrey.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2 Wellington Terrace, Brookline, Mass.-
U.S.A.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., Singapore, S.S.
'*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, N.W.
Ridley, The Viscountess, 10 Carlton House Terrace, London,
S.W.
Ritchie, Thomas, J. P., Overstrand Lodge, Cromer, Norfolk.
Ritchie, Mrs., 33 Cadogan Place, London, S.W.
Ritter, 7 Park Place, St. James's, London, S.W.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W.
*Robbins, Miss A. M., 29 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Robbins, G. M'L., Titusville, Fla., U.S.A.
Robeck, Miss Geraldine de, St. David's House, Naas, Ireland.
*Roberts, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Whales.
*Roberts, R. Nevill, 29 Finchley Road, London, N.W.
Roberts, Rev. W. W., 76 Kensington Gardens Square, London, W.
Roberts, W. M., Bar Harbor, Maine, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Robinson, Mrs. C. B., 1513 Fourth Avenue, Louisville, Ky.,
U.S.A.
Robinson, George R., 31 James Street, Liverpool.
Robinson, Nelson L., 381 Central Park West, New York City,
U.S.A.
Rodakiewicz, Dr. Eila, Bernbrunngasse 17, Hietzing, Vienna, Austria.
Roe, Miss Jessie T., 55 Nightingale Vale, Woolwich, London, S.E.
Rogers, Edmund J. A., M.D., CM., 222 West Colfax Avenue,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Henleaze Park, Westbury-on-Trym,
Gloucestershire
Rohde, Miss, 68 Hereford Road, Westbourne Grove, London, W.
3 a
732 Members and Associates. [part
Rolleston, Mrs., Glasshouse, Shinrone, King's Co., Ireland.
Rolleston, T. W., Ardeevin, Christchurch Road, Hampstead^
London, N.W.
Rose, Mrs. Guy, Giverny, par Vernon, Eure, France.
Rosenberger, James, Sellersville, Bucks Co., Pa., U.S.A.
^Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5 Hamilton Place, London, W.
Roy, Gunga N., Deputy Magistrate, Barisal, East Bengal, India.
*Rucker, Sir A. W., F.R.S., 19 Gledhow Gardens, London, S.W.
*Rumsey, Charles Almaric, 33 Hawke Road, Upper Norwood,,
London, S.E.
Rundle, Miss M. G., Varese, Burghley Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W.
Russell, George M., Caixa 304, Manaos, Brazil.
Russell, Rev. T. H., St. Martin's Vicarage, Gospel Oak, London,.
N.W.
Ryan, Mrs., The New York Sun, 1 Arundel Street, Strand,
London, W.C.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Clovelly, Banstead Road, Ewell, Surrey.
Sadgrove, W. Arthur, Clonarel, Foxley Lane, Purley, Surrey.
St. Davids, The Lady, 3 Richmond Terrace, Whitehall, London,
S.W.
St. Hill, Mrs., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sanderson, W. R.
*Sandford, Miss Alice, 33 Hertford Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Sanger, Mrs. F. W., The Sevillia, 117 West 58th Street, New
York City, U.S.A.
Saunders, Miss E. R., Newnliam College, Cambridge.
Saunders, W. E., Riovista, Torresdale, Pa., U.S.A.
*Savage, Rev. M. J., D.D., 1867 Crawford Road, Cleveland, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Savill, Dr. Agnes, 66 Harley Street, London, W.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., Ringmore House, Quarry Road, Hastings.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schmidt, Julius, 582 Woolwich Road, Charlton, London, S.E.
Schoeller, W. R., Ph.D., Plankow, Qiina.
Schofield, Mrs., 1 Phillimore Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Schreiner, Miss Julia, 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, Cottenham House, Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Scott, Rev. D. D., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New Zealand.
*Scott, Capt. G. B., 27th Punjabis, Alipore, Calcutta, India.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 733
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Scott, W. Sibbald, M.B., Hampton-in-Arden, Warwickshire.
*Scott-Gatty, Sir Alfred S., C.V.O., F.S.A., Garter King-at-Arms,
Wendover Lodge, Welwyn, Herts.
Scott-Moncrieff, W. G., J. P., Edgemoor, Lanark, Scotland.
Scripps, Thomas Cecil, 13 Woronzow Road, London, N.W.
Searle, Rev. George M., St. Paul's Church, 415 West 59th Street,
New York City, U.S.A.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., Junr., 9 Avenue des Bourdonnais, Paris.
Senathi Raja, E. S. W., LL.B., The Grange, Trivandrum, India.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet Sir E. H., O.M., G.C.B., G.C.V.O.,
Queen Anne's Mansions, St. James's Park, London, S.W.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., Tallahassee, Florida, U.S.A.
Shaddick, W. Harris, Lyndhui^st, 99 Montague Road, Leytonstone,
London, N.E.
Shadwell, Miss Blanche, Trewollack, Bodwin.
Shakespear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W.
*Sharpe, J. W., Woodroffe, Portarlington Road, Bournemouth.
*Shaw, Rev. Sir Charles I. Monson, Bart., The Vicarage, Margate.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W.
Sheets, J. C. (c/o Cincinnati Sanatorium, College Hill), Station
K., Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Sheldon, A. F., 209 State Street, Rm. 1002, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
*Shirley, Ralph, 164 Aldersgate Street, London, E.C.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston
Square, London, W.
Shuttleworth, Miss C. J., 10 Cottesmore Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
*Sidgwick, Arthur, LL.D., 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25 Collingham Road, London, S.W.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. H., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Miss Rose, 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Siegel, Louis, 3 Ploszlgasse, Vienna IV., Austria.
Siegel, Mrs. Henry, 26 E. 82nd Street, New York City, and
Mamaroneck, N.Y., U.S.A.
Silver, Mrs., 24 Victoria Square, London, S.W.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
Sivudu, R. Venkata, The College, Guntur, Madras Presidency,
India.
734 Members and Associates. [part
Skeffington, J. B., LL.D., 21 Crumlin Road, Belfast.
Skipwith, Mrs., 1 Culford Gardens, Sloane Square, London, S.W.
Skipwith, Mrs., 13 Montagu Square, London, W.
Sloane, G. G., Hylham House, Snowdon R.oad, Bournemouth West.
Sloggett, Surgeon-General A. T., C.M.G., C.B., P.M.O. 6th
Division, Poona, India.
Small, Mrs. William.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
*Smith, Rev. Ernest F., 153 Banbury Road, Oxford.
Smith, G. Albert, Laboratory Lodge, Roman Crescent, Southwick,
Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Lowestoft.
*Smith, Henry Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London,
W.
Smith, Sir H. Babington, C.B., National Bank of Turkey,
Constantinople.
*Smith, Rev. Richard, The Manse, Melrose Gardens, West Ken-
sington Park, London, W.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Hebden Bridge Vicarage, Yorkshire.
*Smitli, Mrs. W. Easton, 132 Grove Street, VVateibury, Conn., U.S.A.
Smith, Wm. Hawley, 2039 Knoxville Avenue, Peona, 111., U.S.A.
Smith, William P., Crestline, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
Snape, Mrs., St. Bees, Beachy Head Road, Eastbourne.
*Snow, Chester A., 523 Ninth Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Sparrow, G. W. S., Albrighton Hall, near Shrewsbury.
Spear, John A., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., c/o Mrs. Hoffmeister,
Clifton House, Cowes, I. of W.
*Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spencer, Miss C. H., 26 George Street, Hanover Square, London, W.
Spens, William, King's College, Cambridge.
*Sproston, S., Junr., Elm House, Nantwich, Cheshire.
*Sproston, W. Manning, Ardingly College, Hayward's Heath,
Sussex.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., Clifton Springs, N.Y.. U.S.A.
Stapleton, Mrs., 46 Montagu Square, London, W.
*Stapley, Sir Richard, 33 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.
Statkowski, Miss Tamara, Bagni di Castro Caro, Stabilimento
Conti, Forli, Italy.
Stawell, Miss F. M., 44 Westbourne Park Villas, London, W.
Members and Associates. 735
*Steel, Mrs., Talgarth Hall, Machynlleth, Montgomeryshire.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W.
Stephenson, Guy, 41 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Mrs., Wingrove, Moorend Park Road, Cheltenham.
Stewart, Miss Agnes, Artillery Mansions, 75 Victoria Street,
London, S.W.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Major D. B., Pi,.F.A. Mess, Roberts Heights, Pretoria,
S. Africa.
Stewart, Miss G., 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Stewart, Herbert L., Ill University Street, Belfast.
Stewart, J., P.O. Dept., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Stewart, Miss Marian A., 6 Lexham Gardens, London, S.W.
Stiles, Mrs. T. L., 411 North D. Street, Tacoma, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Stocker, Miss M. I., Dunorlan, Harrogate.
Stoehr, Miss, Downend, Hindhead, Surrey.
Stokes, Dr. Henry N., 1443 Q. Street, N.W., Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
*Stokes, J. N. P., 118 East 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachan, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
Strachey, Charles, Colonial Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
Strachey, J. B., 67 Belsize Park Gardens, Hampstead, London,
N.W.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,,
Strand, London, W.C.
Strain, Miss E. H., Cassillis Hoiise, Maybole, Ayrshire.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Strauss, E. A., 49 Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D.D., 67 Avoca Street, S.Y., Melbourne,
Australia.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Stuart, A. I., 24 Marlborough Rd., Southport.
Stuart, Mrs., Gloucester House, Lansdown, Cheltenham.
Stuart-Prince, Major C, c/o Messrs. Grindlay, Groom & Co.,
Bombay, India.
*Sturcly, Edward T., 6 St. John's Wood Park, London, N.W.
Sturge, Miss M. Carta, Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
*Suffern, Ernest S., 165 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
736 Members and Associates. [part
Sulman, H. L., 31 The Avenue, Brondesbury Park, London, N.W.
Sutton, Lady, 49 Lexham Gardens, London, W.
Swainson, Miss F. J., Stonecross, Kendal.
Swainson, Miss M., 7e Oxford and Cambridge Mansions, London, W.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., 153 Mill Creek Rd., Ardmore,
Pa., U.S.A.
Sweetland, Mrs. Gilford, Fair Oak Vicarage, Eastleigh, Hants.
Szentirmay de Darvasto, B. M. J. de. Consulate for Austria-
Hungary, Rustschuk, Bulgaria.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., LismuUen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
Surrey.
Tanner, Ernest, Hotel Curzon, Brighton.
*Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 7e Oxford and Cambridge Mansions,
London, W .
^Taylor, H. Dennis, Stancliffe, The Mount, York.
*Taylor, Lieut-Colonel G. L. Le M., 6 College Lawn, Cheltenham.
Temple, Reginald W.
*Tennant, Lady, Wilsford Manor, Salisbury.
Theophilus, Mrs., 165 Westbourne Grove, Bayswater, London, W.
Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednydd, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt.
Thomas, Dr. George P., 2113 North 7th Street, PhiladeliDhia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Thomas, J. W., Overdale, Shortlands, Kent.
Thompson, Edwin, 1 Croxteth Grove, Liverpool.
Thompson, Matthew William, Knoll, Frant, Tunbridge Wells.
Thompson, Mrs. Rosalie, 8 John Street, Adelphi, London, W.C.
^Thomson, Edward J., Western Club, Glasgow.
Thorburn, Rev. T. J., LL.D., The Bungalow, St. Helen's Down,
Hastings.
Thornhill, Miss H., The Studios, 42 Linden Gardens, London, W.
Thornley, Rev. Alfred, Hughenden, Coppice Road, Nottingham.
Thornley, Miss F. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bi-istol.
Thornton, W. M., D.Sc, Durham College of Science, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
'Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Alexander of, Lautschin,
Nimburg, Bohemia, Austria.
Tibb, Mrs., Rede Hall, nr. Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Tootal, Mrs. A. J., The Ladies' Empire Club, 69 Grosvenor Street,
London, W.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 737
Torr, Miss D. R., St. Andrew's House, Mortimer Street, London,
W.
Townesend, Mrs., Trevine, Boley Hill, Rochester, Kent.
Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid de, Queensberry House, Richmond.
Trimnell, Miss H. L., 36 Regent's Square, Bloomsbury, London, W.C.
^Trotter, Mrs., The Hill, Batheaston, Bath.
Truell, Robert Holt Stuart, West Mount, Dover College, Dover.
Tschistiakoff, P. A., Arbat (maison Tolstoy), Moscow.
Tucker, James W., Cooperstown, N.Y., U.S.A..
*Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 88 Park Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Turner, A. Hilgrove, H.M. Attorney-General for Jersey, Gouray
Lodge, Jersey.
Turner, Herbert B., c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Turner, Sidney, 20 Minster Road, Cricklewood, London, N.W.
*Turpin, Miss S. I. G., Youngrove, Midleton, Co. Cork, Ireland.
-*Tweedale, Mrs., Balquholly, Turriff, N.B.
Tyler, Professor C. M., The Oaks, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
''^Tyrone, The O'Neill de, Toi're de S. Sebastiao-Cascaes, Lisbon,
Portugal.
Tyrrell, G. N., The Lodge, Alderminster, Stratford-on-Avon.
Unwin, Mrs., Homestead, Bushey Heath, Herts.
Van Deren, H. S., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Van Meter, Solomon L., Hutchison, Kentucky, U.S.A.
*Van Norden, Rev. Charles, D.D., LL.D., East Auburn, Placer
Co., Cal., U.S.A.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam,
Holland.
Venables, Rev. Herbert A., Palazzo Sonnino, 30 Via del Prato,
Florence, Italy.
"^Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford on Avon, Rugby.
"*Verrall, Mrs. A. W., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss H. de G., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., 26 Gloucester Place, Brighton.
Vesme, Cesar Baudi de, 39 rue Guersant, Paris.
Villamarina, Her Excellency the Marchesa di, Palazza Reale,
Quirinale, Rome.
Vincent, W. James, M.B., Wadsley Asylum, Sheffield.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
738 Members and Associates. [part-
*Walker-Munro, L., R.N., Rliinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rliinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39 Harley Street, London, W.
'
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Walton, J. P., Hill House, Halesworth, Suffolk.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
*Ward, The Count, G.C.V.O., Fulwell Park, Twickenham, Surrey.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Castle Ward, Downpatrick.
*Warndorfer, A., Elisabetstrasse 23, Baden, nr. Vienna.
Warner, Miss E., 42 Albany Villas, Hove, Sussex.
*Warren, R. N., 45 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W.
W^assell, H. A., Addenbrook Villa, Old Swinford, Stourbridge,,
Worcester.
Wastell, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Waterlow, Sydney, Hillyfields, Rye, Sussex.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 39 Eccleston Square, London, S. W.
Watson, Professor Wm., 107 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass.,,
U.S.A.
Weaver, Miss F. J., Howard Cottage, Peiin, Bucks.
Weaver, Miss Sarah, 15 Blagden Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Webber, Mrs. Felix, The Croft, Shillingstone, Dorset.
*Weinberg, Harry J., North Road, The Park, Nottingham.
Welch, Thomas G., The Oaks, Blakebrook, Kidderminster.
*Wells, E. P., The Limes, 94 Larkhall Rise, Clapham, London, S.W.
*Westcott, W. Wynn, M.B., J. P., 396 Camden Road, London, N.
Western, F. J., c/o The Librarian, Forman Christian College,.
Lahore, India.
*Westlake, Ernest, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
Westropp, A. S. A., East India United Service Club, 16 St..
James's Square, London, S.W.
Wheatley, G., 16 Royal Parade, Cheltenham.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 7 St. Stephen's Crescent, Bayswater,.
London, W.
*Whetham, W. C. D., F.R.S., Upwater Lodge, Cambridge.
Whipple, L. E., 10 East 66th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitaho, Palermo, Sicily.
White, Dr. Gordon, 610A Church St., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
*Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge..
Whitehead, Rev. John, Lexington and Beaver Streets, Waltham^,
Mass., U.S.A.
LXI.] Members and Associates. 739^
Whiting, J. Markby, Ashford House, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W.
Whitmore, Mrs., 28 Milner St., Cadogan Square, Loudon, S.W.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D., 287 Fourth Avenue, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Whittemore, Mrs. Julia S., Naugatuck, Conu., U.S.A.
Wigan, Rev. Herbert, Dunsden Vicarage, Reading.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
*Wigg, E. Neale, 29 Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.
Wight, Edward, M.R.C.S., 9 Regency Square, Brighton.
Wilkins, Mrs., 8 Rostrevor Terrace, Rathgar, nr. Dublin.
*Wilkins, C. F., c/o Messrs. King & Co., 9 Pall Mall, London, S.W..-
Wilkinson, Miss M. S., M.A., The Lodge School, The Park, Hull.
Willett, Mrs., St. Andrew's Lodge, Seaford, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 52 King William Street. London, E.G.
*Williams, Mrs. Glynne, 7 Berkeley House, Hay Hill, London, W.
Williams, J. E., Plumb Opera House, Streator, 111., U.S.A.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lorne Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
Williamson, Mrs., The Croft, Didsbury, Manchester.
Willis, Mrs., c/o Mrs. Barbar, New Street, Killarney, Co. Kerry,
Ireland.
Willis, Grant B., 434 North M'Kinley Avenue, Canton, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Willock, Mrs. C. J., 16 Warwick Square, London, S.W.
Wilson, Rev. Alexander, The Manse, Ythanwells, Insch, Aberdeen-
shire.
Wilson, Mrs. Arthur, 150 Whitehall Court, London, S.W.
Wilson, Charles J., 17 Pembroke Park, Dublin, Ireland.
Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, c/o Major C. S. Wilson, R.E., Kasr el
Nil, Cairo, Egypt.
Wilson, Miss E. M., Holland Lodge, Addison Rd., Kensington,
London, W.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J., 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Wilson, Herbert W., Cornholme, Garston, Liverpool.
Wilson, Miss M. A., Holland Lodge, Addison Road, Kensington,.
London, W.
Wingate, D. C, Cornborough, Abbotsham, North Devon.
*Wingfield, H. E., M.D., 44 Welbeck Street, London, W.
Winslow, L. Forbes, M.B., LL.D., 57 Devonshire Street, Portland
Place, London, W.
Winslow, Mrs. Forbes, 57 Devonshire Street, Portland Place,,
London, W.
740 Members and Associates. [part lxi.]
Witherby, Arthur George, Newtown Grange, Newbury, Berks.
Wohlgemuth, Adolf, 44 Church Crescent, Muswell Hill, London, N.
*Wolf, Francisco Eugene de. Villa Miramar, Bristol, R.I. , U.S.A.
Wood, John B., 346 Jurnpa Avenue, Riverside, Cal., U.S.A.
Wood, Lionel, 20 Edward's Road, Whitley Bay, Northumbei-land.
'''Wood, R. H., c/o Messrs. Smith, Wood & Co., 3 and 4 Lime Street
Square, London, E.G.
Wooderson, George T., 20 Peckham Road, Camberwell, London,
S.E.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Worcestershire.
*Woods, Miss Alice, 3 North Mansions, Burton Road, Kilburn,
London, N.W.
*Woods, Mrs., The Master's House, Temjjle, London, E.G.
Woodward, Miss Mabel, 16 Harborne Road, Edgbaston,
Birmingham.
*Wooldridge, H. B., The Gresham Club, London, E.G.
Woollett, Lieut. -Colonel W. Charles, 4 The Ridges, Farnboro',
Hants.
Woolley, V. J., 48 Lissenden Mansions, Lissenden Gardens,
London, N.W.
*Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, Romden Place, Smarden, Kent.
Wrchovszky, Wilhelm, Kronprinz Rudolf Str. 12, Vienna.
-x-Wright, Maiirice B., M.D., 33 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Wyke, Mrs. Wilberforce, Arundel House, Beaumont, Jersey, G.I.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18 Louisburg Square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Wyndham, ITon. Percy, 44 Belgrave Square, London, W.
Wyndham Quin, The Lady Emily, 12 William Street, Lowndes
Square, London, S.W.
Yandell, Miss Maud, c/o Miss Alice Bodine, Bridgeton, New
Jersey, U.S.A.
*Yorke, Hon. Alexander, 10 Granville Place, London, W.
Yaroschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
Young, G. P., Burnside Cottage, Colston, Bishopbriggs, Glasgow.
Young, J. F., 72 Lansdowne Road, Notting Hill, London, W.
*Young, Sir William L., Bart., 35 Lower Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, The Residency, Kashmir, India.
Yssel de Schepper, Mr. Justice, Dierquarddaan 49a, Rotterdam.
Zagury, Leon, 12 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, London, W.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXIV.
(PARTS LX.—LXI.)
I9IO.
A.
Abnormal States, Time reactions in - - - - - 676, 677
See also Hj'pnotism, Psychotherapy, and Suggestion.
Aht Vogler. See Broivnvng, Hope and Star.
Achilles (Horace Ode Question) reference to - - - - 155, 156
Adam, J., Republic of Plato, edited by, reference to - - 231 (footnote)
Addleshaw, Percy, on the Roden Noel Cross-Correspondence - - 5
Aeneid (Book I.) Incidents. 35-37, 53, 59-77, 80, 89, 92, 93, 134 (footnote),
144, 145, 171-8
„ ,, ,, Authorities consulted - - 62 (footnote)
„ „ Summary of chief points - - - - 77
See also articles by J. G. Piddington, Mrs. H. Sidgwick,
and Mrs. Verrall.
Agamemnon Incident - ------ 36,37,47-52,81,147
Ajax and Ulysses Incident -------- 35, 52-54
American Society for Psychical Eesearch, Journal of, Review of
Miss Johnson's First Report on "Mrs. Holland's" Script - - 6-10
American Therapeutic Society, Symposium on Psycliotherapy before
the - - - - -------- 665
Anagrams, identified (Drone = Roden) ------ 5
,,
Early Script experiments with, by F. W. H. Myeis - 17
Anchises (The Sibyl Incident) ------ - 125,147-50
Androsace. See Broivnhig, Mope and Star.
742 Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts
Angel. See Spirit and Angel.
Animal Magnetism. See Hypncitism, Mesmerism, and Suggestion.
Apples, The Golden, of the Hesperides, Cross-Correspondence
26-29, 35-37, 191-93
Aristophanes' Apology. See Browning R, and Euripides.
Arma Virumque Cano. See Aeneid Incident (Bk. I.)
Arnold, Sir Edward, Death and Afterwards, reference to 343-344, 350
Arnold, Matthew, Sivitzerland, Script references to - - . 221
Arrow, Cross-Correspondence, Analysis of - _ . . - 13-16
„ „ references to - 13-16, 94, 97, 183 (footnote)
Articles brought to sittings to assist Identification 357-362, 376, 381,
392, 400, 412, 413, 423, 464, 484, 524, 542, 564, 579, 634
Atlas (Apples Cross-Correspondence)- - - - 26-29,35-37,191-93
Automatic Writing. See the Scripts of Mrs. Frith, " Mrs. Holland,"
the Mae Script, the Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Home, Mrs.
Piper, antl the Scripts of Mrs. and Miss Verrall.
Automatisms 85, 635
„ Concordant, Supplementary Notes on a Series of,
by J. G. Piddhigton- - - - 11-30
„ „ Minor references to 11-30, 150-152, 192, 201
(footnote), 105-7, 220-222, 258, 269, 286-88, 301
avTu'i ovpavo^ aKviimv Incident, reference to - - - - - 19, 20
Ave Roma Immortalis, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 8, 9
Azure and Horizon, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - - 220'
B.
B. and the Walnut Tree, Script ("Mrs. Holland"), references to - 210'
Bailly, Report on the French Commissions on Animal Magnetism 690-691
Barrett, Professor W. F., Dowsing, researches in - - - - 333-4
,, ,, ,, Reichenbach Phenomena, reference to ex-
periments in - - - 333 (footnote)
Baughan, Rosa, Control (The Mac Script) ----- 265
Bell, Ellen, Control (The Mac Script) ----- 265, 310
Benson, R. H., The Necromancers, reference to- - - - - 345
Bertrand, Alexander, Researches in Animal Magnetism, reference to 692'
Blue Flower, Cross-Correspondence ------ 215, 260'
Braid, James, Hypnotic Researches of, reference to - - - 687, 692
Bramwell, Dr. Mihie, Hypnotism and Treatment by Suggestion,
Experiments in - - - - - - - - - 683-685'
Browning, E. B., Script references to. Consolation, . . - . 221
„ „ „ A Brawa of Exile - - - 222
Browning, R., Aristophanes' Apology and Euripides, Cross-Correspondence
25-30, 125, 127, 128, 192, 220
„ Hope and Star, Cross-Correspondence, reference to
11-13, 18, 134 (footnote), 161
LX.-LXr.] Index to Vul. XXIV. 743
Browning, E., Script references to Cavalier Songs
„ „ The Englishman in Itahj
„ „ Lost Leader - - -
„ „ Rabbi ben Ezra - 223
„ ,, Sordello - 219
„ „ Toccata of Galuppi - 241
Bulfinch, T., Age of Fable (Lethe Incident), references to
103, 104, 117 (footnote), 118 (footnote), 119, 131, 141, 142, 328
c.
Cahagnet, Researches in Clairvoyance, reference to - - - - 695
Carson, Reynold, Control (Mac Script) . - - - 266, 310, 311
Cave of Sleep (Lethe Incident)
35, 87-104, 112-113, 119, 122, 132, 133, 135, 188, 191
Ceyx, Story of (Lethe Incident) 35, 36, 83, 94-95, 99-100, 102-104, 106, 116,
120, 122, 131, 133, 142-3, 185 (footnote), 327-28
„ Literary Sources from which obtainalDle 102-104, 116, 120, 122
„ Snmmary of the Story given by Ovid - - - 99, 100
Chaucer (Lethe Incident), reference to ----- - 103
Christian Science (and Mesmerism), Podmore, Frank, on - - - 687
Mitchell, T. W., on - - - - - - - 687
Clairvoyance, Early Experiments in - - - - 691, 693, 694, 695
Clarke Family, references to. See Junot Sittings.
„ Frank (Cousin Frank) 452, 453, 459, 462, 465, 467, 474-75,
487, 584-85, 600, 603, 630, 634-5, 646, 657
Miriam - - 409,456,496,548,556,560,561,611,657
Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance,
Mrs. A. W. Yerrall on - - - 39-85
„ „ Three Incidents from the Sittings,
J. G. Piddington on - - 86-169
Claviger Epithet. See St. Peter.
Clough, A. H., Poems of. Script reference to
286, 287 (footnote), 288, 290 (footnote), 317
Comus Incident, the ------ 37, 45, 46, 81, 197-200
Conington, Professor, Notes on Virgil, reference to - - 64, 75 (footnote)
Controls. See the Hodgson, Myers, and Sidgwick Controls, the
Junot Sittings, and the Mac Script.
Coriat, Dr., Experiments in Reaction-times . - - . . 677
Cousin Frank. See Clarke, Frank.
Cranberries Incident (Junot Sittings) - - 424, 426, 435, 470, 471
Cross-Correspondence, Experiments in - 2, 11, 31-200, 201, 264, 319, 327
„ Johnson, Miss Alice, on - - - - 2, 201, 319
„ Piddington, J. G., on . . . 31, 86, 327
„ Sidgwick, Mrs. H., on - - - - 31, 170
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., on - - - - 31,39,264
744 y Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts-
CifO'ds-Correspondence, Indications of the Presence of a Third IntelHgence,
32-34,80, 91 (footnote), 92 (footnote), 98-104, 111-113,
115-133, 149, 155-156, 222, 256-58, 261-63, 319-32&
„ Identity of the Intelligence, question of 32-34, 80,
91 (footnote), 123-133, 155-156, 256-258, 261-263
„ Knowledge of the Subject-Matter on the part
of the Auto7natists or Sitters, Question of 19, 23,
24, 29, 30, 42, 43, 98-104, 114 (footnote), 121-135,.
138-144, 158, 165, 233, 234, 237, 240, 275-76, 280
(footnote), 284, 286, 319-326
„ Phrases indicating 21, 22, 183 (footnote), 189 (foot-
note), 203-4, 207-8, 211, 213, 223, 224 (footnote), 225,,
239, 242, 245, 257, 267-68
See also the Scripts of Mrs. Frith, "Mrs. Holland," and Mrs. and
Miss Verrall, The Mac Scri))t, and the Trance Phenomena of
Mrs. Home and Mrs. Piper.
Crossing the Bar, Ci'oss-Correspondeuce, reference to - - - 17, 82
Cup, Cross-Correspondence, reference to ----- - 220
Cyclops, Centaurs, etc., allusions to ----- - 37, 54, 55
D.
Daemon of Socrates, F. W. H. Myers on - - - - - - 17
Daffodils, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - - - - 137
Dandy. See Don.
Dante, references, in earlier scripts - - 23, 24, 124, 134 (footnote), 137
„ „ in the Sevens Cross-Correspondence
226-34, 236-7, 245, 255, 256, 290-91
D'Arc, Jeanne. See Arroiv, Cross-Correspondence.
Davis, Andrew Jackson, reference to - - - - - - - 695
de Lys. See Arroio, Cross- Correspondence.
De Morgan, Prof. W., Preface to From Matter to Spirit, reference to 339-341
Dejerine, Method of Treating Fatigue States - - - - - 671
,, ,, ,, „ reference to - - - 696
Dekker, T., Patient Grissell, Script reference to - - - - - 324
Deleuze, Researches in Animal Magnetism, reference to - - 691, 694
Diana, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - - - - - 220
Don (Dandy), references to (Junot Sittings) 392, 418, 419, 420, 431, 432, 435
Dorr, G. B., Sittings with Mrs. Piper (Series of 1908), 22, 26, 31-200, 327, 328-
„ Discussion of, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
and J. G. Piddington -31-200
Notes and Comments referring to 26-30, 42, 43, 86, 88, 91, 92,
98-104, 111-114, 142, 152, 158, 162
„ Letters read at Sittings ------ 86, 136
„ Sitter's Knowledge of Subject-Matter, Question of
42, 43 (footnotes), 102-4, 114 (footnote), 141-2, 158
LX.-LXI.] Index to Vol. XXIV. 745
Dramatic Characteristics of Trance Personalities. See the Hodgson,
Myers, and Sidgwick Controls and the Junot Sittings.
Dresser, Mrs. Julius, and the Christian Science Movement- - - 696
Dryden's Translation of the Aeneid, references to - - 73, 74, 76, 77
Dubois, Professor, on The Psychic Treatment of Nervous Disorders
671-73, 691, 696
Dwarf. See Giant and Divarf.
E.
Echo and Narcissus (Lethe Incident) - - - - 36, 81, 104-6, 115-120
Eddy, Mrs., and the Christian Science Movement - - - 695-697
Education and Suggestion -------- 670-686
„ „ Will, reinforcement of the, by - 678, 684, 685
^tfio^ow, references to - - - - - - - - - -3,17
Elliotson, Dr., Researches iu Mesmerism, reference to - - - 692
Essays, by F. W. H. Myers, Script reminiscences of
19, 87, 128, 155, 188 (footnote)
Eumenides, See Greek Procession.
Euripides, Cross-Correspondence, further details 25-30, 125, 127-8, 192, 220
Eurydice. See Orpheus and Eurydice.
Evans, Mr., Control (Mac Script) - - - - 265, 270, 309, 310
^a:^7e a/if^ J/oo?'?, Cross-Correspondence - - - 19,35-7,186-189,194
„ See also Mrs. H. Sidgwick on.
Experimenters, A New Group of, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall (The Mac
Script)- ---------- 264-318
F.
Faith Healing - . . - . 672, 673
See also Christian Science, and Suggestion.
Fall on the Ice Incident (Junot Sittings) ----- 442, 480
Faria, Abbe, Doctrine of Suggestion introduced by - - - . (392
Fludd, reference to writings of ------- - 689
" Forbes, Mrs.," Script references to ------- 210
Fragments of Prose and Poetry, by F. W. H. Myers, Script reminis-
cences of - - - - 21,87,129,131-133,167,168,177,178,204
Francis and Ignatius, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - - 220
Franz-Joseph and September 21, Ci'oss-Correspondence - - 204, 208
French Commissions on Animal Magnetism, reference to - - -690-91
Freud, Professor, Methods of Psycho-analysis, - - - . 673-678
Frith, Mrs., Script of. The Sevens Cross-Correspondence
234, 239, 252, 254, 255, 256
746 Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts
G.
Galatea. See Pygmalion and Galatea.
Gardiner, Prof. H. Norman
Review of the First Report on "Mrs. Holland's" Script - 6
,, Some C'imments on, by Miss Alice Johnson - - 6-10
Gassner, Cures of, reference to - 689
Gayley, The Classic Mi/ths in English Literature (Lethe Incident),
references to 103, 118, 119, 142, 328
Giant and Dwa.rf\ Cross -Correspondence, reference to - - - - 137
Goethe, Faust, Script references to ------ - 4
Goodhart, Rev. C. A., Corrigenda by - - - - - - - 11
Grreatrakes, Valentine, Cures of, reference to - - - - - 689
Greek Procession and Funeral, Cross-Correspondence - - - - 213
Gerrish, Dr. F. H., T'he Therapeutic Value of Ilj/pnotic Suggestion, hy 665, 666
Gurney, Edmund, Hypnotic Researches of, reference to - - - 665
H.
Halcyon Days, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - 1 25 (footnote)
Hallam, Arthur, Script refeiences to ------ 82
Hammond, Miss W. B., Identification of references in Mrs. Piper's
and Mrs. Verrali's Scripts ------- 19-20, 30
Harold, an item in a Cross-Correspondence ----- 19
Harp, Cross-correspondence - - - - - - 1
1*, 37, 188, 189
Harris, T. Lake, reference to ------- - 695
Hawthorne, N., Wonder Books (Lethe Incident), reference to - - 103
Heracles. See St. Peter, Cross-Correspondence.
Hercules Furens, Cross-Correspondence ----- 25-29, 192
Hill, J. A., a question about "Mrs. Holland's" Script - - - 2, 3
,, Note on the Arrow Cross-Correspondence - 15 (footnote)
Hodgson, Dr. R. —The Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper, edited by Miss
H. de G. Verrall, ------- 351-664
„ „ Notes on, by - - 355, 416, 425, 426, 500, 590, 635
Hodgson-Control (Mrs. Frith's Script) ----- 235-236
„ ("Mrs. Holland's" Script) ----- 8
„ Piper-Hodgson 32, 38, 39, 47, 50, 53, 61, 78, 86, 91, 94,
99, 137, 138, 157, 158, 170-177, 183 (footnote), 185, 186,
187, 197, 198, 219, 227
„ (Miss H. de G. Verrali's Script) - - 186-187, 197-U)8
„ (Mrs. Verrali's Script) ------ 22
„ Dramatic character of - - - - - 8, 22, 80
„ Letter to, by J. G. Piddington - - - 136-138
"Holland, Mrs.," The Automatic Script of
„ Johnson, Miss Alice, Sup].)lementary Notes on the
First Report ------- 2
„ ,, Second Report ------ 201
LX.-LXI.] Index to Vol. XXIV. 1^1
" Holland, Mrs.," Knowledge of Literary and Classical Allusions in
her Script ----- 23, 24, 25, 127, 240
„ Cross-Correspondences
„ (with Mrs. Piper) 21, 22, 25-30, 122-127, 136-38, 179,
183 (footnote), 194-96, 200, 222-258, 269
„ . „ (with Mrs. and Miss Verrall) 6-10, 22-30, 122-127,
136-38, 179-181, 194-96, 201-263, 269, 299, 319-326
„ „ Ee-echoes of, in the Mac Sci'ipt - - 269, 299
„ „ Sequel to the Sesame and Lilies Incident 319, 326
., „ The Sevens Cross-Correspondence 222-245, 252-258
„ Extent of Personal Acquaintance with Members of
the Society -------- 6-10
„ Gardiner, Professor, on ----- - 6-10
„ Quotations Identified - - - - - - -4, 5
Veridical Incidents ----- 210,216,217
Home, Mrs. R., The Sevens Cross-Correspondence, contribution to
241-43, 252, 254-255
Homer, Script references to ----- 64 (footnote), 154-5
Honeysuckle (Junot Sittings), reference to - - - - 491, 503, 504
Hood, T., FLUth, Script references to ----- - 283, 312
Hope. See Browning, Hope and Star.
Horace Ode Question, Prelude and Sequel to, J. G. Piddington on
35-37, 150-169
„ Summary and Eeview of - - - - - 160-62
Horizon. See Azure and Horizon.
Howe, M. A. de Wolfe, Commemorative Notice of Dr. R. Hodgson,
reference to ----------- 79
Hugo, Victor, Poem of, Cross-Correspondence - 181 (footnote), 297, 312
Human Personalitij, by F. W. H. Myers, Script reminiscences of - 17
Hyacinthus (Lethe Incident) - - 36-37, 83, 106-107, 110-120, 130-132
Hypnotic Suggestion, the Therapeutic Value of. Dr. F. H. Gerrish on - 665
Hypnotism, phenomena of,
„ Amnesia -------- - 668, 671
„ Hypnoidal State, the ----- - 679-686.
„ Memory, conditions of - - - - -668, 669, 680-682
„ Suggestion ------- 670-672, 678-686.
„ „ Character in the light of 669, 670, 678, 682, 684, 685
„ ,, and Education ----- 670, 671
„ Therapeutic aspects of ----- - 665-686
See also Psychotherapy.
Hysteria and allied abnormal states treated by Psychotherapy - 665-686
I.
I wandered lonely as a Cloud, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - 137
Icarus (The Sibyl Incident) ------ -125, 147-150
3b
748 Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts
Identity, Expei-iments in reviving the Literary Memories of Trance
Pei'sonalities (G. B. Dorr series) - . _ . . 31-200
„ Canons of Legal Evidence as applied to the Question of 338-347
,,
Literary Personation --------16
" Imperator," Trance-Personality of Mrs. Piper (chief references to)
379, 390, 391, 399, 408, 411, 439
In Memoriam, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - - - - 19-20
Iris (Lethe Incident) -
35, 86-95, 100, 184, 195
Irving, Hugh (Junot Sittings)
The John Welsh Incident 353, 354, 491-93, 499, 500, 515-518, 523,
530, 531, 545, 568, 569, 571, 627, 628, 635, 658, 662
J.
James, Professor, Report on the Hodgson-Control through Mrs.
Piper, reference to-------- - 342
Janet, Prof., on Hysteria --------- 674
Janiculum, Cross-Correspondence - - - - 23, 203, 204-207, 260
Janus, discussion of script references to - - - 22, 23, 124, 205-207
See also St. Peter.
Janus and Saturn (Lethe Incident) - - - - -36,89,104-5,116
Johnson, Miss Alice
First Report on Mrs. Holland's Script, Supplementary Notes 2
„ Evidential Matter, proportion of - - - - 2, 3
„ Minor references to - - - - 183 (footnote), 258
„ Reply to Professor H. N. Gardiner - - - - 6-10
Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script - - - 201-263
„ Chance Coincidence, Question of - - - - 203-4
Cross-Correspondences 204, 207, 208, 211, 213,215,220,
222, 319
,, The Sevens Cross-Correspondence - - 222-258
„ „ ,,
Bearing of the Case on - - - - 254
„ „ Chronological Table - - - - 252
„ „ Earlier references ----- 246
„ „ Mr. Piddington's " Posthumous" Letter - 243
„ „ Telepathy, indications of - 254-58, 261-63
„ „ Tliird Intelligence, indications of 256-58, 261-63
„ Discussion of some Criticisms of the Theory of Cross-
Correspondence ------- 258
„ Precautions taken ------ 201, 202
„ Sequel to the Sesame and Lilies Incident - - - 319
Veridical Cases - 210, 216, 217
tTones, Dr. Ernest, on Psycho-analysis in Psychotherapy - - 673-679
Journal of Abtiormal Psychology, Sym-posinm on 'Pay_chothersipy - - 665
Joy. See Troy and Joy.
Jung, Dr., Experiments in Reaction-times ----- 676-677
LX.-LXI.] Index to Vol. XXIV. 749
Junot, Bennie, Coutrol (Mrs. Piper) ------ 351-664
Junot Sittings, Report on the—with Mrs. Piper, by Miss H. de G.
Verrall ----------- 351
Introduction ------- 351
Detailed Record ------ 355
,, Helen Junot, references to, possibly veridical - - 416
„ N.B. „ Notes on the Sittings - - - 356-654
„ Eoble ,, references to, pussibly veridical - 442, 480
Jussieu, Report on Animal Magnetism, reference to - - - - 691
K.
Keats, Script references to
„ Ode on a Urecian Urn
„ Ode on Alelanchoh/ - - - -
,, Ode to a Nightingale . - -
Kerner, Justinus, reference to -
Kingsley, C, Heroes (Lethe Incident) -
Kipling, R., The Burial, Script references to
- 214
- 191
- 279
- 695
103, 139, 141
- 208
L.
Lang, Andrew, Script reference ("Mrs. Holland") to poem by - - 5
,, On a Latin passage in Mrs. Verrall's Scri|jt - - 6
Latin Message, Mr. Piddington's, reference to - - 18, 262 (footnote)
Laurel Wreath, Cross-Correspondence, references to 138, 183 (footnote),
286-88, 292 (footnote), 317, 323-24
Legal Rules of Evidence applied to the Question of Identity, H.
Arthur Smith on --------- 336-347
Lethe Incident, the, J. C4. Piddington on - - - 19, 35-37, 86-144, 327
„ . Postscript to-- 327
References to 19, 35-37, 54, 86-144, 184, 191, 291, 327
Lethean Poppies, chief reference to - - - - - 101, 109, 133-35
Light in the West, Cross-Correspondeuce, reference to 137, 220, 234, 259,
260, 269, 290, 299, 301, 304, 306
„ News from the Occident, Re-echo of 269, 299-301, 304-306
Lilies. See Sesame and Lilies.
Lincoln, Abraham, Cast of. See Articles brought to assist Communications.
Literary and Classical Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance, Mrs. A. W.
Verrall on - - - - - - - 39-85
„ ,, Three Incidents from the Sittings, J. G.
Piddington on ----- -86-169
„ Memories of Trance-Personalities. Experiments in
reviving the. See the Dorr Sittings with Mrs.
Piper (1908) ------ -31-200
3b 2
750 Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts
Literary and Classical Allusions. Personation and the Myers Control,
J. G. Piddingon on - . . . 16-19, 33, 3 23, 128
See also Cross-Correspondence.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Comment on the Olympus Incident - - - 327
„ The Poison Bottle Case ------ 216
,, Script references to ------ 210
Longfellow, The Old Clock on the .Stairs, Script reference to 223, 245, 257
M.
Mac Script, The—
„ A New Group of Experimenters, Mrs. A. W. Verrall on - 264
„ History of the Script ------ 264-270, 292
Early Controls ------- 26-66, 309-311
,, Sesame and Lilies, Cross-Correspondence (with Mrs. and
Miss Verrall and " Mrs. Holland ") - 270-318, 319
,, ,,
Appendix -------- 306
„ „ Automatists' knowledge of Ruskin - 275 (footnote), 276
,, ,,
Chronological Table _ - - - - 317^ 318
„ „ Sequel to -------- 319
,, ,, Summary and Conclusion ----- 304
„ Johnson, Miss Alice, A Sequel to the Sesame and Lilies
Incident --------- 319
Maginot, Adcle, Alleged Clairvoyance of, reference to - - - 695
Maitland, Professor F. W., Script allusions (veridical) to Illness and
Death of ------ - 210, 214 (footnote), 217
" Major" and "Judge" (Junot Sittings), Confusion between
352, 397, 443, 444, 470, 547, 651, 657, 663
Marmontel Incident, reference to------ - 344
Massey, Gerald, (?) Script reference to Poem by - - - - 217
Maud, Tennyson's, references to . - - 124, 127, 290, 300, 301, 303
Maxwell, reference to Writings of ------ - 689
M'Clellan, G. and F. (Junot Sittings), references to - 565, 572, 575, 586, 591
Meetings, General, of the Society ------- 1^ 329
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding and Ordinary, Listof 700
Mesmerism and Christian Science, by Frank Podmore, Review of - 687
Milton, Co7nus Incident - 37, 45, 46, 81, 197-200
,,
Script references to Lycidas ------ 322, 323
Paradise Lost ------ 322
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Review of Mesmerism and Christian Science, by
Frank Podmore 687
Some Recent Developments in Psychotherapy by 665
Morpheus. See Lethe Incident.
Mount-Temple, Lady, Script references to ----- - 3
Music, Cross-Correspondence, reference to ------ 18
Music Lesson Incident (Junot Sittings) ------ 416
Myers, A. T., Control (" Mrs. Hollaml ") - - 214 (footnote), 217, 218
LX.-LXI.] Index to Vol. XXIV. 751
Myers, Ernest, Translation of the Agamemnon of Aeschylus, reference to 46
Myers, F. W. H., Presidential Address (1900), reference to - - 330
„ Script References and Reminiscences of the Writings
of (chief) 3, 4, 16-19, 21, 87, 91 (footnote), 129-131, 133
(footnote), 151, 152, 155, 167, 168, 177, 178, 188 (footnote),
204, 226
,, On the Subliminal Consciousness and Hysteria - 674
Myers Control, The, Communications through "Mrs. Holland "
3, 4, 17-30, 201-263, 319-26
„ „ „ Mrs. Home - - - 242
„ „ „ Mac Script - 268, 307, 308
„ „ Mrs. Piper 17,21,26-30,31-200
„ „ „ Mrs. and Miss Verrall 4, 17-19,
25, 121-127, 201-263, 276-318
,,
Comparison of, through different Automatists
16-19, 32, 33, 123-127, 262, 263
„ Dramatic Character of the Impersonation
16-19, 32, 33, 80, 123-133, 149, 155, 156, 160-62, 262-264
N.
Narcissus. See Echo and Narcissus.
Neptujie and Trident Cross-Correspondence 35, 36, 153, 155, 177-182, 193,345
New Group of Experimenters, A (The Mac Script), Mrs. A. W.
Verrall on ---------- - 264
New Thought Movement. See Christian Science.
News from, the Occident ...... 269,299-301,304-306
See also Light in the West.
Newman, Cardinal, Apologia, reference to - - - - - - 345
Noel, Miss, on the Script references to Mr. Eoden Noel - - - 5, 6
Noel, Roden, Cross-Correspondence, further details of 5, 25 (footnote), 210,
322-3
„ Script description of - - - - - - 5, 6, 210
„ Dying, by, Script reference to _ . - - 217-218
O.
Odyssey. See Aeneid Incident.
Officers and Council for 1910 - - - 698
Oliphant, Lawrence, Control (" Mrs. Holland ") - - - - -4,5
Olympus Incident - - - 96, 98, 120 (footnote), 146, 184, 327, 328
One-Hoi'se-Dawn Experiment, reference to - - - 258-259, 302
Orion (Horace Ode Question), references to - - - . 157-160
Orpheus and Eurydice (Lethe Incident)
19, 36, 82-33, 94-95, 104-106, 115-120, 1.30, 132, 133, 135, 187 (footnote), 189
Osterville (Junot Sittings), refei'ences to
397, 431, 432, 450, 470, 485, 486, 552, 580
752 Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts
Ovid's Metamorphoses (Lethe Incident), Connexion between, and Script
references -------- . 86-133, 328
P.
Palm Branches, Cross-Correspondence - - - - . -36,195,196
Paracelsus, reference to -------- - 689
Parnell Letters, reference to ------- - 339
Parthenon Incident - - - - - - - - 35, 36, 56-58, 83
Pelham, George, Control (Mrs. Piper), chief references to
11, 356 (footnote), 368 (footnote), 402, 415, 436, 484, 543, 544, 561-62,
590, 596
Pei-sonal Identity, Legal Canons of Evidence aj^plied to the Proof of 336, 347
See also the Hodgson, Myers and Sidgwick Controls, the Junot
Sittings and Cross-Correspondence.
Petetin, Researches in Animal Magnetism, reference to - - - 691
Pharaoh's Daughter, Cross-Correspondence - - -35-36, 89, 189-193, 345
Phrases indicating Cross-Correspondence. iSee Cross-Correspondence.
Piano-playing Incident (Junot Sitting) ------ 41(5
Piddington, J. G.
Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper in 1908 (G. B. Dorr
Series), Introduction by, and Mrs. H. Sidgwick and
Mrs. A. W. Verrall ------- 31
„ Three incidents from the Sittings, by - - - -86-169
„ „ Lethe Incident - - - - 19, 86-144
„ ,, ,, Postscript to - - 327
„ „ The Sibyl 89, 91 (footnote), 93, 96, 98, 144-150
„ ,, The Horace Ode Question
91, 92 (footnote), 150-169
,,
Identity of the Intelligence, Question of
123-133, 148-149, 150-156, 162, 168-169
Series of Concordant Automatisms, references to
11-30, 150-152, 192, 201 (footnote), 205-7, 220-222, 258,
269, 286-288, 290, 301
,,
Supplementary Notes on ----- 11-30
Sevens Cros-s-Correspondence, "Posthumous" letter of 243-247, 252,
254
Pigott, and the Parnell Letters, reference to 339
Pigou, Professor, on Cross-Correspondences - - - - 258-262
,, on the Survival of Bodily Death - - - - 344
Piper, Mrs., Cross-Correspondences (with ''Mrs. Holland")
21, 22, 25-30, 122-127, 136-38, 179, 183 (footnote),
194-196, 200, 222-258, 269
„ „ (The Mac Script) 269-299
„ „ (with Mrs. and Miss Verrall) - 13-19,26-30,121-127
„ „ The Sevens Cross-Correspondence
222-225, 239, 245, 252, 254
LX.-LXI.] Index to Vol. XXIV. 753
Piper, Mrs., Cross-Correspondences, Sidgwick, Mi's., on - - 170-200
„ Report on Further Experiments with, in 1908, by Mrs.
Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Verrall and J. G. Piddington -31-200
„ Report on the Junot Sittings with, by Miss H. de G.
Verrall - ...... 351-664
See also Trance Phenomena of.
Plato, Myth of Er, in relation to Dante 231
Plotinns, references to - - 3, 4, 17, 19, 20
Podmore, Frank, Mesmerism and Christian Science by, Review by
Dr. T. W. Mitchell, 687
„ on Cross-Correspondences .... 258, 262
„ on the Piper- and Verrall-Myers • - - 262, 263
Poe, Edgar Allen, Script references to ..... 59, 79
Poison Bottle, The, Incident - - - 216
Pollard, A. W., Odes from the Greek Dramatists, reference to - 43, 50
Pomona, reference to --------- - 96
Presidential Address (1910) by H. Arthur Smith - - - - 330
Prevorst, the Seeress of, reference to - - - - - - - 695
Prince, Dr. Morton, on the Psijcholoijical Principles and Field of
Psi/chotherapy .... 666-671
„ „ „ Galvanic Experiments in connection with 677
Prudens, Trance-Personality of Mrs. Piper - .... 415,467
Psychotherapy, Dr. T. W. Mitchell on Some Recent Developments in 665
,,
Symposium of ------ - 665-686
Puysegur, Count, Researches in Animal Magnetism, reference to - 691
Pygmalion and Galatea (Lethe Incident) 36, 37, 83, 91 (footnote), 106-109,
115-120, 130, 131, 135, 136
Q.
QuiMBT, Pliineas Parkhurst, and the Christian Science Movement - 696
Quotations in Mrs. Holland's Script recently identiiied - - - 4, 5
R.
Reactios-time Experiments as a method of Psycho-analysis - - 677
Rector, Trance-Personality of Mrs. Piper 32, 38, 69, 84, 85, 145 (footnote),
159, 356, 364, 373, 374, 377, 379, -380, 392, 395, 398, 399, 402, 406,
411, 432, 437, 440, 442, 454, 476, 478, 484, 508, 529-30, 534, 549, 555,
558, 619, 627
Reichenbach Phenomena, reference to ..... 333^ 334
Renewal of Youth, by F. W. H. Myers, Script reminiscences of
21, 128, 152, 161, 167
Review ............ 687
Rounder (the dog) (Junot Sittings). See John Welsh Incident.
Rossetti, Dante G., Script references to Blessed Damozel - - - 324
„ „ „ King's Tragedy - - - 315
754 Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts
Euiskin, John, Sesame and Lilies, Cross-Correspondence - 269, 270-318
„ „ „ Summary of the Book - - 272, 273
S.
S., Miss, an Interpretation of the Browning, Hope and Star Cross-
Correspondence - 11-13
Satiu D. See Janus and Saturn.
Savonarola Cross-Correspondence .... - 204, 211, 260
Sesame and Lilies Cross-Correspondence (Mac Script) - 269, 270-294
„ ,,
Sequel to, by Miss Alice Johnson 319
Sevens, Cross-Correspondence - - - - - 37, 194, 195, 222-258
,, „ Chronological Summary of - - - 252
„ „ Mr. Piddiiigton's " Posthumous" Letter
243-245, 252, 254
,, „ *See also Miss Alice Johnson on.
Shameful Hill, The, Script reference identified ----- 5
Shelley, Script reference to 37, 43, 44
Sibyl, The, Mr. Lang on Script reference (Mrs. Verrall's) to - - 6
Sibyl Licident, The - - - 35, 36, 89, 91 (footnote), 93, 96, 98, 144-150
Sidis, Dr. Boris, on the PsjjchotherapeiUic Value of the Hypnoidal State 679-686
Sidgwick, Mrs. H., and Mrs. A. W. Verrall, and J. G. Piddington,
Some Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper
in 1908 - ------ -31-200
,, ,, Abbreviations and Terms, Explanation of - - 38
,, „ Cross-Correspondences with other Automatists 170-200
,, „ Number of Successes and Faikires - 193, 194
,, ,, Introduction ------- 31-34
,, „ List of Sittings and Subject-Matter - - - 35-37
See also Cro.ss-Correspondences.
Sidgwick Control (Mac Script), The - - - 265-270, 292-97, 299-311
Six Tyrannus Incident - - - - - - 30, 134 (footnote)
Sleej], Cave of. See Lethe Incident.
Smith, H. Arthur, Presidential Address for 1910 - - - - 330
„ Growtii and Work of the Society - - 330-36, 347-350
„ Legal Evidence as applied to the Question of
Identity ------ 336-347
Society for Psychical Research, Growth and Work of - - 330-336, 347-350
Spenser, Edmund (Lethe Incident), reference to - - - - - 103
Spirit and Angel, Cross-Correspondence, reference to - 220, 227 (footnote)
St. Paul, by F. W. H. Myers, Script reminiscences of - - 17, 226
„ Cross-Correspondence, Corrigenda - - - - - 11
St. Peter, Item in Cross-Correspondence, references to 22-23, 124, 203-207, 220
Star. See Browning, Hope and Star.
Stephen, Sir J. FitzJames, Digest of the Imw of Evidence, reference to 339
Stewart, J. A., The Myths of Plato, reference to - - - 231 (footnote)
LX.-LXI.] Index to Vol. XXIV. 755
Suggestion, Educative 670-686
See also Hypnotism
Swinburne, A. C, Triumph of Time, Script reference to - - - 217
T.
Tavern Club Motto, Piper-Hodgson reference to 78, 79 (footnotes), 222, 256
See also the Sevens Cross-Correspondence.
Taylor, Bayard, Translation of Faust, reference to - - - - 4
Taylor, Dr. E. W., Simple Explanation and Re-education as a Thera-
peutic Method 671-673
Taylor, Colonel G. le M., Report of the Trance Phenomena of Mrs.
Home, reference to ------- - 239, 242
Telepathy, H. Arthur Smith on the Scope of - - - - 335-337
See also Cross-Correspondence.
Tennyson, Alfred, Script references to
„ Ancient Sage ------- 235, 237
„ Maud -----124, 127, 290, 300, 301, 303
„ Morte d' Arthur ----- 320 (footnote)
„ The Princess -------- 208
„ Vastness ------- 155, 156, 162
Tennyson, Frederick, Daphne and Other Poems (Lethe Incident),
reference to- - - - - - - - - - -103
Thanatos, Cross-Correspondence, Supplementary Notes on - - 30, 220-222
Tiance-Personalities, Identity of. See Cross-Correspondence, and the
Hodgson, Junot, Myers and Sidgwick Controls.
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Home ------ 239, 242
„ „ of Mrs. Piper 11-30,31-200,222-258,261-63,351-664
„ Automatist's Knowledge of Subject-Matter
31-34, 85, 102-4, 138-141
„ „ Reviving the Literary Memories of Trance-
Personalities - - . - -31-200
„ „ Stages of Consciousness 32, 38, 41 (footnote), 43,
81-84
See cdso J. G. Piddington, Mrs. H. Sidgwick and Mrs. A. W.
Verrall on, and the Phenomena of Ci-oss-Correspondence.
Trident. See Neptune and Trident.
J/'O)/ aHO? i/oj/, Cross-Correspondence, ----- 35,182-185,194
U.
Ulysses. See Ajax and Ulysses.
V
Van Helmont, reference to qqq
Vanity of Vanities, Cross-Correspondence - - - 294, 307-309, 312
756 Index to Vol. XXIV. [parts
Verrall, Dr. A. W., Script reference to ("Mrs. Holland") - - - 3
Verrall, Mi.ss H. de G., Cross-Correspondences with "Mrs. Holland " 201-204,
207, 208, 21], 228-234, 249, 252-258
„ (The Mac Script) - - - 268-318
„ with Mrs. Piper - - 11-13, 17, 19, 177-196
,, ,,
Knowledge of Snbject-Matter of the
Script - 233, 234, 280 (footnote), 284
,, „ The Sesame and Lilies Incident 268-318,
321, 325
,, ,, The Sevens Cross-Correspondence 228-234,
249, 252-258
Eeport of the Junot Sittings with Mrs. Piper, by 351-664
,, Introduction ------ 351
Detailed Record of Sittings - - 355-664
„ „ Incidents possibly veridical - 416, 442, 480
„ ,, Mistakes and Confusions 352-55, 368 (footnote),
377-78, 390, 394, 395, 397, 398-400, 404, 409,
413, 414, 422-25, 432, 435, 442-44, 454, 457, 463,
470-75, 515-518, 539, 555, 556, 560, 572, 590,
591, 600, 611, 651, 657, 662, 663
Verrall, Mi's. A. W., A Latin Passage in Mrs. Verrall's Script,
A. Lang on ------- 6
,,
Cross-Correspondences (Tlie Mac Script) - 264-318
(with Mrs. Piper) - - 13-19, 26-30, 121-127
(with "Mrs. Holland") 3-10,16-19,22-26,
201-263, 319-326
„ „ (with Miss Verrall) 17,19,186-89,190-93,196,
201-263, 268-318
„ „ Knowledge of Snbject-Matter of the
Script 121-123, 127, 128 (footnote), 233-234,
280 (footnote), 284
„ Sesame and Lilies - - - 268-318,319-326
Sevens ------ 222-258
„ Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper in 1908
Introduction by Mrs. H. Sidgwick and J.
G. Piddington ------ 31-38
„ „ Classical Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance - 39-85
,, ,, Detailed Discussion of Cases - - - - 43-78
,, Facts Suggestive of a Third Intelligence
40, 44-46, 50-52, 56-78
„ „ Mistakes and Confusions 41-46, 51-59, 62-64, 68-70,
74 (footnote), 77
„ „ Telepathy, Question of - 42, 43 (footnotes), 75, 77
„ A New Group of Exjjerinienters, by (Tlie Mac
Script) -------- 264
LX.-LXI.] Index to Vol. XXIV. 7o7
Villou. See A)yovj, Cross-Correspondence.
Virgil. See Aeneid Incident.
W.
W., Walter, Confirmation of the John Welsh Incident - - - 517
Walnut Tree, B. and the --------- 210
Waterman, Dr. G. A., on The Treatment of Fatigue States - - 671, 673
Watts, G. F., Stanzas on the Collected ^Yorls of, by F. W. H. Myers
21, 130, 132-33 (footnote)
„ Pictures by, references to - 130, 132, 136, 187 (footnote)
Weir Mitchell Treatment, reference to - - - - - - 671
Welsh, John, Incident (Junot Series) 353, 354, 491-93, 499, 500, 515-518,
523, 530, 531, 545, 568, 569, 571, 628, 658, 662
Winged Horse. See Cyclops, Centaurs, etc.
Wordsworth, W., Script references to
„ „ Daffodils, - - - - - - - 137
„ ,, Inside of King's College Chapel - - 320, 321
„ ,, / Wa7ide7'ed Lonely as a Cloud - - - 137
„ ,, Laodamia - - - - - - - 184
„ „ Lucy 307
„ „ Prelude ------- 22
„ „ IFe are Seven 223-225, 228, 245, 252, 254, 256, 257
Y.
Yellow, Cross-Correspondence 204, 207
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
Part LX. Vol. XXIV. March, 1910.
I.
. , ,
Prjcei 6s. net.
Pr^^m Sln'n i itirnrv .
CONTENTS. nrn^: yrp .
Fa.
General Meeting, . Not to be 'faken from
Supplementary Notes on the First Report on ^fl^<t!i)mf^Bmv^- By
Alice Johnson, ....... 2
Supplementary Notes on "A Series of Concordant Automatisms." By J.
G. PiDDINGTON, . . . . . . .11
Further Experiments with Mrs. Piper in 1908 :
Introduction. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Mrs. A. W. Vereall,
and J. G. Piddington, ...... 31
I. Classical and Literary Allusions in Mrs. Piper's Trance. By
Mrs. a. W. Verrall, . . . . . .39
II. Three Incidents from the Sittings : Lethe ; The Sibyl ; The
Horace Ode Question. By J. G. Piddington, . . 86
III. Cross-Correspondences between Mrs. Piper and Other Auto-
matists. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . . . 170
Second Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. By Alice Johnson, . . 201
A New Group of Experimenters. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, . .264
Sequel to the " Sesame and Lilies" Incident. By Alice Johnson, . 319
Postscript to the Lethe Incident. By J. G. Piddington, . . . 327
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasoniwjs in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSB & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW. .
Agents for the sale of fiuUications
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, S3 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street.
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-2S Tremont Street, Boston, Mas.s.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCII. FOR 1910.
PRBSIDBNT.
H. Arthur Smith.
VICB-PRBSIDBNTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P.,F.K.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Professor William James.
Sir Oliver Lodge, D. Sc. , LL. D. , F. R. S.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
The Rt. Rev. the Bishop of Ripon.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
The Earl of Crawford and Bal-
CARRES, K.T., F.R.S.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Fbilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, M.Sc, M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
J. G. PiDDINGTON.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
Lieut. -Col. G. L. Le M. Taylor.
Sir J. J. Thomson, F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. a. W. Verrall.
V. J. Woolley.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., ----- 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1888-1892.
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, ------- 1894-1895,
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, - - - - - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.E.S., ------- 1901-1903.
Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., - - - - - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet,- 1905.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, - - . . 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - 1908-1909.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Pakts LV.-LIX.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LV.—June, 1908. Price 5s. net.
On the Automatic Writing of Mrs. Holland. By Alice Johnson.
PAGB
Table of Contents, . . . .166
Chapter I. Introduction, ...... 170
,, II. First Period : September, 1903, to January, 1904, . 176
,, III. First Cross-Correspondence with Mrs. Verrall, , . 219
„ IV. January to August, 1905, . . . . .240
,, V. Fifth Period : October, 1905, to February, 1906, . . 265
,, VI. Sixth Period : February to April, 1906, . . .290
,, VII. The Theory of Cross-Correspondences, . . . 369
Supplement.
Review
Mr. Hereward Carrington's "Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism."
By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, . . . 392
Part LVI.—February, 1909. Price 3s. net.
I. The Alleged Miraculous Hailstones of Remiremont. By M. Sage, .
II. The Hallucination Theory as applied to Certain Cases of Physical
Phenomena. By Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo,
III. The Education of the Sitter. By Alice Johnson,
Note on Miss Johnson's Paper. By Count Perovsky-Peteovo-
solovovo, ........
Supplement.
Reviews
Professor Morselli's "Psicologia e ' Spiritismo ' : Impressioni e note
critiche sui fenomeni medianici di Eusapia Paladino. " By Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, . . . .
Mr. F. Podmore's "Naturalisation of the Supernatural." By
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, ....
Officers and Council for 1909, .... . .
List of Members and Associates, .....
Index to Vol. XXL, .......
Part LVII. (Vol. XXII.)—October, 1908. Price 10s. net.
I. Presidential Address. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . . . 1
II. A Series of Concordant Automatisms. By J. G. Piddington, . 19
III. An Incident in Mrs. Piper's Trance. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, . 417
Part LVIIL—June, 1909. Price 6s. net.
I. Report on Mrs. Piper's Hodgsan-Control. By Professor William
James.
Part L, . .
Part II., . .
II. Note on Mrs. Piper's Hodgson-Control in England in 1906-7. By
Mrs. H. Sidgwick and J. G. Piddington,
III. Report on some Trance Communications received chiefly through
Mrs. Piper. By Sir Oliver Lodge.
Table of Contents, .......
Introduction, . . . . . . ,
Chapter 1. Explanatory and Historical, ....
,, II. The Gurney Control, .....
,, III. The Isaac Thompson Case, ....
405
436
483
512
516
525
533
534
572
2
30
122
127
128
130
140
162
Proceedings of the Society. Continued.
Chapter IV.
V.
VI.
„ VII.
„ VIII.
„ IX.
PAOB
The Myers Control, . . . . .198
Messages obtained through Miss Rawson, . . 219
Messages from the Myers and Hodgson Controls of
Mrs. Piper, Autumn, 1906, . . . .226
The Myers and Hodgson Controls of Mrs. Piper,
Spring, 1907, ...... 248
The Joseph Marble Series, .... 255
Supplementary Remarks,. .... 280
IV. Psychical Research and Survival after Bodily Death. By Pro-
FESSOE A. C. PiGOU, ...... 286
Part LIX.—November, 1909. Price 6s. net.
General Meeting, . . . . . . . . .305
Introductory Note to the " Report on Sittings with Eusapia Palladino," 306
Report on a Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino. By the Hon.
EvERAKD Feilding, W. W. Baggally, and Hbreward
Carringtox.
Table of Contents, ....... 309
I. Introduction, ....... 310
II. General Account of the Sittings, . . . . . 321
III. Detailed Report^ ....... 345
IV. Individual Conclusions of the Investigators, . . . 555
Supplement.
M. Courtier's Report on the Experiments with Eusapia Palladino at
the Paris Institut G6niral Psi/chologique. By Coont Perovsky-
Petrovo-Solovovo, ...... 570
Index to Vol. XXIII., . . . . . . .590
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXIII. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
i.-iv.) pp. 336. 5s.
v.-vii.) pp. 340. 5s.
viii.-ix.) pp. 500. 5s.
x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
XII. -XIV. ) pp. 606. 5s.
xv.-xvii. ) pp. 707. 5s.
xviri.-xx. ) pp. 442. 4s.
xxL-xxiii.) pp. 647. 5s.
xxiv.-xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
b XXVI. ) DD. 466. 4s.
Vol. I. (Parts
II. (
m. (
IV. (
V.(
VL(
VIL (
VIII. (
IX.( ,, AXIV.-AAV.; pp. HS.
X. ( Part XXVI. ) pp. 466. 4s.
XI. (Pts.xxviL-xxix.)pp. 6.37. 5s
XII. ( ,, XXX. -XXXI.) pp. 391. 4s.
Vol.Xin.(Pts. xxxii.-xxxiii. )pp.653.6s.
XIV. (
,,xxxiv.-xxxv.)pp. 436. 5s.
XV. ( „ XXXVI. -XL.) pp. 522. 6s.
XVL{Part XLi.)pp. 650. 6s.
XVIL{Parts XLii.-XLV.)pp. 468.
6s. .3d.
XVIII. ( ,, XLVi.-XLix.)pp. 548. 7s.
XIX. (,, L.-Lii.)pp. 508."*6s. 6d.
XX. (Part Liii. ) pp. 444. 6s.
XXI. (Pts. Liv.-LVi.) pp. 584. 6s.
XXII. (Part Lvii.) pp. 445. 6s.
XXm. (Pts.Lvin.-Lix.)pp. 602. 7s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
AMONG Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
