{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Peter S NDE 7011","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter S NDE 7011  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3530 Peter S NDE 7011  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Before the first event, I complained of being very tired and sleepy. I was at that time, April 1991, working at the Operating Room in a hospital. At a certain moment, the professor looked at me and said, 'Peter, you look so white'.  I answered him: 'Yes, prof, I am just very, very tired'.  He told me, to go to the coffee room off the operating room, drink a coffee, and come back. These were the last words. 

I never, in my entire life, fell asleep as nicely as during that time. I felt no weight, was going wherever I wanted and there were beautiful white clouds of which I'd never seen. The feeling was amazing; it looked like freedom. Then at a certain moment, I saw a face and a body in very nice white clothes, a fresh face with black half-short hair, which started talking to me. I don't know if it is male or female, but it very friendly. This person told me, 'You have to go back, because you need to do a lot for the people, it is not yet time to come here.' 

Then I immediately turned around, and I wake up on an Intensive Care Unit bed with all IV's, Electro Cardio Gram machines and a number of doctors around me who said, 'Welcome back, Peter, we thought we had lost you. You were gone for 20 minutes.' The first thing I did was to feel my body. It was very strange to have a body, which I had never experienced before the happening. 

Since that time, I know there is no death.  Because of my job flying an average over 350 flights a year, I am totally not afraid of death. I feel the person I saw, was one of the masters who guide our planet Earth. My second experience was just recently. As my wife and I went to bed, I told her, 'my heart is beating not in the way it should'. (Note: I had 6 cardio bypass surgeries in 2009 and was under the care of a Cardiologist.) 

As my study is in the medical realm, I do understand what was going happening. I told my wife, that if I did not wake up, she knows what to do. My heart kept going strange but I fell asleep. This time, it was different. When I woke up, the next day, in the afternoon, my wife was still sitting next to me and told me I did not react to anything and she was at the point of calling my colleagues: a few doctors. 

When I woke up, I remember that I saw a violet fire from my heart. Inside was a grey door, which I went through. I saw a kind of a small tunnel with a very intense strong white light where there was another door, as well. I opened it, and came into a place that was so beautiful: I had never seen such beauty! The mountains, the kind of trees, flowers, so fine from their structure to the colors: 'I never saw these colors before and cannot express it'. The small river with such clear fine water, I'd never, ever seen in my life. Then, I was in a car with three people, who were a bit bigger than we are. Again, I had never seen the car before, not even in Sci-Fi movies. The form and colors, again, I'd never seen and can't express. We parked the car, they left the doors unlocked, and windows open. I asked, 'You don't close it?' Whereas they said, 'Peter here we don't need this', they laughed kindly. 

We then crossed the road and entered into a hotel or building, again, the structure, form, beautiful wood, with a structure I can't explain that was so fine and precise. After a while, they told me they had to go and I should go back, because they said, 'You, also, still need to accomplish your mission'. I returned through the same way from which I came. After telling this to my wife, she was astonished. I also discussed it with some friends who are closer to the other world than me, and they stated: 'it is you were in another world, out of your body'. The same day I checked my heart by Electro Cardio Gram, and they found rare things, which they cannot explain until now. This was last May, 2013.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1991 and 2013

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain      'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I did not know of my heart rhythm problems. Just felt very tired and sleepy. It was the same with my 2nd NDE experience.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In both cases throughout the whole experience, I still can feel and see it, because it felt so fantastic in both cases. I've never seen that, never experienced it, looks like a Sci-Fi movie, but once you wake up, you feel giddy. It was a big journey.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I experienced there was totally no pressure, only freedom and there is no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It taught me that there is more than this life. There is no death, which made me a totally different person. What I was always thinking has come to a reality. At the other side, or dimension, is true love and peace, respect. Here on Earth it is a learning school for all to grow spiritually.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The color white, which I've never seen again, I mean that WHITE. Also as in the second experience, all forms, structures and colors do not exist here.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt free. Happy. A total peaceful other dimension. Great.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic   I have always thought from when I was very young, that all the masters are in another world guiding us. To me I love Jesus, Mary, GOD. I practise prayers and talks everyday twice. I respect and admire Lord Guatama Buuddha, Krisna, and Profet mohamed, although he is not a master as Jesus, etc. They hand us messages what is very good to stop the duality in people and try to learn us about our selfconsiouness, our true: I am. Through their messages we all should bring this beautiful planet to a higher energy form, peace. May GOD bless us all.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   As above mentioned, I see as I always have throught, the masters are all great ascended masters, directly from GOD, as we can see their eternal love for everyone on this planet. GOD's love is entermity, but he gave us a free wil,whereas we have to learn in each life. He wil not break his own law with that. This is why GOD know some can rebelate against it, but therefore the law of the universe: action is reaction, but all for us to learn. To me, as said, I believe in all layers above us for spiritual growth to come close to GOD. Let us be aware of the fact that GOD wants all his sons and daugthers to be with him.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I have from young believed that all comes and is the same whatever religion. It has been proved to be so. Therefore I see, Jesus, etc as the masters who were transcended and ascended to guide us into a higher spritual way, to help to bring the "golden age" here by supporting the good selfconsiouness and defeat the duality.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Uncertain   A very beautiful, fresh person in white, with half black hair, don't know man or woman. I believe it was one of the masters: Jesus, Buddha...

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Due to the encounter with other persons, it tells me there is a guidance and connection.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Yes, the way they present themselves and their answers. They are more higher in spirituality, etc.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Yes, beause of the persons who talked to me. They say, I have to go back to complete mission and; nit yet time for here.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     To complete a mission and help people.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     You can feel the love from that world as dscribed in all religions which is the truth.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Large changes in my life. A great experience and proof of life after death, proof to me of a beautiful peaceful dimension with true love: GOD's love and the ascended masters.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   It just changed my vision of life and death.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My sixth-sense became very strong.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With special friends, they understand and are very open to religious discussions.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_s_nde.html