{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Peter K NDE 2877","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter K NDE 2877  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1001  Peter K NDE  2877  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was sliding down a hillside covered in leaves which made the slope slippery. I slid over broken glass bottle shards. I was not aware of the injury at first. I walked about thirty feet before I noticed moisture in my underwear. I thought I had urinated on myself at first since I was six that was not an unfamiliar occurrence. I felt down the front of my pants and detected no urine. I thought then that I had soiled myself. So I felt the back of my pants and right above my belt line. I pulled my hand back and realized that I had blood on it. I walked about twenty more feet and called to my sisters who were ahead of me. I reached out and grabbed a steel picket fence. Because I was already feeling weak. I had a major cut at my belt line and was pumping out blood at a rapid rate. I switched hands and put my palm back on the cut covered in rust flakes. It took ten minutes for my mother to show up, then another five minutes to the town doctor. Another twenty minutes to the hospital another five minutes to the operating room. So I figure about forty minutes of steady bleeding, until they started a blood transfusion. It was coming out faster than they could clean the wound before they could sew it back up.

As I was lying on the operating table, I was looking at the doctors and nurses feet and knees. I blinked and saw their faces. I blinked again and saw the top of their heads. I blinked and I was viewing them from twenty feet above. I blinked then I was fifty feet above. I could see them working on me, irrigating my wound, they moved very quickly. I blinked and I was traveling (floating) through a fog or cloud.

Then I was in a dark place like at night. Although not pitch black, I could see ground fog. I was not walking I was gliding forward. I saw a white/blue light. Much like starlight ahead of me. Then I looked to my left and saw my grandmother who had passed away when I was nine months old. I also saw all of my deceased relatives with her, thousands of them. They were in translucent spirit form. Ethereal if you will. Yet I could make out their features. I could see through them. They were all calling to me to come to them, be with them. I told them to wait I had to go to the light first. At the time, I knew everything that had ever happened in the world, everything that would happen in the future, and everything that was happening at that moment. I was one with God or the Collective soul, Father sky a Higher power. Whatever label you wish to attach to it. It was perfect love.

The light grew brighter than the sun as I got closer. I did go through a tunnel effect. At the end, the light coalesced into a human form. I didn't know it then but as I meditated on the image of that form over the years I realized it was myself at about age forty. Then he spoke to me in my own adult voice. He said you're here early. I said yes I am. He asked me what do you want to do? I said, 'I need to go back.' He said, 'why do you want to go back?' I said, 'I don't want to, I need to.' 'Why do you need to?' I said, 'If I don't, it will kill my mother.' (I did not mean it would kill her quickly, it would kill her slowly over years she couldn't take my loss.) He asked, 'Well okay, if you're sure?' I said, 'Yes, I'm sure.' 'Okay.' As quick as you can snap your fingers, I was back on the operating table.

I have regretted making that decision many times over the years when life became unbearably painful.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 1966  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  Surgery-related       Other 'Bled to death as a result of injury to my back at the belt line, severe cut from sliding over broken glass.'  I bled to death as a result of a severe cut to my back.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was at one with God, I was omnipotent, I was God.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I left this plane of existence and entered the other one.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time had no meaning.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My relatives were translucent/transparent so was God.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Halfway through the journey the area started to tunnel into the bright light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My deceased relatives were to my left calling to me to join them.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was just like moving into a star.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Serenity, peace, contentment, perfect love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     My life had only lasted six years at that point so there was not much to highlight or review. I did however learn that everything we do in our lives we relive at the time of our death. We re-feel every situation we were ever in. We also feel whatever effect we had on other people. So if I hit someone. I felt what they felt as I did it physical/emotional/spiritually. I could also pause and say was that person telling the truth about that if I chose to.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I knew everything that would ever happen.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'None, I had been to church 3 times maybe. My mother told me god was who watched over me and protected me when she wasn't there.'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I am a Recovering Addict. I have 18 1/2 years clean. I do not believe in religion. I believe in Spirituality. Practicing spiritual principles in all my affairs.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew everything God knew.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I can tell what a person is feeling by looking at them.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I became hypersensitive, As well as psychic, Telepathic mentally and emotionally. I used drugs and alcohol later in life to dampen it.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I knew beyond a shadow of a doubt that I would become one with God when I transitioned to the next plane of existence. I also became fearless.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother within the next day after I recovered. I have shared about it many times in my life. Most ask some questions. Some are not interested in it. Depended on the person.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is a memory as clear as any I had had up to that point or afterward.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     No change.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Sex sometimes gives a glimmer of the experience. Drugs gave me a surreal feeling, detached from myself. I have astral traveled for many years afterward. Not so much now.  

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is worth dying for. ;-)  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Too exhausted to come up with anything at the moment. Perhaps I will at a later time.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_k_nde.html