{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Peter J NDE 2699","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter J NDE 2699  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						899  Peter J NDE  2699  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  Once I was lifeless on the ground, after a fall, my neighbors and parents came near to check how I was. My mother came beside me and kissed me crying. IN THAT MOMENT, I saw myself, my mother, and the rest of the people beside me. I floated above them.  

I find myself in a tunnel and the end of the tunnel with a whitish and blinding light is at my left. Suddenly a person approaches that exit and encourages me to go towards it. The person does not talk to me but it is like if he did. At the right hand side, there is an abysmal darkness; I am afraid but decide to go towards it. The person in the light is restless, nervous and tells me that he cannot help me over there, to turn back immediately.

I did not pay attention at first and continued going towards the abysmal darkness; the tunnel grew smaller and smaller and the light could not be seen but I continued going forward on my knees until I feel the presence of someone or something. I am restless, disconcert, UNHAPPY, and there is an increasing stench and the air seems to be heavy. I decide to return but there is not enough space to turn back so I start going backwards on my knees. Before the tunnel allowed me to advance but now, it seemed to have weeds and branches but I continued going backwards and I was so afraid that I started to pray aloud.

After I reached a wider zone of the tunnel, I turned around and saw the light, very small. I continued praying. When I finally could stand up I started to run; I was now near the light and did not see the person that was guiding me at the beginning, there was no one.  When I reached the light I was HAPPY, comfortable and then far away I saw the person, that greeted me first, saying good bye; the person was happy and joyful and so was I.  The person made me understand that I was to stay there and not to go towards him or towards the darkness.

My experience ends here. Afterwards I awoke in the Intensive care unit.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 February 1990  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.  Accident  Suicide attempt       'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I fell down from the fourth floor. I do not have any physical impediment as a result from the fall. I was unconscious for 11 hours.    

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   It was because the person that wanted to guide me did not spoke to me. It was really like if I heard this person inside my brain and in my own thoughts.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was in the tunnel it was like if I had 100% consciousness.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     For me it was a few seconds, everything developed very quickly except when I was inside the Light where time seemed not to pass.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw everything in white and black and shades of gray.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel had a part that conducts you to the CELESTIAL LIGHT and another one that conducts you to the Absolute Darkness. The part that goes to the darkness narrows as you advance. There are branches and weeds that exercise a lot of resistance if you want to return to the LIGHT.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     just saw one single being. It could be my grandmother but I do not know, as of yet.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The Celestial Light of an incredible brightness. It transmits much peace and happiness.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Even though I felt INTERNAL PEACE AND HAPPINESS at the end, I can say it was worse than a nightmare. It was fearful and bad because most of the experience I was UNHAPPY.  I felt anguish, fear, and soul pain.    

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     Everyone that does evil things against neighbors or against God really is doing evil against oneself.  It is enough if you repent and believe in HIM; all will be forgiven.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   'Más bien la definiría como ateismo y en contra de la fe cristiana, la iglesia y Jesucristo.'  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have given a 180º turn in my religious life and in my relation with other people. I am now a much better person than before.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Creo en Dios Padre todopoderoso Creador del Cielo y de la Tierra, Creo en Jesucristo su único hijo, Nuestro Señor.....,  Soy catolico apostolico romanico prácticante.'  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have given a 180º turn in my religious life and in my relation with other people. I am now a much better person than before.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   At first I think I did not have any idea of what had happened to me. But after the years and talking to people, I think that my experience was about what happens when people decide not to enter the Light, what they will find and feel.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     When I am restless or have an spontaneous stress feeling I know that something is going to happen and usually the event is not good, there are deaths most of the time. Then with an incredible precision, I can tell what is going to happen.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People jokingly call me 'Shaman'. When I tell them what I think will happen and due to the fact that generally they are related to deaths, people get very scared.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Experience was definitely real and has taught me a lot in regards as to how we human beings should behave towards ourselves and others.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       nothing     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_j_nde.html