{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Peter H NDE 2168","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter H NDE 2168  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						596  Peter H NDE  2168  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            Experience Description :   

  I was in a car accident and I suffered a fractured skull in three places. When the police arrived, I had lost all of my blood through my eyes, ears, nose and mouth, while lying in the road for over forty-five minutes. This is when I experienced a feeling of comfort beyond any feeling that one could feel in the physical life. At that point, it was black with small specs of light as stars appear. I noticed that I was not a physical being. I was instead a pin cushion of electric energy. I noticed to my right a similar being, that it felt so comforting to be with, taking me on a determined path up and away from earth. Then is when this other being telepathically conveyed a feeling that is very difficult to put in words with the exception of one word, which was the word FACTORY. More or less it was, (don't feel incomplete or you will go back to the FACTORY) I looked down to the left and saw factory buildings with smoke stacks and conveyor belts. That is actually what the town consisted of that I was taken to where the hospital was. I did have a feeling that I was not complete in some way or another. That's when I was returned to my physical self. I was told that when I came back to life I then remained in a comma for three days. When I woke from the coma, I was in intensive care for six weeks prior to being released from the hospital. I was pronounced dead at the scene of the accident by the police which I failed to mention at the beginning.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 02/15/62  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I don't understand the question.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   This was due to the experience of absorbing an entire feeling that would and does fall way short when put in words. From the other being to me.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the point of communication with the being that was to my right.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I knew I was not viewing any of this from normal space or time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I did not see any extreme clarity in my vision due to it being somewhat dark throughout this experience. As if it were during the night.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I don't recall any sound at all.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was to the left of the other being and whoever or whatever the other being was, it felt as it were closer to me than any human could ever be although I know not who it was.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I was light and so was the other being beside me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Serenity and overwhelming feeling of comfort.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I learned that I am here to become complete in some way, then is when I can graduate so to speak. If I don't gather this completeness I will have to return until I'm ready it seems!  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The knowledge that had I felt complete, I was to travel a determined path somewhere. Not sure where.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Due to the comfort I felt after death it changed my entire life to live knowing I'll never reach that level of comfort in this life is depressing.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The telepathic message was not spoken in words but a complete feeling.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Sometimes I feel as if I have contact with people who have passed away in a sleep state.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The comfort was wonderful and the feeling so close to the other being or spirit that joined me.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was approximately ten years after when I shared it with others and it was of comfort to them to know it was such a feeling of comfort to die.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Everything about it was real I could not at that age have imagined what I experienced.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing I can think of at this time.     			    			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_h_nde.html