{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_m_nde_3163.html","mytitle":"Peter M NDE 3163","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter M NDE 3163  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1253 Peter M NDE 3163  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a sunny day. We were in a kindergarten, which was located at the roof of the building. It was breakfast break time. We were playing and my cousin told me that I can fly. I stayed in my place thinking while my two cousins and my brother went away and I climbed the wall and jumped. While I was falling, I saw a very fast movie for what I did at that time. After I hit the ground, I didn't feel anything then suddenly I saw myself falling down in a tortuous well. It was dark and I couldn't see anything but I was able to hear other voices. Some voices were laughing, crying, or speaking. Some of them were falling faster than me. It was frightening and I was trying to find anything to catch. I moved falling for a while. It was a long well, and then I exited from the well to find myself standing at the beginning of a tunnel. There was someone who exited with me but it disappeared. I stayed at my place thinking what to do. It was a long tunnel.  At the end of the tunnel, there was a doorway without a door.  Outside this door, a very bright light was shining the tunnel. There was nothing to hear or to see. It was just me inside this tunnel and that light. I thought to go back. I looked back and saw darkness I said no way. I thought to stay in my place but did not know for how long I would be staying - I said to myself, 'There is no other way. It is better to go to that life than to stay here. Maybe I will find someone or anything.' I started moving slowly until I reached the middle of the tunnel and everything gone.

There is another thing I would like to add. I had remembered something about my past life. The vision of my past life is not clear enough but I remembered that I was in a very dark place. There was nothing to see. I was able to hear voices and I was able to see a light coming from a far but I was unable to reach it. There were no feeling of time. It was a quiet place.  The darkness was everywhere. I had all my feelings with all my senses. I was able to move around but I said it is better to stay in a place where you can hear voices; it is better that to go afar. Someone came from the light and said there is an empty place so I start to move to reach that light, but someone was faster than me so I said next time I will be faster. This time I stayed a longer time than the first one then someone came and said there is an empty place so I start moving until I reached the light. The light surrounded me and then I found myself in a very narrow place. After a while, I start pushing to get out of this place. That explains why babies push their mother's stomach. It is an inconvenient place, and then I came out and started crying. I started crying from the light and from the noise, which were unusual things in the place that I come from. The baby can remember his past life for a very short time after birth and it's gone after that. If someone experienced a very dead injury he or she may remember something.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1987

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Direct head injury  fell down from a building  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was conscious about everything since I entered to this experience.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious about everything since I entered to this experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     At the first years after the fall I was able to see places but it stopped after that but it happens from time to time.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There are very loud ringing sounds that I hear. They affect my ability and weaken my sense skills.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was a long tunnel not wide and not narrow.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   There was a very bright light at the end of the tunnel that was also shining the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Timeless, frightening, darkness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was a movie that past too fast for what I have don't at that time from good thing to bad things.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'Christian, orthodox'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'Christian, orthodox'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     My sense skills helped me very much.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I am not sure.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I was remembering it a long time ago but shared it recently and unfortunately they thought I am mad.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I was conscious and well everything was working well. I felt it. I was inside it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is in my mind. I can't stop thinking of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I had medications for years thereafter but not sure what they were for. That's what I heard.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       After I wake up from the injury I was unable to see anything. The doctors have tried several times with no use. The second or the third day in the middle of the night, I heard voices. When I woke up, I saw four people, three men and one woman came to the room. They were wearing white clothes and they came to me and said don't worry we are here to treat you. Then one of them asked the woman to check if there was someone coming. She checked and said no one there and stayed in her place. The three men put their hands on me and start to turn around me. When I woke up in the morning, I told my mum that I want to go to the bath. She wanted to go with me; I told her that I will go by myself. She discovered that I was able to see. She ran and called the doctor and the doctor and everyone there was just surprised. Those people treated me as well.  They brought back my sight. Now everyone sees my CT-scan he don't know how I am still alive. It is an amazing thing that happened to me.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_m_nde_3163.html