{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Peter M NDE 2701","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter M NDE 2701  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						896  Peter M NDE  2701  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  Aware of fighting an out of body experience.  Was reasonably conscious during the first part of procedure because my cardiologist refrained from administering the standard cocktail.  As he said, 'your Padre' is coming and you want to be conscious for him, but I can't wait to begin. I had asked for a Catholic Priest, and one was on the way.

The priest came, administered the Sacrament of the Sick, and stood by my right side for some time.  I watched the procedure on the monitor to some degree and then experienced a major indifference to everything that was going on.  I felt as if I wanted to get up and started to 'get up off the table.'  I recall saying to myself that this is odd.  After all, I had three caths in my legs, one on the left thigh and two on the right with three doctors busy and talking among themselves.  The three were my friend, the cardiologist, my friend and personal physician, and a long-time acquaintance who is a noted thorasic cardiovascular surgeon.  All three were present at this 3:00 AM procedure.

My cardiologist indicated to those assisting him that the blockage was complete in the LAD, that my heart rate was falling seriously low and that if he couldn't clear the blockage somehow.  That's all I heard or cared to hear because my attention was focused on closing my eyes.  I knew something else much more fascinating and important was about to be experienced.  I convinced myself to remain on the table, closed my eyes and experienced a rushing sensation,  as if on a roller coaster ride in a dark tunnel. I felt wind rushing by my ears along with the sensation of rapid movement.

Then the movement stopped.  I am unable to describe it completely. There was clear, omni-directional light, which reflected no shadows.  The white light was everywhere.  It appeared like it was muted through gauze, but yet still all encompassing.

I saw no beings, nothing other than the all-pervasive light.  I did feel and know intuitively that I was safe, happy, and loved.  I was LOVED in a way I'm unable to put into words yet.  I was also aware of being allowed to comprehend that it was important for me to 'go back.' 

That's all.  I awoke six hours later in the Intensive Cardiac Care unit of the hospital in Houston.  My memory of what I've just explained was somewhat dim, but I had an overpowering desire, urge to write a book about a certain subject related to values, morals, and a certain Christian experience.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 29 January 2006  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Third heart attack in two years.  Second was in September 2005.  The third was January 2006.  The third was particularly serious and the Angio cauth procedure was hindered by 100% blockage.  Normal De Fibrillation procedure was not capable of success because the issue was 'plumbing' and not 'electrical.'  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I have never been completely disinterested in what is going on around me.  I was a serious student, focused commissioned officer leading troops in combat, and a Type 'A' executive. Always focused with a need to be completely and intensely involved.  Here was a 'big time' experience in the operating room, an experience that I knew was life threatening, and soon was leading to my immediate death, and I really didn't care.  Rather I 'went along for the ride.'  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The conscious decision not to really be concerned with what was going on in the operating room and to close my eyes, let go.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Some sort of movement BACK in time.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Depth perception; awareness of movement, not an unpleasant experience.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Because of loud noises while leading troops in combat, my haring is quite diminished.  However, hearing was not really the issue.  What I sensations I experienced was not really through the bodily senses.  Rather, all was an internally generated awareness, certainty, knowledge, etc.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Relief, neutral happiness, curiosity, satisfaction  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Remembered many past events     Do have an awareness that heaven and hell are best defined exactly the same way:  As experiencing the consequences of our behavior for all eternity.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   RC  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     Strong Catholic faith all along.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   RC  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     Strong Catholic faith all along.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I'm sorting this out.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Urge to explore archeology and history of a specific time in the past and develop a manuscript including insights I am developing from my subconscious.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Unclear at first.  I awoke in intensive care ,after a seven hour cardiac event  procedure, with a strong desire to write a book about a particular value-laden  moral topic.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Difficult, still sorting it out.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No    Two Months, A Rev. in Houston  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just know.  My medical situation was verified as nearly as possible and informally by my cardiologist that 'it was a real serious cardiac event, we lost you for a while' and, my wife filling in the details about just how long I was in the OR, six hours.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I just know.  My medical situation was verified as nearly as possible and informally by my cardiologist that 'it was a real serious cardiac event, we lost you for a while' and, my wife filling in the details about just how long I was in the OR, for six hours.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       not now  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       This is a sorting out time for me.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_m_nde.html