{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1perry_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Perry R NDE 2435","mylang":"de"}
          	        Perry R NDE 2435  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Perry R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						732  Perry R NDE  2435  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was in the hospital for almost two weeks after having a major heart attack. Approximately one-fifth of my heart was damaged which caused bradycardia (a slow heart-rate). The doctor decided to discharge me early. I was sitting on the bed waiting for the discharge paperwork to sign when I arrested. If the arrest would have happened a few minutes later my wife would have been driving me home and I would probably not have survived.

This is my perception of what happened when I arrested. If you can imagine a huge, tall smoke-stack (no heat or fire thank goodness - just a feeling of being in a tunnel) and you are at the bottom facing upward. It is dark all around you except at the top of the stack there is a bright light in the distance. You are rising rapidly up through the stack moving towards the light. There is no fear in your mind at the time, just an awareness of flying toward the light. I remember the light as being white and bright. As I reach the light, I seem to pass into a state of awareness that I have now transitioned into a room 'filled' with hospital staff. I look to my bedside and the nurse has tears in her eyes. My wife was taken away into another room. I notice the burns on my chest and that I have urine soaked jeans. Words cannot describe the tunnel experience. It was not bad and changed my life forever. Even five years later, the emotion of writing about the experience brings tears to my eyes. I am thankful for the experience and to be alive with my family.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 10/04/2000  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Heart attack     Two weeks after heart attack had VF  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had a cardiac arrest.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   My field of vision was focused on the end of the tunnel.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When traveling through the tunnel.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I remember the speed of flying toward the light was very fast and I stopped immediately upon entering the hospital room. It was like moving from one location to another within a eye blink.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     The tunnel was dark and long with a bright light at the end. I was moving toward the light and passed through it into a room, which turned out to be my hospital room.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was bright, white and circular - like looking through a long tunnel with a light at the other end. It was not like looking at a light bulb. The light was just white, no focused point.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was 'flying' towards the end of the tunnel. I was not afraid. I was almost memorized by the light and its brightness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Agnostic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Agnostic  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No No - I always put my family first and still do. I have changed in that there is little that gets me upset anymore. I realize that day to day frustrations with work and so on are nothing compared to what is important to me - my family's happiness.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The experience was not unpleasant. It is telling others after the experience - it is emotional for me to describe to others and difficult to hold back tears.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was later that evening when I was able to think about the event. I believe it was a miracle or just one stroke of luck that my discharge was delayed just a few minutes longer. Otherwise, I would have surely died in the car.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was about a year before I told a co-worker about the experience. I broke down and cried from the memory - something never done before by me.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am not sure what actually caused the experience - whether it is the body's way of 'shutting down peacefully' or if we do pass into another state of being. Either way, it was a profound experience to me. I am not afraid to die at all and now try to live every day to its fullest.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was fully aware of what was happening and feel no different than now. My thoughts were clear then as they are now. I was just in a different place momentarily - or at least that is what it felt like.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It might be neat if audio or even video recordings of the experience could be added to the site. It is hard to write in detail about such an experience. It would also be nice if you had the ability to instant message other people who might be online at the same time. It would be nice to ask others about their experience.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1perry_r_nde.html