{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V26 1913","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v26_1913.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V26 1913","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXVI
(CONTAINING PARTS LXV, LXVI, LXVII)
1913
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1913
Age?its for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW : JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
CONTENTS
PAET LXV.
September, 1912.
PAGE
General Meetings, 1
I. Presidential Address. By the Eight Rev. Bishop W. Boyd
Carpenter, D.D., 2
II. A Month's Eecord of Automatisms. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, 24
III. Correspondances Croisees. By Joseph Maxwell, M.D., . . 57
Editorial Note, 145
IV. The Latin Message Experiment. By Mrs. Anna Hude, . . 147
Note on Mrs. Hude's Paper. By J. G. Piddington, . . . 171
V. A Hitherto Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question.
By J. G. Piddington, 174
Some Observations on Mr. Piddington's Paper. By the Eight
Hon. G. W. Balfour, 221
A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. By J. G. Piddington, 231
VI. Two Tennysonian Quotations in Mrs. Verrall's Scripts. By
J. G. Piddington, 245
Supplement : Review
N. Vaschide's "Les Hallucinations Telepathiques." By
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 251
PART LXVI.
November, 1912.
I. Some Types of Multiple Personality. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., 257
II. A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality, with Report of
a Case. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., 286
III. A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis. By Professor
Sigm. Freud, M.D., LL.D. (Vienna), 312
IV. The Theory of the Subconscious. By Boris Sidis, M.A.,
Ph.D., M.D.,
"
319
Supplement : Reviews :
Mr. M'Dougall's " Body and Mind, a History and a Defence
of Animism." By the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, . 344
loo I 84
> - ~- v v c
e* c ** c c. e o p «-
t> c • # ©6 e c (i c eo
« t r c e • f c r » <
PAGE
Prof. Dr. E. Bleuler's " Die Psychanalyse Freuds." By
V. J. Woolley, M.D., 367
Dr. Edwin Ash's " Faith and Suggestion." By C. Lloyd
Tdckey, M.D., 370
The Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic. By A. Betts
Taplin, L.R.C.P., 373
PART LXVII.
July, 1913.
I. A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper on " Cross-Correspon-
dences and the Experimental Method." By Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, 375
Appendix I. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, .... 401
„ II. By Alice Johnson, 409
„ III. By J. G. Piddington, 415
II. Andrew Lang and Psychical Research. By the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, 419
III. A Study of Dreams. By Dr. Frederik van Eeden, . . 431
IV. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri Bergson, . . 462
Officers and Council for 1913, 481
List of Members and Associates. ........ 482
Index to Vol. XXVI., 522
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXV.
September, 1912.
PROCEEDINGS OF GENERAL MEETINGS.
The 139th General Meeting of the Society was held in the
large Hall at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., on Monday,
February 19th, 1912, at 8.30 p.m., Sir William Crookes in
the Chair.
Dr. L. Forbes Winslow read a paper on " The Need for
Advance in Psychology."
The 14 0th General Meeting was held in the Queen's (Small)
Hall, Langham Place, London, W., on Thursday, May 23rd,
1912, at 5 p.m., the President, The Right Rev. Bishop
W. Boyd Carpenter, D.D., in the Chair.
The President delivered the Address which is printed below.
A
2 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
I.
PKESIDENTIAL ADDEESS.
Delivered on May 23rd, 1912.
By the RIGHT REV. BISHOP W. BOYD CARPENTER, D.D.
I had much hesitation in accepting the office which I have
the honour now to hold. I did not deem that I possessed
the requisite original equipment or the acquired knowledge to
deal worthily with the work and objects of the Society. Never-
theless, the kind and sympathetic way in which my difficulties
were met by Mrs. Henry Sidgwick and Sir William Barrett
awakened another feeling, and led me to fear lest churlishness
or indolence might be urged against me if I sought to escape
the task to which I was invited.
I occupy from the nature of the case a position somewhat
different from that of my predecessors in this office. They
were experts ; I am not : they held high place in the world
of thought ; I do not.
I cannot claim that happy acquaintance with detailed experi-
ments, or that patient study of phenomena, which were so
evident in Mrs. Henry Sidgwick's Presidential Address : I cannot
claim the right of continued study which would lead me to follow
Mr. Arthur Balfour or Mr. Gerald Balfour into the regions of
profounder philosophy : I cannot claim scientific authority, made
secure by brilliant and successful investigations, which gave
weight to the utterances of Sir Oliver Lodge : I cannot claim
the wide range of knowledge and happy gifts of my predecessor
in office : I come to you from a life whose studies have been
crippled by the continuous interruptions of inevitable duties : I
cannot claim to do more than put before you some thoughts
which have been pressed upon me from many sides and which
may give you, if not any useful contribution to your investigations,
LXV.] Presidential Address. 3
at least the suggestion of some questions which may have
occurred to the minds of others.
First, may I make my confession of faith and speak of
the conviction which led me to take an interest in the work
of the Society ? My interest was aroused by the studiously
scientific spirit which it claimed.
There are some people who are attracted to this Society by
a vague hope of some startling or sensational facts : the vague
and vulgar world prefers sensation to truth. But the very title
adopted by the Society carries a constant caution : it is a
Society for research, and research needs those qualities of mind
and thought which we associate with the adjective scientific,
viz. extreme caution in accepting evidence, rigorous investigation
of facts, determined refusal of doubtful narratives, a prudent
scepticism and a vigorous maintenance of mental equilibrium.
The true spirit of research does not want romance : it carries
a wholesome distrust of eager garrulity : it knows that the
evidence of the senses is often deceptive. Whatever attractive
adornments may embellish a tale, it is better to be loyal to
truth than to be the victims of illusion : and as members of
this Society we are not seeking copy for works of imagination :
we are anxious to reach fundamental facts ; we seek the gold
which will stand test : we are ready to crush into powder the
great masses of ignorance and superstition in which it may
be embedded.
A very interesting paper was written seventy years ago by
the Secretary to the Eoyal Institution, the Eev. John Barlow.
The subject of the paper was Man's power over himself to
prevent or control insanity. In 1843 men did not possess
the physiological knowledge of to-day ; but the suggestions
made by the writer are, if I mistake not, as useful to-day as
they were two generations ago. According to Mr. Barlow, the
difference between the madman and the sane is not in the
presence of the illusion, but in the power or want of power
or resolution to examine it. The illusion is not the madness :
even the mental derangement is not the madness. The
resolution to discriminate is the protective power, which keeps
madness at arm's length. To illustrate this position he cited
the case of Dr. Nicolai of Berlin (1799). Dr. Nicolai had
passed through times of much anxiety and trouble, and he
4 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
became subject to painful experiences : he saw in his room the
figure of a dead acquaintance : he realized that this experience
was due to some brain derangement, and he refused to yield
to the illusion. As his health was re-established, the haunting
presence vanished. A similar experience befell Dr. Bostock of
London. In both these cases some derangement had taken
place : in both cases the men possessed the vigour of mind to
discriminate between fact and illusion : both were victorious in
a struggle which might have ended in insanity.
Now no reasonable member of a Society whose purpose is
careful research will do other than applaud the attitude of
mind which so preserved its equipoise as to refuse to be terrified
out of its wits, and which by holding fast its integrity was
able to show that even brain derangement ought to be faced,
watched and conquered, while in the conquest the true nature
of the illusion was made manifest. "I took occasion" (writes
Mr. Barlow) " to notice a peculiar force in man, which is capable
of assuming control over this (a certain) portion of the brain
and, through it, over the greater part of the bodily functions
a force whose agency, as Professor Liebig has well observed, is
entirely distinct from the vital force, with which it has nothing
in common ; but in so far as it is in connection with matter,
manifests itself as an acceleration, a retarding or a disturbance
of the '
processes of life.' We find therefore, as this acute
observer (i.e. Dr. Liebig) goes on to state, two forces in authority
together, namely, the mechanical-vital force, or as he terms
it the vegetative life, and the source of the higher phenomena
of mental existence which is of a perfectly distinct and so far
superior nature, that it is able sometimes to exercise a dominion
over the vital force, which nullifies its action and at all times
modifies and controls it."
We should not state these matters in the same terms to-day,
but their statement even in obsolete phraseology will be welcome
because of the strong and vigorous good sense in which Mr.
Barlow deals with illusions, and because of the clear way in
which he insists on the influence which the mind can exercise
over the body and its functions. We have travelled far since
Mr. Barlow wrote his paper, but to me it was a surprise to
find in 1843 such modern conceptions. I do not suppose that,
notwithstanding our advance in knowledge, there is anything
lxv.] Presidential Address. 5
in Mr. Barlow's substantial position which will be seriously
challenged to-day, and I feel sure that the members of this
Society will endorse the wisdom of his conclusions, viz. that
the resolution to maintain our power of discrimination in the
presence of abnormal phenomena is essential to the maintenance
of our mental equilibrium. I am glad, therefore, to think that
the bridle of a wholesome scepticism is always provided in this
Society : the nature of the incidents and phenomena which
form our stock-in-trade are of a character which might tempt
the unwary or the imaginative to give free rein to their fancy.
In societies as well as in individuals we need to avoid being
taken captive by illusions : we need the dry light of reason
we need the persistent and trained habit which can, not only
listen to, but cross-question evidence. A lawyer of unusually
wide experience said to me, " There is little truth in the witness
box." It is the task of the skilful counsel to extract the modicum
of truth which is there. No progress will be made by rejecting
all evidence as tainted on the plea that human weakness and
even human wickedness may be met with in our investigations.
It is a difficult task to separate the chaff from the wheat or
to extract the gold from the rocky mass in which it is embedded ;
but if we want either the fruit of the harvest or the precious
ore, we must face the difficulties, and we must possess the
patience of mind which can detect some rational sequence even
among irrational and inconsequential statements of fact.
We may, therefore, readily welcome all material supplied for
investigation, as long as we are candid enough to publish
criticisms from all intelligent sources : those who welcome Sir
Oliver Lodge's happily safeguarded and suggestive lines of thought
or Sir W. Barrett's careful exposition of Poltergeists, Old and New,
will not resent the humorous scepticism of Mr. Andrew Lang
or the healthy doubts of Count Solovovo. The last number
of the Proceedings (Part LXIV.) seemed to me to be felicitously
typical of the fitting attitude of the members of this Society.
It may be asked, and it is right that the question should
be asked, whether this Society has contributed any influence
of practical good to the world. The man in the street, to
use a familiar and suggestive expression, may be pardoned if
he looks askance at inquiries which must seem to him specu-
lative, vague and irrelevant to life's practical activities, and he
6 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
may be forgiven if in his resentment against what he deems
wasted time and energy he asks whether anything which can
be translated into terms of practical value has been given to
mankind as a result of these prolonged and costly inquiries.
We must not be surprised that men who measure all things
by utility ask—what good does it do ?
Now there is one reply to this question which I venture
to make—at the same time emphasizing the caution that this
Society cannot be held responsible for the views of any of its
officials, and that the President, even in his presidential address,
can only speak for himself. One good, however, I think can
be claimed as a practical result towards which the work of
this Society has contributed. We passed—I speak of those
who have reached threescore and ten—we passed through a
period of very crude and blatant materialism some forty or
fifty years ago : the pages of popular magazines blazed with
the firework conclusions of scientific materialism. Matter was
the fundamental fact in the universe : nothing could be done
without matter : thought was only a smoke given off by heated
matter : genius not merely depended for its expression upon
the material in the brain, but was simply a manifestation of
brain stuff. I remember being challenged by a dying man
with this question : how could God think, seeing that He was
spirit and therefore could have no brain ? In such crude
forms of thought the materialism of the day revelled. Men
think differently now. Mind then was nothing but an effluvium
of the brain-cells. Now we are told that " matter is a pauper-
denizen of the conceptual world."
1
To-day the attitude of science is changed : the relation of
brain to thought is better understood : we realize that our
physical nature puts limitations upon our opportunities of
thought, and also that limits have been set to the materialist
hypothesis. No sane man, indeed, will deny that our powers
of thought are largely governed by brain conditions : every one
recognizes the strong and constant influence of the body over
the mind : we know that the power to express ourselves is
not unlimited, but strictly limited by the instrument put into
our care : we cannot contribute to the world more than the
instrument will allow, any more than a violin can give forth
'See Mind, April, 1912, "Matter and Memory,'' by E. D. Fawcett.
LXV.] Presidential Address. 7
the sounds of a trumpet or the cymbals take the range of the
organ. Live things, as Sir Oliver Lodge has reminded us, 1
cannot alter the quantity of energy, they can merely utilize
available energy like any other machine. To use the image
employed by a French bishop, Monsigr. d'Hulst, " The master
of a house may, if he is not satisfied, discharge his servants,
but the soul of man does not possess a like freedom : it must
be content with the bodily organs which are in this sense his
servants ; but its dependence upon them goes even further ; for
even for the most purely intellectual processes a co-operation
and co-ordination of physical powers is necessary : thought
demands blood, and when the blood supply is scant and poor
the energy of thought is impaired."
We may admit all this, but nevertheless the sturdy materi-
alistic hypothesis of a generation ago has given place to a
more modest and reasonable judgment. If the body has power
over the mind, the mind has power over the body : the world
has realized this : the very extravagances of what is called
Christian Science are the evidence of the reaction which has
taken place. We are not bound to leap to extremes, but we
must recognize that the materialist of other days rode his
hobby-horse till he killed it. Reasonable men, men of reflec-
tive powers, and men of scientific experience, who frankly
acknowledge the power of the body over the mind, are never-
theless as strongly convinced of the power of the mind over
the body. Professor Dubois does not hesitate to declare that
the ills brought upon men through the mind are more frequent
than those caused by bodily disorders. He relates that a man,
through mere mental impression, caught a cold because his
neighbour turned the page of a newspaper quickly and in doing
so caused a slight current of air.
2
This may remind us that
when large panes of glass were introduced into windows
instead of the old-fashioned small panes, Samuel Eogers, the
poet, caught cold, because being placed with his back to one
of the new large-paned windows, he could not rid himself of
1
Life and Matter, p. 133.
"Be Finfluence de Fesprit sur le corps (Fraulke, Berne, 1908), p. 75. See, how-
ever, Prof. Mosso on Fatigue (p 195), who noted that consciousness returns
when awaking from sleep without any change in the blood circulation of the
brain.
8 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
the idea that the window behind him was open. If, said a
physician to me at one of our large provincial hospitals, we
could calm the minds of our patients, the cure of their bodies
would be more simple and rapid. Everywhere the power of
mind over the body is recognized : hypnotism, auto-suggestion,
and a hundred other words tell the same tale, viz. that
inquiry to-day is turning more and more to the deeply
interesting problem—is the mind or soul of man endowed
with power to govern or modify physical nature ? We do not
now believe that matter is the sole antecedent and condition
of mind : we are much more likely to follow out the sugges-
tion that mind can sway matter, and the question which we
are putting to ourselves is not whether it can be done ; for
we know that it can, but what are the limits and conditions
under which mind—the human mind as we know it—can con-
trol or modify the action of the body or the physical world
which environs us. And here the work of this Society has
been recognized.
One very ardent advocate of the virtue of this mental
power has referred his hearers to the Proceedings of this
Society as giving the best and most helpful material for
arriving at a just and wise conclusion on this matter. It
cannot be denied that in the revolt against the low-levelled
materialism which threatened to rob mankind of its noblest
prerogatives, its most splendid inheritances, and its most in-
spiring outlook, this Society has played a quiet, modest and
most effective part in recalling men's thoughts to the need of
a more careful study of their own innermost nature, if they
are to measure rightly the position which man holds and is
meant to hold in the universe, and if they are to understand
the significance and value of the priceless gift of life, which
opens to us such wondrous opportunities of knowledge and
self-culture, of hope and high endeavour.
I have thus touched on the spirit and achievements of the
Society. I now must proceed with greater caution, as I do with
greater hesitation, when I venture to set before you some
thoughts connected with the work which lies before us.
We speak of man as human being, but man is not a com-
pleted being : he is a being in process. He is one in whose
nature is held not only present consciousness but notes of the
LXV.] Presidential Address. 9
past. If so, may not some of the exceptional phenomena which
challenge investigation result from the dim inheritances or relics
of old forces ? But further, man is a being in process, and
anticipations of the future may find place in him. May not
some phenomena be accounted for as movements of nascent
activities in man's nature ?
To make the proposition good, it needs to be shown that—
Man is a being in process of completion,
That he still holds within his nature relics of the past,
That his is not a stationary nature, but a nature con-
stantly acquiring powers and in doing so forming new
capacities.
(1) Man is a being in process of completion:
In investigations concerning the conditions of human per-
sonality, it has been too often taken for granted that we are
dealing with a completed organism, whereas I am obliged to
view man as an incomplete being : he is indeed not so much a
being as a becoming : he is still in the great factory of Nature.
If we ignore this point of view we shall fall into the error
which, without his fault, beset Paley's argument for design.
Paley started with the illustration of a watch—a piece of
mechanism made and completed for a purpose : he could point
to the evidences of purpose in the various parts of the mechanism
and in the arrangement of the dial ; but the illustration which
was natural enough when Paley wrote, became no longer
applicable when the great evolutionary drama was disclosed
the Universe was not like a watch—a completed machine : it
was a growth, and more, it was still in process of formation
its purpose was not written there as upon a finished piece
of mechanism : we were living in a Universe which was still
in the making. The simple but rough argument from design
could not be applied to a vast but uncompleted system.
Investigations must henceforth be made with the remembrance
that movement of development was still going on, and that
while we might notice what has been called a dramatic
tendency in the history of things, we could not so readily or so
obviously speak of definite and detailed purpose. " Eeality . . .
is still in the making and waits part of its complexion from
the future . . . the universe is still pursuing its adventures." 1
1
Prof. James, Pragmatism, p. 257, quoted in Proceedings, Vol. XXV., p. 17.
10 Bight Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
Now, the same fact needs to be kept in mind when we
examine into the nature of man : he is not yet a completed
being : he is a being in process of formation. We can, with
Prof. Fiske,1
follow the history of his formation : we can go
back to the long and wondrous story of those changes which
tell of Natural Selection, of the influence of slight physical
variations on succeeding generations, of the dawn of changes
which brought psychical powers into prominence, when touch
was translated into vision till a stage is reached when psychical
changes became of more moment than physical. Then came
that condition of animal life when strong physical resemblances
might be seen allied to great psychical differences. We all
realize the fact that through long periods the development of
man went on : we need to remember that it still goes forward
no longer as far as we can see on the physical, but on the
psychical plane. In all our inquiries concerning man this fact
needs to be kept in view : we are not examining a finished
organism : we are dealing with a being whose past has been a
record of great physical changes, and who to-day is still the
subject of such psychical changes as are leading forward to
developments of power and capacity which can only be dimly
guessed at now. The only difference, so far as we can judge,
between the past and the present movement is that Nature is
no longer concerned to develop man's physical conditions or
structure : her task now is to bring humanity to a higher and
truer perfection in the possession of qualities of soul whose full
value can only be estimated when physical nature, as we
know it, is finally laid aside.
Will any one think that psychical research offers a barren
field of inquiry when once it is realized that it is in the path
of psychical and not of physical development that man is now
being led by the same strong and mysterious force which first
fashioned and brought to perfection his physical framework ?
But it is upon the simple fact that man is a being still in
process of formation that I wish to fix our thoughts. The history
of the past gives us witness of this : science with its clear
testimony shows that through the action of what, for lack of a
better word, we may call laws, there has emerged from lower to
higher life man as we now know him, and that even now
^iske, Destiny of Man, pp. 27-8.
LXV.] Presidential Address. 11
changes are working if no longer for his physical, yet through
his physical experiences for his psychical development.
I turn, therefore, to one aspect of man's psychical growth.
From the standpoint of science man is not a stationary being,
but a being in process of development—the subject of growth.
The same is true when we ask about man's consciousness of
self : here too we meet the law of growth. Self—is there
anything more certain to us than self ? Each of us is daily
experiencing the power of saying—It is I who felt this : It is
I who did that : It is I who forms this judgment. In other
words our life is inconceivable to us apart from this most certain
thing " Self," and yet our consciousness of self may be said to
be a growth : this self is in truth a thing of which we gain
conviction—not immediately, but through a repeated number of
experiences : it is—as Dr. Ward has said—a product of thought,
not a datum of sense. It is, shall I say ? a resultant of
experience.
The baby new to earth and sky,
What time his tender palm is prest
Against the circle of the breast,
Has never thought that '
this is I :
'
But as he grows he gathers much,
And learns the use of '
I ' and 'me,'
And finds '
I am not what I see,
And other than the things I touch.'
So rounds he to a separate mind
From whence clear memory may begin,
As thro' the frame that binds him in
His isolation grows denned.
In Metnoriam, xlv.
What Tennyson expressed in verse, science tells tersely in
prose. " The body first of all gives to self a certain measure
of individuality, permanence and inwardness." 1
The conviction of self then is a resultant of experience : a
conviction due to continuous presentations. Our sense of per-
sonality is in fact a growth, and as a growth it carries with
it a history, and as a growth it may carry with it some
prophecy also ; for all things which grow pass through stages
1
Dr. James Ward, Encycl. Brit. Article "Psychology," p. 84a.
12 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
in other words, they possess folded up within themselves
the records of the past and the preparations for the future :
the blossom is the product of months of growth : it is also the
harbinger of fuller and richer developments.
It is perhaps well to consider this aspect of selfhood. We
are so ready to limit ourselves by the Here and Now that
we may lose sight of the truth that if we are beings we
are also " becomings " : our days glide on and we step from
stage to stage of self-realization, and just as there was an epoch
when we were without ability to realize ourselves or to express
ourselves, so it may well be that our self-realization is as yet
incomplete, just as we painfully know that our powers of self-
expression are woefully defective : we are growths, not only in
the sense that we have each individually grown, nor in the
sense that the race has grown through aeons of change, but
that we also are upon the platform of growth, holding within
ourselves a vast and unexplored inheritance of past experiences
and the potentialities of further developments—when self-
realization will be yet more vivid : when possessed of a self more
fully identified, and also, perchance, endowed with a vehicle of
expression more plastic and responsive than present physical
conditions can allow, we shall be able to give fuller and nobler
expression to the speechless aspirations of our nature. We are
but creatures in process of formation : we know not what we
shall be : we scarcely even know what we are. The mystery
which hangs around those wonderful convictions which we
describe as Self—Personality—the Ego—the Soul—is largely due,
as it seems to me, to the fact that our present life, like our
ante-natal life, is embryonic as compared with that towards
which we are tending. We are like people called upon to
report upon machine while it is going : we are at a dis-
advantage, for we want to stop it to understand how it goes.
But even this illustration is quite inadequate, for a machine which
is working is not subject to growth : in its case it is rapidity
of movement only which thwarts our examination of it, but in
regard to ourselves and our own selfhood, we are dealing with
not a finished machine, but a complex organization which is still
in process of development.
This strange self then we cannot, with Hume, describe as
a philosophical fiction : we may call it, with Dr. Ward, a
LXV.] Presidential Address. 13
product of thought or an idea of the reason, but we do not
therefore deem it an unreality, it reveals itself too vividly for
that : it possesses what we may call cross-currents—an ebb
and flow of the tides of selfhood. Self does not always give
us the same self-interpretations or presentations. So marked
are the differences of presentations that the self was split up
by some : and we heard much of dual personality—or of a
soul which is over and separate from the soul which is under.
The theory of an over soul
1
has had fascination for many
minds : its existence was postulated to explain some phenomena
or experiences which could not be explained (so it seemed) by
the ordinary action of the conscious mind. Here we need to
be cautious in words lest we should appear to divide what, by
its very nature, must be one and indivisible.
The soul is individual : this seems to be the final word of
human thought on the matter : to think otherwise is to lose
hold of all anchorage for thought. I may be told that science
has been obliged to abandon her faith that atoms were indi-
visible, and that now she is committed to a perpetual bull by
enlarging upon the marvellous subdivisions which subsist in the
indivisible thing called an atom. But the cases are different
the physical atom could be treated, examined, analyzed till its
elusive elements were compelled to disclose themselves ; but the
self cannot be so dealt with, and we might as well abandon all
inquiry as admit that essentially the self was other than indi-
vidual. Were it so, there would be no reason for revulsion
of feeling when alienist experiences were brought to our notice.
We must, I think, postulate the individuality of the soul or
self if we are to study its activities, conditions and moods,
with any hope of advantage. It is well, therefore, to avoid
any language which implies a duality or multiplicity in self.
We need, however, words or phrases to distinguish between the
different aspects in which the self or soul manifests its energy.
1
Compare Dante's words,
"Whenever by delight or else by pain,
That seizes any faculty of ours,
Wholly to that the soul collects itself,
It seemeth that no other power it heeds ;
And this against that error is which thinketh
One soul above another kindles in us.''
Purgatorio, iv. 1 -6.
14 Rigid Rev. BisJiojo W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
Mr. Myers chose a word which avoided the suggestion of any
dualism. The subliminal self was not another self but the
same self working in other conditions : this subliminal self or
subconscious self has made its footing too good in human ex-
perience to be treated as an unreality or a delusion. Fechner,
if I mistake not, suggested a similar thought when he spoke
of consciousness being present and awake when the psycho-
physical activity was raised beyond the degree which we call
the threshold (On Life after Death, p. 78 n.) I am not careful
or anxious about the word by which we describe it, but of the
fact that the self sometimes acts with conscious effort and at
other times with unobserved effort there can, I think, be no doubt.
But there does not seem to me to be any need to set up an
arcanum of ideas or a Valhalla of strange potentialities in order
to account for facts which are deeply interesting and at times
mysteriously so, but which, if I mistake not, fall within the
realm of what I may call psychical order.
We are beings still in a state of growth ; and the tendency
of this growth seems to be, not towards a multiple personality,
but towards completed individuality. Growth in capacity takes
place through repeated effort, and through such experiences
comes true and full self-realization.
Man's inheritance through the past is never thrown away
it must enter into the education—or, if you prefer the words,
the formation of the conditions—of his nature. But all this
antecedent growth bears the mark of struggle : at every stage
of the evolutionary process the marks of conflict, i.e. of effort,
were to be seen, and though now these records slumber as it
were in our nature there was a time when their tale was one
of continued struggle. The truth, as it seems to me, is that
the condition of progress or growth is this, that conscious effort
is continuously being transformed into unconscious capacity.
Let me ask your experience on this point. We are sensible,
of course, of our conscious efforts, because the very conscious-
ness of any effort serves to impress us. But effort, though it
is a witness of energy, is not the evidence of accpuired capacity:
it is only a step towards it. In this sense it may be said
that our conscious efforts are not manifestations of our real
power, but rather of our capacity to gain it. Conscious efforts
are only means for the storage of power : they are needful, for
LXV.] Presidential Address. 15
without them the accumulation of power would, cease. The
energy once seen in vegetable growth has been transformed
into the quiescent energy which sleeps in our coal seams. Or
to carry the illustration a step further, our conscious efforts
are like the coaling of the ship : they will become power as
coal does when once the furnaces are kindled and the steam
is generated. Our conscious efforts are supplying the fuel for
further activities, but the larger number of these activities will
be carried on without conscious exertion. The man who has
practised at the wicket, taking careful lessons from the pro-
fessional cricketer, is making keenly conscious effort when he
gives thought and attention carefully to carry out the instruc-
tions of the professional, but the final measure of his skill as
a cricketer is when he can play the ball with such an unerring
instinct that he is no longer conscious of any mental effort in
determining how to play it. This is an example of conscious
effort being slowly transformed into unconscious power. Illus-
trations might be multiplied, but it remains true that the
skilled billiard player, the efficient soldier, the successful actor,
the popular singer, only reach their highest when a very large
part of their task is discharged without painful, conscious or
mental effort. We only do things well when we don't know
how we do them ; but the process by which such skill is
reached is through continuous exercise of conscious effort.
Action in the hour of necessity must be the resultant of in-
stinctive skill, i.e. power used without consciousness of effort.
The good billiard player shows power without calculated effort
his power is the resultant of many conscious and calculated
efforts, but for him the calculated effort is no longer needful.
Conscious effort has been translated into unconscious power.
He has but to will and the trained capacity answers to his
will.
Our conscious powers are at work when we read, or when we
think out a problem ; for then we are acting like accumulators :
we are storing up material for use or action. In acquisitive
work we use conscious effort. In creative work of the highest
order such a sense of conscious effort would be fatal to the
highest results. When the great spirit of genius calls, the mind
is swept into an activity in which it is no longer conscious of
effort : he does not toil, neither does he spin, but the creation
16 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
« • « c • tf
• c « • c « • • «
• •*.<••,"••' • • «, »« • * -
of the hotfr is strayed, in ta ffeKio^ which no conscious effort
could achieve. Here the old distinction comes into service.
Talent does what it can : genius does what it must. Talent is
deliberate and constantly conscious of effort put forth. Genius
acts under a necessity. He lisps in numbers, for the numbers
come. He sings the inevitable song. He pipes but as the
linnets do. There is no painful consciousness of efforts : there
is no smell of the lamp on such work as this : it is ready,
spontaneous, springing out of the necessity of nature : it is the
splendid manifestation of great stores of power so happily stored
that they are immediately available.
The unconscious power is the resultant of conscious effort
conscious effort has stored up somehow and somewhere the
stores from which capacity derives her skill. There are numbers
of unrecognized powers at work in the average man, of whose
existence he is hardly aware and whose genesis he could scarcely
trace. Is it not admitted that when dealing with our fellow-
men, we come across unexpected barriers of taste, feeling,
prejudice? Convictions and judgments, standards of conduct and
bearing have been acquired from early training. Precept and
example, often repeated and enforced, have accumulated in
man's nature forces which are now unconsciously operative
throughout the whole range of his life. In dealing with any
fresh matter, he will meet it with the force of a number of
long-stored conditions : his judgment on a new question will
depend upon what has been described as his entire psycho-
statical conditions, his nature and stock of ideas, or, in other
words, his character, habits, memory, education, previous ex-
perience and momentary mood. Does the average man deal
with any new subject on the basis of pure logic ? It is not
his reasoning faculty only which he calls into the judgment
seat : the whole mass of inherited experiences hurry to the
assize and resolve to be, if not judge, at least jury in the case.
"There is," says Professor James {Psychology, p. 327), "an
everlasting struggle in every mind between the tendency to
keep unchanged, and the tendency to renovate its ideas."
Does not this mean that when we approach a new experience
we feel divided in mind, doubting, wishing to examine and
yet feeling that it is valueless unless we can bring it into
automatic relationship with our previous stock of thought.
LXV.] Presidential Address. 17
Our conscious efforts are challenged by the new thing, but we
feel the necessity of transferring it into the storehouse of personal
powers or capacity. In other words, we are always seeking
mental food, and always feeling that the only value of it is
found when it is translated into some kind of personal
energy.
Only when this personal energy is set free from the anxiety
of conscious exertion can it be said to have reached perfection.
All the experiences of life, the solicitudes which have been
our portion, the pressure of responsibility, the weight of sorrow,
the fatigue of effort, all have been of the nature of conscious
exertions, and therefore have contributed to the storehouse of
powers which can be used in effortless manner later on. The
quiet sympathy which the sorrowful life has created no less
than the ready intellect which works easily, is an instance of
conscious effort transformed into unconscious power.
Hence there is being slowly formed in man—through repeated
conscious efforts—an inheritance of powers and capacities which
can work without the sense of strenuous effort. All the
experiences of life's continuous struggle are contributing to
the endowment of man with new powers. Is it then difficult
to suppose that among the accumulated powers of man there
may be resident capacities which can come into play without
conscious effort ? The range of automatic powers increases with
our development. Continually the conscious effort passes over
to man's nature a fresh heritage of automatic power—which
enriches his personality and contributes even more and more
to his self-realization. He is only free in the exercise of self
when he can achieve without the servitude of continuous
effort.
This constant transference of effort into power is building
up personality : it is enlarging the realm of self. All Nature's
method is in the direction of building up into an intelligible
unity—not in the direction of dislocating powers : her policy
is continuous unification, not separation ; and as she follows it,
the range of powers which are bestowed upon man increases
and it would not be strange if new capacities were thus brought
within the sovereignty of his soul, and with the increase of new
capacities enjoyed by countless individualities new phenomena
might spring into notice. The completion of personality would
B
18 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
mean the extension of powers, and the manifestation of these
powers would give rise to new phenomena.
We are beings in a state of growth : the treasure-house of a
wonderful past is ours : often out of the unexplored treasure-
house of our ancient inheritance there may come to us messages
from the dim past which fill us with wonder, but which need
not be counted incredible, for they are the breathings of forgotten
experiences of the race. As an inscription in some unknown
character is dug up among the ruins of some ancient shrine,
so there may come to us some undecipherable expression of
facts or methods of life which belong to a past which has gone
out of human recollection. " Every element in an experience
is correlated with some alteration in the nervous system, '
and
we must infer that some kind of residue or impression, chemical
or physical, is left in the neurones in consequence of which
they have a disposition to reproduce, when again stimulated, the
original experience, whether an idea or physiological reaction.'" 1
Without being materialists we must surely admit that whatever
is built up with our bodily framework must constitute a part
of our life's equipment, and may tend to become a suggestive
factor in our activities. As those with whose very nature the
past has been wondrously built we must be liable to influences
arising from our physical relationship with the past. How
closely the past does intertwine itself with our organism may
be realized when we read Dr. Alexander Hill's account of
pre-natal growth.
In a few days or weeks or months a drama is acted which has taken
geological aeons to rehearse, for every individual recapitulates in its
growth the successive stages to which its ancestors attaiued and at
which they severally stopped. What explanation could the teacher
of fifty years ago give of the gill-slits, or tail, or a hundred other
resemblances to lower vertebrates which the human embryo presents
in the course of its development ? They are by no means necessary
preparations for adult structure. They never can be useful. Not
infrequently they are mischievous. Man's organs reach their per-
manent form by many a roundabout road. These digressions are
indicative of the tenacity of Nature's memory. She can attain her
'Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 667. Review of Dr.
Morton Prince's paper on "The Psychological Principles and Field of Psycho-
therapy."
lxv.] Presidential Address. 19
goal only by tracing over again—with a jump here and a short cut
there it may be, but without letting go of the clue —the path which
she followed when she first discovered it.
Thus the conditions into which we are born are conditions
which are instinct with the power of a great past. In a sense
different from that of the ancient writer, God has set the
world, as it were, in our heart. Is it surprising then that at
times glimpses of the past should show themselves ? May not
the unexpected phenomena of human life sometimes find their
explanation in the coming to the surface of some ancient
stratum of experience? As an earth -shock may thrust up
some rock which tells us the story of earlier earth movements,
may not some startling event in life call into activity some
long buried aptitude of our slowly built nature ? There may,
indeed, be stored within us forces which some strange experi-
ence may vivify and liberate. The explanation of some strange
capacities of our nature may be locked up in the bosom of
the past.
Are not some of the phenomena which demand investigation
probably due to the activities of obsolescent organs, or of
capacities which have been weakened but not wholly suppressed
in the process of civilization ? May we not in this way
account for the power which some show in the use of the
Divining Kod ? Does not the instinct which warns animals of
the approach of the storm or the impending earthquake find
its counterpart in human beings ? and do not both find their
explanation in the experiences which from the past are still
stored up in the very physical framework which man and
animals inherit ? It is no part of wisdom to laugh at the
expression or manifestation of instincts, whose existence is
derived from and throws light back upon the story of develop-
ing life. When the seafaring man declares that he is warned
of the proximity of ice by his sense of smell, it seems to be
no mark of intelligence to ridicule the suggestion. Inquiry is
wiser than ridicule. It does not seem to me passing strange
that in the vast community of mankind there should be found
scattered individuals in whom the relics of past instincts are
still strong enough to be factors serviceable in life as we
know it.
But if we are beings still in the making, is it beyond the
20 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [PART
range of probability that anticipations of the future may be
discovered ? If embryonic life contains records of the past,
does it not also contain prophecies of the future ? In the
sacred casket wherein the dawning life lies enshrined there is
written not only the story of the past, but the anticipations
of the future. Nature is beforehand with her work. Judged
by present necessities, we find organs provided which serve
no purpose. In the secluded existence where light does not
shine, eyes can fulfil no function : within those closed doors,
shut out from the converse of men, ears have no exercise
yet in that dim life shut off from sunshine and the song of
birds, organs of sight and sound, of taste and smell are to be
found. They serve no purpose as yet, but they are prophetic
of a life in which they will play a great and serviceable part.
Nature works not only in preserving relics of past experience,
but in storing up forces in anticipation of future needs. Process
and capacities are produced without their object being apparent:
one day they become of service : they are made for a condition
of existence which is to come.
And may it not be that our present life compared with the
future life is an embryonic life ? May there not be faculties
and powers which are now being formed whose full significance
and value will only be evident when we pass into a life of
new conditions ? If so, would it be a strange thing if these
nascent capacities sometimes made their presence felt within
the experience of the life present ? The embryonic life is cut
off from the world as we know it, but it is not wholly passive :
stirrings and movements, which cut across normal experiences,
make themselves felt. Is it impossible to suppose that the
growing forces, which beneath the surface are being prepared
for the wider life of the hereafter, may make themselves felt
in ways which are not those of commonplace life ? May not
some phenomena, which we cannot classify according to normal
usage, be the dawning activity of powers and capacities which will
unly be fully ours hereafter ? The stirrings of such capacities
are but the movement of forces, which are real, but whose
meaning and purpose cannot be fully understood till the con-
ditions have arisen which make these activities natural and
intelligible. For the present, therefore, any manifestation of
these growing powers must be reckoned as super-normal.
LXV.] Presidential Address. 21
Briefly, if we are beings in process of formation, movements
may be expected which presage future conditions as well as
those which bear witness to conditions which are passing away.
As becomings, the mark of what has been, as well as of that
which will be, may now and then rise to the surface. If the
plane of evolution is no longer physical, but psychical, these
movements which are anticipative of future conditions of life
must be expected within the psychical realm. The life towards
which we tend is one which will be largely free from physical
conditions as we now know them. The forces which will be
operative in that life are not created out of things physical
their origin is to be found in our psychical activities : voli-
tions, thoughts, resolutions, actions, habits are the matrix out of
which will spring the characteristic capacities which will be
ours in the life of new conditions. Only then will the new
self emerge from the discipline and formative influences of our
present life ; and that new self will be endowed with powers
and capacities, which will be great or small, mean or
noble, according to our habits here, but which will be fitted at
least for use and service in the life in which the natural has
given place to the spiritual.
The suggestions which I have ventured to make will indicate
the line which I think the work of our Society ought to
pursue. While being strictly vigilant against fallacious represen-
tations of phenomena, vigorous in examining all facts and
circumstances brought to notice, it ought to hold a mind open
enough to welcome hints and helps from every quarter : it
ought to be as stern in rejecting what is irrelevant as it should
be keen to perceive the importance which may lurk in what is
insignificant. " Though truths in manhood darkly join," we are
none the less entitled to search out such truths and brino;
them to light : and in this search we shall render to the body
that which is the body's and to the soul that which is the
soul's. We shall be just and even-handed, to rob neither our
physical nor our spiritual nature of its due, but we shall
recognize that in a being compact of body, soul and spirit, the
resultant of long ages of growth and development, powers and
capacities may be lodged which are not always explicable by
present knowledge ; we shall be awake, therefore, to mark those
effects which show the working of interacting human powers.
22 Right Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter. [part
Every substantial form, wrote Dante,
Every substantial form that segregate
From matter is, and with it is united
Specific power has in itself collected,
Which without act is not perceptible,
Nor shows itself except by its effect,
As life doth in a plant by the green leaves.
And while pursuing with a careful and open mind the fasci-
nating investigations which are our task, we may perhaps well
call to mind the caution which one, who was more ready
to welcome super-normal phenomena than most of us are,
nevertheless gave to the world :
" Sometimes a little chink does
open, suddenly and quickly close again, in the gate, generally
shut up, between this world and the next, the gate which only
death is to open for good and ever. Nor is it well for us to
peep through those chinks before the time. But such exceptions
from the rule of our present life are still in harmony with
the greater rule which comprehends both this life and the life
hereafter. . . . However, all those things are no signs of a
healthy life. For in this life we have only to work out our
bodies for the hereafter, not to see or hear with the eyes and
ears of the hereafter. A flower when opened before its time
will not thrive. And though our belief in a life to come may
be supported by such occasional glances caught in this life, it
must not take its foundation on them. A sound and healthy
belief is founded on argument."
Such are the counsels of Fechner,1
to which perhaps we
may add our hope that in the process of human develop-
ment new capacities may slowly unfold themselves, and if
the sunset of life gives mystical lore, the advancing age of the
world may bring a cpuickening of perceptive and intuitional
powers.
The soul's dark cottage, battered and decayed,
Lets in new light thro' chinks that time has made :
Stronger by weakness, wiser, men become,
As they draw near to their eternal home.
Leaving the old, both worlds at once they view,
That stand upon the threshold of the new.
fechner, Life after Death, pp. 79-81.
LXV.] Pres idential Address. 23
And the new, when it dawns, will not find our nature
shattered and decayed, but so endowed with richer, nobler
powers that the life which opens before us will be one in
which our reinvigorated nature will pass to the pursuit of
better tasks with glad energy, widened outlook, and unabated
hopefulness.
24 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
II.
A MONTH'S EECOED OF AUTOMATISMS.1
By MRS. A. W. VERRALL.
The automatic phenomena described in the following paper are
of various types, but all came under my personal cognisance
within about a month, between the middle of July and the
middle of August of the year 1907. Their main interest con-
sists in their variety and their frequency during a particular
period. In all the cases, my daughter or I was concerned,
but where cross-correspondences were produced, our scripts were
not always in the same relation to one another, sometimes one
and sometimes the other appearing to take the initiative. Nor
was the automatism always of the same kind ; besides automatic
script we employed the method of table-tilting by two persons.
The experiments seem to have resulted in the production not
only of cross-correspondences, but of statements, subsequently
verified, about events unknown to the automatists.
I have narrated the four incidents in their chronological
sequence, appending a short general discussion of the inferences
which may be drawn as to their origin.
I. Dream, Dawn and Diana.
This group of phenomena is somewhat complex, and it will be
simplest to describe the various automatic phenomena as they
occurred, adding to the scripts for the sake of clearness explana-
tions derived from subsequent investigations, and explaining
what at each point was the normal knowledge of each automatist
concerned. I begin with a script of my own written during
my absence from home.
1
Part of this paper was read at a meeting of the Society on December 8th,
1910.
LXV.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 25
M. V. July 14, 1907: 11 p.m.
nec non sine adiutore Deo—quis custodivit. 1
Unless God
guard the house, the watchman watcheth but in vain. 2
Domini
canes conantur. 3
On the table a letter lies white roughish paper not square.
The news has disturbed you—oh you of little faith—wait a
happy issue. 4
But you write not want I want [sic]. Dream pictures
give the idea. Do nolbe [sic] things not dream them.0
Then
comes Queen Mab, the queen of fairy dreams. Dream through
the lightening darkness of your night, with glimpses of the
real remembered waking—no it should be different. Dream
through the growing whiteness of the dawn—aube is the word
—you had that before—the white mountain—Mons Albanus
and the dream of dawn, the dream that is the truth. Say
dreamer say.
A slumber did my spirit seal 6
—but in a dream came the
knowledge. Now write the word
DREAM.
It is obvious at once that the main point of this script is the
word " dream." It occurs nine times, as noun or verb, and
the word dreamer once. Moreover, emphasis is given by the
large writing of the final word DEEAM.
A secondary idea running through the script is " dawn."
This word actually occurs twice, the French word aube once,
and the Latin derivative albanus once ; while the " lightening
darkness " and " growing whiteness " represent the same idea.
The allusion to aube and mons albanus which has "been
before," refers to an earlier script (of February 18, 1907), con-
sidered by Mr. Piddington to contain a cross-correspondence
with Mrs. Piper on the word " arrow," 7
but this was not
known to me when the script of July 14 was produced.
1 " And not without God as helper—who has guarded?"
2
Cf. Ps. 127, 1, 2.
3 " The Lord's dogs (i.e. the Dominicans) make endeavour." In the Golden
Legend three explanations are given for the meaning of the name Dominic as
"keeper of our Lord."
4
This paragraph had no meaning for me.
5
C. Kingsley. 6 Wordsworth.
7 Proc. Vol. XXII., p. 82.
26 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
The next script for the purpose of this paper,
1
also produced
while I was away from home, is that of
M. V. .Inly 17, 1907. 1.5 p.m.
Ching China to Japan. Unfold the tale, nusquara impediet
tibi quod ceteris saepe impedit : cum vocavero, tu audies.'2
From hill to hill the call resounds
The shepherds drive their flocks.
And the grey clouds above like the grey sheep below
slowly move homewards along the darkening ways of night.
Guardian of the parting ways, bring home in safety ewes and
lambs !
The fleecy flocks move peacefully round the watching moon,
and so the night passes—with the DAWN comes a streak of
colour in the sky—and then wakes '
Sweet Auburn loveliest
village of the plain.' 3
Again what is aubanel but a morning
song.
All points the same way—and the scented eve and twilight
grey are followed by the rosy fingered Dawn.
And the black bat Night is flown. 4
But keep what you wiite, and light will come to you some
day. I wish I could talk to you again, but perhaps that will
come. All this next month listen and write. . . .
5
Keep your thoughts free.
This script repeats with emphasis the " dawn " of the last
script. The word occurs twice, once in large letters, and the
two words " Auburn " (in Goldsmith's line) and " aubanel
(not an actual word) suggest the French word auhe, which
had occurred in the earlier script. The main idea then of
this script is "dawn," just as that of July 14 was "dream."
Both these words, as will be seen, were subsequently the sub-
ject of cross-correspondence.
1
One other script intervened, on July 15, but it deals with other matters,
mainly non-evidential.
2 " That which often hinders others will nowhere hinder you ; when I shall
call, you will hear."
'Goldsmith, The Deserted Village.
4
Tennyson, Maud.
5
The sentences omitted are of personal application, and serve to deter-
mine the attribution of this script to Myers v
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 27
But before describing the sequel, I must here digress to
comment on some points in the script of July 17, which seem
to have been veridical.
The phrase " guardian of the parting ways, bring home in
safety ewes and lambs " recalls to a classical student two
aspects of the same goddess, namely, Diana. Diana is at once
a patroness of parting ways cross-ways—and the protector of
young animals. A third aspect of the same goddess is intro-
duced by the watching moon. So that a subsidiary idea
running through the earlier part of the script is " Diana."
This of course I noticed at the time, and I supposed it to
refer to Mrs. Forbes, whose Christian name, Diana, has been
referred to more than once in my earlier script.
1
Accordingly,
at my next opportunity, at the end of August, when Mrs.
Forbes was staying with me, I asked her what she had been
doing in the middle of July. She had been staying with a
friend in the middle of the Yorkshire moors.
2
She told me
that between July 1 and the middle of the month there was
a great sheep-shearing going on all around her, fifteen hundred
sheep sheared, great bleating and calling of ewes to lambs,
and much fear lest the lambs should be separated from the
ewes.
It thus appears that there was some reason for the con-
nexion in the script of Mrs. Forbes's name with a description
of shepherds driving their flocks, of the call resounding from
hill to hill, and of the invocation to the goddess Diana, pro-
tector of young animals, to bring home in safety ewes and
lambs. I had myself never been in the North of England in
July or in any summer month, and had no idea that the
allusion to ewes and lambs could be in any way appropriate
at so late a season of the year.
But there is, I think, another, and perhaps more definite,
link of connexion in this script with Mrs. Forbes. Mrs.
Forbes sketches, and her sketch-book often serves as a sort of
diary of her occupations and interests. When she came to
stay with me at the end of August she showed me her sketches
made during July, 1907, and before I had said anything about
the script of July 17 she drew my attention to a sketch
1
Cf. Proc. Vol. XX., p. 222.
This I learnt first from a letter received on July 30, 1907.
28 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
which she had made of Yorkshire moors, seen at sunset, and
with a crescent moon. The date, attested by the note on her
sketch, was July 17. So that on the very day on which my
script had made reference to Diana and the moon, Mrs. Forbes
had made a sketch of a crescent moon, amid surroundings of
the type described in the script.
It will be noted that the moon of the script does not
suggest, though it does not exclude, a crescent moon ; the
picture suggested by the word " watching " is that of a moon
full, or nearly so, at any rate of a moon at night, not of a
crescent moon at sunset. This point is of some interest in
view of the sequel.
So far then for the veridical contents of this script, as sub-
sequently ascertained. I pass on to my next script, also written
during my absence from home. It is as follows :
M. V. July 20, 1907. 11 p.m.
Venditor spernit agrum pulchellum sed emptor invenietur
qui thesauros conditos in medium proferat. Audi et tu.
1
Bonaventura is the name and then write Desiderio. Desi-
derium semper pro amico—pone desiderium. spes et fides sorores
illae inter se coniunctae amicum tibi reddere praevalent. 2
0
death where is thy sting 1 Beyond our darkness there is light.
The impenetrable seeming gloom is full of light. Look light
wards listen to the rippling sound of the long light waves
breaking on the beach.
Tell Helen I said so lately quite lately —she will under-
stand. . . .
3
The opening paragraph of this script may be taken as a
symbolic indication that it is not such nonsense as the auto-
matist supposes, but will some day be found to have a point.
Possibly that point is contained in the next word, " Bona-
ventura." This conveyed nothing to me at the time, but in
February, 1911, Mr. Piddington drew my attention to two
1 " The seller despises the pretty bit of land, but a buyer will be found to
bring forward into our midst its hidden treasures. Do you too hearken."
2 " Longing [there is] always for a friend ;
lay aside longing. Hope and Faith,
those sisters, joined together, have power to restore to you your friend."
3
The sentences omitted refer to personal matters.
LXV.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 29
facts: (1) that Bonaventura is the Franciscan who in Dante's
Paradiso (Par. XII. 28 ff.) pronounces a eulogy on Dominic,
and (2) that the preceding M. V. script of July 14—already
seen to be connected with the script of July 20 by its references
to " lightening darkness," etc.—alludes to the Dominicans.
Mr. Piddington further suqoested that a reason for the intro-
duction of Dominic's Order into the script of July 14—the
script which emphasises the word Dream—may be found in
the prophetic dreams which legend associates with St. Dominic,
and the founding of that Order. These prophetic dreams are
mentioned by Bonaventura in close connexion with his name ;
" la donna . . .
vide nel sonno il mirabile frutto
ch'uscir dovea di lui e delle rede
e perche fosse, quale era, in costrutto,
quinci si mosse spirito a nomarlo
del possessivo di cui era tutto.
Domenico fu detto." (11. 64-70.)
The details of the dreams, not mentioned by Dante, are as
follows :
Dominic's mother, before his birth, dreamt that she bore a
black and white dog (canis) with a lighted torch in his mouth :
while his godmother dreamt that on his brow was a star that
illuminated the world : or, according to another version, on his
brow and on the back of his head were two stars which lighted
the East and the West.
If, as seems probable, the words in the script of July 20,
" Bonaventura is the name," point to a reminiscence of Dante's
Paradiso, the form taken by the simile in the introductory
symbolism may be determined in the same way. For Bonaven-
tura, immediately after naming Dominic, describes him as a
husbandman or cultivator of land
la sua mente . . . nella madre
lei fece profeta. (11. 58, 59);
" ed io ne parlo
si come dell' agricola," (11. 70, 71.)
and a similar comparison recurs several times in the following
lines. Thus he is set "to go round the vineyard," "to fight
30 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
for that seed wherefrom " grew the Order, and from him came
the streams " whereby the Catholic orchard is watered."
1
I have read the Paradiso more than once, though I am not
so familiar with it as with other parts of the Divina Commedia.
But the word Bonaventura did not recall this passage to me,
though I of course recognised an allusion to the Dominicans, in
the Domini canes of July 14. I had no recollection, however,
of any prophetic dreams in connexion with Dominic, never
having taken any interest in either hagiology in general or
Dominic in particular.
In consequence of the directions in the script of July 20,
on my return home on July 22, I asked my daughter if she
had lately been writing automatically, and heard that she had
not tried for script since the end of June, 1907. On July 23,
I read her the above-quoted M. V. script of July 20, and she
began again to write automatically, and continued writing pretty
regularly for a month or two.
Two of her scripts seemed to me when 1 saw them on
Aug. 1, 1907, to present points of contact with my scripts
of July 14 and 17, which were not known to her. The points
are as follows
H. V. Jul,, 25, 1907. 10.30 p.m.
. . . The only road is by the freedom of thought which belongs
to those who are born free.
This recalls the " keep your thoughts free " of my script.
The point is a small one, and would be hardly worth noting
if it stood alone. But taken in conjunction with a passaga
in the next following H. V. script, it suggests a supernormal
connexion with the M. V. script.
H. V. July 26, 1907. 10.15 p.m.
. . . The eye of fate is never closed, it watches even in the
blackest darkness.
Per tenebras ad lumen,2
the casement slowly grows a glimmer-
ing square. 3
1
The same idea is found in the Golden Legend, where Dominic is called the
"keeper of the vineyard or the flock of our Lord."
2 " Through darkness to the light." "'Tennyson, Tears, idle tear*.
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 31
The Latin words reinforce the idea which had emerged in
my script of July 14, "the lightening darkness of your night,"
while the quotation from Tennyson closely reproduces the next
sentence in that script, " the growing whiteness of the dawn,"
the line in question being part of a description of the approach
of dawn in the chamber of death :
Ah, sad and strange, as in dark summer dawns
The earliest pipe of half-awaken'd birds
To dying ears, when unto dying eyes
The casement slowly grows a glimmering square.
It is true that the general idea of light beyond darkness
was suggested to my daughter by my script of July 20, which
I had read to her, but 1 think that there is evidence of super-
normal knowledge of the M. V. scripts of July 14 and July 17
(which had not been read to the automatist) for two reasons:
(1) the selection (on July 26) of a quotation which is at
once closely parallel to a sentence in the script of July 14
" the growing whiteness "
—and contains an implicit allusion to
the word emphasised in the script of July 17, "Dawn";
(2) the introduction (on July 25) of a sentence—" the thoughts
of the free "—recalling a similar sentence in the script of
July 17.
It looks, in fact, as if the automatist's normally obtained
knowledge of the M. V. script of July 20 had stimulated the
production of evidence of supernormal knowledge of earlier M. V.
script, and it is even possible that some such stimulus was
necessary. It will be noted that the M. V. script which con-
tained a message to be conveyed to my daughter did not
introduce either of the emphasised words " Dream " or " Dawn,"
though if the above-suggested interpretation of Bonaventura be
admitted, it implicitly alluded to both those topics.
My next script was obtained on the morning of July 30; it
carries on or supplements the previous script of July 17 ;
thus:
M. V. July 30, 1907. 10.50 a.m.
Teucro duce et auspice Teucro. 1
Rectorem post ponis quern omnium Directorem adposui. Fac
auscultes.
1
Hor. C. I. vii. 37. "Under the auspices and leadership of Teucer."
32 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Omnia in ordine bene dicta comprehendere potes. sed sena-
torium signum illud nondum percepisti—lunatum epi cothurno
sigillum. Id iam saepe antea in scriptis apparuit, —tanquam
inter astra per noctem serenam luna ipsa crescens.1
The only
image that I like in the Hugo poetry—the golden sickle in the
gleaner's field.-
with borrowed light—and then repercussion of light in the
opening passage of the ^Eneid. ^Eneas lay all night and watched
the quivering light on the roof break and join. 3
FWHM. quod fecit per alium fecit per se.
4
In this script the emphasis is plainly thrown on " Moon," and
this time there is no doubt that the moon is a crescent moon,
that aspect of the moon—an aspect hitherto overlooked—being
represented four times in the script, namely by
(a) the senatorial crescent, a decoration on the shoe of a
Eoman senator
(b) the crescent moon amid the stars
(c) Hugo's comparison of the crescent moon with a golden
sickle
(d) the drawing of a crescent on a stick, this last being perhaps
a reminiscence of a drawing of Blake's.
5
1,1
You postpone Rector whom I have set to be the Director of all. Now
listen. All that has been well said in due order you are able to understand ;
but you have not yet perceived the senatorial symbol, the crescent- shaped sign
upon the shoe. That has often appeared in writings before now, —as it were,
amid the stars on a serene night the moon herself, the crescent moon."
2
V. Hugo, La Ligende des Siecles, Booz Endormi.
3
Mneid, VIII., 11. 18-25.
4 " What he has done by another, he has done by himself."
5
Gates of Paradise, No. 9, where a man is about to climb a ladder set
against a crescent moon (Gilchrist's' Life and Works of Blake, Vol. L, p. 100).
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 33
I had at this time no knowledge of Mrs. Forbes's sketch of
the crescent moon. But as the name Diana had been symbolised
in earlier scripts by a crescent moon, the emergence of the
crescent in this script may be accounted for—or at least may
have been helped—by my having received a letter from Mrs.
Forbes on the morning of July 30. I did not at the time,
however, connect the crescent moon of my script with her.
I noted at the time the references in the script to Blake's
drawing, Hugo's poem, and the passage from the opening of the
Eighth JEneid. In Hugo's poem, Booz Endormi, in the first
volume of La LSgende des Sticks, Ruth is described as lying
j,wake watching the moon amid the stars, and wondering
Quel dieu, quel moissonneur de l'eternel ete,
Avait, en s'en allant, negligemment jete
Cette faucille d'or dans le champ des etoiles.
Many years ago Mr. Myers in conversation, after a good deal
of adverse criticism of Hugo's poetry, had expressed admiration
of this poem, and in particular of the simile of the " sickle
in its context. ISTo evidential value therefore attaches to this
allusion in the script.
The same idea of a person lying awake at night with eyes
open is suggested in what the script calls the " opening passage
of the Aeneid "
—meaning, as I noted at the time, the opening
of the Eighth Book, where the wandering thoughts of the
wakeful iEneas are compared with the glancing reflexions on
a metal bowl of water made by sunlight or " the image of the
shining moon," which flit to and fro and strike upon the painted
ceiling.
1
The script, then, of July 30, reinforces the moon, mentioned
in an earlier script, making it a crescent moon and introduces
Hugo's poem.
1
JEneid, VIII., 1. 18 ff. During the sleep which follows these thoughts,
^Eneas is visited in dream by the river Tiber, and waking, as the god departs,
sees the "rising light of the sun in heaven." So that this Virgilian passage
combines with a simile introducing the moon the two ideas of Dream and
Dawn. Possibly the first hint of a reference to this passage is to be found
in the " Mons Albanus " of July 14. For the purpose of the dream is to
announce to JEneas the approach of the "omen" which is to set a limit to
his wanderings and determine the name of the long white city, Alba Longa,
which his son shall found upon the slopes of the Alban Mount.
C
34 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
The automatic writing next to be considered involves two
automatists, being produced not in script but by table-tilting
on the part of my daughter and Mr. Bayfield. He and she
have table-tilted on several previous occasions and produced
results, some of which have been reported to this Society and
published in the Journal.1
Their first sitting at this time was
on July 29, 1907, at 6 p.m.—the day before the above-described
script.
On July 29, after some rubbish of a kind only too familiar
to us all, just before leaving off, Mr. Bayfield suggested that
" something evidential about some one " should be «iven on the
next occasion. To this the table assented. Mr. Bayfield asked
if it would be " about Piddington," but the table said " No."
He then said " suggest something," and the table replied " Mrs.
Forbes." Accordingly, on the next occasion this subject was
introduced as follows
July 30, 1907. 6 p.m. M. A. B. and H. de G. V. (M. de
G. V. taking notes.)
(M.A.B. What about Mrs. Forbes?)
Torquay, she is there 2
with her mother ask her
about the letter she wrote yesterday.
I was present, taking notes, as I had been on July 29,
but I did not touch the table. I had received, as I have said
above, a letter from Mrs. Forbes on this very morning of
July 30, but had said nothing of it to either automatist.
The table's spontaneous selection on July 29 of Mrs. Forbes
as the subject of a verifiable communication was recalled to
me when I received a letter from her on July 30, and I
awaited with interest the tilting of that day. It seems as
though this interest of mine, and this only, were so far
reflected by the table. The information that Mrs. Forbes was
at Torquay 3
was incorrect. Her letter announced that she
was in the North and about to join her mother in Surrey on
Aug. 1. But it was appropriate to say, " Ask her about the
letter she wrote yesterday."
1
See, for instance, S.P.R. Journal for March, 1907.
2
The represents a pause in the tilting of the table.
3
So far as I know, there is no association between Mrs. Forbes and Torquay.
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 35
There followed a very short attempt to give the contents of
the letter, which was incorrect. The table then passed away
from this subject to its familiar pretence to give verifiable names
and incidents. Then, after a considerable pause, the following
occurred
July 30, 1907. M.A.B. and H. dc G. V.
(M. A. B. Give us anything you like of value.)
Pour etre grand il suffit de connaitre ce qu'on veut. Hugo.
(M. A. B. Where is the quotation ?)
Notre Dame.1
{M.A.B. Why was it given 1)
Came to me when I was thinking about Mrs. Forbes.
(M.A.B. Has it any connexion with Mrs. Forbes'!)
Yes.
(M.A.B. What is the connexion?)
I don't know.
Here I told the automatists that Hugo had been referred
to in my script of that morning, but that their allusion was
not the same, my script referring to a poem, whereas the
table had given a prose sentence. I did not at this time see
any point in the statement that the phrase from Hugo had a con-
nexion with Mrs. Forbes. Instructions were given to the table
to think things over and to explain further its point about
Hugo. We waited three or four minutes, and then the tilting
was resumed.
A dream of life comes in poem a dream.
(H. de G. V. Give it in French.)
La vie est breve.
I here recognised the first line of a verse very familiar to
me, and quoted the whole verse, saying it was not the
quotation in my script.
La vie est breve
Un peu d'espoir
Un peu de reve
Et puis bonsoir.
1
The accuracy of this statement has not been tested.
36 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
I was at the time under the mistaken impression that this
verse was by Victor Hugo.1
The tilting was then resumed.
(M. A. B. Why did the script [i.e. the M. V. script] talk of Hugo])
Association of thought.
(M. de G. V. Repeat what was told in my script [i.e. that this was
the only simile liked by F. W. H. M.].)
Conversation.
(M. A. B. Between what two people ?)
Mrs. V. Mr. Myers.
(M. de G. V. What was said about the quotation 1)
He thought it expressed the thought best.
(M.deG. V. Give a word from the quotation.)
Reve.
This ended the experiment for that day. I comment on
the preceding extracts before going on to describe the next
day's table-tilting.
" A dream of life," followed as it was by the line " La
vie est breve," seemed at the time to me to have no con-
nexion with the poem, Booz Endormi, referred to in my script,
and certainly had no application to the actual verse there
alluded to—the simile of the crescent moon. But as a
matter of fact in V. Hugo's poem, Booz has a dream, a pro-
phetic dream, foretelling that he will have a long race of
illustrious descendants, he being at the time a childless
widower. So that " a dream 2
does " come " in the poem,
and " a dream of life " is a not inappropriate description of
that dream. The dream, called a " Songe," is thus introduced :
Or, la porte du ciel s'etant entre-baillee
Au-dessus de sa tete, un songe en descendit
Et ce songe etait tel que Booz vit un chene. . . .
Later in the poem the word " reve " is used
Ainsi parlait Booz dans le reve et l'extase.
The statements following upon the quotation, " La vie est
1
The poem of which this verse is part was subsequently the subject of a
cross-correspondence between the Mac script and my daughter's script, as
related in Proc. Vol. XXIV., p. 297, and Vol. XXV., pp. 320-334.
2
The poem is divided into four parts, containing respectively 6, 2, 7 and 7
stanzas. The dream occupies the 7 stanzas of the third part.
LXV.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 37
breve," call for no comment ; in so far as they are correct,
they are not beyond a guess on the part of the automatists.
Association of thought with the preceding " luna ipsa crescens
"
may certainly account for the introduction in M. V. script of
the allusion to Hugo's poem ; Mr. Myers did express his
admiration of Hugo's simile in conversation,
1
and the speakers
were Mr. Myers and myself. But neither of the two concluding
statements are correct answers to the questions put, though
they are perhaps not wholly irrelevant contributions to the
subject in general ; there is a certain resemblance between
" expressed the thought best " and " the only simile that I
like," and, as said above, the word rive is contained in the
poem, though not in the script.
Before the next table-tilting I read over the poem of Hugo,
and removed it from the bookshelf, so that no one else
should read it. I now saw what was meant by the associa-
tion between Hugo and Mrs. Forbes in the table-tilting
—" came
to me when I was thinking of Mrs. Forbes." A similar asso-
ciation was shown in my own script, which combined the
crescent moon and Hugo by a reference to Hugo's simile,
comparing the moon to a sickle forgotten in the harvest field.
The crescent moon, as I now realised, had occurred more than
once in my earlier script as a symbol of Mrs. Forbes
an allusion to her Christian name, Diana. Thus on Decem-
ber 5, 1901, after a message from Talbot Forbes, came the
words
The tufted wheat and golden sickle not to cut, 2
clearly a reference to the crescent moon, and possibly to this
very poem.
At this stage, then, of the experiment I realised :
(1) that the table chose Mrs. Forbes as the subject of an
experiment of evidential value on July 29, the day on which
she wrote to me
(2) that my script, produced after receiving her letter on
1
Not however, as Mr. Bayfield's question suggested, in a conversation
between two people, but in a discussion on Hugo's literary merits, at a French
conversation class in my house, where Mr. Myers and I represented respectively
the critical and the commendatory view of Victor Hugo's work.
2
See Proc. Vol. XX., p. 226.
38 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
July 30, connected the crescent moon, an emblem of her name
Diana, with a simile in a poem of Hugo, familiar to me;
(3) that the table on July 30 connected together Mrs.
Forbes and Hugo, without knowing why
(4) that the table, challenged to say something about the
contents of the poem by Hugo in my script, stated that it
was about a " dream of life," and contained the word " reve."
I did not then remember that, shortly before, my script
had emphasised the word " dream." Of my impressions I said
nothing to the automatists.
I pass to the next day's table tilting 1
July 31, 1907. 11 a.m. M.A.B. and H. de G. V. (M. de
G. V. taking notes.)
(a) (M. A. B. Tell us about the Hugo quotation.)
Sound expressive of thought.
(M. A.B. Be definite.)
Falling sound
(31. A. B. Do you mean the thought of falling 1)
Yes
(M. A. B. Say anything further to help us that you can.)
Tombe
"
(H. de G. V. We all know the French for to fall.)
(M. de G. V. Don't stop it ; the word might be tombeau not tombe.)
De son altesse—inflni
(M. A. B. Can't you go on ?)
No
[Here there was a long pause.]
(b) Pourvu que ton regard ton beau regard me suit je ne
demande pas qu'on m'eclaire la nuit.
[Here I said that the general ideas were appropriate to the
quotation in my script, but I wanted something definite. By
general ideas I meant the references to night, light by night, the
importance of a look, all of which represented ideas prominent in
Hugo's poem, which is based on the Old Testament story.]
(c) Et l'horizon s'etend et la mer s'eleve l'ombre profonde
les tenebres
[Here there was another long pause. All this last portion (c)
1
For convenience of reference, I have divided this record into parts, dis-
tinguished by letters (a), (b), etc.
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 39
had been tilted out with great slowness and apparent difficulty
or sulkiness on the part of the table.]
(M. A. B. to M. de G. V. Does that make sense X)
(M. de G. V. Well, there's a verb wanted.)
S'approchent
(d) [Another long pause, then suddenly with great briskness and
speed :]
Mais le jour est la.
[We could get nothing further. We commented laughingly
on the table's exemplification of its first remark, concerning the
adaptation of sound to sense, by its own methods of tilting
extreme gloom and slowness during the remarks about darkness,
followed by great vivacity when the break of day was announced.]
(a) It is characteristic of Hugo's poetry, with which both
automatists were acquainted, though neither was familiar,
1
that
the sound should be expressive of the thought. The next words
tilted out ought to imply that this characteristic is exemplified
in a line containing the thought of falling and the word tombe.
This I believe to be the case. When I re-read the poem
with care for the purposes of this paper, I noticed that there
is a line in which comes the idea of falling and the word
tombe, and that this line is metrically arranged to express the
thought by the sound. It has the four regular accents on the
3rd, 6th, 9th, 12th syllables of the Alexandrine, and moreover
the punctuation and breaks between the words emphasise those
accents. A line of this kind is not common in French versifi-
cation,2
and among the eighty-eight lines of this poem of Hugo's
there is no other in which this particular rhythmical effect is
obtained. The line runs :
Je suis ve'uf, |
je suis se'ul, |
et sur moi |
le soir tombe. |
The next words, de sou altessc iufini, are apparently without
point. They may be translated "from or by his infinite
*I subsequently ascertained that neither of them had read the Legende des
Siedes. I am myself very familiar with a good deal of Hugo's poetry, and
have lectured on his metrical effects.
2
A famous illustration of the effect of this particular rhythm is found in the
despairing conclusion of the great dialogue between Chimene and Rodrigue m
Corneille's Le Cid :
(
Que notre heur fut si proche, et si tot se perdit.
40 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
majesty," a phrase which has no bearing upon either poem or
script. 1
Possibly the flow had been interrupted by my
daughter's contemptuous remark. Anyhow the table seemed to
recognise its incapacity, and after a long pause broke fresh ground.
(b) The next phrases seem to mark a distinct advance
towards describing the poem. The " look " regard—is an
important element in the story, as every one will remember.
Ruth obtains Naomi's permission to glean ears " after him in
whose sight" she should find grace (Ruth ii. 2); Boaz sees her
in the field, and gives her permission to glean (ii. 6) ; she
wonders why she has "found grace in his eyes" (ii. 10); and
hopes to
li
find favour in" his " sight" (ii. 13). The sentence
tilted by the table represents the general idea, not the words,
of the poem ;
regard does not occur in the French.
The idea, too, of unlighted night,
—"je ne demande pas qu'on
m'eclaire la nuit "—fits with the description in the poem
which emphasises the darkness all around, with only a crescent
moon amid the stars. Ruth is waiting for
on ne sait quel rayon inconnu,
Quand viendrait du reveil la lumiere subite.
Again, the metre of the poem is reproduced in this portion
of the tilted sentences, which contains two Alexandrine lines
Pourvu que ton regard, ton beau regard, me suit,
Je ne demande pas qu'on m'eclaire la nuit,
where the rhyme is obtained at a sacrifice of grammatical
accuracy.
(e) The next group of words breaks away altogether from
the meaning of the poem, which has no allusion to " horizon
"
or to " sea." These words, in fact, do not make much sense ; a
" widening horizon " and a " rising sea " seem unconnected with
" deep shadow " or " approaching darkness." The actual words
ombre and profond, do occur in the poem
Les astres emaillaient le ciel profond et sombre ;
Le croisson fin et clair parmi ces fleurs de l'ombre
Brillait a Poccident.
1
It has been suggested to me that in these words there may be an allusion
to the godlike reaper—"quel dieu, quel moissonneur de l'eternel ete
"—who had
left his sickle in the field of the stars ; or the reader may, if he choose, correct
altesse ivfini to altitude infinie.
LXV.] A Monties Record of Automatisms. 41
(d) The final sentence of the script presents a certain
parallelism with a line in the poem, as well as with the
general idea. Boaz, meditating over his dream and the dim-
culty of supposing its fulfilment probable, contrasts his feeling
with that of the young, whose dawn comes out of night as
from a victory
Le jour sort de la nuit comme d'une victoire.
It is noticeable that in their attempts—attempts at least
partially successful—to identify the quotation from Victor Hugo
alluded to in my script of July 30, 1907, the automatists
produced both the words Dream and Dawn, which had been
emphasised in my earlier scripts of July 14 and July 17.
and which were known to me, but not to them, when the
experiment was made. On July 30, they produced the word
Dream explicitly thrice (once in French) and implicitly once
(by quoting a line which rhymes to the French word), and
on July 31 the statements terminated with an allusion in
French to the break of day. But they did not produce the
Crescent Moon, on which my attention was definitely fixed, and
I therefore at the time regarded the experiment as not very
successful. It was not till some years later that I recognised
that the poem Booz Endormi, to which we had found allusions
in both sets of writings—the M. V. script and the table-tilting
—combines the ideas of Dream and Dawn with the well-
known emblem of Diana, the crescent moon. For while Booz
is visited by a prophetic dream, Buth lies waiting for the
dawn, and gazing at the " golden sickle " of the moon.
On the conclusion of the table-tilting on July 31, I showed
the automatists my script of the preceding day, and my
daughter at once said that a drawing somewhat similar to the
drawing which terminates that script had occurred in a recent
script of hers. She thereupon showed me the script in question,
which I then saw for the first time.
1
I quote the whole script
H. V. June 28, 1907. 10.30 p.m.
omnibus suppeditis abest omen 2
The Canterbury bells are blossoming under the hedge lie
J
I had seen and heard nothing of H. V. script since March 17, 1907, and
did not know whether she had been writing automatically or not.
2 " All things being prepared (reading suppeditatis) the omen is lacking.
"
42 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
still for a little space and listen to the fairy chimes. Lavender
is sweet.
Mary [scribble] Pingott (?)
mist will show you the way.
the moonlit spaces on the heather are bright with fairy
lamps glittering dewdrops spread from spray to spray.
What of the hunting, hunter bold 1
The resemblance between the drawings needs no comment
no such object had ever before appeared in the script of either
automatist. " Lavender is sweet " was understood at the time
by my daughter to be an allusion to the name of a pony of
Mrs. Forbes's, Sweet Lavender, which had belonged to Talbot
Forbes, and the allusion to hunting fits both the goddess and
her namesake, Mrs. Forbes.
The rest of the script is not intelligible to me, but it is
clear that three allusions to Diana (Mrs. Forbes's pony, hunting,
crescent) occurred in this H. V. script, which preceded by
19 days the two allusions to Diana (guardian of parting ways,
protector of young animals) in M. V. script.
Under these circumstances, I think this H. V. script, though
not included in the " Month's Kecord " described in this paper,
must be taken as belonging to the group of cross-correspondences
on Dream, Dawn, Diana.
Only one other H. V. script was obtained between
March 17, 1907, and July 1907, and this script, written on
May 26, 1907, was also shown to me on July 31, at the
conclusion of our experiment. It appears to me to have a
possible connexion with the rest of the group, and I therefore
quote it here :
Ad urbem restitutam ingreditur supplex remanet judicium -
1
R. Kipling.
-"He approaches the restored city, as a suppliant. Judgement endures, or
awaits (him)."
the white lady of the
H. V. May 26, 1907. 6.10 p.m.
LXV.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 43
When the day dawns
And the light on the hills is spreading its rays,
When the upland lawns
Are spangled with dew in the morning blaze
Of a sun whose eyes
Have viewed since his sails in the West were furled
The laughter and sighs
Of a far-off people, an alien world
Shall he gaze on me
An outcast derelict here on the seas of life 1
Nay let him rather see
A beaten fighter released from the strife.
A dragon-fly blue and gold flitting hither and thither over
the pool in the heat haze of a summer day, now poised now
like a flash of living fire (illegible words) Monopol Hotel
(illegible attempt at signature).
It is true that, as my daughter said at the time, there was
nothing in her recent script resembling the sentences in the
M. V. script of July 20, which I read to her; there is no
" light beyond darkness," no " rippling sound of long light
waves." But these phrases clearly connect with the expressions
of M. V. script of July 14, and make part of the idea of
" Dawn." This was not known to my daughter, so that she
failed to see any point in the opening line of the verse in
the H. V. script, " When the day dawns."
The two H. V. scripts of May 26 and June 28 are perhaps
interconnected by the reference in both to " dew," or " dew-
drops," and both indicate natural surroundings not inconsistent
with those of Mrs. Forbes during the ensuing July ; her sketch
with the crescent moon shows " upland lawns," " hills," and
" spaces on the heather."
I conclude the account of this somewhat complicated incident
by a summary in chronological order of the automatic pheno-
mena and the events which bear upon them. Italics represent
the automatic phenomena ;
implicit or indirect references are
placed within brackets.
1907.
"A. May 26. H. V. "-when the day dawns"'
_B. June 28. H. V. (Diana).
44 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
(1) July 14. M.V. "DREAM- Daim."
(2) July 17. M.V. "DAWN; (Diana); keep thoughts free."
(3) July 17. Mrs. Forbes (Diana) finishes a sketch of the
crescent moon.
(4) July 20. M.V. " Bonaventura; Light beyond darkness;
Tell Helen."
(5) July 22. H. deG.V. learns of No. 4.
(6) July 25. #. V. "freedom of thought."
(7) July 26. F. "through darkness to light; casement
grows a glimmering square (Dcnvn)."
(8) July 29. H. V. and M. A. B. "something evidential about
Mrs. Forbes {Diana) to-morrow"
(9) July 30. M. de G. V. receives a letter from Mrs. Forbes
(Diana).
(10) July 30. M.V. "Crescent moon; Hugo's simile (in Booz
Endormi)."
(11) July 30. H. V. and M. A. B. "Hugo associated with Mrs.
Forbes (Diana) ; Dream."
(12) July 31. H. V. and M. A. B. "Light by night; Break of
Day (Dawn)."
(13) July 31. M. de G. V. learns of Nos. 6 and 7, A and B.
II. Water Eights. Pollution.
In the interconnexions just described my script appears in
the main to have played the part of agent, though it is to be
noted that on July 17, in so far as its contents were veridical,
they represented an impression received from Mrs. Forbes, who
may therefore be regarded as the agent.
In the next case my own normal thoughts seem to have
impressed themselves upon two automatists, who apparently also
received a veridical impression from another person. These
automatists were my daughter and her cousin, Mrs. Riviere.
On July 30, 1907, my niece, Mrs. Puviere, came to stay
with us in Cambridge ; her husband, a barrister, was expected
to join us on the afternoon of August 2, but a telegram was
received from him that day saying that he had been kept in
town by work and would not arrive till after 10 p.m.
My daughter and her cousin have often tried table-tilting
together, and on August 2, at 9.50 p.m., during my absence
LXV.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 45
from the drawing room, they sat down to the table. The
words tilted were as follows :
e fontaine
I demur to your plea your claim is void
At this point, my daughter, who was writing down the
words, said that perhaps this referred to Mr. Riviere's cases,
meaning the cases which had unexpectedly detained him in
town.
Tilting was then resumed, and the words came
Simpkinson is claimant
Water rights.
During the tilting of these last words "water rights," I returned
into the drawing room, and took notes of the following words,
which were
Pollution steam laundry.
The meaning of these last words struck me at once. Just
before leaving the drawing room, after 9.30 p.m., I had read in a
local paper of an outbreak of enteric fever at Fulbourn Asylum,
near Cambridge, and of some consecpuent anxiety as to the
source of infection and the risk to the Cambridge water supply,
which comes from the Fulbourn district. There is also a steam
laundry near Fulbourn. The laundry was not mentioned in
the paragraph which I had read, but at the time of an earlier
outbreak of enteric at Fulbourn I had discussed with a friend
the risk of contamination to users of the laundry—of whom I
was not one—and it is probable that the news of this second
outbreak revived in my mind a thought of possible danger from
the laundry. I deliberately refrained from mentioning the out-
break of enteric to my daughter or my niece, and noticed as
I left the room that the paragraph in the paper which I had
been reading on the sofa was not visible.
But my precautions were rendered useless by the automatic
results. There can be little doubt that the words " pollution
steam laundry " were the reflexion of my thoughts. The words
had no meaning for either automatist. Neither of them knew
that there was anywhere any risk of pollution, or that there
was any steam laundry near Fulbourn. They had not looked
at the paper.
40 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
It appears as if my arrival in the room, while they were tilting
the words " water rights," had diverted the automatic utterances
from Mr. Riviere's supposed concerns to mine, and as if the word
" water " served to effect the transition from one subject to the
other.
Mr. Riviere arrived before anything further was obtained by
tilting. On being asked what cases had detained him, he replied
that he had been engaged in the afternoon of August 2 on a
water-rights case. But the name Simpkinson had no meaning
for him.
There thus appears here to have been an attempt to produce
veridical matter concerning Mr. Riviere's occupations, though,
without the corroborative force of the sequel, in which my
thoughts were tapped, we could perhaps not claim more for the
earlier words than that they were due to a lucky guess. The
name given, Simpkinson, was, as usual in our experience of
table-tilting, meaningless, so that " water rights " might have
been a mere shot, though I understand that water-right cases
are not so common as to give much chance of success to such
a random shot.
The idea of water seems to have underlain the whole incident
the opening words were " e fontaine," and both the following
veridical statements concerned water. In this connexion, it is
worth noting that the name of one of the automatists suggests
water, and as E. is the initial of Mr. Riviere's Christian name,
it is possible that the first words " e fontaine " are a symbolic
reference to him.
However that may be, it is probable that the automatists had
access to Mr. Riviere's thoughts, and, I think, indisputable that
they tapped thoughts of mine which I had deliberately refrained
from communicating to them.
III. Requiescat.
In the next case my niece and my daughter—percipients in
the last incident—appear to be agents, and the part of the
percipient is played by my script.
On August 1907, my daughter and Mrs. Riviere, table-
tilting in a room by themselves, obtained the words
Strew on her roses roses.
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 47
These words were described as a quotation. The line being
familiar—it is the first line of a poem of Matthew Arnold's
called Hcquicscat—no evidential value was attached to it by the
automatists and no mention was made of its appearance.
On August 14, 1 being then in ignorance of what had occurred,
my script alluded to the same poem, thus
M. V. August 14, 1907. 11 p.m.
. . . Strew on her roses roses In quiet she reposes. Ah
would that I did too.
I want Mrs [Holland] to make the same allusion to Matthew
Arnold's Requiescat . .
Here then three lines from this poem were given with the
evident intention that they should form part of a cross-corre-
spondence. A week later my script concluded with the first
line of the poem, thus
M.V. Aug. 21, 1907. 11.15 p.m.
not in direct communion but through the mind of another
does the message pass. Henry Sidgwick has his share in the
work—which you have not recognised. . .
. . . Sorrow had done its work. Try to see her grave Strew
on her roses roses.
On August 28, 1907, my daughter and I compared our
scripts, and she then told me of the table-tilting incident. On
Aug. 31, her recollection of this was confirmed by the inde-
pendent written statement of Mrs. Eiviere, who had returned
to London on August 10, before the first emergence in my script
of any reference to the poem.
The poem is familiar both to my daughter and to me, and
references have subsequently been made to it in both our scripts,
but the emergences just described in August, 1907, were the
first appearances, and, especially in view of the numerous inter-
connexions between us at this time, it seems that the connexion
is not accidental.
The reason for saying that Mrs. Eiviere and my daughter
" appear " to have acted as agents in this matter is that I
subsequently learnt that in the waking-stage of Mrs. Piper's
trance of March 13, 1907, a word interpreted by Mr. Piddington
48 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
at the time as " Kequiescat " had been uttered, as intended for a
subject of cross-correspondence, thus
Faith hope charity
I'll give it.
Reseat resquiat.
If this is the origin of the emergence of the quotation in the
table-tilting, the table-tilters may be regarded not as agents but
as percipients.
IV. Announcement of Comet.
On August 9 my daughter and Mrs. Eiviere appear to have
produced a veridical statement concerning a comet. I quote the
whole of the very odd and disjointed remarks obtained by table-
tilting. Possibly readers of this paper who know more about
comets than I do may be able to throw light on some of the
less intelligible portions. But the opening sentences seem to
admit of only one interpretation.
August 9, 1907. 9 p.m. J. R. and H. de G. V. (M. de
G. V. taking notes.)
Quite right
(H. de G. V. What's quite right?)
I —meteoric sign in the east at dawn perchance some wanderer
on the lonely heath had watched its phantom course across
the sky.
(short pause).
lose understanding read read.
(The table refused to move, so M. de G. V. read over aloud
what had been tilted out, and asked : Do you understand now ?)
Yes.
(M. de a. V. Go on)
porrigit et vortex flammarum pallidus ignis coeligenae mon-
strum torquens monstrosus et ipse. 1
end.
(M. de G. V. after reading above aloud ; Give more about
the meteoric sign.)
is a sign tell Piddington.
1
These ungrammatical Latin hexameters do not admit of accurate translation.
They contain words that mean "a whirl of flames," "pale fire," "inhabitants
of the sky," "itself a portent whirling something portentous."
LXV.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 49
(M. de G. V. Is there anything more 1)
tot viridis texit ripas aegyptius amnis caespitibus prae-
betque suum sic cuique arigo. 1
(M. de 0. V., after reading above aloud : What is the mean-
ing of the last word ?)
corn frumentum 2
(M. de G. V. Is there any connexion with the meteoric sign
in these last statements ?)
yes meteor brings fertility.
That the " meteoric sign in the east at dawn " is a comet
is made clear by the Latin words in the immediately following
description, vortex flammarum, " a whirl of flames," torquens
" whirling," words appropriate to no other meteoric sign.
The implication in the concluding remarks seems to be that
the comet is not malignant but portends fertility, such as the
Nile brings to Egypt. In that case the word pcdlidus is appro-
priate, for a red comet seems to have been regarded by the
ancients as specially malignant.3
The words " tell Piddington " are constantly used when the
accompanying statement claims to be of evidential value, and
were interpreted in that sense on this occasion. In view of
the sequel it seems that in this case the intention was to
produce not a cross-correspondence with some other automatist,
but veridical matter.
On August 10, 1907, the morning after the above-described
table-tilting, the Times and other morning papers contained
notices of a comet. The paragraph in the Times concluded as
follows
The comet is now visible in the morning sky in the eastern
quarter between 2 and 3 a.m.
There can be, I think, no reasonable doubt that the statement
of the table at 9 p.m. on August 9 is directly connected with
the statement of the Times on August 10. The question is
whether any previous notice in any paper could have been seen
1
Here again the Latin hexameters defy translation. The last word is nonsense
and metrically impossible; the translateable words are as follows: "So many
green banks does the Egyptian river weave with green growth (?), and so gives his
own ... to each."
z
frume.ntum means "corn.''
3
Cf. Virg. JEn. X. 272, 3; cometae sanguinei lugubre, rv.be.nt: "bloody comets
show a fatal red."
D
50 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
by either automatist, and particularly whether there was any
reason why they should anticipate the appearance of a comet
just at that date. There had been table-tilting on August 2,
3, 8, and 9, but no reference whatever to a meteoric sign or
comet appeared except as above quoted on August 9.
We at once searched for notices of an approaching comet
in the back numbers of all papers that we were in the habit
of seeing, but could find nothing bearing on the subject. There
was no mention of any comet in the evening paper of August 9
which we had seen, nor in the Times for a month before
the date in question. The only paper in which I could find
any notice of it was Nature—a paper which no one of the
automatists ever sees, and which I went to a library to
consult. The following notes represent what appeared in
Nature in the " Astronomical News."
On June 20, it was stated that a telegram from Kiel
announces the discovery of the 4th comet of this year by
Mr. Daniel of Princeton on June 14.
On June 27, July 4, July 11, July 18, there were notes
of the progress of " 1 9 0 7
d
(Daniel's comet)."
On July 25, it was said to be "very probable that it will
become an easy naked-eye object during August," and that
on July 18 it had been seen with a small telescope at
S. Kensington.
On Aug. 1 an account of its position from Aug. 3 to
Aug. 19 was given with a map.
On Aug. 8 in one paragraph the comet was said to be
" now approaching the naked-eye stage," and the dates of its
rising on August 9, and of its approximate position on August
14, were given. In another paragraph in the same issue of
Nature, it was said, " Daniel's comet has been visible to the
naked eye since the first few days of July,1
and is now suffi-
ciently conspicuous to arrest the immediate attention of any-
one who will look towards the eastern sky before the morning
twilight becomes too strong." Then follows a description of
its appearance at 3 a.m. on August 5, and its " Ephemeris
for some days, showing that its greatest brightness would be
on August 22.
1
So printed in Nature But it seems clear, from the note of July 25th quoted
above, that " Jul}' " is here a misprint for " August."
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 51
There does not appear from these notices in Nature any
reason why the 9th of August should have produced an
allusion to the comet rather than some other date in August
—the 8th, for instance—on which table-tilting under precisely
similar conditions took place. The connexion—if connexion
there be—seems rather to be with the fact that the evening of
the table-tilting was the evening preceding the day of announce-
ment in more than one daily newspaper. So that the source
of the automatic phenomena is perhaps to be sought in the
minds of the writer or writers of the newspaper paragraphs.1
It remains to consider whether anything can be inferred as
to the source of the automatic phenomena above described.
The successful results may be classed under eight heads,
briefly described as
(1) Dream.
(2) Dawn.
(3) Diana.
(4) Hugo.
(5) Eequiescat.
(6) Water Eights.
(7) Steam Laundry.
(8) Comet.
Of these the three last are, or may be claimed to be, veri-
dical statements, four of the others (Nos. 1, 2, 4, 5) are
cross-correspondences, and one, Diana (3), is both a subject of
cross-correspondence and of veridical statement.
In the last three cases the automatists are the same, my
daughter and her cousin, and the facts to which the automatists
alluded were in each case known to one, or more, living mind,
though no one living mind possessed the knowledge of the three
facts, namely, that on Aug. 2 Mr. Kiviere was occupied with
a water-rights case, and that a steam laundry was in danger of
pollution, and that on Aug. 9a" wanderer " on that night might
see a " meteoric sign in the east at dawn." Moreover, the
transition on Aug. 2, at my coming into the room, from legal
matters to a subject recently in my thoughts, strongly suggests
l Cf. Proc. Vol. XX., pp. 324-326 and 328-330 for two somewhat similar cases
where M. V. script seems, in part at least, to have anticipated paragraphs in
the Giomale d'ltalia on June 27, 1902, and the Daily Mail on May 11, 1901.
52 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
that my mind, whether or not the original and ultimate source
of the phenomena, was at least contributory. So that in the
absence of further evidence it seems likely that the explanation
of these three cases is to be sought in telepathy with the living.
Further, it is certain that the action of the living mind was
altogether unconscious ; Mr. Eiviere did not know that his wife
and my daughter were experimenting, and the same may
certainly be said of the journalists who composed the press
notices of the comet. I had definitely desired that the possi-
bility of " pollution " to Cambridge water should not be known,
and had not consciously thought of its connexion with a steam
laundry.
But if access to the mind of the living without the conscious
volition of that mind is responsible for these three cases, there
still remains the question who or what is responsible for the
selection of the particular material conveyed. Is it deliberate,
or due to an accidental association of thought ? As has been
pointed out, the word " water " serves as a link between the
contents selected from Mr. Riviere's mind and from mine on
Aug. 2, and that word itself is easily associated with the name
of one automatist. Again, in the last case, the comet was to
be seen " at dawn," and the word " Dawn " had been very
prominent in the automatic phenomena shortly before obtained.
But without further evidence and more abundant material,
speculation on this subject is premature.
There is no internal evidence bearing on the source to be
derived from the automatic phenomena themselves ; no claim
is made as to the origin of the statements, and no " communi-
cator " is named or suggested.
It is not easy to determine with certainty the starting point
of a cross-correspondence, still less to discover its ultimate
source. Priority of emergence may be an indication, but cannot
be a proof, of priority of impression, as allowance must be made
for delay in the automatic record. In the case of " Bequiescat
(No. 5) the first emergence seems to be in Mrs. Piper's trance
in March, 1907, the second in the table-tilting of my daughter
and her cousin on Aug. 3, the third and fourth in M. V. script
of Aug. 14 and 21. Mrs. Piper's trance-speech, which gave the
word Bequiescat as a topic for cross-correspondence, may have
been the starting point. If so, a completely new form was given
LXV.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 53
to the idea by the appearance in the table-tilting of the first
line of a poem called Bequiescat, familiar to one at least of the
automatists, and it was this form which emerged some days later
in M. V. script. The starting point of the cross-correspondence
may be located in Mrs. Piper's trance, or in the table-tilting of
my daughter and Mrs. Eiviere, according as we associate or do
not associate together the quotation from Matthew Arnold's
poem and the words " reseat resquiat."
There is little internal evidence in the automatic records
themselves as to the supposed source of this cross-correspondence.
Myersv is the communicator of both my scripts,
1
and the second
alludes to " Henry Sidgwick." MyersP was the principal control
of Mrs. Piper's trance on March 13, and the words "Faith
Hope Charity " have constantly been associated in script with
Mr. Sidgwick.
2
But the table-tilting makes no claim or allusion
either to Frederic Myers or to Henry Sidgwick, so that the
internal evidence is far from complete. And even if the internal
evidence consistently specified a particular " communicator " as
originating a successful cross-correspondence, much further corro-
borative evidence would be recpuired before such a view could
be accepted.
The other four topics (Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4) are the subjects of
successful cross-correspondence both individually and as parts
of a whole which we may here call Victor Hugo's Poem, or Booz
Enclormi. Let us first consider them individually, and note the
order of their emergence.
No. 1. Dream. This emerged first, explicitly and emphati-
cally, in M. V. script on July 14 ;
and next explicitly in the table-tilting (H. V. and M. A. B.)
on July 30.
No. 2. Dawn. This also emerged first in M. V. script,
explicitly on July 14, explicitly and emphatically on July 17;
next implicitly in H. V. script of July 26 ;
and then explicitly in the table-tilting (H. V. and M. A. B.)
of July 31.
No. 3. Diana. Allusions to Diana are in no instance ex-
plicit ; the name Diana does not occur. The allusions are of
1
This is clear from the contents, but neither script is signed.
2
Cf. Proc. Vol. XX., pp. 421-423 (published 1906); Vol. XXI., p. 224 ff. ;
Vol. XXIV., p. 308.
54 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
three types, (a) to Mrs. Forbes, (b) to the crescent moon, (c) to
the classical goddess, huntress, protector of young creatures,
guardian of cross-roads. They emerge as follows : first in H. V.
script of June 28, allusions to all three types, (a) "Lavender is
sweet," (b) drawing of crescent, (c) "hunting, hunter";
next in M. V. script of July 17, direct allusions to two aspects
of type (c), " guardian of parting ways," " bring home . . . ewes
and lambs," and indirect allusions, by means of a veridical
reference to Mrs. Forbes's occupations, to types (a) and (b) ;
next in table-tilting (H. V. and M. A. B.) on July 29,
explicit allusions to type (a) Mrs. Forbes
again in M. V. script of July 30 type (b) " luna crescens,"
" golden sickle," drawing of crescent
lastly in table-tilting (H. V. and M. A. B.) on July 30,
type (a) " Mrs. Forbes associated with Hugo."
No. 4- Hugo. This emerged first explicitly in M. V. script
of July 30 ;
*
and next, also explicitly, in the table- tilting (H. V. and
M. A. B.) later on the same day, July 30.
If we accept priority of emergence as an indication of the
starting-point, we shall assign Dream, Dawn, and Hugo to my
script, and Diana to my daughter's. "We may also note, as
perhaps confirmatory of this view, that
(No. 1) as between the two explicit references to Dream, the
earlier one in M. V. script is much more emphatic than the later
one in H. V. script, being marked by constant repetition and
capital letters
(No. 2) in the case of Dawn also emphasis is thrown on the
emergence in M. V. script, by repetition and large writing on
the second occasion ;
(No. 3) the only instance of definite allusion to the three
types of Diana is at the first emergence in H. V. script of June
(No. 4) but here I can detect no difference of emphasis in the
emergence of Hugo in the M. V. script and in the table-tilting
by H.V. and M. A. B. on July 30.
Priority of emergence does not, as I have said, necessarily
connote priority of impression, but when to priority is added
marked emphasis, the claim to be the starting-point of the
cross-correspondence may be said to be considerably reinforced.
lxv.] A Month's Record of Automatisms. 55
I am therefore disposed, in the present state of the evidence, to
regard my script as the starting-point of Dream and Daivn, and
my daughter's script as the starting-point of Diana ;
there is not
sufficient evidence to assign Hugo to either set of automatists.
But these four topics are, as I have said, parts of a single
topic which includes them all—Hugo's poem, Booz Endormi,
containing the simile of the crescent moon, and the allusions to
Dream and Dawn. This poem was itself the subject of a cross-
correspondence between M. V. script of July 30, and H. V. and
M. A. B. tilting on July 30 and July 31. Following the line
of argument as above, my script of July 30 may be regarded as
the starting-point of the actual topic of Booz Endormi, for it is at
once prior to the table-tilting allusions and more definite. If
the allusions to this poem in the scripts were confined to the
actual cross-correspondence on the subject produced on July 30
and July 31, I think we ought to seek the source as well as
the starting-point in my script, and as the poem was familiar to
me, there would be no reason to look beyond my memories and
associations in order to explain the selection of this particular
topic for automatic use.
But I find it impossible to separate the allusions to Booz
Endormi from the earlier subjects of cross-correspondence,
Dream, Dawn, and Diana's Crescent Moon. Two of those three
topics my script is probably responsible for starting, namely,
Dream and Dawn. But the third, Diana, first emerged on
June 28 in my daughter's script, and H. V. script takes
precedence of M. V. script in the whole series of scripts dealing
with this group of topics. The H. V. script of June 28 is
closely connected with my script of July 30—which contains a
definite allusion to Booz Endormi—by the drawing of the
crescent. In both scripts the crescent is placed at the end of
a long stick ; in one case the stick is horizontal, in the other
vertical. No other drawing remotely resembling those drawings
had occurred in the script of either automatist, so that these
analogous and distinctive, though not precisely similar, drawings
make an indisputable link between the H. V. script of June 28
and the M. V. script of July 30.
But if we see in the H. V. script of June 28 the starting-
point of one of the four contributory topics—Diana's crescent,
the crescent of Hugo's simile—we cannot here, as in the case of
56 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
my script of July 30, seek the source in the automatist's memory
and associations, for the poem was not known to her. And if we
account for the H. V. script of June 28 by giving the auto-
matist credit for access to my memories and associations, we
have still to consider the bearing on the whole question of
Mrs. Forbes's sketch of the crescent moon on July 17, to which
attention was drawn by the allusions to Diana in my script
of the same day. Is this unique action of Mrs. Forbes—for
on no other occasion has she ever sketched a crescent moon
to be attributed to chance, to the action of my subliminal self,
or to some other intelligence directing the whole series of
allusions to Hugo's poem ?
As to the claims made by the documents themselves, none
of the H. V. scripts are signed or offer any reason for attri-
buting them to a particular communicator, and the same may
be said, as usual, of the table-tilting (H. V. and M. A. B.). In
the M. V. scripts no claim is made on July 14; Myersv is
responsible for the scripts of July 17 and July 30, while the
script of July 20 is signed with a Greek capital 2, a signature
almost certainly intended to represent Henry Sidgwick.
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 57
III.
LES GORRESPONDANCES CROISEES ET LA
METHODE EXPERIMENTALE.
Par JOSEPH MAXWELL, M.D.
Lbs dernieres publications de la S.P.R, soulevent une grave
difficult^, celle de la methode dans les Sciences Psychiques.
Elle est d'une extreme importance. La methode doit etre
d'autant plus severe que l'objet d'une science est plus conteste.
Pour cela, chaque detail d'une experience doit etre controls,
chaque fait initial doit etre indiscutable. L'imagination doit
etre ecartee avec soin de la discussion ; s'il est permis de
construire des hypotheses sur les faits, ces derniers ne peuvent
etre eux-memes hypothetiques.
Le point de depart du mouvement actuel se trouve dans les
travaux de MM. Hodgson et Myers. L'oeuvre de M. Myers
est de premier ordre.
Je ne fais pas le meme cas des travaux de M. Hodgson. Le
jugement chez lui n'est pas toujours sur, il est altere par des
idees preconcues. Ses conclusions ont toutes leurs precedents
dans la litterature spirite et aboutissent a une contradiction
(Proceedings, Vol. XIII., pp. 404-405): "even the best of direct
'
communicators ' through Mrs. Piper's trance is partly asleep!'
. . .
" the consciousness producing the writing—whatever that
consciousness may be . . . —is not conscious of writing." Quelle
base peut offrir a la recherche serieuse une communication dont
le communiquant n'a pas conscience ?
1
Au point de vue de l'analyse intime de la personnalite de
la trance, le systeme de M. Hodgson conduit a une impasse.
En realite, cet observateur avait constate un fait, deja signale :
les processus mentaux de l'automatisme presentent beaucoup
1
Voy., par exemple, Stainton Moses: "Communicating spirits are probably in
an abnormal state." Light, 188- , p. 186.
58 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
d'analogie avec ceux du reve ; ils revelent chez l'auteur des
messages, quel qu'il soit, des etats de conscience " oniriques."
L'analyse n'a pas permis de determiner, dans tous les cas, la
source des informations manifestoes par la personnalite servant
de support a ces etats de conscience. Les travaux anterieurs
de la societe ont etabli que la telepathie etait une de ces
sources possibles.
L'etude psychologique de l'automatisme a ete faite avec soin
par M. Myers ; cet aspect du problems a echappe a peu pres
completement k M. Hodgson, qui a cherche une solution generale
a toutes les dimcultes rencontrees par lui. Cette solution, la
theorie spirite l'offrait aisement ;
l'hypothese quelle adopte
supprime, par definition, toutes les dimcultes.
La methode inauguree par M. Hodgson a ete suivie par les
recents experimentateurs.
I.
C'est apres la mort de M. Myers que le mouvement nouveau
a pris naissance. II a trouve un apotre admirable dans Mme
Verrall.
L'etude des dernieres publications de la S.P.R. doit done
commencer par l'analyse du memoire de Mme Verrall sur son
eeriture automatique {Proceedings, Vol. XX.). C'est Ik qu'est
l'origine des Correspondances croisees dont Mile Johnson a
plus tard formule la theorie.
Ce memoire nest pas une analyse, mais un plaidoyer. II
ne pouvait en Otre autrement. On ne peut etre juge dans
sa propre cause. Mme Verrall, avec la meilleure volonte,
ne pouvait etre impartiale. Un medium peut decrire ses
impressions subjectives, non apprecier la valeur des ses
phenomenes.
Madame Verrall peut d'autant moins etre impartiale qu'elle
a fini par avoir foi en son eeriture automatique, foi au point
de provoquer l'ouverture imprudente de la lettre posthume de
M. Myers. Cette confiance explique beaucoup de choses qui
surprennent dans son mimioire : distractions, legeres erreurs de
traduction, omissions, qui ne sont pas comprehensibles si on
ne tient pas compte de ce sentiment. Mme Verrall perd
de vue les faits en eux-mOmes ; elle n'apereoit que les details
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 59
favorables a sa these. Les autres lui echappent, completement
quelquefois. Je vais en donner des exemples.
Le 31 Janvier 1902, elle ecrivit:
" Panopticon <r(patpa<; ariTaXXet avvSeyiuu /nvaTiKor. t'l ovk
e$lSws; volatile ferrum. pro telo impinget " (Vol. XX., p. 214).
Les mots latins suggererent a Mme Verrall l'ide'e d'une lance,
et elle nota, le 7 Fevrier 1902, que Virgile emploie cette
expression dans le sens de lance, " spear."
Le 28 Janvier 1902, apres une allusion a une pretendue
vision de Mile Verrall, le controle de Mme Piper fut invite
par M. Hodgson a, apparaitre a Mile Verrall avec une lance
(spear) a la main. — " Why a sphere ?
" demanda le controle ? —
M. Hodgson repeta " spear," et le controle consentit. Le
4 Fevrier, il pretendit avoir reussi a se faire voir a Mile
Verrall avec une "sphear" [sic] a la main. La confusion
entre sphere et spear persistait, dit Mme Verrall.
Mile Verrall n'eut aucune impression, ni aucune vision.
Mais " between those dates, my script (as interpreted by me
at the time) said that the seeing of a sphere effected a
mysterious '
co-reception,' and associated this statement with a
reference to a spear. It seems to me that, though the pro-
posed experiment did not succeed in the way intended, there
is strong reason for thinking that my script was in some way
affected by it" (Vol. XX., p. 216). Ce texte etait signe d'une
croix grecque que l'ecriture (en Juin 1903, Vol. XX., p. 78)
attribue k Lector.
L'analyse de Mme Verrall est fantaisiste. " Panopticon " ne
veut pas dire la vue. C'est un mot anglais cite par Webster
il y a une association subliminale anterieure entre ce mot et
sphere, dans les textes Verrall (14 Mars 1901, on figurent
trois croix) ;
a-ui'Seyiua n'est pas un mot grec. Le texte, tel
que Mme Verrall le traduit, est inapplicable aux circonstances,
car personne n'a vu de sphere, et on n'apercoit pas de co-
reception.
Volatile ferrum ne veut dire spear que par suite d'une
erreur probable de Mme Verrall. Le sens virgilien est fleche. 1
1
II suffit de lire les passages de Virgile (Eniide, IV., 71; VIII., 694) pour
voir qu'il s'agit de fleches. Par exemple, IV., 71: "Qualis conjecta cerva
sagitta, Quam procul incautam . . . fixit, Pastor agens telis liquitque volatile
ferrum, nescius . . . hteret letalis arundo."
60 Joseph Maxwell, 31. D. [part
Le mot latin pour lance est hasta, quelquefois associe a volans
(EnMdc, IX., 411). L'association phonetique de Dido, volatile
ferritin, s'explique par des lois connues.1
En effet, le passage
de YUne'idc est :
" Uritur infelix Dido . . . qualis conjecta cerva
sagitta," etc. (voir note precedente).
Enfin, le texte de Mme Verrall est en latin. Or, nous
apprenons (Proceedings, Vol. XXII., p. 314) que Kector-Piper
ne sait pas le latin. II y a la une singuliere contradiction,
si ce controle joue un role quelconque, conime tend a le
croire Mme Verrall. En tous cas, il ne transmet pas l'image
promise et ne s'adresse pas a la personne convenue. La croix
ne signifie pas grand chose, car nous trouvons des croix dans
le texte du 14 Mars 1901 ou figurent aussi Panopticon et
splice rev.
L'incident relatif a la communication simultanee donnee par
le controle Talbot Forbes chez Mme Forbes et chez Mme
Verrall est encore expose avec le meme defaut de methode.
Mme Verrall resume les concordances ainsi (Vol. XX., p. 223):
" On a certain day '
Talbot Forbes,' in Mrs. Forbes' script,
declared that he was seeking and implied that he had found
another automatic writer through whom to communicate with
her. On the same day a statement was made in my script
about fir-trees planted in a garden which had a meaning for
Mrs. Forbes and a special connexion with her automatic experi-
ments, and the signature of this script, to which attention had
been directed, represented partially the badge of Talbot Forbes'
regiment, together with a sword."
Les faits n'ont pas exactement la physionomie qu'elle leur
prete ;
" conifera arbos " ne veut pas dire des sapins (fir-trees),
mais un arbre conifere. Mme Verrall substitue un nom de
genre a celui d'une famille botanique et donne a son texte, par
cela et par l'indication du plurieL une ressemblance plus grande
avec les faits qu'il n'est legitime de le faire.
Elle ad met ensuite que le dessin representant une croix
est une epee; mais, (1) la garde d'une epee moderne n'est
pas en forme de croix ; (2) le mot fir-tree est associe incontes-
tablement a une croix dans les textes des 25 et 26 Aout,
1902.
D'ailleurs, le texte de Mme Forbes s'applique-t-il a Mme
1
c'SiSws, Aidw, Dido, uritur, etc.
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Mdihode experimentale. 61
Verrall ? Dans le premier, Talbot F. ecrit qu'il doit faire seance
avec M. Gurney pour controler le sensitif et prouver a M. Forbes
pere que c'est bien lui, son fils, qui ecrit par la main de Mme
Forbes. Eien ne rappelle ces details clans le texte de Mme
Verrall, ou il n'est pas question de M. Gurney.
Si on retablit dans son integralite le texte du 28 Aoiit divise
en trois fragments par Mme Verrall (op. cit, pp. 388, 404, 417)
on constate
(1) qu'il y est question de croix.
(2) qu'il rappelle le texte du 15 Mars 1901, "Pollux Cappa
docus ponct tigillum."
(3) qu'il rappelle celui du 14 Mars 1901, " Marmario
glyptato . . , cidtellario."
(4) Mme Verrall y voit un essai de reponse a la question
des mots grecs. Si l'influence du controle Talbot doit etre
admise, comment devient-elle intelligible ? II veut prouver a
son pere qu'il fait ecrire Mme Forbes, mais il ne s'occupe
que de ^experience de M. Verrall et d'une inscription ; il ne
se revele que par la lointaine allusion " conifera " et le cor
suspendu.
II ne semble y avoir aucune continuite' de conscience entre
les textes de Mme Forbes et Verrall.
" Omina sibimet ostendit " est traduit par " gives its own
portent." Le traducteur oublie le sens rifle'chi de sibimet.
II ne saurait etre question de la competence incontestee
de Mme Verrall ; elle commet ces erreurs de traduction, non
par ignorance du latin, mais par suite de son e'tat d'esprit.
Persuadee de la valeur supranormale de ses textes, elle choisit
inconsciemment tous les elements de nature a confirmer sa
these, et s'arrete a des interpretations discutables, pour peu
qu'elles soient favorables ; les autres interpretations, plus
probables, lui echappent.
L'incident des mots grecs /uovottcoXov e? aw est instructif
a ce point de vue.
En Avril 1901, le Dr. Verrall essaya de faire ecrire auto-
matiquement par Mme Verrall ces mots grecs ; ils n'ont
jamais ete ecrits, le sens n'en a jamais ete donne, comme Mme
Verrall le reconnait d'ailleurs. Un experimentateur ordinaire
n'aurait jamais songe a faire etat d'une semblable experience
de communication de pensee entre deux epoux, vivant sous le
62 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
meme toit, alors surtout que l'experience se prolonge pendant
1 5 mois.
La phrase grecque est obscure : elle signitie " vers l'aurore,"
mais on n'est pas d'accord sur le sens de novcnrwkos qui signifie
" a un seul cheval "
; M. Verrall prefere le sens " solitaire." Ces
mots sont extraits de YOreste d'Euripide ; ils figurent dans un
passage dont la traduction fut donnee en 1873 a un Concours
auquel le Dr. Verrall prit part.
M. Verrall n'avertit pas sa femme de son experience ; celle-ci
nous dit qu'il ne lui en parla pas au cours des essais faits pour
reproduire les mots grecs ; on verra au contraire que le Dr.
Verrall laissa bientot deviner qu'il attendait quelque chose.
Des le 16 Aofit 1901, apres la lecture d'un texte, il dit a
Mine Verrall " that he thought it [the writing] was trying to
say what he wanted" (Vol. XX., p. 388).
L'examen des textes montre que l'ecriture automatique a ete
guidee par le Dr. lui-meme, qui voyait les textes, et disait s'ils
etaient ou n'etaient pas interessants pour lui. Un peu d'atten-
tion revele les procedes de la conscience liee aux automatismes
de Mme Verrall.
L'experience commence en Avril 1901. La premiere allusion
signalee est "Five stars in the East . .
." (16 Juin 1901,
Vol. XX., p. 387).
Le 4 Juillet 1901: "Yellow is the colour of the dawn"
(Tithoni croceum linquens aurora cubile, vers trois fois repete
dans Virgile).
Le contexte cite p. 416 se refere a toute autre chose que
les mots grecs, et le Dr. Verrall n'a point dit que ce texte
l'interessait.
Le premier texte auquel il ait donne son approbation est
celui du 31 Juillet (p. 388) ou nous voyons, dans le fragment
public, les idees suivantes
Longsevus, senex, barba, alba, p.ovoyj.Tm>o<i, albipannosus,
signifer, 7 mots comportant un grand nombre d'associations.
L'idee relative a albus, alba, blanc, est deux fois repetee,
sans avoir rien de commun avec aube, aurore (barbe blanche,
vetements blancs).
Ceux d'entre mes lecteurs qui sont familiers avec la psycho-
logie des etats de conscience oniriques ne seront pas etonnes
de voir surgir plus tard (13 Aout 1901, p. 388) l'idee de
lxv.] Oorrespondances croise'es et la Methocle experimentale. 63
blancheur developpee avec des jeux de mots, des alliterations
et des images ; ce theme aboutit a " crested cock that crows
. . . —not a real bird, heraldic—with a motto—Cano, canam
albam " (je chante l'aube blanche): epithete qui ne rappelle
pas celle du 4 Juillet, "yellow" (jaune), mais sert de lien entre
Cano, canam et albam.
M. Verrall n'a rien trouve dans ce texte qui lui parut se
referer a ses mots grecs. II est meilleur juge et plus desin-
teresse. Depuis le 31 Juillet au moins, malgre quelle dise le
contraire (note, Vol. XX., p. 157), Mme Verrall sait que les
textes peuvent interesser son mari (Vol. XX., p. 388).
Le texte du 16 tatonne apres l'echec. II reprend l'idee du
vieillard a barbe blanche, vetu de blanc, le decrit avec un
baton, une boite, quelqu'un le regarde et observe la lumiere
qui passe d'une fenetre a l'autre, allant vers l'orient. A. W. V.
comprendra. Le texte contenait quelques mots grecs.
Ce texte est approuve, mais l'ecrivain des textes ne sait pas
pourquoi. Cela rend l'hypothese d'une coincidence fortuite plus
probable que celle d'une action telepathique et exclut Faction
d'une intelligence directrice.
L'inintelligence du but de l'experience se revele dans le texte
suivant, qui brode sur le theme " fenOtre," mais n'obtient aucune
approbation (20 Aout).
Le 23, retour a l'idee du coq, assortie d'une tentative vers
la description d'une inscription avec un mot grec ; ce texte
ne provoque aucune approbation, aussi l'idee de coq, apres une
emergence voilee dans le texte du 28 est abandonnee et ne
persistera que dans la selection du sens ou s'orientera la con-
science onirique, c'est k dire vers can, de cano, canam, approuves
avec le texte du 16 (malgre la non approbation du texte
du 13).
L'idee de can-o est dissociee : la premiere syllable sert de
theme k des associations oniriques paralleles aux precedentes,
developpees dans le sens d'allusions a une chapelle et au Dr.
Benson.
[Texte
64 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Texte du 28 Aofit 1901. Comparez :
" Cups and a cross, the cross between, " A cross in the east
and a bright light falls from above upon . . . Cantuar is sedile
"
them and him . . . AW . . . will recog- (12 Avril 1902,p.l87).
nise this. I speak with the tongue of " Sedet super sedilia
brass . . . Cappa . . . Cantilupe . . . circumspectans "
(27
cant ilenam. Cantiaris sedile jam Juin 1901, p. 419).
sedet super mundum circumspectans . . . Cantilupe and the old
in the east to the day light ... it runs man in the long white
round a dial or font . . . glyptatus in robe with the unje welled
marmoreo lapide cultellario . . . Signa crown. This belongs to
sigillo. Conifera arbos in horto jam A. W. V. past master
insita omina sibimet ostendit " (c'est le (12 Oct. 1901, p. 401).
texte attribue a Talbot Forbes ').
Le texte est manifestement associi' a l'ancien maitre du Dr.
Verrall, l'archeveque de Cantorbc'ry, Ur. Benson, a une chapelle
(tongue of brass, font, cross, etc.) et a ses alentours.
Ce texte est approuve ; il y a quelque chose d'intelligible
pour le Dr. Verrall, outre le cadran solaire, qui y est mentionne
(pp. cit., p. 3S9).
Le meme ordre d'idees est sous-jacent au texte du lende-
main. Le texte du 28 parlait d'un mot autour d'un cadran
solaire ou de fonts baptismaux (?); celui du 29 essaye de
donner ce mot ;
" The shape of the letters is archaic . . .
Cantilect . . . Cantuar 6C and a heraldic bird, in colours—the
light comes through, on a window to the east, more than one."
L'idee de l'oiseau h<'raldique et de la chapelle persistent
avec celle d'inscription ; il s'agit clairement d'une verriere. 1
Les associations s'expliquent ainsi facilement. L'est, les
fenetres, le vieillard en robe blanche, les inscriptions, la chapelle,
la croix, etc.
La lecture attentive des textes, apres les avoir rapieces et
places en ordre chronologique, ne laissera aucun doute sur ce
point. A cette date, la conscience automatique s'oriente toujours
vers la chapelle et l'inscription. Le hasard, aide par le Dr.
Verrall, va l'orienter sur le mot grec qui figure dans le passage
d'Euripide.
1
Voy. Vol. XX., p. 18S. II s'agit probablement de la chapelle de Wellington
College.
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 65
Et ici, on apercoit les precedes de Mine Verrall. Les
lettres E C de son texte sont visiblement associees au Dr.
Benson. Le texte da 2 Juki 1902 (op. cit, pp. 426 et 302)
applique EtC, ^ j£ au Dr. Benson. C'est bien E C qu'a
ecrit Mine Verrall car nous savons qu'elle a conscience des
mots ecrits par elle ; si elle a lu EC, c'est qu'elle avait bien eerit
ces lettres qu'elle considerait avec raison comme des initiales.
Mais le Dr. Verrall, preoccupe de ses mots grecs, lit 6C (e?)
en grec. Des lors, le subliminal est fixe et e? est ecrit dans
presque tons les textes suivants (10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16);
il ne disparaitra comme mot isole qua partir du l7 e
, a la
suite d'essais infructueux.
Le texte du 2 Septembre ne revele par la moindre notion
des mots a transmettre, sauf l'essai suggere e? to ; il insiste
sur la presence du mot vale.
Le 4, une forte impulsion a ecrire survient. Le texte prece-
dent n'avait rec,u aucnne approbation du Dr. Ar errall ; le nouveau
combine certains elements figurant dans des textes approuves
anterieurement, des mots grecs en novo-, rappel du 31 Juillet
GC, rappel du 19 Aout; la draperie blanche, rappel du 16 Aout.
Des idees sont essayees ; le nom Charles, Chalfont, un endroit
pres d'une riviere, puis le personnage associe a la draperie
blanche (16 Aout). Ce texte est approuve.
Le meme jour, le nom de M. Balfour est substitue a Chal
" esagi " est ecrit en vieux caracteres grecs, puis le mot " sunto."
Pas d'approbation.
Le 7 Septembre " seven in a row—or was it five—away in
the east like stars. Mol es to . . . there are o and 1 before
the es. oX-e?. Tender es fusa—a long word like that,—foreign,
Indian I think—Banipal and Assur . . . Asta, aster."
Ce texte ne parait pas avoir interesse le Dr. Verrall ; l'ecriture
automatique, toujours aiguillee sur oX-e? qui ont figure dans
des textes approuves, part de quelque chose comme moleskin,
l'apparence non le sens, et revient a 1'idee d'oiseau mais avec
des associations clairement oniriques. " Pye is a bird too but
not ours" eveille evidemment 1'impression de pie, oiseau francais
le mot " gasur " rappelle l'italien gazza, pie, magpie, pye en anglais;
" dailey is more like, daily bent, — — — is how it goes and
the first rhymes to a. Find the herb moly that will help."
E
66 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Eien ne se rapporte aux roots choisis par le Dr. Verrall.
L'apparition de moly s'explique par les associations oniriques.
Pie frangais, pye anglais (pal, comuie paille en frangais) eveillent
chez Mme Verrall l'idee d'ail, qui est represents par d-ail-ey,
d-ail-y ;
— — — est la quantite de allium en latin, qui est l'equi-
valent cle ail {garlic). De la a moly l'association est evidente,
l'allium moly est une belle plante indigene a fleurs jaunes. On
comprend que moly conduise a a-lli-um dont la premiere
voyelle rime bien avec a.
Cette explication simple ne se presente pas a l'esprit de
Madame Verrall qui nous en propose une autre, supranormale
bien entendu. Le texte ne lui avait paru avoir aucun sens,
mais en 1905, elle decouvrit que le concours de 1873 com-
prenait la version d'Oreste oil se trouve fxovowwXoi' ey aw et
comme epreuve de vers latins, la traduction du passage de
Milton (Comvs), finissant par " That moly which Hermes
once to wise Ulysses gave."
1
II y a la une coincidence, curieuse si Ton veut, mais
lemerge Moly me parait avoir une cause plus naturelle
et par consequent plus probable. L'explication que j'ai
proposee rend compte cle tous les details du texte, ils sont
incomprehensibles dans le systeme supranormal de Mme
Verrall.
Le Dr. Verrall declara que ce texte constituait un progres.
Le 12, l'ecriture prend /uoX-es, naturellement, comme theme:
le Thibet intervient, sans doute par association onirique a
termes latents (mollis . . . woollen, woollen . . . cloth) Thibet
. . . Pye est repris :
" Pye gives one clue, but there is
another—a dark man who smoked."
L'ecriture automatique bat les buissons. Pye est un indice,
comme l'homme brun, ce qui ne s'accorde pas avec l'explication
de Mme Verrall au sujet cle la finesse avec laquelle Pye est
introduit pour representer la lettre tt.
1
L'explication donnee par Mme Verrall de l'emergence de Pye est celle-ei ;
l'ecriture, "after stating correctly that '
m conies before the es agiles ' . . . goes
on to introduce the 'p,' a conspicuous omission in its previous attempts to
represent fxovbtvuKov. This it did in a very quaint fashion . . . without betraying
any notion that what was wanted was the Greek letter Pi, it suddenly
remarked : Pye is a bird too" . . . (Vol. XX., p. 162), etc.
Cela ne semble pas serieux. L'idee de la lettre ir n'apparait pas le moins
du monde.
lxv.] Correspondances crois4es et la Methods expe'rimentale. 67
Les textes ne se rapprochent uu pen de l'idee d'aurore que
le 12 decembre, au milieu d'erreurs sans nombre.
Je ne retiendrai que deux incidents : le premier est relatif
au texte du 18 Septembre, qui est un message pour nne dame;
Mrue Verrall en utilise une partie (p. 206) pour justifier des
allusions a une dame Archdale. II est plus probable que le
"her" est cependant Mme Forbes. En tous cas, il s'agit d'un
message relatif h "a knife—on a table, with letters engraved
upon it—not English (~~M t Tf *7T Q £ tne letters look
like that. It is a friendly wish. Ask her . .
."
II est clair que ces mots ne concernent pas du tout l'ex-
perience ;
" cependant," dit Mme Verrall, " le texte " s'empara de
l'unique idee non encore representee, celle de cheval, dans le
sens ordinaire de yUoyoVwAo?. Le mot suggere euiinros qui a
de bons chevaux. Pendant que Mme Verrall ecrivait, son mari
essayait de l'impressionner. II est possible que l'apparition des
lettres grecques soit due a une transmission de pensee, mais
cela est incertain. Nous savons que M. Verrall traduit fxovo-
7r(oXo9 par solitaire. Pourquoi l'idee de cheval est-elle transmise ?
II y a la un point difficile a comprendre.
Le sens general du contexte rend improbable l'explication
donnee par Mme Verrall ; il suffit de s'y reporter.
S'il y a une action telepathique, elle se produit d'une
maniere qui rappelle tout a fait les correspondances croisees
du type mosaique et, comme l'a fait observer M. Pigou, cette
action telepathique ote tout fondement aux theories de Mile
Johnson sur ce genre de correspondances.
Le second incident est l'aveu que lecriture automatique fait
elle-meme de son ignorance. " What is the word he wants to
complete, neither you nor I know it. so it is hard to get.
It all belongs to him but not to me, his friends but not mine.
ISTo one here knows but one and her I have not met. I will
ask Arthur . .
."
Jusqu'au dernier moment l'ecriture n'a rien percu des mots
grecs, car le dernier texte cite parle d'Hannibal, de Sagonte,
de " molens," et finit, symboliquement sans doute, par " no nono
"
(Vol. XX., p. 392).
C'est sur cette mauvaise experience que Mme Verrall se
fonde pour dire que son texte a essaye de reproduire tantot le
68 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
sens, tantot le son des mots grecs (Vol. XX., p. 159). Elle est
trop favorable a ses essais. Je ne puis voir par exemple une
approximation de fiovoiroAos clans, " blow hot, blow cold
(p. 393).
De plus, la telepathic, telle que nous la connaissons, ne
transmet ordinairement pas des alternatives. On peut trans-
mettre le son, la forme, tout element sensoriel, ou l'idee abstraite.
Si M. Verrall donne mi sens a //oi'oVwAo? il n'en transmettra
pas deux. Cependant (p. 392) Mme Verrall nous indique la
double traduction de ei't7T7ro? ou et? (7T7ro?, soit qui a un bon
cheval, soit qui a un seul cheval, lecture alternative d'un mot
douteux, si on veut l'idee de cheval. Si Ton prefere l'idee de
solitaire, elle re'sulte de ces mots, " alone with God and none
other," et de ceux-ci, " Planet or play net illustre vagatur coelo
sine comite."
Je doute que Ton puisse prendre au serieux ces arguments.
C'est l'inauguration du systeme des interpretations symboliques
dont on verra le developpement ulterieur.
II y a encore un autre facteur qui est important, car il
explique bien des coincidences.
On compte, dans les textes publies, 234 mots ou idees
differentes. Une analyse admettant l'approximation morpho-
logique, phonetique, symbolique et ideologique peut trouver a
coup sur, dans 1'immense quantite de materiaux que fournissent
234 idees et leurs combiuaisons, une certaine proportion de
concordances.
Quant aux faits exacts concernant des details etrangers aux
mots, objet de l'experience, je doute qu'ils aient une valeur
supranormale. Leur connaissance subliminale s'explique, nota-
ment les details relatifs aux examens du Dr. Verrall. Je ne
vois pas comment Mme Verrall peut se'rieusement soutenir qu'il
n'en a jamais etc question entre elle et son mari. J'admets
qu'elle n'a aucun souvenir conscient de conversations a ce sujet;
cela ne prouve pas que de pareilles conversations n'aient jamais
eu lieu.
Les methodes d'analyse de Mme Verrall se montrent encore
clairement dans l'incident Constable.
Mme Verrall reconnait que l'experience a echoue ;
cependant
elle trouve dans l'indication repetee de prenoms en " ia " une
tentative pour arriver au mot " fuchsia," que contenait la lettre
lxv.] Gorresjwndances croisees et la Methode experivientale. 69
dont elle devait dormer medianiquement le sens, et pense que
son texte du 3 Novembre 1902, jour ou M. Constable ecrivit
la lettre, objet de l'experience, decrit l'etat d'esprit de ce
monsieur (voy. Vol. XX., p. 170). En effet, le texte (p. 171):
" suggests
(1) an utterance from a stranger,
(2) a division of a task between two persons,
(3) the obtaining of a clue from some one (masculine),
(4) an effort of some one other than myself (feminine) to
give words."
Ce texte, qui demeure iniutelligible pour Mine Verrall, s'il
ne se refere pas a M. Constable, se refere manifestement a
Mme Forbes et aux controles.
Le 3 Novembre 1902 Mme Verrall (p. 239) regoit une
lettre de Mme Forbes contenant un message :
" (Myers) sees
the words, not so strong as your son's writing, but clearer.
Will you be sure—you—tell Mrs. Verrall to be sure I am the
writer ..." etc.
A cette epoque il y avait des essais de correspondance tele-
pathique entre Mines Verrall et Forbes : par exemple, texte
du 27 Octobre 1902 (p. 238):
" Mrs. Forbes has the other words—piece together. Add
hers to yours."
31 Octobre 1902 (p. 238):
" She has had some words incomplete, to be added to and
pieced and make the clue."
Le 7 Novembre 1902 (p. 240):
" Your message comes through Mrs. Forbes."
Comparez maintenant le texte intercalaire du 3 Novembre
(a) " None the less through others not known speaks the fate.
(b) I will give the words between you neither alone can
read, but together they will give the clue he wants . . . hers
are in English and will fill the gaps—Wait some time for
hers," etc.
La premiere phrase parait un de ces apophtegmes frequents
dans l'ecriture automatique. Elle est inapplicable a, M. Con-
stable, qui ne rendait aucun oracle. Le reste est la con-
tinuation du courant d'idees indique dans les textes des 27
et 31 Octobre. "He" est le controle de Mme Forbes, et le
"clue" est manifestement celui que vise le texte du 31 Octobre:
70 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
la repartition des mots est clairement entre Mmes Forbes et
Verrall.
Cela sauterait aux yeux si Mme Verrall avait joint a son
commentaire le texte complet qu'elle commente.
La seconde experience avec M. Constable montre encore le
rneme precede (Vol. XX., p. 172).
Mme Verrall se trompa, mais indiqua, soit dans son texte,
soit dans les commentaires l'accompagnant
"(1) that the contents of the letter were less important
than the circumstances of the experiment
(2) that the experiment was suggested to M. Constable by
some one else
(3) that the experiment was connected with the sealed
envelope {i.e. the Myers envelope which there was a
question of opening), and meant as a preliminary trial
(4) that the sealed envelope sent me was one of two and
the less important."
Dans son memoire, Mme Verrall omet de nous indiquer mi
point capital, que la lecture de l'appendice revele ; elle assistait
au diner du Conseil ou M. Constable parla de l'ouverture de
la lettre de M. Myers (p. 400). Mme Verrall repondant a
M. Constable, assure qu'elle n'a pas entendu la conversation
a table, etant assise a l'autre bout, et qu'elle ignorait qu'on eut
agite la question de l'ouverture d'une enveloppe scellee.
Ce detail ote toute valeur a l'experience. Mme Verrall
n'a certainement pas conscience d'avoir entendu cette conver-
sation, mais peut-elle affirmer qu'aucun mot ne lui en est
parvenu ? Qu'elle n'a rien surpris " subconsciemment " de cette
conversation, fort naturelle dans les circonstances, et qui
l'interessait directement ?
Ces quatre impressions sont correctes dans leur ensemble,
dit-elle (p. 173). M. Constable cependant ecrit : "I think the
experiment was not suggested to me by anyone—I worked out
the idea myself" (p. 399).1
1 Voyez, au meme point de vue, revolution qui s'est produite dans 1'esprit
de Mme Verrall a 1'occasion des textes des 8 Juillet et 25 Novembre 1901, qui
emanent manifestement du m&me communicateur, M. Balfour. L'incident
raconte parut imaginaire ; plus tard, Mme Verrall decouvrit, sur une indication
imprecise de son <5criture, dans la Biographie du Professeur Sidgwick, un incident
analogue concernant M. Sidgwick et Sir G. Trevelyan. Elle arriva insensible-
ment a attribuer au premier des textes qu'elle avait d'abord attribues a M.
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode expe'rimentale. 71
Je terminerai en analysant deux cas interessants. Dans la
nuit du 11 an 12 Mai 1901 deux jeunes gens veillent dans
un chain bre hantee, a Londres ; ils entendent et voient les
portes s'ouvrir a diverses reprises. Ils avaient repandu de la
craie (ou chaux ?) en poudre sur le plancher et constaterent
des empreintes semblables aux traces des pattes d'un gros
oiseau. Le meme jour, Mme Verrall avait ecrit : "... calx
pedibus inhaerens difficultatem superavit . . .
" et dessine un
gros oiseau a tete hurnaine grotesque, suivi d'un V entre
deux traits —V—. Au-dessous est ecrit et hoc genus omne
(p. 328).
1
Le fait est fort curieux, car il a un rapport assez vague
avec un article du Daily Mail publie sur ce phenomene de
hantise deux ou trois jours apres. J'ai eu l'occasion d'observer
des cas de ce genre, dont on trouve un autre exemple p. 324
et suivantes.
Ce fait est trop imprecis pour avoir une valeur probante.
Calx a deux sens, et l'oiseau dessine est une caricature. Ces
deux details uniques d'identification sont douteux.
Le second incident nous ramene aux questions de methode,
auxquelles j'attache une grande importance. Le 11 Dec. 1901 :
" Frost and a candle in the dim light Marmontel he was
reading on a sofa or in bed—there was only a candle's light.
She will surely remember this. The book was lent not his
own—he talked about it" (Vol. XX., p. 331).
Le 17 Decembre :
". . .Marmontel is right. It was a French
book, a Memoir I think. Passy may help Souvenirs de
Passy or Fleury. Marmontel was not on the cover—the book
was bound and was lent—two volumes in old-fashioned binding
and print. It is not in any papers—it is an attempt to
make someone remember—an incident " (Vol. XX., p. 332).
_On trouve d'autres fragments de ce texte, pages 375 et 405.
Un ami de M. Verrall, en Fevrier suivant, lut a Paris les
Memoires de Marmontel, dans son lit ou etendu sur deux
Balfour, dont la signature et l'ecriture sont iniites ; circonstance bien invrai-
semblable si le controle est M. Sidgwick. (Voy. notamment pp. 26, 27, 152, 185,
225 ;
comparez avec 278).
1
I1 y a peut-etre entre la caricature et le texte un lien classique, reminiscence
de la satire d'Horace :
" Ambubaiarum collegia, pharmacopolae Mendici, mimi,
balairones, hoc genus omne."
72 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
chaises ; dans le volume il etait question de la decouverte, a
Passy, d'un panneau qui se trouvait mele a une histoire
int^ressant Fleury.1 " It will ... be noted " (dit Mme Verrall)
"that the script in December, 1901, describes (as past) an
incident which actually occurred two and a half months later,
. . . an incident which at the time of writing was not likely
to have been foreseen by anyone."
Sur quoi se fonde-t-elle pour considerer ce texte comme
une prediction? Si on l'etudie, on trouve 14 details; 5 sont
exacts, 8 faux, 1 douteux
Exacts (1) Marmontel.
(2) Lecture an lit.
(3) 1 leury.
(4) Passy.
(5) Memoires.
Faux (6) Le nom de l'auteur est au dos de la couver-
ture.
(7) Pas de gelee.
(3) Trois volumes et non deux.
(9) Keliure qui n'est pas neuve, mais qui n'est
pas ancienne.
(10) 11 n'y a aucune femme dans l'incident.
(ID 11 ne s'agit pas d'un souvenir.
(12) Souvenirs de Passy ou Pleury.
(13) Pas de sofa, des chaises.
Douteux ••
(14) Le livre n'est pas prete.
Les details 2 et 3 sont d'une grande banalite et ne pre-
sentent aucun interet par eux-memes. lis ne prennent quelque
valeur que par leur association avec les autres details. Mais
1
Je dois a la conrtoisie de Mine Verrall la precision de l'incident auquel
elle fait allusion. C'est la decouverte de la plaque de cheminee mobile par
laquelle le Marechal de Kiehelieu s'introduisait chez Mme de la Popeliniere.
Je n'avais pas songe a identifier cet incident bien connu, car le Cardinal de
Fleury ne joue aucun role dans cette histoire (the rinding at Passy of a
panel connected with a story in which Fleury plays an important part. Vol.
XX., p. 333).
Le seul role joue par le Cardinal de Fleury a ete d'obliger La Popeliniere
a epouser sa femme. II n'a rien de commun avec l'histoire de la plaque
mobile, a mon avis. (Marmontel, Mimoires, I. 238, ed. Jouaust, Paris,
1891, 3 vol. in 1G°.)
lxv.] Correspondances croise'es et la Methode experimental?. 73
la prophetie est si vague, si indeterminee quelle se realisera
si n'importe qui, n'importe ou, n'importe quancl lit au lit a la
lueur d'une bougie, des memoires oil les noras de Marmontel,
Passy et Fleury seraient cites.
II y a une multitude de solutions possibles.
Un fait domine l'incident. II ne s'agit pas d'une prophetie,
mais d'un evenement passe, dont une dame se souviendra.
Ce sens est tellement clair que Mme Verrall a pense qu'il
etait question de Mme Sidgvvick et s'est renseignee aupres
d'elle.
II ne faut pas dire, et Mme Verrall ne le dit d'ailleurs
pas a cette occasion, que les controles sont independants du
temps. L'ecriture automatique de Mme Verrall est pleine
d'allusions precises au temps (pp. 371-373). Aussi tourne-
t-elle la difficulte. " It is possible that what the writing in-
tended to convey was that when the actual incident was
spoken of in the presence of the writer—as it was on March
1st, 1902, by Mr. Marsh—'she would surely remember' that
this incident had been described in the script" (p. 335).
Peut-on admettre un pareil systeme ? II est oppose au
sens naturel des mots. La meilleure preuve est la phrase, " it
is not in any papers," indication contradictoire avec l'idee
d'une prophetie. Quelque simplicity que Ton prete de temps
en temps aux controles, on ne saurait aller jusqu'a admettre
qu'ils prennent soin de preciser qu'un evenement a venir n'est
pas dans les gazettes.
1
II serait facile de multiplier les exemples de ces inter-
pretations forcees, qui n'indiquent pas un etat d'esprit de
chercheur sans parti pris. Comment, par exemple, admettre
serieusement la discussion de Mme Verrall soutenant que
son texte a elabore une ingenieuse allusion a Syringa en
parlant de M. Hodgson, d'Orotava, d'Oriona, de couronne
d'Ariane et de Berenice ? Pourquoi ? Le syringa est botani-
quement le Philadelphus Coronarius. Ses allusions a Oriona,
etc., sont des essais pour arriver a la couronne d'Ariane (?)
et au mot coronarius. Quant a l'autre constellation, la chevelure
de Berenice, e'est une allusion implicite a Ptolemee Philadelphe,
et par suite a Philadelphus
1
Voyez snr les conditions de validite d'une prophetie, la juste severite de
M. Piddington, Light, 1903, p. 447.
74 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Nous avons ici un des premiers exemples de la methode
analytique par rebus et calembourgs.
Ceux qui auront la patience d'etudier ruinutieusemeut le
travail de Mme Verrall remarqueront les defauts suivants
Traduction quelquefois contestable
Textes arbitrairement decoupes
Substitution d'un sens indirect ou allegorique au sens direct
Imprecision, vague, ambiguite ;
Banalite des details ;
par exemple : il y a un portrait
encadre. dans la chambre ; le rnedaillon est attache k
une chaine, et il a ete donne apres la confection du
portrait.
II fait mauvais temps, etc.
Aucun compte n'est tenu de la cryptomnesie.
Affirmations sans fondement suffisant.
II.
L'etude du rapport de Mile Johnson revele les memes
defauts de methode.
La premiere constatation que Ton fasse est la maniere
superficielle dont elle se renseigne sur les sources normales
des textes de Mme Holland. Chez cette sensitive, la crypto-
mnesie joue un role considerable et Mile Johnson en cite
des exemples (Vol. XXL, p. 286 et ss.). Malgre cela, et
malgre qu'elle soit avertie de l'impossibilite d'atteindre la
conscience subliminale du sujet en interrogeant sa conscience
normale (Vol. XXL, p. 3 8 9), elle commet constamment cette
erreur. Je crains que Mile Johnson ne soit pas tres familiere
avec les recentes recherches faites sur la psychologie du
subconscient. La dissociation de la conscience qu'elle soupoonne
dans l'automatisme (Vol. XXL, p. 263) est signalee depuis
longtemps.
Ce manque d'informations speciales ote beaucoup de valeur
aux analyses de Mile Johnson. Cependant, elle aurait pu,
avec un pen d'attention, acquerir la conviction que Mme
Holland connait les Proceedings et le Journal. Voici les raisons
qui me determinent
Le 7 Mars 1906, Mme Verrall donne un texte concernant
Mme Holland, avec des details banals, indetermines ou faux.
lxv.] Corresjoonclances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 75
Puis elle ecrit des vers contenant des reminiscences du poeme
de Tintadgel, de Eoden Noel (Vol. XXI., p. 317).
Ce texte est communique a Mme H. qui ne voit rien pouvant
s'appliquer a elle : les vers ne lui suggerent rien. Mais ils
inspirent son texte du 1 1 Mars 1906; la on voit apparaitre
la date du 26 Mai 1894, mort de M. Noel, et une dissertation
paraissant emaner de lui et du Dr. Sidgwick.
Le 14, le texte ecrit " Eighteen fifteen four five fourteen
Fourteen fifteen five twelve. . . . See Eev. 13-18. but only
the central 8 words . . . H. S. E.N. June 1st 1881—" Le
texte de l'Apocalypse est " car c'est le nombre d'un homme."
Mile Johnson suivit le conseil du texte et trouva, ce qui
etait facile, Eoden Noel. " I found afterwards," ajoute-t-elle,
" that Mrs. Holland had not looked up the text and had no
idea of what it was or of what the numbers meant."
1
Cela est bien invraisemblable, le nom de M. Hodgson ayant
ete donne un mois auparavant par le meme procede (Vol. XXI.,
pp. 304 et 305): et le procede venant de lui etre explique
(p. 321).
La source du texte de Mme Holland est l'article necro-
logique paru dans le Journal S.P.E. en Juin 1894 sur M. Noel
et signe H. S. (Journal, Vol. VI., p. 262). La date de la mort,
26 Mai 1894, est indiquee. On trouve de plus les analogies
suivantes, entre autres
Necrologie.
Eiddleofthe painful Earth . . .
He never gained the ear of
the general public . . .
The delight of natural beauty
and of the physical life.
Texte.
Eiddle of death.
The quest was more to me
than the prize.
The inherent truth and
Beauty into which all the in-
evitable uglinesses of existence
finally resolve themselves.
Le texte contemporain du 7 Mars nous donne la meme
impression. On y voit
1
Comparez: "The medium asked me who was Bob Sawyer, so it is clear
that she has never read TPickwick
13
{Light, 1905, p. 389). * *
He gripped my
hand with a Forester's grip well known to him . . . This was to me a very
good test, as Mr. B. (the medium) assured me that ... he did not know the
sign" {Light, 1908, p. 246). Mile Johnson n'est pas plus exigeante.
76 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
" Brittleworth—Brickeldale. Britleton—No—not him and not
James—Brit—Brittle Brick Brickleton—Hugo—H. M. Minster
Berg. Hugo . . . E H" (Vol. XXL, p. 306).
En lisant le Daily Express du 8 Mars, Mme H. qui n'avait
pas devine le nom, pourtant bien connu, de Miinsterberg, est
frappee par le nom de Lorberg, et le sigtiale a Mile Johnson.
Nous trouvons dans le volume XIV. des Proceedings une
critique du Prof. Hugo Miinsterberg, dans laquelle l'auteur, M.
Schiller, cite les noms de James et de Hodgson, que nous avons
deja dans le texte du 7 Mars : James, Hugo Miinsterberg et
I!. H, initiates s'appliquant certainement a Hodgson.
Ce n'est pas tout. Le nom de Lorberg figure dans le meme
volume (XIV., p. 215), dans un article de Mile Johnson "On
Chance Coincidences." Or, ce nom a provoque l'attention
subliminale de Mme Holland, justement a l'occasion du texte
oil se trouvent cites les trois autres noms associes dans la
meme partie du volume XIV. Dans cet article encore, nous
trouvons (p. 199) les noms: Brett, Shuttleworth.
L'origine cryptomnesique de cette quadruple association n'est
pas douteuse et Mme Holland, dans la rnesure on les preuves
humaines out quelque valeur, a certainement parcouru les articles
de Mile Johnson et de M. Schiller, ou en a lu des comptes-
rendus, et l'a oublie.
Remarquons combien il serait naturel que Mme Holland ait
lu les Proceedings et le Journal, et combien il est improbable
qu'elle n'ait pas eu cette curiosite.
Voici un exemple qui concerne le Journal Light
Le 6 Fevrier 1906, Mme Holland ecrit un texte ou Ton
trouve :
" This scribe . . . thoughts of this scribe—Medium is not
the best word ..." (Vol. XXL, p. 283).
Ce texte communique a M. Piddington lui parut supranormal
Le mot Scribe, est associe. a Mme Verrall ;
or, M. Piddington,
a la fin de Janvier, l'avait propose a Mme Verrall pour designer
le controle. II ne connait pas d'exemple de ce mot ainsi
employe (ib., p. 284). Plus tard cependant, il eut connaissance
d'un livre pen repandu, public en Amerique, Letters of et Spirit,
dans lequel l'automatiste s'appelle le scribe.
Le mot avait etc deja employe dans Light, notamment le
17 Octobre 1896 ; un dcrivain signant Scriba, critique dans un
article le mot " automatique" dont let S.P.R. fait usage.
lxv.] Oorrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentcde. 77
Un grand nombre de faits, qui nous sont presentes comme
supranormaux, peuvent n'etre que de simples cas de cryptomnesie ;
par exemple, l'adresse du Dr. Verrall {Proc., Vol. XL, p. 190 ;
Vol. XII., p. 124) ; une toux nerveuse, un homme grand
{Proc, Vol. VI., pp. 584, 585, 586), etc. II y aurait des
recherches psychologiques interessantes a faire sur les sources
normales spirites des textes automatiques des mediums de la
S.P.R. ; cette recherche n'a pas ete serieusement faite.
1
Mais, dit Mile Johnson, l'origine reelle des textes est moins
importante que l'apparition des coincidences observees entre
Mme Verrall et Mme Holland. Soit, mais alors, pourquoi
insister constamment sur l'impossibilite ou est le sensitif
d'avoir normalement connaissance des faits indiques par lui ?
Pourquoi en faire etat comme clans la correspondance Poden
Noel (Vol. XXL, p. 387) tout en reconnaissant la faiblesse de
l'argument ?
Analysons done le meilleur cas de correspondance croisee
entre Mmes Verrall et Holland, Ave Roma Immortalis.
" A number of details . . ., quite unintelligible to herself, were
given by Mrs. Verrall, while a single other important detail,
clinching the whole matter, was given by Mrs. Holland,
accompanied by a remark implying that Mrs. Verrall had
J
Voy. encore l'association entre M. Everard Feilding, son voyage en Malaise et
Particle sur le Spiritisme Malais, de Skeat (auteur de Malay Magic), Proc,
Vol. XVII., pp. -290-298. L'apparition, dans le texte du 9 Fevrier, 190G,
de " K. 57 [a Christian name]" (Vol. XXL, p. 304) est explicable normalement.
La lettre L est employee, suivie d'un numero pour designer une certaine
categorie d'hallucinations locales. Or, la lettre K precede immediatement la
lettre L ; une substitution analogue a celle qui dissimule le nom de M. Hodgson
au commencement du texte l'explique bien simplement. Cela est d'autant plus
vraisemblable que nous vo3*ons encore "K. 37 not in the Appendix" dans une
texte du ler Avril, 1906 (Vol. XXL, p. 346) : ce qui fait penser a Human
Personality, oil la plupart des cas sont cites, sans etre prefixes cependant de
la lettre et du chiffre : l'apparition de ce detail conduit aux Publications de
la S.P.R.
Le texte precedant immediatement "K. 37" porte : "Give her father's love.
The little grave." Or dans Human Personality, Vol. II., p. 37, il est question
d'un pere qui est enterre, et qui apparait a sa fille.
La lettre K. figure dans l'article de Mile Johnson (Proc, Vol. XIV., p. 186).
Comparez aussi le texte du 11 Avril 1906. L— 1559, L. 579, donne comme
le numero d'une automobile (Vol. XXL, p. 365). En Mars 1905, Mile Johnson
a communique a Mme H. le texte du 15 Mars 1905 de Mme Verrall, ou Ton
voit "K. L. Jan. 11" (Vol. XXL, p. 255).
78 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
been purposely kept in the dark," dit Mile Johnson (Vol.
XXI, p. 387).
Les textes de Mme Verrall sont donnes pp. 297 et ss.
2 Mars 1906.
(1) Non tali auxilio invenies quod velis non tali auxilio
nec defensoribus istis . . .
(2) Primus inter pares (3) ipse non nominis imraemor. (4)
Cum eo frater (5) etsi non sanguine (6) amnio
consanguineus (7) ii ambo tibi (8) per aliam (9) vocem
mittent . . .
4 Mars 1900.
(10) Pagan and Pope. (11) The Stoic persecutor (12) and
the Christian. (13) Gregory not Basil's friend ought
to be a clue ... (14) Pagan and Pope and Reformer
(15) all enemies as you think. (16) Crux significa-
tionem habet. (17) Crucifer qui olim fertur. . . .
5 Mars 1906.
(18) Leonis pelle sumpto (19) claviger (20) in scriptis
jam antea bene denotatus. Corrigenda sunt quaedam.
Ask your husband he knows it well. (21) Stant inde
columnae (22) relicta Calpe. jam finis. ISTo you have
left out something (23). Assiduo lectore columnae.
J'ai numterote les mots ou idees utiles, pour eviter des
redites. (1) Est-ce une allusion au siege de Troie (En. II., 521).
Son association avec (2) et (4) donnerent au Dr. Verrall
l'impression que le texte avait en vue le tableau de Raphael
" St Leon arretant Attila." II indiqua a Mme Verrall le vers
de YUnMdc, et appliqua primus inter pares au Pape ; chose
douteuse.
Eeconnaitre la fresque de Raphael sur ces details indeter-
mines :
(1) Impuissance de Priam a sauver Troie ;
( 2 ) Le premier entre ses pairs, non oublieux de son nom ;
(3) Avec lui son frere, sinon par le sang, du moins par
l'esprit
e'est faire preuve de beaucoup de perspicacite.
lxv.] Gorrespoiidances croisees et la Methocle experimentale. 79
Le reste du texte est inconciliable avec 1'opinion du Dr.
Verrall. Si primus inter pares s'applique au Pape St-Leon,
cum eo frater, etc., ne s'applique pas a St-Paul. D'un autre
cote il est difficile d'appliquer a St-Pierre le "primus inter
pares ipse own nomioiis imonemor."
Enfin, le texte annonce que les deux personuages indeter-
mines enverront a Mme Verrall un mot par une autre.
On verra que ce n'est ni St-Pierre ni St-Paul, ni St-Leon
qui envoient un message.
L'emergence de l'idee du Pape clans les textes des 4 et
5 Mars est due a la suggestion du Dr. Verrall (Vol. XXL,
p. 299). Sa femme sait qu'il voit oil le texte veut en venir
il y a un pape, un frere par l'esprit, un siege. C'est la-dessus
que le texte brode ; l'idee d'un siege de Eome, residence du
pape, eveille l'idee de paiens ou de reformes et rappelle les
papes St-Gregoire (qui reussit a ecarter les Lombards a la
fin du vi
e
siecle), Gregoire VII. (assiege par l'Empereur Henri,
grand reformateur, Gregoire XIII. (reformateur du calendrier),
et St-Leon (assiege par Attila). On trouve ces indications
melees vaguement et associees a Hercule (Claviger, Columnae,
Calpe).
Le 7 Mars, Mme Holland donna un long texte ou se trou-
vent melangees au moins 70 idees differentes, susceptibles
d'associations nombreuses. On lit :
" Ave Eoma immortalis.
How could I make it any clearer without giving her the
clue ? How cold it was that winter—Even snow in Eome
we might have stayed at home, etc." (Vol. XXL, p. 295).
Mile Johnson trouve la un cas de correspondance typique.
II n'est pas impossible, dit-elle, que l'idee de Eome ait ete
transmise telepathiquement par M. Verrall, mais alors pourquoi
Mme Holland a-t-elle ajoute :
" Comment pouvais-je le rendre
plus clair sans lui donner l'indieation ?
" Cela n'etait pas
dans la conscience de M. Verrall.
Au point de vue de la telepathie le raisonnement de Mile
Johnson est contestable; M. Verrall a eu le sentiment traduit
par le texte, puisqu'il a dit a sa femme qu'il voyait ou
l'ecriture voulait en venir, mais qu'il a garde le silence sur
l'indieation precise, l'episode peint par Eaphael.
La telepathie n'est pas necessaire ; il y a une simple
coincidence. M. Myers est mort a Eome, et on trouve de
so Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
nombreuses references a Home dans les textes public's de Mme
Holland : le contexte montre beaucoup d'erreurs et de contra-
dictions difficiles a comprendre s'il y a une intelligence unique
dirigeant les communications.
L'analyse du cas " Elicu ! fugaccs " conduit aux memes
conclusions. On nous dit que le texte de Madame Verrall
(cite. Vol. XXI., p. 363) repete plusieurs fois l'idee de fuite.
On pent contester cette interpretation qui serait fondee sur
la description d'un enlevement imaginaire. Je vois bien l'idee
d'une promenade que font ensemble des personnes indeter-
minees, en voiture, avec de la neige, un brillant soleil, le
bruit des clochettes et du fouet ; mais je n'apereois pas la
fuite, ni l'enlevement. On ne choisit pas pour fair, ni pour
enlever, un brillant soleil, on ne claque pas du fouet et on
ne garnit pas les harnais de sonnettes, c'est levidence merae.
Mme Verrall fait allusion a une promenade en voiture,
dans l'Engacline, si Maloja traduit le seuil de Maloggia, ortho-
graphic a l'anglaise.
Viennent ensuite l'idee de chauve-souris qui s'enfuit (on
s'est envolee), une dame est seule. Puis: "There is an effort
to have the same words this time"; en fin : "On bat's wings
rides Queen Mab." Le seul mot repete est " bat," chauve-
souris.
Le mOme jour, Mme Holland ecrit :
" A great black shadow
and the sound of a wailing wind—Eheu fuo;aces
'
o o
Cela suffit a Mile Johnson pour nous assurer qu'il y a une
correspondance croisee. L'idee de fuite si richement decrite par
Mme \rerrall est resumee dans un seul mot latin par Mme
Holland, comme on l'a observe (?) clans le cas " Ave Roma."
La seule idee de fuite observable dans le texte de Madame
Verrall est relative a la chauve-souris. Elle n'a aucun rapport
avec l'idee d'ombre noire et de vent qui gemit, exprimee par
Mme Holland. Les mots latins, qui se trouvent dans tous les
recueils de citation (p. ex. Wood), expriment seuls l'idee corres-
pondante, mais l'expression en est fort differente, car Horace
ne vent peindre que lY-coulement rapide des annees. C'est
l'idee de vitesse, non de fuite qui inspire ses vers.
L'emergence du latin s'explique par le desir d'avoir un
message semblable a celui de Madame Verrall dont les textes
sont fertiles en mots latins. On trouve l'indication du desir
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 81
que j'indique dans une lettre ecrite par Mine Holland (Vol. XXI.,
p. 364).
Mile Johnson fait done dire au texte de Mme Verrall plus
qu'il ne contient, ou autre chose que ce qu'il dit ;
ensuite, elle
s'appuie sur une concordance eloignee, douteuse quand au sens,
et dont l'un des termes est une locution latine devenue pro-
verbiale. D'un autre cote elle oublie que le controle annonce
qu'il essaye de transmettre les mimes mots, car Mmes Verrall
et Holland ecrivent le meme jour, apres convention. Or, chose
significative, il n'y a aucun mot latin dans le texte de Mme
Verrall, tel qu'il est publie, ce qui est contraire a ses habitudes.
En revanche, Mme Holland cite du latin, ce qui est egalement
contraire a ses habitudes. On voit dans ce petit detail la trace
d'un effort subconscient, qui aboutit a des resultats contra-
dictoires, et exclut manifestement l'idee d'un intelligence
directrice.
Une methode prudente devrait tenir compte des elements
que je signale, et eviter de considerer comme demontres des
faits douteux ou indetermines. Or on constate trop souvent
ce vice de raisonuement chez Mile Johnson. En voici d'autres
exemples.
Mme Verrall, 21 Mars 1906, ecrit: " Posilippo, and a terrace
there, blue sea beyond the marble balustrade " (Vol. XXL,
p. 334).
Une heure auparavant, Mme Holland avait ecrit :
" M. saw
a real place that last time but she has never seen the place
itself and did not describe it very clearly."
Les deux textes ne coincident pas, puisque Mme Holland
ecrit a 10 heures 10, alors que Mme Verrall n'a pas encore
ecrit. De plus Mme Verrall n'a rien vu, a moins que l'ana-
logie ne permette de prendre le mot see comme synonyme de
write. Quant a la description, elle est applicable a cent mille
endroits ou il y a des terrasses, avec des balustrades de marbre
dominant la mer.
Le texte de Mme Holland est encore erronne, si on le compare
a celui de Mme Verrall, en ce sens que si la description est
insuffisante, le nom de l'endroit est donne ; il est done clairement
reconnaissable.
II est vrai que Mme Verrall n'est pas allee a Naples et n'a
pas vu le Pausilippe, mais, si le texte de Mme Holland voulait
F
82 Joseph Maxwell, M.J). [part
avoir le moindre sens, il devait faire allusion a un evenement
supranormal ; decrire un endroit connu n'a rien d'extraordinaire
il fallait done que la description s'appliquat a un endroit inconnu
de Mme Verrall.
Je n'attache pas d'importance a l'allusion a Marseille ; Mmes
Verrall et Holland etaient en correspondance.
Lemergence des allusions a M. Noel a ete determinee chez
Mme Holland par la lecture des textes de Mme Verrall, on
il est question de " Tintagel and the sea that moaned," etc.
Mme Holland n'avait d'abord pas reconnu la reminiscence, mais
Mile Johnson, deux ans plus tard, communiqua de nouveau
les vers de Mme Verrall a Mme Holland (6 Fevrier 1908,
A
T
ol. XXI., p. 325) qui reconnut Eoden Noel cette fois. Cela
eveilla l'attention de Mile Johnson qui demanda des explica-
tions :
" Did you say Eoden Noel because you remembered that
you had had references to him ... or do you think that you
subliminally recognised the verses ?
"
Et Mme Holland a repondu que le nom de Eoden Noel
lui a ete transmis UUpatJiiquement par Mile Johnson.
II est difficile de prendre cela serieusement, puisque la
reconnaissance subliminale, certaine dans le cas cite, explique
les concordances dont on fait des correspondances. Cependant
Mile Johnson se contente de cette explication (Vol. XXI.,
p. 326); Mme Holland a une excellente memoire normale
pour la poesie ; si elle avait lu Eoden Noel elle s'en serait
souvenue, et aurait reconnu la source de ses allusions
Comme logique cela laisse ;i desirer ;
d'ailleurs, l'incident
abonde en illogismes, et je signalerai la question :
" Croyez-
vous avoir reconnu subliminalement les vers ?
" Comment
peut-on le savoir, si la reconnaissance a ete subliminale, et
quelle valeur aura une reponse negative ? " We can only
interrogate their supraliminal consciousness," dit Mile Johnson,
page 389.
C'est dans les textes de Mesdames Verrall et Holland que
Mile Johnson a decouvert le principe des correspondances
oroisees,1
sur lesquelles s'appuye la croyance a l'intervention
1
On trouve dans la litterature spirite de curieux precedents ;
voy. Mile
F. J. Theobald, "Similar messages through different mediums,"' Light, 1881,
41, 54, 63, 171 ; comparez les messages complementaires recus de Benjamin
Coleman par M. Newton en AmeYique et M. S. Moses ii Londres, Light, 1884,
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 83
posthume de M. Myers et des membres decedes de la S.P.E.
La definition est donnee, p. 375. "We do not get in the
writing of one automatist anything like a mechanical verbatim
reproduction of phrases in the other ; we do not even get the
Siime idea expressed in different ways,—as might well result
from direct telepathy ... we get ... a fragmentary utterance
in one script, which seems to have no particular point or
meaning, and another fragmentary utterance in the other, of an
equally pointless character ; but when we put the two together,
we see that they supplement one another, and that there is
apparently one coherent idea underlying both, but only partially
expressed in each."
Cela exclut la possibility de la telepathie entre personnes
vivantes, car il est difficile de supposer que la perception
telepathique d'un fragment pourrait conduire a la production
d'un autre fragment, clont le rapport au premier ne sera reconnu
qu'apres une comparaison attentive.
La preuve de la survie a jusqu'ici ete cherchee dans les
souvenirs conserves ; ceux-ci ne peuvent etre verifies qu'au
moyen des souvenirs d'une autre personne, forcement vivante,
et par consequent cette personne peut etre l'agent inconscient de
la telepathie. Le controle ne peut songer a communiquer des
renseignements sur sa vie actuelle ; on ne pourrait pas les
verifier, cela est possible pour les vivants et, c'est en cela que
consiste la difference fondamentale entre la telepathie provoquee
par les vivants et les morts.
Les correspondances croisees perniettraient aux Esprits une
sorte de telepathie relative a des faits actuels : les ev^nements
correspondants sont inconnus de toute personne vivante puisque
le sens et la portee des messages demeurent incompris des
mediums eux-memes, jusqu'au moment ou la comparaison des
textes les revelent. La preuve de ces faits contemporains se
trouve dans les ecrits et par consequent, la methode employee
tend a satisfaire toutes nos exigences.
Telle est la these de Mile Johnson.
Tout cela est une affirmation que l'examen des cas retenus
ne justifie pas. Sur huit cas, faible recolte, Mile Johnson
54. A ce sujet M. Moses ecrit : "He (B. Coleman's spirit) gave the evidence
of a plan, a scheme of work underlying the apparently dissociated phenomena,
that marks the interference of a spirit with our world, etc."
84 Joseph Max well, M.D. [part
reconnait que le premier, le texte Selwyn (texte connu de bien
des vivants) n'est pas probant. Le second cas, notes de miisique,
peut-etre de la telepathie simple. Le 4°, Eoden Noel, comme
le reconnait a la fin Mile Johnson (p. 387) peut avoir une
explication naturelle.
II reste les cas: (3) "not in the Electra " and "Henry was
not mistaken." (5) Ave Koma ; (6) Posilippo ; (7) Eheu fngaces ;
(8) Fawcett.
Le cas (8) est une coincidence de noms, les personnes designees
par les automatistes ne sont pas les memes, et les details qui
permettent a Mme Verrall de reconnaitre sa cousine, Mme
Fawcett sont: (1) une allusion a Broadlands qui concerne
M. Myers, (2) " F. a blue jewel." C'est insuffisaniment
determine.
Quant au cas No. 3, il peut servir d'introduction aux corre-
spondances croisees que signalent les travaux ulterieurement
publies.
Le 6 Fevrier Mme Holland essaye d'eerire des mots grecs,
inintelligibles d'ailleurs (Vol. XXL, p. 310). Le 9, Mme Verrall
donne un texte contenant du grec, notamment une citation
d'Eschyle, Agamemnon, 124-125. Le 19 "... Ask for the
volume . . . She will know." Le 20, "Get her to write
cukivov a'lXivov and the rest."
Le 21, les deux mediums se rencontrerent dans le bureau
de Mile Johnson et Mme Verrall fit encore allusion au livre
que Mme Holland ne connaissait pas ; c'est une traduction
d'Euripide, par M. Murray. L'ecriture automatique de Mme
Verrall se trompa done ; il est curieux de noter qu'au meme
moment, on jouait a Londres une traduction de YEIectre d'Euri-
pide, par Murray.
Un texte du 28, ne contient encore aucune allusion intel-
ligible pour Mme Holland. Le meme jour celle-ci donne un
message ou Ton compte 1 71 iddes differentes ; combien de cor-
respondances pourraient s'y greffer si Ton suivait la methode de
Mile Johnson ?
On y lit " Not in the Electra. M. will know better." C'est
1'allusion au vers grec, qui en effet n'est pas dans YEIectre de
Sophocle ni dans celle d'Euripide, comme le sait M. (Mme
Verrall). " It may be taken to apply to the Greek line quoted
by Mrs. Verrall for the third time on February 28th. . . . There
lxv.] Corresjoondances croisees et la Metliode experimentale. 85
is a certain point, Mrs. Verrall thinks, in mentioning the Electro.
in this connexion, because the Electra (of Sophocles or Euripides)
is equivalent to the second play of the ^Eschylean Trilogy, of
which the Agamemnon is the first ; so that Mrs. Holland's script
might be taken to mean : the line is in the Trilogy, but not
in the second play ( = Electra), which was true."
C'est ainsi qu'on transforme en chose precise une declaration
ambigue. En realite, Mme Holland pouvait dire " Not in
the Electra—M. will know better " sans se compromettre
les textes de Mme Verrall contiennent souvent des citations
grecques, et il y a une infinite de chances pour que ces citations
soient empruntees a d'autres sources que YElectre ; 1'idee de
cette derniere piece se presentait d'ailleurs toute seule a, l'esprit,
puisqu'on la jouait a Londres. Tout cela est conforme, comme
procedes et sources, aux lois psychologiques les plus communes
des ph^nomenes automatiques.
Eien ne permet d'admettre l'interpretation de Mme Verrall.
On ne trouve pas la moindre indication de l'idee de trilogie.
Les allusions de Mme Holland, impliquees dans le mot Electra,
sont indeterminees.
Ce n'est pas sur des interpretations pareilles que Ton peut
etablir un raisonnement scientifique. Malheureusement, le mode
de raisonnement s'est generalise. Mile Johnson montre que le
principe des correspondances croisees est contenu explicitement
dans les textes de Mme Verrall : l'invention de l'interpretation
analogique ou symbolique revient encore a cette automatiste.
III.
Le rapport de M. Piddington marque un pas en avant dans
l'application de cette singuliere methode.
Ce rapport resume les concordances observes entre Mme
Piper, Mile et Mme Verrall et Mme Holland. 74 seances
de l'une, 63 textes de Mme Verrall, 17 de Mile Verrall, 38
de Mme Holland sont analyses. On voit combien cela repre-
sente de mots susceptibles de concorder. On a chez les trois
dernieres, plus de 2.500 centres d'associations explicites, ou
nnplicites. Quant aux idees exprimees par Mme Piper, il est
difficile de les evaluer k moins de plusieurs milliers.
86 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [PAItT
M. Piddington a trouve, dans cette masse de documents, 24
concordances seulement dont quelques unes sont complexes. La
moisson demeure bien maigre. II est regrettable que les experi-
mentateurs, sauf Mme Sidgwick, ne nous donnent aucune
indication sur la proportion des succes aux insucces. Nous
savons seulement (Vol. XXII., p. 23) que sur 18 mots choisis
par les experimentateurs, pour etre transmis, un seul reussit
a l'Gtre.
Les correspondances croisees signalees par M. Piddington
concernent quelquefois des mots si communs, que leur sur-
venance a des epoques, meme rapprochees, dans plusieurs textes
ne signifie rien. Tels sont Steeple—Hope—Star—Arrow—Giant
and Dwarf—Laurel wreath —Violets—Cup—Spirit and Angel-
Mountains, Seas, Lakes, Eivers—Music—Azure, Horizon.
Pour faire la partie belle aux experimentateurs, j'analyserai
seulement leurs meilleurs cas.
Celestial Halcyon Days.
Le 15 Janvier 1907, Myers-Piper pretend avoir donne a
Mme Verrall; "Celestial Halcyon Days" (Vol. XXII., p. 103).
Mme Verrall ne se souvenait pas d'avoir lu ces mots
(qu'elle n'a jamais obtenus en realite). Le 22 Janvier elle ecrivit
un texte ou figure le mot inusite " supern " et Mme Verrall
se souvint d'avoir eu trois ans et demi auparavant le mot
supernal. Le 3 Juillet 1903, elle avait ecrit une communica-
tion relative a la paix, a la contemplation sur de hauts sommets
et finissant par " the storm and whirlwind consume the blue
clear space between the worlds, but the supernal peace is
undisturbed."
" The fundamental idea of halcyon days, nous dit-on,—an
interval of calm between storms—seems to be represented in
the words '
the storm and whirlwind consume the blue clear
space between the worlds.' The main point of the script,
however, seems to be that while halcyon days in this world
are transitory, in the celestial world they are unending."
Cela suffit aux experimentateurs pour etablir une correspon-
dance; Mme Verrall avait bien exprime, des 1903, l'idee
indiquee par le controle.
En admettant que le texte de Mme Verrall ait le sens
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Metlwde experimentale. <S7
allegue, sa citation par Myers-Piper ne prouve absolument rien,
car ce texte figure au Vol. XX., p. 64. On y trouve (texte
et note) les mots " stillness in the air," " peace," " storm and
whirlwind." Mme Piper connait le memoire de Mine Verrall
(Vol. XXII., p. 106). L'expression "halcyon days" signifie les
jours de calme entre les tempetes du solstice d'hiver, et derive
de la fable mythologique de Ceyx et Alcyone. Elle est citee
dans Webster.
La source de i'information est normale, " but even if this
was the case," dit M. Piddington, " it is difficult to imagine
that auy part of the consciousness of Mrs. Piper, who is
entirely without classical scholarship, should have summarised
[Mrs. Verrall's script] in the words '
Celestial Halcyon Days.'
Cela est au contraire probable ; l'idee de " celestial " a son
origine dans "the rest of the heaven" (Vol. XX., p. 64, note);
les mots de Mme Piper sont une traduction maladroite du
texte de Mme Verrall ; un erudit n'aurait pas traduit " the
supernal peace is undisturbed " par " Celestial halcyon days."
Les jours halcyoniques etant etymologiquement une periode
de deux semaines, entre les tempetes du solstice d'hiver, ils
signifient un temps de calme passager, idee contraire a celle
de supern dans le texte de Mme Verrall.
Quant au moyen par lequel lecriture automatique rappelle
a Mme Verrall son texte anterieur, c'est un cas classique tie
cryptomnesie, tout au plus.
On voit a quoi se red nit ce phenomeue. Les indications
donnees par Mme Piper existaient dans un texte imprime
connu d'elle. Le rapporteur raisonne comme les personnes qui
se fondent sur l'apparente incapacite des mediums pour attri-
buer leurs messages a des esprits. 1
Crossing the Bar 2
et Vincident auras ovpavos ukvjulov.
Prappee de la vraisemblance de la personnihcatioii Myers-
Piper et de la connaissance que ce eontrole avait des parties
inedites de son ecriture automatique, Mme Verrall imagina
une experience cruciale pour demontrer que Myers-Piper avait
acces aux souvenirs personnels de feu M. Myers. Elle demanda
au eontrole de traduire les trois mots grecs ci-dessus cites ; ils
1 Les curieux pourront comparer le texte de Mme Verrall a Spirit Teachings,
Memorial Edition, pp. ITS, 179 et notamment 180, ligne 1 a 3.
2
Ce poeme de Tennyson est deux fois cite dans Light, 1890.
88 Joseph Maxwell, M D. [part
servent d'epigraphe a une ode de Myers a Tennyson, publiee
dans Fragments of Prose and Poetry. On nous assure que
Mine Piper n'en a pas connaissance. Pour le demontrer M.
Piddington nous cite (Vol. XXIL, p. 109, footnote) le resultat
d'une enquete faite ... en Amerique ; mais Mme Piper a pu
voir ce livre soit chez les amis de M. Myers, soit au siege
de la S.P.E. soit dans une bibliotheque. En effet, le fascicule
LI. des Proceedings, paru en Decembre 1906, contient une
analyse de ce livre ; de plus, le rapport de Mile Jobnson
iudique comment Mine Holland a pu consulter sans difticulte
l'ouvrage de M. Myers dans une bibliotheque de Londres (Vol.
XXL, p. 246).
La reponse complete comportait (1) la traduction ; (2) une
allusion au poeme de Myers sur Tennyson; (3) une allusion
a Plotin et a la derniere partie de Human Personality.
Le controle (Vol. XXIL, p. 142) voulut, des le debut, savoir
ce que les mots avaient " to do with our experiments ?
".
Mine Verrall lui apprit ceci " J think you have spoken of
them to 'nte before, or something like them." Indication precieuse
qui fut utilisee.
Des le lendeinain, Mme Verrall crut trouver des allusions.
La phrase "haven of rest" fut mentionnee comme pouvant lui
rappeler des souvenirs de M. Myers. A la fin de la seance
il y eut des allusions aberrantes a " Larches " et " Laburnum
qui evoquent chez Mme Verrall l'idee de Tennyson. Ces
associations paraissent etre personnelles a cette dame et rien
n'indique que M. Myers les connut.
Le rapporteur insiste cependant sur le mot Larch qui figure
dans un poeme de Tennyson, Ln Memoriam, XCL, ou il y a
une allusion a lAlcyon (Martin-pecheur) "the sea-blue bird
of March." Cela rappelle la correspondance " Celestial Halcyon
Buys."
II est probable en effet que le controle s'en est servi ; il
a utilise le memoire de Mme Verrall ; cela semble resulter de
l'equivalence "rest of Heaven" (Vol. XX., p. 64, note) et
" Haven of Rest." L'allusion a " un siege, sur lequel il s'asseyait
"
(Vol. XXIL, p. 144) rappelle etonnamment " The corner of the
seat . . . where he always sect " : ce qui implique l'idee d'un
vaste siege (Vol. XX., p. 239).
Nous avons la une origine normale des allusions, a haven
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimental. 89
of rest ; elles out £te provoquees par la phrase de Mme Verrall
" Vous m'en avez deja parle " qui limifce le cercle des recher-
ches du controle.
De plus, Larches et Laburnum sont indiques comme " I
mentioned larches to you before", ce qui est le rappel d'une
pretendue transmission de M. Myers a Mine Verrall. Laburnum,
ecrit Laburman, est depourvu de contexte. Eien ne suggere
l'idee d'une reponse aux mots grecs.
M. Piddington examine ensuite les allusions que Mme Verrall
fait elle-meme a sa question. C'est la une methode deconcer-
tante, puisque cette dame a pose" la question et connatt la reponse.
Les experiinentateurs ne semblent pas s'apercevoir que les con-
cordances qui pourront survenir entre Mme Verrall et Mme
Piper ne depasseront pas desormais les possibilites de la tele-
pathic. Je crois inutile de suivre M. Piddington dans ses
commentaires sur les reponses que Mme Verrall se fait a
elle-meme. L'interet de l'experience ne va pas au dela des
concordances observes entre les deux mediums.
Le 6 Fevrier, M. Piddington lit une lettre de Mme Verrall,
qui felicite les controles des excellentes reponses donnees par
eux les 29 et 30 Janvier. "Especially F. W. H. Myers seems
to me to have shown on January 30 that he understood my
three Greek words." C'est donner une indication au controle
qui a parle de jours alcyoniques le 30. II se fixe dans le cycle
d'idees associees a ces mots.
Le 6 Mars, Myers-Piper annonea qu'il avait fait dessiner a
Mme Verrall un triangle dans im cercle. Ce sione devait
servir a marquer des correspondances croisees.1
M. Piddington
demande aussitot (Vol. XXII., p. 148) quand ce sigue a ete
trace et quels sont les mots transmis en meme temps. Hector
repond qu'il ne sait pas si on pourra indiquer la date, mais-
le mot pourra l'etre. Et il ajoute aussitot " cloudless, sky,
horizon." Quoiqu'en dise M. Piddington (Vol. XXII., p. 1-49)
Kector repond manifestement a la question qui vient de lui
etre posee.
Mais M. Piddington a l'esprit prevenu a tel point qu'il
explique ainsi la difficulte eprouvee par lui a lire le mot
" horizon " ;
"
' sky '
is not a word which one would expect to
1 " You wish me to make a sign when giving a word at Mrs. Verrall's, also
at Mrs. Holland's?" Mr. Piddington— " Yes,'' etc. (Vol. XXII. pp. 36-7).
90 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [
PART
find immediately followed by 'horizon'" (Vol. XXII., p. 149).
Webster definit pourtant horizon " the apparent junction of the
earth and sky."
Au reveil Mme Piper pronone^a ces mots " moaning at the
bar when I put out to sea. . . . Arthur Hallam. Good-bye,
Margaret " ; ce qui indiquerait une correspondance croisee avec
Mme Verrall. Certains d'entre eux sont d'une lecture incer-
taine, mais on peut admettre les indications de M. Piddington,
qui declare que, suivie des mots ci-dessus, la phrase " cloudless
sky beyond the horizon," est une paraphrase de auras oupavos
OLKV/XOOV.
On ne peut laisser passer cette affirmation sans reserves.
Les eubrts tendant a demontrer que l'adjonction de " beyond
the horizon " a " sky " est faite pour traduire ovpavog et le dis-
tinguer de arjp est de l'imagination pure. Un erudit n'aurait
pas traduit aKu/mwi/ par " cloudless " (M. Myers le traduit " Let
Heaven itself be still ").
Pour justifier l'appropriation de la paraphrase aux mots
grecs, on invoque encore la concordance apparente entre les
textes de Mine Verrall, etablissant un parallele entre Plotin
et Tennyson, citant In Memoriam et Crossing the Bar et les
allusions faites par Mme Piper, au stade du reveil, a ces poemes.
Cette association existait dans l'esprit des experimentateurs,
son emergence dans les ecrits ou les discours de Mme Piper ne
depasse done pas les ressources connues de la transmission de
pensee. M. Piddington a trop d'experience pour ne pas
apercevoir cette objection. II y repond ainsi
Je n'avais pas, a la date du 6 Mars, vu les textes de
Mme Verrall qui, le 11 Mars, developpent le parallele entre
l'extase telle que la decrivent Plotin et Tennyson.1
Je ne
eonnaissais que l'allusion faite par Mme Verrall a Crossing
the Bar ;
je n'avais pas distingue la citation d'ln Memoriam
(6 Mars). Je ne suis done pas l'agent, puisque je n'avais
pas la notion de ces concordances, sauf pour Crossing the Bar}
1
Mme Verrall publie une dissertation qui semble faire bon march e des propres
paroles de Tennyson ; le poete s'entrancait en repetant tout bas son nom {Ancient
Sage), il ne demande pas que l'air soit immobile. (''The air that smites his
forehead is not air but Vision" Holy Grail.)
2
Crossing the Bar est une expression familiere aux spii ites. C'est le titre du
Ier Chapitre des Letters from Julia, de M. Stead.
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentcde. 91
" To suppose that subconsciously I grasped the real significance
and connection of these oracular scripts and passed my know-
ledge on to Mrs. Piper is too strained a hypothesis for me to have
patience with. If the knowledge shown in Mrs. Piper's trance
was obtained from any living person it was from Mrs Verrall
(Vol. XXII., p. 128, note). L'hypothese qui indigne M. Pid-
dington, p. 128, devient raisonnable, p. 129, des qu'il s'agit
de Mme Verrall. " One must assume either that Mrs. Verrall's
subconsciousness had worked out the connection between In
Memoriam and avros ovpavo? ukv/uwv some five or six days
before she normally grasped it—a perfectly reasonable hypo-
thesis," etc. Cette hypothese, en effet, est la plus vraisemblable.
L'analyse de ce cas revele le manque de sang-froid des
operateurs (Vol. XXII., p. 163). Le controle parle de ses
efforts pour trausmettre un mot commencant par D. Mme
Verrall s eerie aussitot :
"1 know the word. I told it to my
husband yesterday. Shall I say it ?
"—" Yes what is it ? ", repond
Myers-Piper "Dante." Dante a beau figurer parmi les grands
visionnaires cites par M. Myers, il est clair que l'emergence
de son nom a ete directement suggeree par Mme Verrall.
D'ailleurs, le controle en est toujours a Halcyon days. II
veut indiquer l'auteur des mots grecs, il le connait bien et l'a
donne deja en reponse, a l'occasion du poerue Hcdcyon days, etc.
II est evident que Myers-Piper est dans la plus complete
ignorance de la vraie reponse, bien qu'il affirme avoir repondu
(Vol. XXII., p. 16-1). M. Piddington ajoute "However want-
ing in definiteness many of the statements . . . were, it is
important to note that Mrs. Verrall at the time took the
references to St. Paul and Swedenborg to be connected with
her question about the authorship of the Gi-reek words, in
spite of the fact that at the time she failed to see any
relevance in them."
La conviction des experimentateurs est done faite d'avance.
Bien que Swedenborg et St-Paul soient representee comme des
correspondances deja donnees, on ne s'attache pas aux paroles
du controle; on cherche une allusion symbolique et on la trouve
dans ce fait que ces noms figurent dans le passage ou les mots
grecs sont traduits. Je ne crois pas qu'il soit possible de preter
aux controles a la fois une connaissance merveilleuse des choses
et une grande maladresse a les exprimer. Nous ne connaissons
92 Joseph Maxwell, 31. D. [part
leur pensee que par son expression, et nous n'avons pas le
droit de negliger cette expression pour nous attacher seulement
a des coincidences de mots. D'autant plus que St-Paul a deja
fait l'objet d'une correspondance croisee.
L'origine supranormale de ces mots n'est done pas certaine
encore le doute ne peut-il subsister que pour Swedenborg.
Mais, en admettant menie ce doute comme favorable a la these
des experimentateurs, il n'en reste pas moins clair que Mme
Verrall sait ce que doit etre la reponse, puisqu'elle cherche des
allusions au passage de Human Personality oil ces noms sont
mentionnes (Vol. XXII., p. 132). On demeure toujours dans
le domaine de la telepathie, et il ne semble pas que les experi-
mentateurs en aieut conscience, car ils estiment que le controle
niontre " The vigilance, real or admirably simulated, of a
trained experimenter, as anxious as Mr. Podmore himself to
eliminate thought-transference from the sitter." On peut juger
du bien fonde de cette observation (Vol. XXII., p. 129,
note 1).
En tons cas, le controle s'apereoit des erreurs qu'il fait ; la
froideur de Mme Verrall k la seance du 29 Avril l'avertit
qu'il se trompe, et apres avoir clos l'incident le 29 en disant,
" Amen ! Amen at last
!
", il la rouvre des le lendemain et il
dit timidement Homere. " Omer's III lard; it is the name of
the author" (Ar
ol. XXIL, p. 166). Mile Johnson cache mal
sa surprise, mais le controle persiste dans son absurde reponse,
qu'il renouvelle a l'arrivee de Mme Verrall, et il exprime
l'opiniou que sa reponse aux mots grecs est complete (p. 167).
Mme Verrall laisse voir son desenchantement ;
pas de felicitations
cette fois, mais, des reponses clairement mecontentes. Je crois
avoir repondu completement dit le controle :
" Very likely, yes,
I think so," replique glacialement Mme Verrall.
Le controle voit qu'il a fait fausse route, et il change aussitot
de reponse : Pa . . . (que Ton prend pour Platon), Soc, Socratese,
et Homere.1
Mme Verrall persiste dans sa froideur et le con-
trole hesite, il peut avoir repondu, mais il reflechira encore.
On voit, qu'au 30 Avril, Myers-Piper est encore dans
l'ignorance absolue. II se trompe lourdement, si on prend ses
reponses dans leur sens nature! Mais la methodc symbolique
1
Voyez l'association de Platon, Homere et Socrate clans un entrefilet de
"Light," 1906, p. 192, signe V. Cela peut etre aussi une correspondance.
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Metlwde experimental e. 93
permet de trouver la verite desiree, au milieu de ces erreurs
offertes. Homere, Ylliade, Pa transforme en Platon et Socrate
sont tres appropries, parce que, dans le Criton, Platon raconte la
vision de Socrate ; une femme vetue de blanc lui apparait et
lui dit un vers de Ylliade d'Homere. La preuve resulte des
recherches de Mme Verrall ; son ecriture automatique porte le
ler Mai, "Eagle soaring cd>ove the tomb of Plato." C'est une
phrase du passage cherche de Human Personality ; la il est
question de Swedenborg, Dante, St-Paul ; dans les 33 dernieres
pages, le mot Vision avec une majuscule est employe deux fois
1
;
la premiere a l'occasion de la vision de Socrate, la seconde fois
a propos de Plotin. Cela parait decisif a Mme Verrall. Seule
une intelligence familiere avec les deux derniers chapitres du
livre pouvait voir une connexion entre la vision de Socrate et
celle de Plotin.
On est un peu deconcerte par tant de subtilite, on perd de
vue le texte, et on ne voit pas les erreurs de fait qui sont a
la base de l'ingenieuse construction de Mme Verrall et de
M. Piddington. On ne se rend pas compte d'une chose bien
simple. Myers-Piper repond a tort et a travers. Homere,
Socrate, Pa, sont donnes comme le nom de l'auteur des mots
grecs, il n'est pas question de vision, ni de Human Personality ;
Myers cherche k nommer l'auteur. M. Piddington n'a pas le
droit de preter aux mots du controle un sens manifestement
etranger au contexte.
D'ailleurs l'assimilation est fantaisiste. La vision de Socrate
n'a rien de commun avec l'extase, ni avec ses conditions
atmospheriques. L'extase, consciente et philosophique de
Plotin, n'est pas l'extase somnambulique, ni meme mystique
religieuse proprement dite. La vision est cliniquement une
hallucination sensorielle ; or la philosophie mystique en-
seigne que le caractere de l'intuition directe, survenant dans
l'extase, est d'etre un phenomene de l'entendement, presque
depouille d'elements sensoriels. II peut y avoir des extases
sans vision, comme des visions sans extase.
La discussion de Mme Verrall peut etre ainsi resumee : si
nous negligeons le sens direct des reponses de Myers nous
trouvons qu'il cite, le 29, trois noms qui figurent page 291
x
Voy. Vision, ainsi ecrit par M. Myers, dans d'autres circonstances, Journal,
Vol. IX., p. -290.
94 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [PAKT
de Human Personality, qu'il cite, le 30, Pa (pris pour Platon),
Socrate et Homere cites egalement dans les derniers chapitres
du livre.
1
Done, il fait allusion a ce livre, et il fait allusion a
l'Extase parce que Swedenborg, Dante et St-Paul sont des
extatiques, et que, le livre parle de la vision de Socrate et
d'un vers de Ylliade. Que d'allusions possibles avec ce
systeme
Mme Verrall oublie que e'est elle qui a suggere Dante,
auquel le controle ne songeait pas ;
que e'est elle qui complete
l'allusion au nom de Swedenborg ;
que St-Paul est une
correspondance recente, qu'enfin les noms de Socrate et de
Pa ... ne sont que des tatonnements provoques par son
attitude.
Le nom de Plotin ne fut donne que le 6 Mai, a Mine
Sidgwick, qui l'attendait, car Mme Verrall avait deja indique
a Mile Johnson et k Mme Sidgwick qu'il y avait des allusions
a Human Personality dans les seances du 29 et du 30 Avril,
et qu'il ne manquait plus que le nom de Plotin.
En realite, l'experience a dure du 15 Janvier au 6 Mai,
pres de quatre mois ; Mme Verrall et les autres experimentateurs
connaissaient les reponses cherchees. Elles out ete obtenues
peniblement, avec des erreurs grossieres et prolongees ;
jamais
la traduction exacte des mots grecs n'a ete donnee, les experi-
mentateurs ont signale par leur attitude les erreurs du controle
qu'ils ont inconsciemment guide. Sur ces faits M. Piddington
se fonde pour assurer que " Myers-Piper gives various answers
. . . all intelligent and all but one provably correct. . . .
Besides this, Myers-Piper shows that he knows that Myers-
Verrall had previously shown knowledge of his (MyersP )
answer. . . . The facts . . . emerged in a manner which indi-
cates that the intelligence responsible for their emergence
was as intimately conversant with the closing chapters of
Human Personality as Frederic Myers, its author, must have
been" (Vol. XXII., p. 139).
II ne faut pas etre difficile en matiere de preuves pour
admettre ces conclusions que l'analyse des faits dement detail
par detail.
1
Pourquoi ne sont-ils pas simplenient empruntes au Journal Light?
lxv.] Correspondences croisees et la Methode experimentale. 95
Light in West}
Je ne discuterai pas les raisonnenients litteraires de M.
Piddington et me bornerai a montrer ses points faibles, ainsi
que les sources normales des concordances relevees. Je suis
l'ordre du tableau I., page 280, Vol. XXII.
(1) Hercule furieux d'Euripide (Mme V. 4 et 25 Mars). Le
8 Avril Mme Holland cite le nom des personnages de la
traduction de Browning, inseree dans Aristophanes Apology
(Vol. XXIV., p. 25). M. Piddington se fonde sur la reunion
de ces noms pour demontrer l'intervention d'une intelligence
directrice.
Mais Euripide et l'Hercule furieux sont mentionnes au Vol.
XX., p. 61 des Proceedings. Mme Holland possede Browning,
et M. Piddington reconnait qu'elle a pu parcourir l'apologie
bien qu'elle dise ne l'avoir pas lue (Vol. XXIV, p. 25).
(2) Euripide, Mme Piper 8 Avril, Mme Verrall 4 et 25
Mars.
Source normale, voy. Vol. XX. p. 61.
(3) Browning's Hercddes, voy. ci-dessus No. 1.
(4) Umbrae, Shadow, Shades, elSwXov.
Mme Verrall 25 Mars, Mme Holland 27 Mars.
Voy. Human Personality, Vol. II., p. 290. Mme Holland
parle de Shadow seulement clans le sens de ombre opposee a
lumiere. Ce mot est tres banal.
On voit dans " Peter is the second one " une allusion a
St-Pierre, implicitement designe par Mme Verrall dans le
symbole d'Hercule claviger et de Janus (Vol. XX., p. 258).
Comparez avec Ave Eoma Immortalis, Vol. XXL, pp. 297, 299.
(5) Shadow, Tenebrae, Spirit : banalites.
(8) Geryon d'Euripide, et Geryon de Dante.
Ces mentions isofees out ete obtenues en presence de Mme
Verrall. La table dicta d'abord " geryoneshefollostkdevio" ; Mine
Verrall fit observer que cela ne signifiait rien. La table recom-
mence :
" Geryontes mefistoles probemium " que Mme Verrall
lut problem. Invitee k s'expliquer la table suivit l'indication
et dicta :
" mefistofiles and geryon double aspect of one
problem."
1
Light in the West est le titre d'un journal spirite publie aux Etats Unis
(Light, 1885, 543).
96 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Mrae Verrall a done provoque le developpement d'une serie
d'idees contenues dans Geryones, elle commente et interprete
ensuite ce message edifie
-
avec sa collaboration et trouve deux
allusions: (1) a Geryon du Dante, a cause de l'apparition de
Mefistoiiles qu'elle assimile a Mephistopheles, dont le Dante
n'avait certainement pas entendu parler ; (2) a Geryon grec,
monstre tue par Hercule. Geryon est mentionne dans YHercule
Furieux, done il y a une allusion implicite k cette tragedie.
Les deux arguments sont typiques. L'un repose sur un
anachronisme amusant, Yitalianisation de la creation germanique
de Goethe, la confusion du xinc
et du xtx6
siecles. L'autre
sur une indetermination, car Geryon est cite dans bien des
auteurs, notamment Virgile, Eneidc VII. et VIII., 202. On
voit l'abus resultant de ces methodes d'analyse. Un mot com-
porte une allusion implicite a tout l'ouvrage on il se trouve.
La reunion de Geryon monstre infernal k Mefistofiles, approxima-
tion onirique de Mephistopheles, personnification du diable, a
son origine dans l'idee sous-jacente d'Enfer.
(9) Hercule comme type de 1'Union de l'Est et de l'Ouest.
Ce point represents comme une allusion explicite, ne resulte
pas du texte du 25 Mars, de Mme V. II en est deduit par
M. Piddington apres cinq pages de commentaires (Vol. XXII.,
pp. 253-257). Cette theorie est d'ailleurs fort contestable.1
M. Piddington voit une allusion k cette idee dans les mots
" The Constellation of Orion " ; il y arrive par un raisonnement
d'une subtilite extraordinaire, qu'on pent lire dans le Vol. XXII.,
pp. 273 et s.s.
Je crois qu'il y a une simple allusion banale dont on trouve
un precedent dans le Vol. XX., p. 248. Avec le systeme de
M. Piddington on pourrait trouver des correspondances partout,
Orion rappelerait l'Est, par l'Aurore qui lui rendit la vue,
Diane (cas XIV.), Giant and Dwarf (cas VIII.), Arrow (cas
VII.), etc., sans compter tous les livres ou il est cite\
(10) Crossing of the Hellespont (par Hercule, et Xerxes)
Mme V. 25 Mars, p. 252. II y a une allusion implicite k
1
Voici le schema du raisonnement : Claviger, porte massue et porte cl£s,
rappelle Hercule et St-Pierre, et Janus a qui Ovide donne cette epithete. Ces
personnages representent tous l'union de l'Est et de l'Ouest. Hercule, divinite
orientale et occidentale, St-Pierre, Oriental qui devint le premier eveque
d'Occident, Janus, qui voyait a la fois l'Est et l'Ouest. M. Piddington, grace
a Pinterpretation symbolique, trouve tout cela dans l'unique mot Claviger.
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode expe'rimentale. 97
ce passage, de l'Hellespont dans le texte Holland du 8 Avril.
Savez-vous pourquoi ? Parce qu'il y est dit : Marthe devint
comme Marie et Lia conmie Rachel. En effet (Vol. XXII.,
pp. 265-268), il est question de Lia et Eachel au XXVIP
chant du Punjatoirc, et au chant XXVIII.,
qui suit, on voit
une allusion a la traversee de l'Hellespont par Xerxes !
Ici encore il suffit d'un nom on deux, banals d'ailleurs car
les episodes de Marthe et Marie, de Lia et Eachel sont du
classique tres use, pour que Ton s'autorise a retenir comme
allusion implicite tout incident figurant, non plus dans le meme
chant, raais dans le meme poeme.
En realite, il n'y a qu'une idee clans le texte de Mme
Holland, l'identification des contraires, qui est deux fois indiquee
dans le memoire de Mme Verrall, pp. 129 et 131 (Vol. XX.).
(11) (12) (13) Est et West sont des banalites. Leur
apparition a des intervalles de 15 a 20 jours dans diffcrents
textes ne signiiie rien, on trouve ces mots a chaque instant.
On voit dans Proc, Vol. XX., p. 3 92, un liste d'allusions a
East, dans les textes de Mme Verrall, liste d'ailleurs incomplete.
(14) (15) L'identification de l'Est et de l'Ouest et des
contraires a son origine dans Proc.,, Vol. XX., pp. 129 et 131.
La citation Verrall du 8 Avril est :
" The words were from
Maud, but you did not understand. Eosy is the east, and so
on." Elle ne peut faire allusion au texte de Mme Holland
du 27 Mars "Birds in the high hall Garden, not Maud Sylvia,"
quelle ne connaissait pas normalement ; l'id^e de Maud est
explicite dans le texte Holland.
M. Piddington, constatant l'erreur de citation (le vers est Eosy
is the West), y signale une correspondance croisee antithetique
(sic) avec " Light in West " dit quelques heures auparavant
par Mme Piper. L'antithese est ingenieusement effectuee par
l'erreur de citation dont le but est de souligner le mot important.
Ou arrivera-t-on vraiment si tout devient un argument ? Si
l'erreur devient une combinaison ingenieuse, utilisable au meme
titre que la verite ? Si la concordance resulte non seulement
des ressemblances mais aussi des dissemblances ? Enfin si
l'allusion implicite peut etre justifiee, par les moyens que Ton
sait ?
On peut ajouter que le poeme de Maud est deux fois cite"
par Mme Verrall (Vol. XX.) et que les vers " Come into the
G
98 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
garden Maud, for the black bat, night, has flown," etc., sont
dans Sesame and Lilies de Buskin (§ 94). lis ont ete utilises
deja dans la correspondance Eheu fugaces entre Mmes Verrall
et Holland (Vol. XXI., p. 297).
(17) Orion est une banalite (Mine Holland, 8 Avril).
(18) Aphrodite est encore une banalite mythologique.
(19) Cytheree (qui constitue sans doute la correspondance
avec Aphrodite dit le 8 Avril par Mme Piper au reveil) se
divise en Cytheree deesse, et Cytheree planete. On y trouve
des allusions implicites, parce que : (a) la deesse Aphrodite,
c'est Venus ou Cytheree, (b) l'allusion faite par Mme Holland
le meme jour a Lia et Rachel iraplique une allusion au XXVIP
chant du Purgatoire, ce qui implique une allusion au vers on
Ton voit " C'etait je crois l'heure ou Cytheree," etc.; done c'est
une reference implicite a Cytheree que de dire Lia et Rachel
(Vol. XXII., pp. 265, 266).
(20) La riviere du Lethe et la Montagne du Purgatoire
sont des lieux communs. Ici, nous trouvons une extraordinaire
application de la methode d'interpretation symbolique.
Le 6 Avril 1907 Mme A^errall ecrit un texte (Vol. XXII.,
p. 237) ou l'idee de peinture est quatre fois r6p6Ue, "the
painting of Letherbridge . . ., Lether bridge. . . . The water
. . . gains volume as it rushes to the sea ... a broadening river
by the storied mount, an open lake beside the lawns of LEA."
La savante automatiste recommit le Lethe dans la peinture
du pont de Lether et le Purgatoire de Dante aux mots " La
montagne etagee " et Lea.
M. Piddington dit, page 263: "I took Mrs. Verrall's script
of April 6th, ... to be . . . various ways of expressing one
idea, namely, the Wordsworth Country. Mrs. Verrall however
had placeel another interpretation on her script of Apjril Qth."
Cette contradiction n'embarrasse pas M. Piddington. II admet
son interpretation et il ad met aussi celle de sa collaboratrice.
" That ... a script should possess a double reference will not,
I hope, seem to be an improbable hypothesis " (Vol. XXII.,
p. 264).
Et voila ce qu'on nous propose serieusement. Symboliquement,
le texte de Mine Verrall fait allusion au Purgatoire, ou il
y
a une riviere et une montagne, et au pays de Wordsworth, le
district des lacs, ou il y a des rivieres, des montagnes, des collines
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 99
et des lacs, signalement qui s'applique a tous les pays montagneux.
On remarquera le procede d'interpretation des experinientateurs.
Mme Verrall ne retient que " Lether," quelle corrige en Lethe,
"storied mount," et "Lea" qu'elle prend pour Leah. Tout le reste
du texte est neglige, malgre son importance mise en relief par
la repetition, „ .
7 „
-Tainted leather.
Fethevbridge.
Painted Severn bridge.
Painting of Severn bridge.
Painting of l&therbridge.
Le th er Bridge.
Painting 4 fois, bridge 5 fois repete, sont negliges complete-
ment, malgre ce qu'on nous dit de la repetition comme indice
de correspondance ; Mme Verrall neglige aussi toutes les allusions
a rivieres, collines, vallees, melezes, pins, mer, lacs qui ne
rappellent pas le Purgatoire de Dante. M. Piddington au
contraire, poursuivi par son idee, ne releve que les details
alpestres. La peinture et le pont passent inapercus.
Est-ce une analyse serieuse ? Ne doit-on pas, en etudiant
un texte, tenir compte de tous ses elements, sans exception ?
C'est ainsi qu'on en arrive a nous presenter des identifications
assez fantaisistes pour que les experts nous disent l'un : c'est
le Purgatoire de Dante, l'autre c'est le pays pittoresque de
Wordsworth, et qu'ils se mettent d'accord pour nous dire
serieusement : c'est tous les deux.
Bien entendu, il y a encore une correspondance croisee avec
le Purgatoire et le Lethe. Tout h l'heure les mots Lia et
Eachel signifiaient implicitement Cytheree ; ils ont signifie Geryon,
le mephistophelique ; ils signifient maintenant, toujours implicite-
ment, la montagne du Purgatoire, oil Dante voit Lia en reve,
et le Lethe qui coule le long du Purgatoire.
(21) Paradiso, Paradise. Mot encore banal. L'allusion ;\
Dante resulte du mot " Lost Paradise Eegained " qui rappelle
Milton (Mme Verrall 3 Avril, Vol. XXIL, p. 227); Paradiso
est dans le texte du 8 Avril de Mme Holland.1
1
M. Piddington a oublie une importante correspondance entre Mme Holland,
Mme Verrall et Mme Piper (Vol. XXIL, pp. 228, 262. 269). Elle explique
meme Roland et les Val, allusions demeurees insondables. Roland, c'est le
preux mort a Roncesvalles ou Roncevaux, comme le montre les Val ; inversion
100 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
(22) Purgatorio est une correspondance implicite resultant
1° de la mention de "painting of lether bridge," etc., parce
qu'elle signifie le Lethe et implique le Purgatoire (Mine Verrall,
6 Avril), et 2° des mots Leah et Rachel (Mme Holland, 8 Avril)
qui signifient le Purgatoire (Vol. XXII., pp. 227, 262, 265)!
(23) Le 29 Avril, au reveil, Mme Piper (Vol. XXII., p. 279)
dit " Dante's Inferno." M. Picldington oublie de nous apprendre
qu'il a 6te question de Dante plusieurs fois au cours de la seance
de ce jour (Vol. XXII., p. 163). Le mot Dante a 6U introduit
par Mme Verrall. On voit combien son Emergence est facile-
ment explicable. Or YEnfer du Dante est une ceuvre que
Ton peut connaitre de nom, sans etre un lettre. La correspon-
dance est encore ici assuree par l'utile Geryon, toujours celui
de Mephistopheles.
(24) (25) Daffodils (narcisses) se divise en deux especes
celle de Tennyson, dont le tableau ne nous indique pas les
correspondances ; elles resultent sans doute des allusions a
Maud (Vol. XXII., p. 273) ou Ton voit ces vers:
The shining daffodil dead and Orion low in his grave.
And the shining daffodil dies, etc.
Cela conduit aux narcisses de Wordsworth, cites au reveil
le 17 Avril par Mme Piper (Vol. XXII., p. 233), et impli-
citement rappeles par les allusions k Wordsworth " I wandered
lonely, etc." (Vol. XXII., p. 232, Mme Piper) et par l'allusion
aux montagnes, lacs et rivieres (et Purgatoire) du texte de
Mme Verrall (6 Avril, p. 263).
(26) Wordsworth Country, resulte de ce texte, implicitement
suivant M. Picldington.
(27 a 29) Silvia, Harold, Leopold sont les noms des trois
enfants de M. Myers, Mme Holland cite Silvia et Leopold,
les 27 Mars (Vol. XXII., p. 261) et 16 Avril (Vol. XXIL,
p. 278); Harold est cite le 8 Avril par Mme Piper.
Ces noms etaient connus de tous les mediums.
En examinant toutes les correspondances, on leur trouve (1)
des sources normales imprimees, la plupart tres connues; (2)
de Valles pour Roncesvalles ; cette adjonction exclut Roland furieux de l'Arioste
et nous fixe sur le Roland du Dante, Paradia, chant XV. L'interpretation
vaut celle de Lia et Rachel.
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 101
le plus grand nombre resulte d'interpretations arbitraires; (3)
sur les 26 correspondances 10 ont pour objet des mots tres
communs : comme Spirit, Shadow, Umbrae, East, West, Daffodils,
ou banals : Euripide, Orion, Hercule, Cytheree, Aphrodite, etc.
(4) les idees un peu originales (1, 14, 15) sont probablement
empruntees aux textes de Mme Verrall, ou inspirees par elle
(7 et 8).
Je ne trouve aucune valeur a eette serie de correspondances,
ou l'element supranormal me parait meme tres douteux.
Le Message Latin.
M. Piddington a pose une question en latin, dont les controles
n'ont jamais pu donner une traduction exacte et 1
'experience
a dure cinq mois ! Ce fait a deja ete signale : mais M.
Piddington enregistre comme un succes une reponse interpreted
symboliquement par lui, negligeant l'inexactitude des reponses
directes. C'est un procede difficile a accepter.
Comme pour les mots grecs, la reponse aux mots latins est
donnee par Mme Verrall, qui connait la question. Cette
experience, destinee a demontrer Taction d'une intelligence
exterieure aux mediums, devient une simple transmission de
pensee, car tout le monde va chercher a faire repeter par
Mme Piper ce qua deja dit Mme Verrall.
C'est M. Piddington qui aurait decouvert le premier la
reponse que sa collaboratrice avait ecrite. C'est un passage
de Browning (AM Vogler) " Out of three sounds he frame,
not a fourth sound, but a star," 1
et c'est une reponse
symbolique a la question :
" donnez-nous par deux mediums
differents deux communications, entre lesquelles aucune con-
nexion n'apparaisse, donnez ensuite une communication par un
troisieme medium, revelant le lien latent existant entre les
deux premieres."
L'appropriation du symbole ne signifie rien, etant donnees
l'erudition et l'intelligence de Mme Verrall. La convenance
des allusions de Mile Verrall ne doit pas etre retenue
davantage, pour des raisons evidentes. Seules les reponses
du controle peuvent interesser.
1
Ces vers servent d'epigraplie a une conference de M. Podniore, "Miracles
and Prophecies," Light, 1882, 151.
102 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Le 27 Fevrier, — la question etait posee depuis le mois de
Decembre, — il donne une traduction, encore fausse, que M.
Piddington accueille fort mal.
" J. G. P. You say you have replied. I am quite prepared
to believe it, but tell me in what messages your reply is given
"
(Vol. XXIL, p. 334). C'est indiquer au controle qu'il doit
chercher dans ses messages anterieurs. II repond aussitot
" In my messages reported here and through Mrs. Verrall."
" That agrees with what I thought," dit M. Piddington, " but
give . . . some important point from them [the messages]."
Myers-Piper revient a. Halcyon days, aux poemes auxquels
il a fait allusion, a Evangelic, a Syringa.
" Quels poemes ?
" continue M. Piddington.
" B my own Browning . . . Horace . . . chiefly Browning's
lines as given through Mrs. Verrall and another which I
referred to before."
" I think you are making it clear," dit M. Piddington, qui
continue a prodiguer les indications, au point que le controle
declare (p. 335):
" I understand that you asked me to reply referring to my
utterances through Mrs. Verrall."
Le 6 Mars, l'experimentateur donne des renseignements
encore plus clairs (p. 336).
" You have, I believe, given an answer worthy of your
intelligence,—not to-day, I mean, but some time back—but
. . . you must explain your answer at this light."
— Oui repond le controle.
J. G. P. " You could do it in two ivords."
" Yes, I understand."
J. G. P. " Well?"
" Hope, Star."
J. G. P. " Well? Yes?"
" Browning."
J. G. P. "Exactly. It could not be better"
" That is my answer."
M. Piddington :
" Now, Myers, I can't thank you enough,
that is what I have been waiting for."
Peut-on concevoir une methode moins sure ? Le controle
n'a meme pas eu a chercher, on lui a donne tous les
renseignements.
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experirnentcde. 103
M. Piddington le sait bien. II dit en note, que s'il a
donne une indication en disant vous pouvez r^pondre en deux
mots, il ne l'a pas fait expres ;
cpue d'ailleurs la reponse est
en trois mots. II suffit de lire le texte pour voir que le
controle est embarrasse : il est presse par M. Piddington et
il choisit celle de scs correspondances qui se rapproche le plus
de Vindication. A cette epoque, il sait que quatre correspon-
dances ont reussi. Library, my own name, et Mmc Sidgwick
n'est pas la reponse au message latin, c'est evident. Kestent
Arrow, qui n'a qu'un mot, et Browning, Hope, Star, ou A
triangle within a circle ; mais ceci est le signe convenu des
correspondances, et n'est pas un mot. C'est une figure. Par
consequent Myers-Piper ne pouvait pas choisir autre chose que
Browning, Hope, Star, qui etaient indiques.1
Mais M. Piddington demandait deux mots ; aussi Myers-Piper
ne lui donne que Hope et Star, et c'est sur l'insistance de
l'experimentateur (Well? Yes? p. 336) qu'il ajoute Browning.
Cela prouve qu'il ne comprenait pas pourquoi sa reponse etait
juste, car le nom de Browning est la partie la plus importante
de cette reponse. Hope et Star se trouvent dans beaucoup de
poemes.
De semblables tatonnements se sont produits pour arriver au
titre du poeme. Le controle est si pen fixe qu'il cite d'abord
le poeme de Browning My Star (p. 337), puis laborieusement
JEvelyn Hope ; ce qui indique clairement la nature de ses opera-
tions mentales. Le controle George Pelham explique les erreurs
par la stupidiU de Hector (p. 3-40) qui ne sait pas le latin
(p. 314).*
Le poeme de Browning qu'il a en vue est celui qui contient
Hope et Star. Eeponse peu intelligente car plusieurs poemes
de Browning contiennent ces mots communs.
1
Cela n'empeche pas que Myersp a essaye aussi le triangle efc le cercle,
pour completer sa reponse, quoiqu'en dise M. Piddington. Comparez Vol.
XXII., pp 345 et 343. Pourquoi a-t-on supprime' dans la question, p. 345,
les mots "I was going to add to a poem," cites p. 74?
2
Les controles de M. Piper ne sont pas ceux de Stainton Moses dont ils ont
pris les noms. Rector est d'apres M. Moses, St. Hippolyte, martyr, eveque
d'Ostie. Comment ce prelat a-t-il oublie le latin '!
(Light, 1896, p. 267).
Prudens est Plotin (Light, 1896, 291). Ces elements ont leur importance quand
on vent raisonner sur l'identite des contr<31es spirites de Madame Piper, ils
rendent bien suspectes les personnifications qu'ils representent.
104 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
On lui a fait comprendre, par la froideur de l'accueil, que les
reponses My Star et Evelyn Hope ne sont pas bonnes (Vol.
XXII., pp. 340, 347) ; il cherche autre chose, tente Andrea del
Sarto, autre poeme de Browning (Vol. XXII., p. 344), et s'accroche
k la coiTespondance reussie " Triangle et cercle," qui le conduit
a Ring (p. 345) "qui le fait penser a un poeme." Evidemment
Myersp pense k essayer The Pang and the Booh, ce qui explique
sa reponse
li
not exactly to a poem . . . but it suggested a poem."
C'est en effet un titre general comprenant divers poemes, notam-
ment Pompilia et Giuseppe Caponsacchi.1
M. Piddington ecarte
cette idee en disant, k propos de Ring et Circle, " The Latin
message does not refer." Ce qui eclaire le controle ; le cercle
ne devient plus qu'un simple lien d 'association (p. 346).
Tenace, M. Piddington (13 Mars) insista pour avoir une
reponse claire ; il ne l'obtint pas. Mine Sidgwick dirigea les
seances suivantes ; le controle manifesta la plus complete igno-
rance du poeme oil il avait trouve la reponse donnee a Mme
Verrall. Le 20 Mars, il parle d'un poeme de Browning oil les
etoiles et la vie se rencontrent ; il bat les buissons et au lieu
de repondre, interroge : vous comprenez bien de quel poeme je
parle ?
— Oui repond Mme Sidgwick. Au sujet d'etoiles.
Le controle ne quitte pas cet ordre d'idees et parle le
8 Avril d'un poeme de Browning aux Etoiles, il y mele Words-
worth, et essaye, peut-etre, " Pisgah-Sights "
(
li
Pi ... it begins,
with P. and Sai. P. is right." Pisgah-Sights II finit par " Star
that now sparkiest." (II y a aussi un poeme intitule Pippa
passes.)
Mme Sidgwick corrige le controle en lui apprenant que P.
est erronne (Vol. XXII., pp. 362-363). Eel est alors propose
("A Lovers' Quarrel," "Herve Rid," " Martin Relph "). Fatigue de
ces efforts inutiles, le controle ne dit plus rien de bon ;
il revient
a la question le 17 Avril, et rappelle sa mauvaise reponse "I
wander lonely," " lonely wandering star " et propose indirecte-
ment : Confession (poemes de Browning : Confessions, The Con-
1
Ou. Ton trouve (Ed. Tauchnitz) Soar to the sky (Plato, p. 41), Assisi (49),
moaned low (51), Mars (57), St-Peter, St-James, St-John (67), Silver cup (34),
Paradise (102), wings of music (108), Peter and Paul (121), one point of the circle
(130), Shadow (133), sans compter Star et Hope. La tin de Pompelia est trea.
appropriee.
lxv.] Gorrespondanc.es croisees et la Methode experimentcde. 105
fessional) Chapel, et Siazies, Siaz, Siaraz
—" la Saisiaz
1
dit Mme
Sidgwick."—" Oui."
La reponse ne provoque aucune approbation (" All right," " I
see "). Le controle voit son erreur et bat la campagne. II
revient a Pe, Pi, puis a la Saisiaz, clairement resumee ainsi
" the poem in which he was left alone and later it all came to
him."
Le 22 Avril il propose indirectement " Saul," autre poeme de
Browning, en citant " as star follows star."
Enfin il approche du but ; il a essaye, toujours indirectement
Rabbi ben Ezra; Death (sous la forme grecque Thauatos); Tyrannus
(Insfaas Tyrannus) (17 Avril); passes (Pippa passes 1 8 Avril);
May (23 Avril); Spirit and Angel (The guardian angel, 8 Avril,
nettement associe a la reponse au message latin, voy. p. 220).
Or, dans le " Pocket volume " de Browning (London, Smith
Elder, 1910) on remarque (fin de la page vi, et commencement
de la page vii) les titres suivants : The guardian Angel, Abt
Vogler, Rabbi ben Ezra, Confession, May and Death, Pisgah Sights,
titres tous plus ou moins clairement proposes, et mal accueillis.
Eestait cependant Abt Vogler. Mme Piper, le 2-1 Avril dit, en
reponse aux mots " quel est le poeme "—" Vol is right."
Eeponse inexacte, mais qui contient quelques lettres du mot
Vogler (Vol. XXII., p. 286) ;
Mme Sidgwick encourage le controle,
qui se risque plus tard a une approximation plus precise, " vol
gar" (p. 371).
" I think I see," dit Mme Sidgwick.
Le controle continue, " vol, ... V M, . . . A B volugevar "
;
les encouragements ne cessent pas (" You have got something
like the name of a poem. It is not quite right, but . . . You've
really very nearly got it")
" Volugur Abt."
" . . . I am quite satisfied."
Mais Myers est encore si peu fixe
1
,
qu'il cite un vers de Saul.
— Abt. Vo.
1
Le decoupage des proces-verbaux est un deplorable precede ; cela ote aux
phenomenes leur physionomie reelle, et rend tres difficile l'analyse des contextes.
Si on compare les pages 286, 295, 366, etc., on voit que la Saisiaz se mele a
Cloudless, sky, horizon ; le controle essaye de placer sa reponse aux mots grecs.
En effet il y a une raison a cela, car on lit dans la Saisiaz (p. 155 ad. cit. ) "our
sky from cloud as clear." Le controle raisonne ses essais. Voy. la note
suivante.
106 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Et c'est Mme Sidgwick qui dit Vogler.
Le controle a essays quatorze reponses au moins et est arrive
a AM Vogler probablement en se rappelant vaguement une table
des matieres ; il y a ete guide' d'ailleurs pas a pas, mais il y est
arrive sans comprendre pourquoi, car il ne sait pas encore on se
trouve la reponse contenue dans le poeme. En voici la preuve.
Des le 24 Avril, Mme Verrall demande des precisions (p.
376); Myers-Piper, apres beaucoup de banalites, cite un passage
qui devait etre naturellement choisi par quelqu'un comprenant
le message latin de la nianiere inexacte, dont Myers-Piper et
G. Pelham ont donne des echantillons. Leurs traductions
fmissaient par ces mots :
" nous convaincre de votre survie."
C'est sur une idee de cette nature que se fixe le controle et
il cite, assez mal d'ailleurs, les vers ou il est parle. des morts
qui ont passe par le corps et sont partis, mais qui reviennent,
une fois encore, respirer dans un vieux monde, etc. (ler Mai,
p. 379); Myers-Piper est clone logique avec lui-meme, il declare
que c'est le passage (p. 386), auquel il a fait specialement
allusion et qu'il a essaye de transmettre. II s'en souvient
specialement comme ayant ete, l'objet d'un reference dans les
textes de Mme Verrall ; ces affirmations sont accueillies sans
enthousiasme par Mme Sidgwick, qui sinformera aurpres de Mme
Verrall (p. 387) revelant, par cela seul, que ce n'est pas la
reponse attendue ; celle-ci n'aurait, en effet, exige aucune
verification.
A la seance suivante, Myers-Piper essaye autre chose, comme
quelqu'un qui a reflechi au poeme et s'efforce de deviner le
vers ; le mot hope n'est pas dans le texte ; star y est deux
fois, dans la stance IV., dont le vers tronque a et£ accueilli
froidement, et dans la stance VII. dont on attend la citation.
C'est naturellement encore a ce dernier que pensera le controle
et c'est si bien au mot star qu'il pense, que le mot sound n'est
pas prononce ; mais Mme Sidgwick hesite dans la lecture
(p. 388) et le controle craint de se tromper ; il passe alors a une
autre idee, se rapprochant de la seconde proposee par lui, et
il fait allusion au vers :
" And the emulous heaven yearned
down, made effort to reach the earth, As the earth had done
her best, in my passion, to scale the sky." II insiste la-dessus,
repete plusieurs fois sky, qui a fait partie d'une correspondance
croisee anterieure, et passion ;
Mme Sidgwick lui dit alors qu'il
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 107
n'a pas besoin de continuer ; le controle persiste a donner ciel
et passion corame caracteristiques du vers : c'est encore l'investi-
gatrice qui lui fait savoir :
" The line I wanted was the one
about the '
star.'
"—" Yes I know," repond le controle, " but I
am only explaining in my passion to reach you as clear as
the sky. I quote if out of, if instead of the fourth framed a
star." Et il insiste encore sur etoile et revient a son explica-
tion ingenieuse de la fausse citation concernant passion.
Le mot "sound" (son), fut donne au stade de reveil.
Voila le resume d'une des plus belles performances du
controle ; il est visible qu'il a tatonne, battu les buissons et
ete finalement guide par les experimentateurs eux-memes. Les
extraits que j'ai cites montrent les fautes operatoires commises,
et l'expose de l'experience revele son inutility complete. La
reponse etait connue de tout le monde, et la seule chose qui
puisse surprendre c'est de voir la difficulte eprouvee a la donner.
Le succes ne pouvait en tous cas rien prouver de plus qu'une
transmission ou une lecture de pensee.
Enfin, et c'est la le plus grave reproche que Ton puisse
faire aux experimentateurs, il n'est pas permis de dire serieuse-
ment qu'une traduction symbolique doive etre preferee k une
traduction litti'rale. Quand les erreurs de celle-ci sont mani-
festes, elles ne sauraient disparaitre parce qu'une reponse en
symboles est donnee.
Ce n'est pas tout. Si Ton se reporte a la page 415 du
memoire de M. Piddington, on constate des faits de nature h
rendre ties suspectes les reponses de Mme Piper. La bonne
foi de ce remarquable sujet est hors de cause, mais est-elle
responsable de ses trances ? De ses automatismes ? J'aurai a
examiner cette question plus loin ;
je signalerai simplement
les faits suivants
Mme Piper dit a Mme Sidgwick, qu'elle n'avait pratiquement
rien lu de Browning, qu'elle croit aussi eloigne que Shakespeare
(7 Mai). Le lendemain elle a r^flechi : M. Stead lui a envoye
un choix de poesies de Browning ;
Minerva, la plus jeune des
demoiselles Piper a quelques volumes de ce poete.
Le 26 Mai, Mile Keid, qui habitait avec Mme Piper, dit
l'avoir vu parcourir un volume de Browning appartenant
a Minerva. II y avait environ un mois de cela. C'est le
24 Avril que le poeme est cite (p. 415).
108 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Le 29 Mai, Mme Piper dit a Sir Oliver Lodge qu'elle
commit Evelyn Hope, the Flight of the Duchess ; elle ne connalt
pas Abt Vogler que Lodge vient de lui lire. Elle a une belle
edition de Browning chez elle en Amerique. Les demoiselles
Piper cependant ont appris Abt Vogler a la pension (p. 416).
Le rapporteur ne fait aucun commentaire sur ces faits qui
auraient cependant merite une discussion s^rieuse.
L'emergence occasionnelle d'etats sonmambuliques larves est
une hypothese dont les investigateurs ne paraissent pas avoir
eu le soupgon.
11 en est de meme de la memoire latente. A lire leurs
rapports, on se persuade qu'ils sont peu au courant des
phenomenes de cryptomnesie.
Par exemple, M. Piddington (Vol. XXIV., p. 17) cite comme
preuve de la ressemblance des controles Myers avec le veritable
Myers, une serie de concordances entre les automatismes et
les ecrits de cet auteur. La prudence commande de considerer
ces ressemblances comme 1'indication d'une origine normale.
Ce sont des souvenirs latents, tres naturels chez des personnes
fort au courant de l'oeuvre de M. Myers.
M. Piddington l'admet (Vol. XXIV., p. 19), mais il insiste
sur le caractere suprauormal de l'erudition classique de Mme
Piper, qui s'interesse peu aux choses litteraires. Examinons
done les connaissances litteraires des controles Piper.
C'est Mme Verrall qui a pris soin d'analyser ce point. II
convient de noter qu'aucun des investigateurs ne s'est preoccupe
des acquisitions que Mme Piper avait pu faire dans des lectures,
ailleurs que chez elle : revues, livres, journaux, ou dans des
conversations. Et il y a un detail qui est de nature a retenir
l'attention. M. Hodgson avait le gout de la poesie et aimait
a declamer des vers (Vol. XIX., p. o70). Peut-on savoir ce
qu'il a lu a Mme Piper dans sa longue collaboration avec elle ?
M. Myers declamait aussi des vers pendant les seances.
II y a la des possibility sans nombre pour le jeu de la
memoire latente.
11 est impossible de fournir la preuve de l'ignorance de Mme
Piper ; ce n'est pas en causant avec elle que i'iiivestigateur
prudent peut se renseigner, comme le fait M. Dorr (p. 45) ;
celui-ci se contente de dire qu'il avait " found in general talk
that Mrs. Piper knew nothing of Milton's, but Paradise Lost."
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode expdrimentale. 109
II lui lit un extrait de Comus, facile a reconnaitre, car c'est le
morceau classique " Sabrina fair, etc.," cite dans les Anthologies
(Gems, 412); Comus avait un interet particulier pour le groupe
des investigateurs, car on le jouait a Cambridge cette annc'e
(V. Vol. XXIV., p. 199); Mme Piper a-t-elle ignore ce detail?
Quant a lerudition du controle, en voici des specimens : Le
31 Mars on lui lit la traduction &'Agamemnon. "Zeus a
ordonne que Ton n'arriverait a la sagesse que par la triste
route de la souffrance, etc." Myers dit qu'il comprend, et com-
mente ce vers, d'apres Hodgson, de la maniere puerile et
incorrecte que voici :
" Troubles and trials, and the better you
go through them, the better your [life] here ; and if you don't
develop, it's your own fault "
(p. 47).
II faut 15 jours a Myers-Piper pour reconnaitre la traduc-
tion de son frere, et il en commente le sens comme on sait.
On a un exemple du parti pris de Mme Verrall dans son
resume, p. 52. II faut l'etudier. Elle omet d'indiquer les
details suivants :
" 0 Zeus, troubles and trials " sont dans le
passage anterieurement lu a Mrs Piper (drear road of Pain) ;
"He'd sing of the Odes" ne veut pas dire "great chorus"', "wrote
three plays " veut dire a e'crit trois pieces et non pas " trilogie "
;
Eschyle a ecrit environ 70 tragedies et nous en possedons
sept. Mme Verrall se contente trop facilement d'a peu pres.
Meme ignorance au sujet d'Ajax et d'Ulysse, qui se rattachent
au cycle des allusions empruntees a Ovide. Ajax, Ulysse et
l'idee de bateau sont associes dans Metamorphoses, XIII., 5 et
suiv. Ajax dit " Agimv.s . . . ante rates causam et mccum con-
fertur Ulysses." Mais il y a une inintelligence complete du
caractere d'Ajax, dont Mme Piper fait un dieu, theorie que
Mme Verrall essaye vainement de justifier (p. 54, note 1).
Parthenon, Pallas Athena, Virgin's chamber, est la para-
phrase banale des Encyclopedies populaires ; on lit dans
Nuttall's " Means the chamber of the maiden Goddess, that
is Athena."
Les incidents de YEne'icle sont encore plus demonstratifs.
On demande le 25 Fevi'ier a Hodgson de traduire " arma
virumoue cano ") ce qu'un eleve de dix ans pourrait faire. II
est oblige d'appeler Myers a, son aide ; ce dernier ne traduit
pas les mots banals et reconnaissables, mais donne le sens
general des traductions du commencement de YEn&ide.
110 Joseph Maxwell, 31. D. [part
Mme Piper, qui pour netre pas litteraire a cependant appele
ses filles Alta et Minerva, connait vaguement \'En6ide, mais
s'embrouille, et dit des inexactitudes que Myers n'aurait jamais
sugger^es, meme tek'pathiquement. Par exemple Junon est en
colere centre Enee qui a bati une ville, elle contribue a detruire
cette ville, ce qui oblige Enee a s'enfuir (p. 66).
II n'est pas juste de considerer comme des preuves derudition
classique l'association de Didon et d'une fete, de Neptune et
du Trident. Ce sont choses trop banales. Neptune calmant
la tempete est un lieu commun ; e'est dans YEne'ide (I., 135)
que se trouve le celebre " Quos Ego !
" L'incident fait le sujet
de nombreux tableaux ou gravures.
Le " considerable knowledge " de Virgile que signale Mme
Verrall n'existe pas ; e'est une connaissance rudimentaire, mal
coordonnee ; elle reproduit les formes de souvenirs rappeles, par
ce que e'est justement de la cryptomnesie, ce qui explique
les cas ou les souvenirs ont ete opposes aux indications de
M. Dorr ; enfin les erreurs ne sont pas dues ;\ l'oubli ni k la
confusion, mais bien a une science incomplete et primaire.
M. Pidclington s'est specialement occupe de l'analyse de
quelques incidents, notamment les reponses faites k cette
question ;
" Que vous rappelle le Lethe ?
"
Le probleme etait le suivant : Des indications sont donnees,
visiblement emprunt^es aux Metamorphoses ; ont-elles leur source
dans les souvenirs de Mme Piper ou sont elles inspirees par
feu M. Myers?
Le premier point repose sur une demonstration negative.
M. Pidclington nous assure que ni Mme Piper ni M. Dorr
n'ont In Ovide. Ce dernier en effet l'a demande a Mme Piper,
qui ignore jusqu'au nom d' Ovide (Vol. XXIV., p. 140). Ayant
ainsi interro°e le medium et l'investigateur, M. Piddin^ton est
satisfait et il se croit en mesure d'affirmer l'ignorance de l'un
et de l'autre (Vol. XXIV., p. 142). Cela fait douter du sens
critique de l'experimentateur, car son enquete est absolument
inutile ; il se renseigne sur la memoire personnelle consciente,
non sur la memoire subliminale, la seule interessante. II faut
noter d'ailleurs que les demoiselles Piper ont consulte, en
pension, des livres de mythologie ou se trouvent les indications
donnees par le medium (Ar
ol. XXIV., pp. 142, 143).
Qu'importe aussi l'ignorance des dames Verrall en ce qui
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. Ill
concerne Ovide ? (pp. 121-123). Si la telepathie est possible
pourquoi la limiter aux dames Verrall ?
D'ailleurs, l'etude des cas rend a peu pros certaine l'existence
de phenomenes de simple cryptomnesie. Les indications donnees
par Mine Piper existent dans de nombreux livres, traductions,
etudes mythologiques, dictionnaires varies. M. Piddington ne
prouve pas et ne peut pas prouver ce fait negatif: Mme Piper
n'a jamais rien lu ni entendu la-dessus.1
Le second point qu'il faudrait prouver est l'inspiration due
a l'influence d'un controle Myers dirigeant tous les auto-
matistes.
D'abord, dit M. Piddington, (p. 123), nous observons chez
Mme Piper des precedes comparables a ceux dont Mmes Verrall
et Holland nous ont offert des exemples. La reponse a la
question du Lethe contient des mots discontinus qui paraissaient
inintelligibles avant la dicouverte de deux passages litteraires
(Eitiide VI., 703-723 et Mttam. XL etc.) ou ces fragments se
trouvent incorpores et ou ils peuvent trouver un lien d'unification
coherente.
Le raisonnement est critiquable ;
parler de la dScouverte de
deux passages aussi connus, est fait pour surprendre, car le
bachelier qui ignorerait ces passages classiques pourrait etre
refuse a ses examens. Le lien entre les allusions de Mme
Piper et leur source classique existait independamment du
controle Myers, et il faut autre chose que l'enquete inoperante
de M. Piddington pour demontrer que les nombreuses sources
d 'information normale doivent etre ecartees.
Si on examine les quatre exemples cites comme etablissant
l'existence de ce procede inintelligent d'identification posthume,
qui consiste a reproduire dans une communication des allusions
banales aux manuels de mythologie, ou aux poemes qu'appren-
nent les ecoliers, on reconnait que M. Piddington presente
comme certains, des faits hypothetiques, ou comme supra-
normaux, des faits normaux.
Le ler cas est le mot claviger (Vol. XXIV., p. 124); la
dtcouverte (!) que ce mot est employe par Ovide dans le sens
de " porte-cles " (Fastes I., 228) et de porte-massue, apprit (a)
que le texte de Mme Verrall du 25 Mars 1907, se referait
1
L'episode de Oeyx est lie a l'origine de l'expression halt/con days qui joue
un grand role dans les experiences de Decembre 1906 ;i Juin 1907.
112 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
a Janus, (b) eclaira un texte de Mme Holland du 8 Avril,
(c) des paroles de Mme Piper du meme jour.
(a) Claviger est une allusion a Hercule, peut-etre k Janus,
mais Mme Verrall connait les Fastes (XXIV., 121) sur les-
quelles elle a fait un cours en 1881 ; elle rappelle ce double
sens dans son memoire (Vol. XX., p. 61).
M. Piddington y voit une allusion symbolique a l
1
Union
de Test et de l'ouest ; mais c'est une interpretation que lui a
inspire le texte de Mine Holland, selon tout probability.
(b) Aucune lumiere n'est jetee par le texte de Mme Verrall
sur celui de Mme Holland, qui indique clairement Identification
des contraires, idee qui n'apparait pas dans le texte Verrall.
Cette idee est developpee d'ailleurs dans le memoire de Mme
Verrall (Vol. XX, pp. 129-131).
(c) Light in West, auquel fait allusion M. Piddington, ne
concorde pas avec le texte Verrall du 25 Mars, qui ne
l'eclaire pas. II faut de l'imagination pour y voir " une
correspondance antithetique " (sic) avec le texte Verrall du
8 Avril qui porte par erreur " rosy is the east " au lieu de
" rosy is the west."
(2) Le second cas est la mention de Lia et Eachel clans le
meme texte Holland, du 8 Avril. J'ai montre l'abus fait de
l'allusion implicite dans ce cas.
(3) Le troisieme est encore dans le texte de Mme Verrall
du 8 Avril ; il se confond avec les precedents (identification
des contraires).
(4) L'allusion a Aristophanes' Apology de Browning est
une coincidence cryptornnesique ; YHercule Furieux d'Euripide
etant justement mentionne dans le volume XX., p. 61, a
l'occasion du mot clavis, et d'un texte ou le double sens de
Claviger (Vol. XX., p. 423) est signal e.
(5) C'est le cas du Lethe, ou les allusions sont encore
empruntees a un texte imprime.
Aussi, peut-on faire remarquer a M. Piddington que ce
n'est pas le controle Myers, qui a employe la meme methode (?)
avec les trois mediums, mais M. Piddington, qui trouve
des analogies grace k la methode qu'il applique a tous les
cas : l'interpretation symbolique. Ces procedes paraissent dif-
fieilement acceptables ; il est impossible de suivre le rapporteur
dans une discussion dont les points de fait sont aussi douteux.
lxv.] Correspondences croise'es et la Methode experimental^. 113
Quant a sa comparaison des controles Myers avec M. Myers,
elle me semble aussi peu fondee que possible.
1
II est certain
que M. Myers savait tout ce que les mediums ont dit de vrai
mais il est non moms certain que ce n'est pas lui qui place
la course de Marathon dans les jeux olympiques (Vol. XXIV.,
p. 105); qui dit "latin for sleep" (detail revelant l'usage
d'une traduction " cave of sleep " et non " cave of '
the god
somnus ") ;
qui met un arc et des Heches dans la main d'Iris ;
qui ne sait rien d'Ajax ni d'Ulysse ;
qui ecrit Styx, sticks ;
qui dit de Pygmalion, " greek play," par association subliminale
avec l'opera moderne de Galathee, ou la piece de Gilbert, etc.
En realite, tout ce que Mme Piper debite au sujet du
Lethe et d'Ovide est marque au coin d'associations oniriques
cryptomnesiques. Si M. Myers inspirait le medium, il n'aurait
pas parle de Pomone, de Janus, de Saturne, d'Olympe, de
Neptune, d'Ajax, d'Ulysse, de Centaures, de Cyclopes, de Sibylle,
de Meduse, de Pygmalion. Tout cela est dans les Metamorphoses.
Janus et Saturne: histoire de Picus (XVI., 1, 320 et s.)
Pomone et garden (XIV., 623); Ajax et Ulysse, bateaux
(XIII.); Cyclopes et Centaures (XIV, IX., XII); Sibylle
(XIV.); Neptune, Troie, trident (XL); Meduse (IV, 780 s.),
etc. II n'y a pas d'associations logiques et intelligentes dans
tout ce " deballage " ; les souvenirs des Metamorphoses sont
deroules pele-mele avec une predominance des liens de contiguiU.
Mme Piper a certainement connaissance des Metamorphoses
d'Ovide ; cette connaissance a pu disparaitre de sa conscience
normale, c'est pour cela que les mots qu'elle prononce sont
sans association logique et ont tous les caracteres de l'imagina-
tion onirique. Ce trait est bien marque dans les allusions a
Sibylle, Muses, Graces, Hero, Phyllis, Olympe, Mercure qui
figurent dans les poemes de Virgile ; aucun lien raisounable
n'apparait dans le melange de ces noms disparates.
II ne faut pas nous presenter comme l'indication d'une
erudition quelconque (Vol. XXIV., p. 147) l'emploi de Sibylle
au pluriel, ni l'association d'Icare et d'Anchise ; ce dernier detail
est du reste convaincant ; il demontre la nature illogique du
lien entre les noms propres ; ils n'ont qu'une association
materielle de contiguiU (VIe
chant de YEnSide). Je ne puis
1 II semble que la famille de M. Myers ait une impression opposee a celle des
experinientateurs. (Voy. lettre au Times, citee dans Light, 1908, p. 526).
H
114 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
com prendre qu'on transforme ce caractere onirique en signe
d'intelligence refk'chie.
Mais les raisonnements de M. Piddington ne reclament aucune
precision ; nous en avons souvent la preuve.1
Un des
exemples les plus curieux de l'a peu pres scientitique dont se
contentent les experimentateurs, se trouve dans les allusions
que Ton nous montre, dans les textes de Mine Verrall, a l'ode
d'Horace. Le controle MyersP a cominis pas mal d'erreurs
dans cet incident, transformant oniriquement Odes en Odesies
et Odyssee (Vol. XXII., p. 381), et n'indiquant jamais claire-
ment l'ode dont il veut parler ; mais M. Piddington n'en est
pas embarrasse. II serait difficile d'embarrasser un dialecticien
auquel il importe relativement peu que l'allusion soit a la
reincarnation, comme le pense Mme Verrall, ou a la superiority
de la vie future comme le croit M. Piddington (Vol. XXII.,
p. 407). Des raisonnements fondes sur des k peu pres aussi
indi'termines sont Men faibles.
Pour etayer son interpretation de la reponse synibolique
qu'aurait donnee MyersP en faisant allusion aux poemes
publics de M. Myers, M. Piddington a cherche, dans les textes
anciens de Mme Verrall, les mentions directes ou indirectes
relatives k l'ode d'Archytas. II en retient une qui inerite
d'etre examinee. Le 12 Mars 1901, cinq ans plus tot, Mme
Verrall aurait ecrit adscripta glebis: le 27 Avril ascripta es
glcbac, o libera animam, etc. (Vol. XXIAr
., pp. 163, 164). C'est
la traduction latine de " earth-bound "
; on se demande par quelle
combinaison d'associations, Mme Verrall a pu y voir une allusion
a l'Ode d'Horace ? Voici comment elle y est arrivee. Elle
accepte la traduction proposee par certains commentateurs du
mot grec eirdpovpos qui existe seulement dans YOdyssSe. II
est place dans la bouche d'Achille, qui aimerait mieux etre
paysan travaillant pour un modique salaire chez un homme
pauvre, que de regner sur les ombres. Or le commentateur
applique une phrase latine employee pour definir un etat social
du moyen age, ;t un etat social anterieur de vingt-cinq siecles,
1 Voy. par exemple Vol. XXIV., p. 12. On trouve une allusion an poeme de
Browning "My Star" dans ces mots Androsace, Carthusian, Candelabrum. II
est indifferent a la conclusion que Candelabrum soit une fleur ou un chandelier ;
androsace est un noni de genre, on Fapplique a une e«pece (alpine, androsace rubra
je crois).
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 115
dans lequel le serf inscrit a la glebe n'existait pas, au moins
a ma connaissance. II n'y avait pas de registres fonciers et
les droits immobiliers setablissaient par temoignage (voy. par
exemple la loi de Gortyne 1, 2, 14, 17, 18). L'idee d' " ad-
scriptus " n'est pas inipliquees dans eirdpovpo<; que les diction-
naires traduisent par rusticus. L'esclavage d'ailleurs, au temps
d'Ulysse, n'etait pas compatible avec le salaire dont parle Achille.
Si je ne me trompe, le commentateur dont Mme Verrall accepte
la paraphrase commet une erreur juridique et etymologique.
M. Myers n'aurait pas commis cette derniere, car il connaissait
bien la langue grecque.
Une analyse precise des faits conduit a des conclusions fort
differentes de celles que M. Piddington propose (Vol. XXIV.,
p. 168).1
Xon seulement Intelligence automatique n'est pas
celle d'un helleniste et d'un lettre, mais on pent montrer qu'elle
est empreinte des caracteres propres aux operations mentales
oniriques, telles qu'elles apparaissent dans les processus sublimi-
naux inferieurs. J'essayerai de le demontrer, pour repondre a
l'invitation du rapporteur lui-meme.
Je veux auparavant analyser encore quelques correspondances
parmi les plus remarquables. J'emprunterai a Mile Johnson
le cas " sevens " dans lequel les nouvelles methodes conduisent
aux resultats les plus imprevus. Je laisserai de cote des
banalites comme Janiculum, yellow, blue flowers, church, etc.
II y a quelques cas de telepathie probable, tel que l'incident
de la hole de poison oubliee clans le laboratoire des fils de Sir
Oliver Lodge (Vol. XXIV., p. 216). Savonarole est un cas
interessant pourtant (ibid., p. 211); Mile Verrall habille les
chartreux en noir, erreur que n'admet pas Mine Verrall ; elle
en conclut qu'il y avait d'autres moines dans la procession.
Sur deux ou trois details banals, elle reconnait la procession
decrite dans Romola. A la menie epoque, 8 Octobre, Mme
Holland ecrit " ask his daughter about the dream—grey monks
of long ago," ce qui n'a rien de commun avec une procession
et fait allusion a un reve. II n'y a done visiblement aucune
J
M. Myers ne penserait pas autrement, si j'en juge par ce qu'il ecrivait
dans le Journal, S.P.I', aout 1885: "The gross want of comprehension of the
subjects inquired about, and the palpable blunders which the replies contain,
seem to me to preclude us from regarding the case as affording evidence of
the guidance of a scientific spirit."
116 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
continuite de conscience entre le controle de Mme Holland et
ceux des dames Verrall ; la concordance assez vague resultant
de l'allusion banale a des moines ne depasse certainement pas
les limites d'une coincidence fortuite.
"Sevens" (Vol. XXIV., p. 222) nous transporte dans des
spheres plus elevees. Sept automatistes font allusion au nombre
mystique sept, nombre banal, et dont tous les occultistes ont
abuse. D'abord Mme Piper : M. Dorr lui repete en Avril et
Mai 1908 un quatrain en mauvais latin, que les membres du
Tavern Club de Boston imprimaient sur leurs menus. Hodgson
en etait membre ; mais comme controle il ne peut donner
une traduction correcte. II commet des erreurs qui revelent
1'inHuence de la conscience normale de Mme Piper : par exemple,
mori est traduit par custom (habitude) et non par mourir. Erreur
explicable, a cause de la prononciation, qui rapproche ce mot
de " more," custom, habit, en latin ; Webster donne, avec la
traduction, les expressions courantes anglaises, more Hibernico,
more majorum, more suo ;
propositum est traduit par " habit
par simple attraction. Ce contre-sens est utilise comme corres-
pondance croisee, alors que son apparition est explicable
normalement.
Dans les vers latins il y a " angelorum chorus" que Mme
Piper traduit par " Angel band."
Le 8 Mai, au reveil, Mme Piper prononce "Habit, We are
Seven, Clock! Tick, Tick, Tick, Stairs." Mile Johnson y
voit une allusion a un poeme de Longfellow, " The Old
Clock on the Stairs," mais c'est simplemeut une allusion a la
pendule de l'escalier du Tavern Club (see Proc. Vol. XXV.,
p. 298).
Le 12 Mai " We are seven" est attribue a, Wordsworth, mais
le controle ajoute :
" but we were seven in the distance as a
matter of fact." Puis il pretend, inexactement je crois, avoir
donne divers messages a Mme Verrall.
Le 27 Avril 1908, Mme Verrall ecrit des chiffres ou figurent
bien en evidence les nombres 3, 6 et 7. Ce n'est pas rare
dans ses textes (voy. Vol. XX., pp. 245, 272, 321, No. 9, 12,
14, 15, 27; p. 418, No. 13 d., etc.).
Le 8 Mai, elle ecrit des vers, apres avoir lu Dante ; elle
fait probablement allusion a, Virgile. On y voit " Blest are
the messengers . . . borne far aloft on oarage of their high
lxv.] Gorrespondances croise'es et la Methode experimentale. 117
wings, etc." Ces anges qui planent, soutenus par leurs ailes,
rappellent a Mile Johnson . . . l'echelle de Jacob decrite par
Dante !
Mile H. Verrall a son tour ecrit
Le 29 Avril : the figure 3 that seems wanted.
Le 4 Mai : 8, eight, A a triangle.
Le 11 Mai, un texte que Ton trouvera page 228, Vol. XXIV.
Le commentaire de ce texte fait par Mile Johnson est
deconcertant. II y est question de l'echelle de Jacob ; d'une
toupie qui tourne, plusieurs couleurs qui se fondent en une
seule en tournant. Cette allusion a un jeu commun, devient
pour Mile Johnson, h qui Mine Verrall le suggere, la roue
mentionnee au Xe
chant du Paradis. Eien ne legitime cette
interpretation ; mais Mile Johnson la prend comrae point de
depart d'un enchainement allegorique qui conduit a des cercles
accomplissant leurs revolutions, a Iris, a, l'arc en ciel, mentionne
dans le texte de Mile Verrall. De la nous passons a Platon
et au Mythe d'Er, qui nous amenent aux huit spheres celestes
et a d'autres correspondances.
Toutes ces hypotheses paraissent peu solides ; il est fort
possible que Mile Verrall n'ait aucune connaissance de Dante
elle ne l'a jamais lu, dit-elle. Mais on peut connaitre un poete
sans l'avoir lu, alors surtout qu'il a la celebrite du Florentin.
Qui n'a pas vu les gravures de Gustave Dore ? Je ne puis
penser qu'une jeune fille aussi instruite ignore completement
la Divine Comklu ; il est inutile d'insister, car Mile Johnson
admet la possibilite d'une simple influence telepathique entre
les dames Verrall.
Toutefois, les allusions sont fort incertaines ; rien ne permet
de voir dans ces mots " the seven branched candlestick it is an
image . . . seven candles united in one light and seven colours
in the rainbow too," une allusion a la procession decrite dans
le XXIV6
chant du Purgatoire. Les seuls points de contact
sont les sept flambeaux (candles) unis en une lumiere et les
sept couleurs de l'arc en ciel. Ce sont la des details d'une
grande banalite, alors surtout qu'il venait d'etre fait mention
dans le texte du chandelier a sept branches. Les autres
details ne concordent pas. Dante ne parle pas des sept eglises
ni du chandelier a sept branches, Mile Verrall ne parle pas
des sept nymphes, tout indiquees pourtant, ni des vieillards,
118 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [PAKT
ni des quatre animaux. II y a une absence complete d'identi-
rication ; Mile Johnson et Mme Verrall reconnaissent le
passage a des details indetermines. En realite, le texte de
Mile Verrall est une paraphrase du nombre 7, elle le termine
par le mot de Mme Piper, " We are seven."
La quatrieme contribution a la correspondance est due k
une dame Frith; en Janvier 1908. Mme Verrall tit une
experience qui ne donna pas les resultats cherches :
" can
E. H." c'est-a-dire le controle Hodgson " say what are his asso-
ciations with the words, '
Climb the mount of Blessing.'
" 1
La
reponse fit allusion au mont Pisgah d'ou Moise apercut la terre
promise. On voit une reference a Dante et a la montagne du
Purgatoire, d'ou Virgile apeivut le Paradis, ou il ne pouvait entrer.
Les derniers mots de la reponse sont "till the mystic seven 2
lights
up the golden candlestick of dawn." II y a une concordance
avec le texte de Mile Verrall, que Mme Verrall connaissait
depuis le 6 Juin. La question posee le 14 Fevrier 1908 ne
regut une reponse que le 11 Juin, soit quatre mois apres, ce
qui est une mauvaise condition d'expe'rimentation.
Mme Holland intervient ensuite ; le 15 Juin 1908, elle
reve au chiffre 6; le 23 Juillet elle ecrit : "there should be
three at least in accord, and if possible Seven " . . .
" take this
for token '
green beyond belief . . . Not only on the ocean
may the Green Eay appear."
La repetition du mot " green " impressionna Mile Johnson ;
elle chercha ce que cela pouvait signifier et trouva . . . une
nouvelle allusion a Dante ! II semble ici que les limites de
rindetermination soient atteintes. L'idee de vert est une
reference au XXXI6
chant du Purgatoire, parce que, la, il est
parle des yeux d'emeraude de Beatrice. Toute autre couleur
aurait egalement etc une aussi bonne allusion, si vert correspond
a l'emeraude, rouge aurait correspondu au griffon, ou aux sept
personnages couronnes de fieurs rouges, blanc aux vieillards
couronnes de lys, jaune aux chandeliers d'or, etc. Le mot le
plus banal sufht, on le voit, h etablir uue correspondance.
Enfin, le 25 Novembre, Mme Holland apres avoir vu Mile
Johnson, ecrivit :
" then an octave struck the answer" citation
de Browning (Vol. XXIV, p. 241).
1
Ces mots avaient fait 1'objet (Tun article de Light, 1906, p. 16.
2
The mystical number seven, Light, 1907, p. 306.
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 119
Mme Home joue le sixieme role. Le 24 Juillet 1908,
elle dit, etant entrancee :
" seven times seven and seventy-
seven " et conseilla de eommuniquer ces mots a Mile Johnson.
La derniere allusion a 7 est due k M. Piddington qui, le
13 Juillet 1904, avait ecrit une lettre " posthume " (sic). Elle
faisait connaitre son intention, s'il survivait, de eommuniquer
k un sensitif le nombre 7.
"
' The seven lamps of architecture,' '
the seven sleepers of
Ephesus,' 'unto seventy times seven,' 'we are seven,' and so
forth." 7 est un " tic " chez lui, une habitude, " habit " (ibid.,
p. 244).
Evidemment, il y avait la un phenomene supranormal.
Cette croyance etait confirmee par le reve de Mme Holland,
a qui on avait montre en songe un vieux carnet, ou etaient
ecrits ces mots, "Since in 1872 a dear friend chose as a
sign by which to communicate with me the figure 6, I, in
my turn, will try, in the time to come, to send the figure 6,
simply the sign of 6 " (ibid., p. 238). Un nombre etait
indique comme le sujet d'une communication posthume. La
coincidence ne portait que sur ce point, puisque les deux
chiffres ne concordaient pas, mais le choix d'un nombre dans
ce but parut k M. Piddington une chose difficile k deviner.
Enfin Mme Piper avait parle de " habit " et de " tick," ce
qui rappelait encore les expressions de la lettre posthume.
Ce n'est pas tout. Mile Johnson nous apprend que le
phenomene etait prepare depuis quatre ans. Au moment ou
M. Piddington ecrivait sa lettre, Mme Verrall produisait un
texte, "... it is something contemporary that you are to
record—note the hour—in London half the message has come "
(ibid., p. 246). II est evident que e'est une allusion a la
lettre de M. Piddington ; cette derniere en effet ne contient
que des references a 7, Dante n'y apparait pas. Done il n'y
a que la moitie du message total dans la lettre.
Cette interpretation est appuyee sur le texte de Mile
Verrall du 15 Juillet 1904, ou on lit "Deficit omne," ce qui
peut etre regarde " as equivalent to Mrs. Verrall's more definite
statement" (Vol. XXIV, p. 248).
Voila done une correspondance croisee ou 7 automatistes se
rencontrent sur le mot 7, plus ou moins combine avec des
allusions k Dante.
120 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Si on analyse avec impartialite le systerne de Mile Johnson,
on trouve d'abord que les allusions a Dante sont incertaines,
comme je l'ai indique, sauf pour Mine Verrall, qui lisait, au
moment de la production de ses textes de 1908, le Purgatoire,
Chez Mile Verrall on ne trouve que l'echelle de Jacob, sept
flambeaux et sept couleurs de l'arc en ciel, ce qui est
insuffisant pour determiner l'allusion avec certitude. II faut
remarquer au surplus que, dans le texte de Mme Verrall, il
n'y a pas d'allusion a l'echelle de Jacob : ses anges planent
soutenus par leurs ailes, tandis que les anges de Jacob montent
et descendent sur leur echelle ; les deux images ne concordent
ni dans leur expression verbale ni dans leur sens, sauf sur le
theme " anges," qui est banal. De meme, il faut beaucoup de
bonne volonte pour voir une allusion au Purgatoire dans les
mots le mystique sept et le chandelier d'or, green beyond
belief, the green Pay, et seven times seven.
" The mystic seven " est une banalite. Le caractere mystique
du nombre 7 est un lieu commun pour tous ceux qui se sont
occupes des soi-disant sciences occultes. Mme Blavatsky (Secret
Doctrine I., 114), parle des "Seven mystic sages." Pres de
cinq colonnes sont consaerees a ce nombre dans l'lndex (pp.
257-260).
Quant a " Seven times seven," ou 49, c'est une reminiscence
de Stainton Moses. On voit, Light, 1897, p. 183: "when we
commenced to influence you ... we told you of an organised
band of 49 spirits who were concerned in the working of our
plan." Et, 1892, p. 189: "seven circles of seven spirits" sont
attaches a M. Moses. Imperator en est le chef.
Le journal Light est une veritable mine d'allusions aux textes
medianiques. J'en recommande l'analyse a Mile Johnson et
a Mme Verrall. La premiere verra (n° du 5 Novembre 1904)
une analyse de Fragments of Prose and Poetry de Myers ou est
cite le passage reproduit par elle " from ten to sixteen, etc."
II y a toute une serie de relations entre East et West dans
le meme volume :
" there is something mysterious in the leaning
of the East towards the West just now (29 Oct. 1904); Light
cometh from the East (1904, p. 270); where farther East and
farthest West meet . . . ; the light has moved away from the
East" (ibid.); "Pharaoh's daughter" est meme imprime, p. 224.
II ne semble pas que les experimentateurs anglais aient pense
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methods experimentale. 121
a cette source normale de renseignements quest la litterature
spiritualiste. lis y auraient trouve a peu pres toutes leurs
correspondances croisees. C'est dans l'oeuvre de M. Moses, que
personnellement j'admire beaucoup ;i cause de son elevation
morale, que Ton trouve la source du message de Mme Home,
et de bien d'autres.
Done, pas d'allusion certaine a Dante : le contraire est
probable et j'indique la source vraisemblable de sept fois sept.
Quant aux correspondances sur ce nombre, elles sont vrai-
ment trop banales pour n'etre pas explicables par de simples
coincidences.
La lettre de M. Piddington n'ajoute rien a ces circonstances ;
aucune des idees qu'il voulait transmettre n'a 6te reproduite.
De plus, il faut conserver notre bon sens et ne pas lui imposer
de trop lourds sacrifices. Dans le message de Mme Verrall
du 13 Juillet, rien n'indique l'idee d'une communication a
M. Piddington. Sa lettre n'est pas un message arrive k Londres,
mais bien l'annonce d'un message qu'il transmettra s'il le peut
apres sa mort. L'idee du texte de Mme Verrall est inapplicable
a la lettre de M. Piddington. A cette date, Mme Verrall
essayait de correspondre avec Mme Porbes (Vol. XX., p. 267),
et on trouve le mot message applique a Mme Forbes le 23
Novembre 1903, les 25 Janvier, 21 et 28 Decembre 1904;
une allusion a la difficult^ de transmettre les mots grecs (du
Symposium) par cette dame est faite le 15 Juillet (Vol. XX.,
p. 408). Telle est probablement la veritable allusion au message
a demi arrive a Londres.
Enfin, pouiquoi penser que Myers-Verrall fera une prediction
admirable a quatre annees de distance et revelera les pensees
de M. Piddington, alors que dans le meme texte il se trompe
completement sur sa propre lettre postbume ? Cela est bien
peu vraisemblable.
On pourrait faire des critiques semblables sur les autres details
de la correspondance, cela allongerait inutilement l'analyse. Je
finirai en signalant le long espace de temps qui s'ecoule entre
le commencement et la fin de la correspondance, plus de quatre
ans, et les delais qui separent les interventions des differents
mediums. Cela rend leurs concordances inutilisables pour une
demonstration scientifique de leur realite, a moins de se fier
implicitement a eux, ce qui est une erreur de metbode.
122 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
La correspondance sur Sesame and Lilies est d'une grande
banalite ;
j'en dirai autant de door et de key que nous retrouvons
d'ailleurs dans les experiences faites avec Mrne Willett. La,
Sir 0. Lodge n'a pas experiments avec la prudence h laquelle
il nous a accoutumes.
II demande, par lettre, au controle de Mine Willett, ce que
lui rappelle le Lethe. La reponse ne fut obtenue qu'au bout
de quatre mois ; le medium a conserve pendant tout ce temps
la lettre de Sir Oliver Lodoe.
-Te pense pourtant que Mme Willett n'a pas fraude ; la
mediocrite des responses prouve qu'elle ne s'est pas renseignee,
et elle nous donne des details etablissant sa sincerite.
II y a trois ordres de faits k analyser dans ces experiences
d'abord l'indication du nom de M. Dorr : elle est due k l'impru-
dence de Mme Verrall qui avait averti " les controles de Mme
Willett (sic) " des bons resultats donnes par les seances de M.
Dorr avec Mme Piper (Vol. XXV., p. 125). Dans les indi-
cations donnees par Mme Verrall sur ses communications avec
Mme Willett, cette information n'est pas signalee, il me semble
l'omission d'un renseignement aussi important serait un grave
oubli.
L'emergence du nom de M. Dorr ne depasse done pas les
limites de la divination subliminale, et je ne vois aucun element
supranormal dans ce fait, malgre la mise en scene accompagnant
sa production.
Le second point est la connaissance que le controle Myers
montre des experiences faites avec Mme Piper. Sur ce point,
il est visible qu'il connait simplement ce qua lu Mme Willett
(au moins les volumes XXI. et XXII. des Proceedings) et qu'il
se trompe sur la portee des experiences de M. Dorr. Ce dernier
(Vol. XXV., p. 127), dit-il, desire que le controle montre
" different aspects of thought underlying which unity is to be
found." Ces phrases sont empruntees a Mile Johnson :
" the
statements ... of one writer were by no means a simple
reproduction ... of the other but seemed to represent different
aspects of the same idea (Vol. XXL, p. 373); there is . . .
one coherent idea underlying both" (Vol. XXL, p. 375); on
trouve l'idee de " access to hnoivlcdgc shown elsewhere " dans le
rapport de M. Piddington. M. Dorr voulait surtout examiner
les souvenirs classiques de Myers-Piper (Vol. XXV., p. 120);
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methocle experimentale. 123
Mme Willett attribue a M. Dorr les pensees et les ex-
pressions de Mile Johnson et de M. Piddington quelle connait
normalement.
Quant au troisieme point, il concerne justement les souvenirs
classiques de Myers-Willett. Celui-ci ne dit rien d'Ovide, mais
est plein d'allusions Virgiliennes ; or Mme Willett a lu les
etudes de Myers sur Virgile et possede un ouvrage sur le
poete latin. II est naturel que Ton trouve des reminiscences
des unes et de l'autre.
(1) " Once only does the soul descend the way that leads to
incarnation" (Vol. XXV., p. 123), est inspire par Spirit
Teachings plutot que par Tennyson. " Christ existant in the
ages past descends to incarnation (p. 259-260, Memorial Edition);
Reincarnation . . . was not true" (Light, 1893, p. 76).
(2) " The llcnding of the essence with the instrument " ne
rappelle pas mens agitat molem, mais plutot " Veiling in
human flesh the radiance of his pure spirit" (Memorial Edition,
p. 259).
(3) " Tu Marcellus eris" est une banalite.
(4) " In valle reducta " est emprunte ;i un texte Mac (Vol.
XXV., p. 137), ou etait indiquee la source de la citation: VJ°
chant de YEniide. L'association du rameau d'or, des colombes
et des ombres est done naturelle et normale, utant donnee cette
indication. Ces mots figurent d'ailleurs dans des textes publics
aux Proceedings, Vols. XXL, XXII.
(5) "the door to which I found no hey" (Vol. XXV, p. 130)
est emprunte a Omar Khayyam, soit : mais la citation est
banale et il y a une serie d'articles dont ces mots forment le
theme dans Light, 1905, p. 99; the Key, an allegory, by
Mme d'Esperance. Des savants ne peuvent ouvrir la porte
d'une chambre secrete : un enfant arrive disant " I have found
the key . . . and lo ! the door was open." L'allegorie est
reprise, p. 124 et 155. II semble que Myers-Willett y fasse
allusion.
(6) La mention d'Haggi Baba a ete rattachee par les com-
mentateurs au conte d'Ali Baba; en realite, l'emergence de ce
nom depend entierement de door et de hey et se relie a une
publication de James Morier The adventures of LTajji Baba
of Lspahan, ou il est question de porte et de cle (S.P.R.
Journal, Vol. XV., p. 101). L'allusion au conte des quarante
124 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
voleurs n'existe pas, car aucune cle n'ouvrait la porte de la
caverne des voleurs : elle obeissait a une formule magique
seulement. Nous avons encore la un exemple d'interpretation
hative, comme dans l'attribution a Tennyson d'une citation
empruntee a un hynine religieux (conf. Vol. XXV., p. 140 et
Journal, Vol. XV., p. 104).
Dans le texte du 10 Fevrier (Vol. XXV, p. 148) nous
trouvons des associations normales : Lydia, et l'Ode d'Horace,
bien connue (I., 8e) ;
Seneque, Ulysse, qui n'ont aucune associa-
tion avec le Lethe. Seneque a ecrit un livre pour consoler
sa mere Helvia, mais il a fait au Senat l'apologie du meurtre
d'Agrippine et n'est pas cite comme un modele de piete filiale.
Ulysse rencontre sa mere Anticlee lorsqu'il evoque les morts,
mais ce fils pieux ne laisse sa mere approcher de lui qu'apres
avoir termine ses affaires avec Tiresias. Business is business
(Ochjs. XL, 88-89).
Lemergence de nightingale s'associe avec le Lethe, a cause
du 4e vers de l'ode de Keats, qui est tres connue (Gems, 228).
II est possible que Mme Willett connaisse le fameux passage
des Gdorgiques " Qualis . . . Philomela sub umbra," et dans
ce cas Ulysse, les ombres, Philomele, le Rossignol, etc., sont des
associations oniriques de type connu. Mais je ne pense pas
que l'allusion a Keats soit correcte, parce que ce poete, dans
son ode au rossignol, dit que son esprit s'endort dans l'oubli
tandis que le controle veut montrer qu'il n'a rien oublie. II
n'y a done qu'un lien verbal (Lethcwards) entre l'idee de Keats
et l'idee differente de Myers-Willett.
Voih't ce qu'une analyse simple fait penser ; voici ce
qu'imagine Mme Verrall : l'allusion a Shelley est expliquee
par les mots once more ye Laurels qui sont empruntes au
Lycidas de Milton, prototype de YAdonais de Shelley, dans
lequel on lit (stance XVIL), Thy spirit's sister, the lorn nightin-
gale. ... Ce qui est une allusion voilee a l'ode de Keats
Comme dans YAdonais on trouve Echo, Hyacinthe et Nar-
cisse dont a parle Mme Piper dans les seances Dorr, l'allusion
est manifeste. C'est intentionnellement que Myers-Willett n'a
pas nomme Ovide (Vol. XXV., p. 159) !
Tout cela est contenu implicitement dans Shelley et once
more ye Laurels.
On trouve cependant ces mots ailleurs que dans Adonais
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 125
voyez Narcisse, Hyacinthe dans The Sensitive Plant ;
Hyacinth,
Echo, Apollo, sont dans Promethie. Toutes ces allusions sont
banales.
II suffit a Mme Verrall pour relever une correspondance,
qu'il y ait l'indication d'un poeme, par une citation, du nom
d'un autre poete et une analogie quelconque entre la premiere
ceuvre et le second poete. Une pareille maniere de raisonner
n'est pas serieusement discutable, car on peut trouver toutes
sortes de correspondances dans des conditions aussi indeter-
minees.
En realite, Mme Willett ecrit une foule de reminiscences
empruntees aux Proceedings ;
Shelley, Keats, Writ in water
(Vol. XXL, p. 355), Laurels, Scribe, Sybil, flavicomata, Waters
of Babylon, Zion, l'allusion a l'ornbre d'Achille, etc., figurent
dans ces documents. On ne trouve rien d'original dans les
textes de Mme Willett, tout est emprunte, ou banal.
Quant aux connaissances litteraires du controle Myers-Willett,
elles sont manifestement d'ordre inferieur. II confond les deux
Ajax ; la traduction de eV c>e <paei kui oXecraov n'est pas
" though it should blind me," mais " detruis moi (si tu le
veux) mais a, la lumiere."
II faut prendre garde a l'imagination. Je vais en montrer
les dangers pratiques en indiquant a Mme Verrall une
correspondance imaginaire dans laquelle elle trouvera les plus
surprenantes coincidences. C'est en examinant les textes Mac
que cette demonstration peut se faire.
Le 16 Mars (Vol. XXIV, p. 297) Mile Verrall cite un
quatrain, inexactement attribue a Victor Hugo, parle de la
rose de Saron, de " Gautier, and Hugo, those together types to
be compared. Unless there is a possibility of setting the two
side by side there would be no opportunity."
Le 27 Juillet le texte Mac porte "A little love and then
the joy fades and the rose is crumpled and withers up—fane.
French (fane) . . . hollow and mortal vain is life without
a meaning."
Cela rappelle a Mme Verrall une poesie de " Victor Hugo
qui hd est iris familifrre, et dont sa fille a cite la premiere
stance ;
" La vie est vaine, un peu d'amour, un peu de haine
et puis bonjour." Les souvenirs de Mme Verrall (Vol. XXIV.,
p. 298) sont en realite incertains, car le quatrain n'est pas
126 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
de Victor Hugo, il est d'un poete peu connu, M. de Montenaeken ;
il est cite dans Trilby, roman de Du Maurier, paru en 1894
(Vol. XXV., p. 321). Cela n'a etc decouvert que plus tard,
car sur le moment, Mine Verrall ecrivit a Mile Mac pour lui
demander si son texte ne lui rappelait pas wi poeme de Hugo ;
et Mile Mac de repondre affirmativemeut ; l'allusion lui avait
paru familiere.
L'original etait done connu de toutes les parties; le fait
interessant pour Mme Verrall, est la correspondance croisee
k laquelle il sert ; sa fille cite une strophe et Mile Mac l'autre.
II n'y a pas de simple coincidence, parce que la mention d'une
rose, qui apparait dans les deux textes, les fixe et les relie
(Vol. XXIV, p. 299).
La comparaison conseillee entre Gautier et Hugo preoccupa
Mme Verrall ;
" (it) would be completely justified," dit-elle, " if,
for instance, there existed poems by Hugo and Gautier charac-
teristic of their respective authors and referring to the topic
which is the subject of the poem whose second stanza is
quoted in the script—the emptiness and brevity of life
(Vol. XXV., p. 322). Des recherches furent faites et elles
aboutirent aux resultats suivants : rien dans l'ceuvre poetique
de Gautier ni dans celle de Hugo ne rappelait la citation.
Mme Verrall fut alors mise sur la voie par son ecriture
automatique ; elle avait eu communication des proces-verbaux
des seances Piper, de Juillet 1910, le 22 Septembre de la meme
annee. Le mot meditation y figurait comme etant l'objet d'une
correspondance croisee. II y etait mis en vigoureux relief. Je
cite les passages des proces-verbaux sur lesquels j 'attire speciale-
ment 1
'attention du lecteur (Vol. XXV., pp. 331-332).
8 Juillet: (au re veil) "Myers, Meditation" (puis des vers sont
dits; on ne saisit que): "meditation . . . sleeping dead. Laurels
round . . . ever grow. Meditation links it." (Les vers sont
repris): "churchyard tree . . . walked with gorgeous feet . . .
about the sleeping dead. Meditation links it. Life open peace
completes the semblance ..."
Le 16: "Meditation . . . connects it." Lodge fait observer
qu'il n'a pas trouve de poeme intitule " Meditation." " Medita-
tion comes out in Mrs. Holland's also will appear at Mrs. Ws.
Wait for it." Sur demande de Lodge, le controle, qui est
Hodgson, reprend les vers ; il ecrit :
" Elegy ... as through
lxv.] Correspondanees croisees et la Methode experimentale. 127
the graveyard's lone retreat my Meditation led Slow I walked
with cautious feet above the sleeping dead." Interroge sur le
poeme dont provient la citation, le controle repond " Elegy."
" Do you mean Gray's Elegy ?
" " Yes " (suggestion fausse
aussitot acceptee). " But Meditation will play a most interesting
part and the last two lines " seront donnes " through both
lights " (mediums) etc.
Le mot meditation apparait immediatement apres la lecture
des proces-verbaux dans les textes de Mme Verrall ; le 4
Octobre, notamment :
" Samaritan . . . M " (et une lettre qui
est nettement un P) ". . . Meditation is a good long word in
M— . . . ask about the Golden Numbers. It seems impossible
to get you to distinguish sometimes between your thoughts and
ours,—and you constantly overlook idiosyncrasies wh. ought to
tell you who the writer is—" (Vol. XXV., p. 324).
Le 10 Octobre: "... Meditation, Fancy's child—no sweet
Meditation heavenly maid . . . there are Augustine's Medita-
tions—but they are not what I want. It is a purely poetic
association with the word. Pacing in the cloister slow no
cloister's shade, etc" (ibid.,]). 324).
La lumiere se fit dans l'esprit de Mme Verrall en Janvier
1911 ; elle lut un livre d'Edith Wharton qui faisait allusion a
l'axiome de Gautier (?) " Gautier's axiom"; la phrase de l'auteur
anglais contrastait la rose et le laurier. En meme temps elle
examina 1'ecriture automatique de sa fille et y trouva des coin-
cidences avec la sienne, notamment des instruments a cordes
etaient l'objet de diverses allusions, et " toute la lyre " de Hugo
etait citee.
Le 27 Janvier, elle trouva l'axiome (?) dans un poeme de
Gautier intitule Meditation
" Ce qui charme s'en va, ce qui fait peine reste
La rose vit une heure et le cypres cent ans."
Elle trouva les trois conditions remplies : poeme caracteristique
de l'auteur (affirmation faite pour surprendre un familier des
poemes de Gautier) ; allusion a la brievete de la vie (inais non
tl Scl vanite), portant le titre Meditation.
Kestait a comparer Hugo et Gautier. Dans " Toute la
Lyre " elle trouva une piece de vers dediee a Gautier ;
puis
une autre, Epitaphe d'enfant, ou l'idee de la brievete de la vie
128 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
est presentee sous un jour contraire a celui que eclaire la
" Meditation " de Gautier
" Qu'as-tu done fait pour que ta vie
Ait sitot merite la mort ?
"
Le choix du mot " rose " pour fixer la eorrespondance
s'explique aussi, car la rubrique du poeme de Gautier est em-
prunteee a Malherbe. " Ce monde ou les meilleures choses ont
le pire destin " est un passage de l'Ode cedebre ou se trouve
le vers " Et rose elle a vecu ce que vivent les roses, etc."
Mme Verrall estime que ces allusions subtiles a Gautier et
a Hugo revtdent une connaissance de leurs oeuvres bien supe-
rieure k celle quelle et sa fille en ont ; elle reconnait qu'avaut
d'avoir ecrit les textes cites, elle avait parcouru la table des
matieres des ouvrages des deux poetes franqais, et que par con-
sequent l'emergence de " Meditation " et de " Toute la lyre
pent s'expliquer en partie, mais il n'en est pas moms vrai
qu'au moment ou les textes de Miles Verrall et Mac ont ete
produits, en 1908, leur ignorance etait encore complete, en ce
qui concerne Meditation de Gautier et E}ntaphc d'enfant de
Hugo.
A ces documents, que cite Mme Verrall, j'ajouterai pour la
discussion qui va suivre, un texte d'elle du 5 Octobre 1910,
contemporain de ceux qu'elle analyse, et qui rentre dans la serie
des coincidences fortuites que je vais faire connaitre an lecteur.
(Dessin d'une croix) "How often bas the tune been played
before ? then say minstrel the minstrel was infirm and old
(dessin de deux harpes) " toute la lyre. No you do not get the
shape—ap hoel—I do not think you have got the first word at
all. What you have is the second group. Hoel's lays. That
is better."
11 y a dans la discussion de Mme Verrall bien des details
qui paraissent tres particuliers a un Fran<jais moderement
instruit dans la litterature contemporaine. L'axiome de Gautier
par exemple ne lui rappelle rien de precis, et il ne songerait
pas a la fragilite de la beaute. La comparaison entre Gautier
et Hugo lui paraitrait pleine d'insurmontables difficultes.
II y a autre chose ; la lecture des textes de Mme Verrall et
de Mme Piper attirerait son attention sur un autre poete, dont
le nom est etroitement associe a " Meditation " : Lamartine. II
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Afethocle experimentale. 129
verrait dans les allusions a Gautier et a Hugo non une invita-
tion a chercher dans l'oeuvre de ces poetes, mais une indication
invitant a examiner la litterature francaise, examen qui resultera
de la comparaison des types et fournira l'occasion prevue.
Le texte de Mme Verrall contient M P, meditations poetiques,
interpretation confirmee par le texte du 1 0 Octobre " une associa-
tion purement poetique a meditation." II verrait dans la preface
du " Dernier chant de Childe Harold " qui fait partie des
" Meditations Poetiques " de Lamartine, ces mots " Harold est
un enfant de Vimagination." ("Fancy's child.") II trouverait
19 lettres dans le nom d'Alpho?ise de Lamartine, et 19 est le
total des nombres el' or; dans " ap hoel " il verrait un anagramme
incomplet d'Alphonse.
Appliquant son hypothese au texte de Mme Piper, il
chercherait une elegie dans les Meditations, et la trouverait,
piece XL, Nouvelles Me'elitcdions. La, il reconnaitrait le theme
general cherche par Mme Verrall, la vanite et la brievete
de la vie, les deux icUes y sont exprimees et non une seule
comme elans Gautier. II serait frappe d'abord par le premier
vers
" Cueillons, cueillons la rose au matin de la vie
Des rapides printemps respire au rnoins les fleurs."
Et encore
" Hatons-nous d'epuiser la coupe de la vie
Pendant quelle est entre nos mains
Soit que le laurier nous couronne
Nous allons echouer tous au meme rivage
Qu'importe au moment du naufrage
Sur un vaisseau fameux d'avoir fendu les airs
Ou sur une barque h'gere, etc."
Ce n'est pas tout ; si nous feuilletons les Meditations nous
trouvons des vers dont la seance du 16 Juillet donne la
paraphrase ; cela est interessant, parce que nous les trouvons
dans la suite de Childe Harold, ecrite par Lamartine, ce
qui est un lien entre le litterature anglaise et franchise.
i
130 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Comparez en effet les extraits donnes plus haut avec ces vers,
pris dans la stance XXXVIII
" Harold rcdentissant ses pas silencietix
S'assied sur mi tombemi : Quelle paix en ces lieux
Dit-il, et que ces morts dont je foule la picrre
Dorment profondAment elans leur lit de poussiere
L'espace qu'en ces lieux je couvrc cle mon pU
A suffi pour ces saints etc."
Harold est le nom d'un des enfants de M. Myers.
On retrouve done toutes les idees exprimees par le controle
Myers chez les deux mediums, Mme V. rappelle Childe Harold ;
Mme Piper, ce poeme et Elegie ; enfin Mine Piper ramene par
cette Elegie la correspondance aux textes Mac et H. Verrall,
par la mention de la rose et le theme de l'elegie.
On rernarquera dix-neuf coincidences entre le poeme et les
textes, dont quelques unes sont tres frappantes et portent sur
les idees et les mots. II est evident que nous sommes en
presence de coincidences fortuites, que la banalite de certains
sujets, comme rose, brievete et vanite de la vie, tombeaux, pas
silencieux, sommeil des morts, laurier, elegie, etc., explique
facilement, mais il y a d'autres rencontres plus curieuses, telles
que " mentations poitiqites" " Harold enfant de Vimagination."
II me semble que cette correspondance est encore mieux
6tablie que celles dont le Pvrgatoire de Dante nous est cite
comme un exemple.
On voit, ainsi, ou peuvent conduire la nmthode symbolicme,
l'interpretation et l'imagination.
Metiiohs.
We have now to deal with criticisms of a more general
nature. They involve questions, the solution of which is of
vital importance for the future of Psychical Eesearch.
It has been already pointed out that the phenomena of the
S.P.E, automatists, whose work is under consideration, are
liable to a serious objection. They are not, as a rule, really
proven by objective evidence. We must admit the automatists'
good faith.
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 131
I have the greatest confidence in their truthfulness and I
am personally quite ready to believe that they are not guilty
of any collusion. The remarks which I am about to make
do not apply to the experimenters or the mediums individually
they have a wider range and are above personalities.
The value of an experiment, according to Dr. Sidgwick
(Proceedings, Vol. V., p. 401-402), is worthless when the
possibility of conscious or unconscious fraud is not excluded.
I need not insist on the fact that such a condition is not
fulfilled by the latest experiments. The automatists might
have exchanged letters, combining beforehand their correspon-
dences ; the investigators could not be aware of their underhand
agreement to fraud. The medium's good faith must be implicitly
admitted as an element of the experiment.
If the respectability of the well-known ladies and gentlemen
who are either mediums or investigators is held to make such
an admission legitimate ;
then I fear that we forfeit the right
of doubting other honourable people's statements in similar cir-
cumstances. The S.P.R. cannot claim the monopoly of honesty
and good faith for their mediums or enquirers.
Having gone so far, they are not entitled to impose on
other experimenters the rules which they do not observe in
their own experiments. They give thus a bad example, and
lose the right of criticising the value of sittings held according
to their own standard.
Rules must be binding for every one. Scientific research
knows no privilege. If we are to make exceptions for certain
mediums, we cannot, without giving offence, refuse to treat
other mediums as we treat our own, whosoever they may be.
Instances of that grave defect of method are easy to give. When
Sir 0. Lodge, who is, as a rule, a very prudent experimenter,
left a letter during four months in the hands of a medium
before getting an answer, he forgot the rules wisely drawn by
Professor Sidgwick. The medium had simply to read the
question when she got the letter, and she had plenty of time
for preparing an answer.
ISTo better provisions were made against unconscious fraud.
We know very little as yet of the psychological conditions
in which the automatist's mind moves itself. There are many
varieties of unconscious fraud, some being connected with
132 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
abnormal states of consciousness, some being simply dependent
upon prejudice, bias, monoideism ; tbe latter are hardly frauds,
though we cannot draw the line between these and the former
ones. And this fact is not easy to grasp, when one is not
familiar with the psychological phenomena of trance, crepus-
culary states of consciousness and ordinary absent-mindedness,
lack of attention, or bias. Between these typical forms of the
loss of the sense of reality (sens du reel) there are a number
of boundary and complicated forms ;
and, according to the
degree of dimness to which the normal consciousness sinks
down, we have various forms of unconscious fraud.
I fear that psychical researchers are not quite familiar some-
times with the difficulties which are encountered in the study
of these psychological states, chiefly the crepusculary states of
consciousness.
We find them in some diseases of the brain or of the nervous
system, chiefly in hysteria and epilepsy. But they are not,
by themselves, a pathological symptom, no more than auto-
matism is a symptom of hysteria. They are easy to observe
in healthy persons.
When a question is put to an entranced medium, if the
answer is not immediately given, we leave, in the medium's
subliminal, the seed of a desire, and the latent desire may
induce an impulsion, and a transitory trance, if the seed has
been deposited during the trance. Auto-suggestion, like hetero-
suggestion, tends to the production of the state of conscious-
ness, during the carrying on of the impulse, which obtained
when the suggestion was given, or the cause of the self-
suggestion was born.
Can we suspect such transient states of consciousness in
the mediums of the S.P.R. ?
Mrs. Piper is quite trustworthy ; how can we adjust this
fact with the other one, her perusal of Browning ? She may
have been in a transitory trance while looking through the
volume ; the trance was self-induced, and owed its cause to
the questions which had been asked during the sittings.
This is only an hypothesis, but I feel sure that its possi-
bility will not be denied by neuropathologists. The experimenters
have completely overlooked such possibilities ;
they have not
taken care to exclude them ; their conclusions are founded on
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 133
facts which are not free from the suspicion of unconscious
fraud.
Such impulsions may occur without a complete trance ; a
simple crepusculary state may obtain, that is an obnubilation
of the normal consciousness.
These crepusculary states of consciousness may be very
short, the shading off of the normal self may be very light
it does not alter the case and, as a rule, there is a consecutive
amnesia.
Lighter grades of dimming are to be observed in the
normal consciousness, when one is absent-minded. It seems,
at first sight, hardly credible that a simple absence or lack of
attention may be held as a psychological state of the same
order as impulsions, motor automatisms or trances. If we
are to consider them from a general point of view, taking in
all their characteristics, we cannot naturally perceive the
features which are common to all. Their connexion appears,
however, when we take into account the relations between the
normal consciousness and the subliminal, or rather, as I propose
to say, the organic or general consciousness. In that case, we
note always a diminution of the former, the field of which is
narrowed.
It is usually associated with a loss of the sense of reality.
We observe such narrowing of consciousness in deep thought,
and we know that genuine motor automatisms may then take
place. In our states of abstraction, we are apt to leave
things in the wrong place and to forget where we put them.
Such a loss of memory is a real amnesia.
I do not pretend to say that the automatists may have
looked abstractedly into a book and picked up the knowledge
which they showed afterwards in their script, with amnesia of
the act through which it was gained. I have no reason to
suspect automatisms of this kind in the facts which we are
analyzing.
The study of the states of distraction, as they say in
French, and of the consecutive amnesia is, however, full of
meaning. We forget the greater part of what we do, and
see, and hear, and read. A few days, or a few months,
or a few years, blot our memories ; but this is true only
of our normal memory ; it seems probable that our organic
134 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
memory keeps the record of every perception stored up by our
senses. Though not generally accepted, this hypothesis is very
likely true. We know that our subconscious memory is in
any case infinitely richer than our conscious one ; the latter
has no knowledge of the stores accumulated in the former, and
there are no means of gauging the first through the second,
though the reverse may be possible.
And, here, we get at a serious defect in the methods used
by the experimenters. They are always asking from the
mediums information about their conscious or normal know-
ledge, and seem to believe that such information is adecpuate.
I use the word seem, as some of them are well aware of the
utter inutility of their enquiries (Vol. XXL, p. 387). Why,
then, do they take so much pain to ascertain what are the
conscious recollections of the automatists ? The scripts are not
the product of the normal consciousness, but grow out of the
subconscious self, the potentialities of which may, and probably
do, depend on the forgotten experiences of their whole life.
Two other points may be considered in connexion with
those losses of memory. The first is the impossibility of ascer-
taining what a medium does not subconsciously know. It is
already difficult to gauge the extent of his knowledge ; the
difficulty becomes immensely greater when we have to prove
that lie does not know something. We are confronted by a
negative fact, which cannot really be proven. We may infer
that a given knowledge is out of the medium's reach, but we
cannot prove our assumption.
Secondly, we cannot know whether the knowledge displayed
by a medium's automatism has a supernormal source or is
due to " cryptomnesia " ; this is, the consequence of the first
point above discussed.
A third point is even to be taken into account, always in
connexion with the losses or gains of memory related to abnormal
states of consciousness. Some of the experimenters hold that
the trance consciousness of Mrs. Piper, for instance, is shut
from the normal one. They think that the two fields are
completely apart one from the other.
I am not disposed to agree with them. We have but one
means of testing the links between normal and abnormal states
of consciousness, and it is by an analysis of their respective
LXV.] Correspondances croisees et la Methods experimentale. 135
memories. And a first observation must be made ; the relative
amnesia is without doubt a functional, not an essential one. It
can be compared with amnesia in cases of hysteria. And even
in such cases we note a modification of the language, for instance,
in Pitre's " Ecmnesia." The trance does not show a serious altera-
tion of language. The medium may speak with a different
accent, he may use a particular style of expressing himself;
these changes are superficial ; the bulk of the speaking material
is not altered.
If the memories of the normal consciousness were absolutely
shut from the trance personality, we should observe " mnesic
aphasia," that is the loss of speech, through loss of memory,
as we note it sometimes in neuropathology. The conservation
of speech shows that the relative amnesia is not deeply rooted.
And there is evidence that the trance consciousness draws
sometimes its supply from the normal stores. We can find
an instance, I think, of the fact in the Dorr sittings, when
MyerSp put on the track of the Olympic games, spoke of
the modern Marathon races. Such a blunder is manifestly
borrowed from the normal personality's memory.
I fear that the whole conception of the psychological con-
dition of the trance, to use Mr. Dorr's words, of its depth,
not of its genuineness, held by the experimenters are not cpuite
satisfactory. My conclusions, if they impair the worth of the
latest experiments about cross-correspondence and literary know-
ledge, do not impair the worth of the former experiments made
with Mrs. Piper, whose good faith is not suspected. Her
trance remains genuine, but its depth is not such as some
experimenters believe it to be ; and by depth, we must under-
stand Mr. Dorr's peculiar meaning, that is, its depth in relation
to the normal consciousness.
The experimenters seem to ignore the work done outside
the society. I am not sure that here " things are not what
they seem," but still their conclusions would have more weight
if they were grounded on a knowledge less superficial in
appearance.
Unfortunately, there are other reasons for suspecting the
experimenters of a little superficiality. Their statements are
sometimes hasty. A great number of these statements had
to be corrected. I may add to the examples given above,
136 Joseph Maxwell, 31. D. [part
Mrs. Verrall's commentary on Mrs. Holland's script of Novem-
ber 10, 1909. She sees in "O singer of Persephone from
the far meadows desolate hast thou forgotten Sicily " allusions
to Tennyson's Demeter and Persephone, while the verses are
a quotation from Oscar Wilde's Theocritus (S.P.li, Journal,
Vol. XV., p. 105). The implicit reference to "Nightingale"
is consecpuently very doubtful.
From these examples may be gathered the feeling that the
conclusions founded upon such weak and doubtful references
are very uncertain, not to say more. And the feeling becomes
a rational impression when other symptoms of superficiality
are met with, examples of which I have given.
The experimenters have an unconscious tendency to adapt
the facts to their opinions and wishes, not to suit the latter
to the first.
Miss Johnson gives an amusing example of her onesidedness.
The incident is so extraordinary that it stands as a token of
sincerity : but I fear that Miss Johnson did not perceive its
humourous side.
On March 28, 1900, Mrs. Holland gave a description of
Mr. Poden Noel " clear eyes under a broad brow a shock of grey
hair that was still thick, etc." The description tallies with a
portrait published in Mr. Noel's collected poems. Mrs. Holland
is not aware of having ever seen the portrait ; Miss Johnson
states that the poet's personal appearance was correctly described-
(Vol. XXL, p. 324). Miss Noel wrote (Vol. XXIV., pp. 5-6)
that the description was not very accurate ; her father's hair
was " very thin latterly, though curly, and it was hardly grey."
But Miss Johnson knows better. " My own recollection of
the one occasion on which I saw him is that his hair was
then decidedly thick and curly, as shown in the portrait
prefixed to his Collected Poems." Here we have another instance
of the analyst's mental process. She saw Mr. Noel once only,
but has more faith in her own recollection than in the fresh
and safer memory of the poet's daughter.
I point out all these little facts in order to show the new
experimenters' " mentality." They are acting upon faith and
enthusiasm, but they do not appear to be guided by calm
and unprejudiced reason. The careful reader will find a number
of similar instances.
lxv.] Gorrespondances croisees et la Methocle experimentale. 137
And I may say it again most expressedly, there is not the
slightest doubt in my mind about the sincerity and the good
faith of the mediums or of the analysts. They are unconsciously
guided by their feelings and their sentiments, and they are
not in a position sufficiently broadminded to perceive what
does not fit with their immediate wants. They suffer from a
kind of monoideism, which tends to the overlooking of any
fact contrary to their own notions, provided of course that
such facts be not too striking.
The danger arising from such tendencies is the more serious
the more we deal with impressions, not with facts. And here
we encounter the gravest peril of the new methods. They
are ultimately founded upon analogy and symbolism. The duty
of Psychical Kesearchers, true to the old and prudent spirit
of the founders of the Society, is to protest against the intro-
duction of methods in which imagination plays too great a
part.
Analogy and symbolism may have their proper value when
used in their proper places ; but they are outside the realm of
scientific inquiry. Symbols, when they are fixed by tradition,
as the case may be in Religion, Art, Secret Societies, etc., may
have a definite meaning. In other cases they have not, and
one finds in the symbol what one has already put into it.
A very remarkable instance of the resources offered by
symbolism is shown in Mr. Piddington's Report (Vol. XXII.r
p. 182).
A knot of bine ribbon, is " no more than a first attempt to
get the name John." Why ? Because there is a piece of
poetry in which occur both the name John and the words
" a bunch of blue ribbon." Can we really seriously discuss such
arguments ? The damage would not be great if we had to
deal only with sporadic illustrations of the new method.
Unfortunately we meet with it everywhere.
The worst point of this method is its indetermination. There
are a number of solutions to such indeterminate problems. Mr.
Piddington is, however, well aware of the necessity of precision.
He gives us some very good rules on the subject in his answer
to some criticisms {Light, 1904, p. 447) about the prediction
of the Servian assassinations. " The central fact of a pre-
diction must be beyond intelligent anticipation ; the prediction
138 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
must contain a sufficient number of detailed statements about
the time, place and other circumstances to justify its fulfilment,
being attributed not to chance coincidence or some oilier known
causer
What are we to think of Mrs. Verrall's intimation of future
events according to these rules of evidence ? And what are
we to think of cross-correspondences, when there are such con-
stant discrepancies about the time ? Where is the " one rule
for all " standard ?
I fear that if the new method is allowed to obtain in our
experiments, our conclusions might lose much of their evidential
value.
We must not forget that psychical phenomena, either of
the physical or of the intellectual type, are very difficult to
investigate. I do not wish to vindicate here the value of the
first, T want only to point out that both types seem to have
the same apparent origin, our subconscious self, and that the
study of the latter is still more complicated than the inves-
tigation of the former. If physical phenomena be observed,
we have only to guard ourselves against illusion and deception.
But if we can observe them again and again, we can gradually
narrow the field of uncertainty, we have to deal with a
material fact.
In intellectual phenomena, on the contrary, we are confronted
by a great number of unknown data, the darkest of which are
the subliminal memories and faculties of the mediums. We
cannot test them with any degree of certainty, especially when
we deal with known or published facts.
And we must not think that if we meet with fraud in
the physical phenomena, we do not meet with it in the
intellectual. Frauds are easier to practise, consciously or
unconsciously in the latter, and they are more difficult to
detect.
And there is a double form of fraud in the intellectual
type of phenomena,—the medium's fraud and the control's
fraud. If an entranced medium gives a spurious physical
phenomenon, we say that there is cheating and deceit. We
should not hold in every case the normal personality respon-
sible for the fraud ; but as a rule we make no distinctions
and we discard the medium, though the responsibility may
LXV.] Correspondances croisees et la Methode experimentcde. 139
fall exclusively on the somnambulic personality, that is on the
so-called control.
A fraud, in the physical type of phenomena, is a kind of
lie ; when we detect lies in the messages of the control, what
are we to decide ? Is there an essential difference between
a lying control and a cheating one ? I might here write
many things about control-psychology, but I want only to
show the analogies and the difficulties. Cross-correspondences,
such as we have them now, are particularly open to criticism
of this nature.
The evidence collected is, I think, unable to demonstrate
the fact of spirit agenc}^. We want a proof, and we must
be exacting in our tests ; the system of cross-correspon-
dences is founded upon negative facts ; the mediums have
no knowledge of the antecedent publications, they have not
heard of them, they have not practised deception, they have
not exchanged letters, they have not met, and got useful
information, etc. Negative facts are an unsafe basis, for they
are always liable to be discarded when we get a positive
one.
A positive fact, on the contrary, stands by itself and has a
permanent value. We want such facts and such proofs. Cross-
correspondences cannot give them. Cases like the incidents
quoted by S. Moses (Abraham Florentine, Mrs. Abercrombie,
etc.) are more striking and have a stronger evidential value.
The same might be said of Mrs. Piper's early experiments.
(See Mr. Hyslop's paper, Jour. Am. S.P.B., September, 1909.)
They do not exclude the possibility of telepathy, or of clair-
voyance, but the cross-correspondences do not exclude it either.
M. Pigou has, I think, clearly shown that even cross-corre-
spondences of the mosaic type may be due to fragmentary
telepathic thought-transference.
I do not see how we could prove that telepathy cannot
explain fragmentary and complementary thought-transference,
even if we admit that the cross-correspondences quoted possess
always such a character, which I think not.
The line of enquiry followed by the experimenters seems to
lead to " nowhere " ; ineffectual in their possible results, their
methods of investigation appear to be defective from a technical
point of view. Too many questions are asked at the same
140 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
time ; an experimenter takes a dream for a real event, another
forgets the question asked some weeks before, etc. The controls
are too often guided so benevolently that they need not fish.
(Hope, Star and Browning, Dante, Abt Vogler, etc.)
Lastly, I fear that the new style of phenomena may not
agree with Mrs. Piper's mediumship. In some of the sittings
the experiment amounted simply to thought-transference (civto?
ovpavog aicv/uwv, Plotinus, the Latin Message), but she gave the
correct answer with much difficulty. Her former sittings were,
I think, singularly more interesting. It would have been better
not to interfere with her controls and her style of mediumship.
Imperator, Prudens (Plotinus), Hector (St. Hippolytus), Doctor
( Athenodorus), Mentor (Algazzali) are certainly not the same
controls as their similarly named ones of Mr. Moses, and are
painfully inferior to them.
Since Mr. Hodgson's lamented death it seems that the old
form of mediumship, the trance-utterance, is regaining its lost
ground. The best results have been given in the waking-stage,
during which the old verbal automatism is used.
The same might be said of Mrs. Holland. Her imitation
of Mrs. Verrall's scripts does not appear to be really desirable.
The safest course to take, in dealing with automatic phenomena,
is to leave the manifestation alone as much as possible. The
only conditions on which we must insist are those concerning
the sincerity and good observation of the phenomenon ; these
conditions excepted, it is better to watch the spontaneous de-
velopment of the facts without attempting to guide them
according to our limited views. We have almost everything
to learn about automatism, and it might be safer, and more
scientific, to study first the laws governing automatic mental
processes. When we know them, we shall be better prepared
for grasping the problem of their supra-human causes. In
such a study many points, however, are worthy of attention.
Their interesting features are not sensational, and are, of course,
far from the main point at issue, but I fear that we must
study carefully the psychological process involved in the various
modes of automatic expression before we are really able to
investigate their spiritual kernel.
The difficulty lies in the identity of the communicating
intelligence. It is sometimes quite easy to trace the source of
lxv.] Correspondances croisees et la Me'thode experimentale. 141
the message, which, in nine cases out of ten, is in the auto-
matist's own mind.
In the tenth case, we cannot discover the spring from which
flows the information, but we are not entitled to conclude,
from our inability to trace the normal source of knowledge, that
a supernormal one must be admitted. For reasons already
explained, we cannot rely on the automatists themselves for
instructing us ; we have to deal with their subconsciousness,
and the normal self is not aware of the amount of knowledge
stored up in the subliminal memory.
Hence the radical objection which is to be made to cross-
correspondences. They may serve as evidence for telepathy,
but they cannot go farther, and even in these narrow limits
they are not of great value. They concern words, or ideas,
which are to be found in books easily obtainable. All the
literary references, of which the latest papers make so much,
seem to me consequently very uncertain evidence.
Moreover, we are not in a position to exclude the possi-
bility of various modes of supernormal acquisition of knowledge,
such as clairvoyance ; even in the Spirit hypothesis how can
we be sure that we are in touch with the real personality
purporting to communicate and not with a personating spirit ?
1
But I am not prepared to discuss such remote possibilities.
I allude to their existence in order to show how many diffi-
culties creep into the investigation of spirit agency.
Our immediate work, I think, ought to be chiefly directed
to the study of the psychological processes of automatic
messages.
Errors, and their cause, are very instructive. No serious study
of the subject appears to have been made. I believe that the
experimenters whose work I am criticising are well qualified
for achieving serious progress in our knowledge of these psycho-
logical questions ; we must clear them up before gaining a sure
ground ; we cannot hope to make any safe advance without
such preliminary work.
1
Prudence grows with increasing experience. Here is M. Stainton Moses's
opinion on Spirit-Identity :
" At the time I should not have seriously questioned
the identity of these Beings. But there are problems connected with the
question of identity which are ponderously difficult, and I am by no means
sure that we have the means of settling them," Light, 1884, p. 2.52.
142 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
Mrs. Verrall, Mrs. Holland, and the other automatists are
intelligent, cultured, observing minds. They are endowed with
remarkable powers, which give them every facility for a study,
the necessity of which I am advocating.
How ought to be conducted such a work ? Many methods
might be used, and 1 am not prepared to discuss their value.
I have observed cases similar to Mrs. Verrall's or Mrs
Holland's experiences. For instance, I have a very curious
record of messages concerning the Eusso-Japanese war, untrue
almost without exception, but anticipating sometimes the false
news given by the papers. I noticed cases akin to this one
in Mrs. Verrall's report.
Why does such false news creep into the scripts ? Is there
a special telepathy, originated in the mind of the newsmonger ?
Is there a selective telepathy, acting according to affinities of
race, culture, civilisation, and propagating its waves in certain
directions rather than in others ? The problem is difficult and
complex, but there are simpler ones.
Can we get at the real process of telepathy ? Sir Oliver
Lodge has already shown how important would be the solution
of the question. Well, the study of errors can give us some
insight into the process.
For instance, in Miss Johnson's first report, Vol. XXL,
pp. 346-348, we read that Mrs. Holland tried to get some
impressions by psychometry ; she held a glove and had the
impression of " Lincoln. The bronze is out of place."
The owner of the glove (which had belonged to the late son
of Mrs. Forbes) had a bust of Washington, which at the time
was out of its usual place.
Here we have a curious error. Lincoln and Washington
were both Presidents of the U.S. of America. We are led to
think, in this case, that no sensory image was transmitted
Washington and Lincoln were not alike. We suspect then
that a mere idea was conveyed, that of a bust, and of a
President of the American Eepublic. But why Lincoln ?
The emergence of this name is perhaps due to a working
out of the root impression by the conscious self or by the
strata of the subliminal which are nearer to the normal
consciousness.
An observation of mine points to such an explanation. A
Lxv.] Govrespondances croisees et la Methode experimentale. 143
medium—not a professional one—describing the sitter's grand-
mother, with sufficient accuracy, gave her name as " Clementine."
The answer was noted as incorrect, the real name being
" Augustine." But the family used to call the dead lady
Maman Tine, and in the familiar nickname we have the three
last syllables of the wrong name. Clementine is, I think,
almost the only usual name terminating in " mentine " in
French.
Is there a kind of correction worked out by the mind, in
those cases of supranormal perception, correction which could
be compared with the building of an illusory optical image
out of disconnected blots or shapes ?
The same study could be made in cases where impressions
get mixed up. when, for instance, a person is correctly
described, but is depicted with the dress of another. How
does the mixing up creep in ? Observations, if repeated and
carefully made, might give clues to the process.
Some observations seem to show that the percipient gets an
impression, not of an abstract idea, but of a concrete element
of the image. Things seen by the supposed agent, when he
was very young, are sometimes described by the sensitive as
larger than they were really : in one case, the description of
a room was incorrect, inasmuch as what was on the right side
was said to be on the left, and vice versa. The sensitive
seemed to see an inverted image, as in a looking-glass. Did
he perceive something like a print of the former perception
existing somewhere in the agent's brain ?
In the same case, the sensitive said that " butterflies were
pinned to the wall of the room, above a desk." There were
no butterflies, but on the wall was hung a picture, " La femme
aux papillons." The idea of butterflies was only picked up
and interpreted either by the conscious or unconscious mind.
It might be possible to discover which of the two parts of
the mind is responsible for these interpretations : such a
knowledge would be full of meaning.
Thus the study of errors may be very useful, and we can
investigate their modes, processes, and perhaps even their
causes with some chances of success. A French author, Mr.
Duchatel, published last year a book on Psychometry, where
the subject is tackled.
144 Joseph Maxwell, M.D. [part
It is not necessary, however, to show how many things
may be investigated in the unknown fields of Psychical
Kesearch ; the work is as yet at its beginning. But we must
keep strictly to sound methods, give imagination and fancy a
wide berth, and study simple questions before trying to solve
the most complicated ones. . II ne faut pas mettre la charrue
devant les boeufs.
LXV.] Editorial Note on Dr. Maxivell's Paper. 145
EDITORIAL NOTE ON DR. MAXWELL'S PAPER.
The interpretation of the automatic writings which have been
presented to the Society of recent years, and the inter-
connexions between them, constitute so complicated a problem
that there are probably few—even among our own members
who have attempted to work at it seriously, and there are fewer
still who have favoured us with any systematic observations
thereon. We welcome, therefore, the above contribution from
Dr. Maxwell, who will be well known to most of our readers
as the author of Les PMnomenes Psychiqiues.
His paper is clearly the result of a painstaking study of
the large mass of published material ; and as such clearly
merits a reply. We shall reserve the publication of this
reply to a later Part of Proceedings ; but meanwhile it may
be well to point out in general terms that Dr. Maxwells paper
contains mistakes as to facts, and that his criticism is to a
large extent based on a fundamental misapprehension of the
views of the writers whom he is criticising as to what is
and what is not evidential of supernormal activity. Their aim
has been to give, if not a complete, at least a representative,
view of the phenomena as a whole, and not only of their
evidential aspect. This was pre-eminently the case with Mrs.
Verrall's report on her own script, while she and all the
other writers have emphasised again and again the subjective
element in a large proportion of all the scripts.
In so doing they have acted consistently with the general
principle of the S.P.R., which does not confine itself to the
publication of " evidential " facts, but includes in its survey
whatever incidents appear to be of psychological interest or
instructive in any way, no matter whether they tell for or
against a supernormal hypothesis. This has been so long the
practice in S.P.R. publications that it is not always considered
necessary to state in so many words to which category a fact
is supposed to belong, especially as this may often be a
K
14C Editorial Note. [part
matter of opinion. The great majority of our readers have
probably understood this practice ; but it seems clear that Dr.
Maxwell has not understood it.
Thus, for instance, he brings forward various incidents as
evidence of cryptomnesia (subliminal memory) as though the
writers he is criticising had ignored this explanation ;
whereas,
as a matter of fact, in nearly every instance, they have either
explicitly stated or allowed it to be understood that they
regarded those incidents as probable or possible examples of
cryptomnesia. If there is any difference between them and
Dr. Maxwell in this matter, it is that they are sometimes
less confident than he is that cryptomnesia is a complete
explanation in a given case, and so have been careful to
lay before the reader all the evidence in their possession,
whether it told for or against that explanation. An extract
from Miss Johnson's First Eeport on the Automatic Writing
of Mrs. Holland may perhaps suffice to put the reader on his
guard against accepting too readily the charge that Dr.
Maxwell has brought against them of having paid too slight
attention to the possibilities of cryptomnesia
" The whole study of this case tends to confirm the view
that no statement in automatic script that has ever [previously
appeared] in print, or is of such a nature as to be known to
a good many people, can be regarded as really good evidence
of supernormal knowledge." 1
In replying to Dr. Maxwell, an effort will be made to
explain further the general principles that have guided the
writers in their exposition and discussion of the scripts, as
well as to deal in some detail with Dr. Maxwell's criticisms
of individual cases.
i Proceedings, Vol. XXL, p. 36S.
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 147
IV.
THE LATIN MESSAGE EXPERIMENT.
By MRS. ANNA HUDE, Ph.D. (Copenhagen).
One of the most interesting experiments described by Mr.
Piddington in his well-known paper, A Series of Concordant
Automatisms, is no doubt the one called The Latin Message.1
But at the same time it is one whose value has been much
disputed ;
Mr. Podmore in his last work, The Newer
Spiritualism, made it the subject of a destructive criticism,
based on the assertion that the Piper-Myers never understood
the message ; Mr. Bayfield, in his review of the book, sub-
scribes to this assertion.- This is what I myself must do
but with the conclusions drawn from it by the two authors I
entirely disagree, and I should be glad to give here my
reasons for so doing.
Eeaders of the Proceedings will remember the outlines of the
experiment. In Latin, and in purposely intricate and difficult
sentences, the trance-personality called MyersP is asked to try
a new and complex type of cross-correspondence by giving to
two mediums two different messages, with apparently no con-
nection between them, and afterwards to a third medium a
third message revealing the hidden connection. Some time
after the transmission of this message MyersP asks Mr. Pid-
dington whether Mrs. Verrall has received his reference to Hope,
Browning, and Star, and thus directs his attention to a script of
Mrs. Verrall's where Browning's poem AM Vogler is mentioned.
Mr. Piddington reads Alt Vogler, and there finds a passage
which seems to him to symbolise in an appropriate and
ingenious manner the idea of the co-operation of the three
mediums expressed in the Latin message ; in music, the poet
says, the gift is allowed to man " that out of three sounds
1 Proceedings, Vol. XXII., pp. 312-416. 2
Ibid. Vol. XXV., p. 78.
148 Mrs. Anna Hade, Ph.D. [part
he frame, not a fourth sound, but a star." As, moreover, the
script begins with the word Aster (i.e. star), and Miss Verrall
a few days after its production has drawn a star, it seems
probable to Mr. Piddington that MyersP has in this way meant
to answer the message, and that all that is now wanting is
his affirmation through Mrs. Piper of this being really the
case. A couple of months pass with no definite result ; but
at last the name Alt Voglcr is spelt out ; a fortnight later
the line about the fourth sound and the star is given. And
in two sittings with Sir Oliver Lodge MyersP clearly states
that this line contains his answer to the Latin message.
1
Thus presented, with a great many details omitted, the
experiment looks fairly successful. Put there is one circum-
stance which cannot be omitted. When MyersP in his two
meetings with Sir Oliver Lodge shortly recapitulates the whole
experiment, he shows no comprehension whatever of its
leading idea ; he knows of no cross-correspondence save the
simple one between two mediums, viz. Mrs. Verrall and
Mrs. Piper.
2
But, this being the case, how is the line about
the fourth sound and the star to be accounted for ? No
longer a symbol of the co-operation of three mediums, it has
lost its meaning in relation to the message. And yet MyersP
has quoted it as an appropriate reply.
No doubt it is some such train of thought that has, for
instance, made Mr. Balfour 3
declare " that he feels inclined
to put the Alt Voglcr incident in the class of thought-
transference from those present " ; Mr. Podmore 4
goes further,
and sums up the result of the whole experiment in the ver-
dict " that the Piper-Myers is an intelligence of distinctly
inferior capacity " ; and Mr. Bayfield, in his review, says that
the incident " has always seemed to him peculiarly damaging
to his claims." But is it possible to aecpiiesce in this result?
Has not every reader who has followed MyersP through the
numerous dialogues where the Latin message is dealt with felt
1 " The lines which 1 quoted before [viz. 'instead of a fourth sound came a
star'] were the most appropriate I could find."
2 " He wished me to give a message through Mrs. Verrall and this light
concerning the same subject."
3
The Hibbert Journal of Jan., 1909, p. 259.
4
The Newer Spiritualism, p. 254.
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 149
that qualities are there displayed not to be accounted for by
thought-transference nor bearing the stamp of mental incapacity ?
It is true that the issue of the experiment is self-contradictory,
and can only be explained on the presumption of some mis-
understanding having taken place between the trance-personality
and the experimenters. But, if we review its different phases
in the light of the whole of it, I believe we shall find that
such is the case ;
moreover, that the misunderstanding will be
the means of revealing the trance-personality as more inde-
pendent and, perhaps, more intelligent than a successful ex-
periment might have done. Along these lines, then, I beg
the readers to accompany me, though the task cannot, I fear,
be so easy as I could wish.
The message, which I think it necessary to give in ex-
tenso, runs as follows
Diversis internuntiis quod invicem inter se respondentia jamdudum
committis, id nec fallit nos consilium, et vehementer probamus,
Unum accesserit gratissimum nobis, si, cum duobus quibusdam ea
tradideris, inter quae nullus appareat nexus, postea quam primum
rem per tertium aliquem ita perficias, ut latens illud in prioribus
explicetur.
The literal translation into English is as follows
As to the fact that for some long time past you have been entrusting
to different intermediaries things which correspond mutually between
themselves, we have observed your design, and we cordially approve
it. One thing besides this most agreeable to us will have happened
if, when you shall have delivered to two particular persons things
between which no connection is apparent, afterwards as soon as
possible through some third person you so complete the matter that
that which was latent in the first two may be revealed.
The message was dictated in small portions in five sittings
from Dec. 17, 1906, to Jan. 2, 1907. It appeared to be
extremely difficult for the trance-personalities to catch the
sound of it. Again and again the words and sentences had
to be repeated, long after the whole of it had been delivered.
Thus jamdudum committis was spelt out twice on Jan. 16 :
most of the message was repeated on Jan. 23 ; the first
sentence on Feb. 19, with a special repetition of jamdudum ;
150 Mrs. Anna Hade, Ph.D. [part
and the last sentence on Feb. 27 and later. And yet it
seems to have reached MyersP in fragments only ; a natural
consequence of its being, presumably, transmitted orally through
an intermediary who did not himself (or herself) understand
one word of it. It is true that Mr. Piddin°;ton at the begin-
o o
ning of the experiment had asked " Hector " if he had any
means of registering permanently the words dictated to him;
but Eector had made no answer, and from many following
incidents it is evident that he did not do this, but repeated
the Latin " by sound "} On account of this slow and uncer-
tain method of transmission all efforts for a long time must
be directed to the translation of the message, as a necessary
introduction to its being replied to. On Jan. 2, while the
last sentence was still incomplete, Eector said :
" Hodgson is
helping Myers with his translation " ; a little later MyersP
himself expressed his willingness to translate the Latin. On
Feb. 27 he said that he had wished to translate the whole
message into English ; in his own opinion he had then
translated the beginning of it. That the trance-personalities
might have accomplished the feat, if all the words had
reached them correctly, is made probable among other things
from an incident which took place on Feb. 19. Mr. Pidding-
ton was repeating some of the Latin to HodgsonP on behalf
of MyerSp ; when he had pronounced jamdudum committis
HodgsonP asked for " the next to the last word " to be
repeated once more. Mr. Piddington now told him that the
first syllable was " spelt like the English word jam—preserves."
" Oh yes, I understand, Marmalade," Hodgson P exclaimed—and
the difficulty was conquered ; the word once really grasped its
meaning was understood immediately, for at the following
sittings jamdudum was rightly translated " long since ". At
the same time, if a simple syllable like jam was so difficult
to grasp, it is no wonder that a correct transmission of the
whole message proved impossible.
Under these circumstances MyersP of course could not for a
1
See his remarks to Dr. Hodgson on Feb. 25, 1903 :
" We do not clearly
see the registering as thou dost. We repeat by sound" (Proc, Vol. XXIV.,
p. 555). Mr. Piddington informs me that Eector or Hodgsonp somewhere
claimed to be able to make a permanent register, but perhaps this could not
be done immediately.
lxv.] The Latin Message Experiment. 151
long while think of answering the message ; several times he
begged Mr. Piddington to be patient with him.1
But an im-
pression of its general meaning he had no doubt received. An
utterance to Mr. Piddington on Jan. 23 points to this: "I
believe," he says, " I can send you a message which will please
you, if I understand it [the message] clearly." The conception
he had formed appears in his first attempt to reply. The idea
he got, he says on Feb. 20, repeating it on Feb. 27, was that
lie should be a messenger, an intermediary. It is the word
internuntiis he has misheard as internv.ntius and applied to
himself, while in the message it is used to designate another
kind of intermediaries—the mediums or automatists. The con-
sequences of his being led to think of himself as an inter-
mediary between the living and the dead, between earth and
" heaven ", will appear later. That he got no further in his
understanding of the message was for one thing 2
due to the
fact that the part referring to the third medium at this point
had, so to speak, disappeared from the problem. On Jan. 23
MyerSp had told Mr. Piddington that he would like to go
over " the first and second sentences " of the message ; Mr.
Piddington had then repeated it from the beginning as far as
nexus. Possibly MyersP thought that he had now got the
whole message ;
3
in any case the difficulties of transmission
make it unthinkable that its final sentence should have been
understood at an earlier date ; thus for a time it was com-
pletely lost sight of.
This was the situation immediately before the production of
Mrs. Verrall's script of Jan. 28, destined to play a prominent
part in the history of the message. A fortnight later, on
Feb. 11, the following conversation took place between MyersP
and Mr. Piddinoton :
M. Did she [Mrs. Verrall] receive the word Evangelical?
Mr. P. I don't know, but I will enquire.
1 See on Jan. 15 and 16, Feb. 6 and 12.
2 Another ground for his acquiescing in his first conception of the message
is to be found in the circumstance that Mr. Piddington, to prevent him from
guessing the real point of it, had, on Jan. 16, highly recommended cross-cor-
respondences of the simple type. Myersp had, in this way, been led to regard
them with increased interest; vide Rector's remark on Jan. 22 (Proc, Vol.
XXII., p. 231): "Myers is specially interested in taking messages."
3
Cf. p. 155, note.
152 Mrs. Anna Hude, Plt.D. [part
M. I referred also to Browning again.
Mr. P. Do you remember what your exact reference to Browning was 1
M. Yes. I referred to Hope and Browning. I also said Star.
He was interrupted here, but before departing said :
" Mean-
while look out for Hope Star and Browning."
In the sittings of Feb. 27 and March 6 it became evident
that Evangelical was a mistake for Evelyn, this name together
with Hope being the title of one of Browning's poems, while
Star referred to another, My Star ; but of course it was impos-
sible to suspect this at that time. Mr. Picldington found in
Mrs. Verrall's script of Jan. 28 both Star (Aster) and, among
divers quotations from Browning, the line " the hope that
leaves the earth for the sky," where hope had been substituted
for " passion ", and by means of this substitution, perhaps, the"
more emphasised. So on the following day he told MyersP
that " the message he said he gave to Mrs. Verrall about
Browning, Star and Hope " had come out clearly. MyersP
was very pleased to hear this, and it will be seen that after-
wards he felt sure that Evelyn Hope and My Star had
appeared in a script of Mrs. Ar errall's.
About a week after this incident, on Feb. 20, MyersP made
his first attempt to reply to the Latin message. It was with
extremely different preconceptions that he and Mr. Piddington
came together on this day—Mr. Piddington filled with the
idea that the message had already been answered ;
MyersP
hesitating, conscious that his understanding of it was incomplete. 1
As might be expected, the result was small. MyersP began 2
" The idea I got was that I should be a messenger and hand
through [i.e. committor] coherent messages [i.e. invicem inter se
respondentia] to you "
; but as Mr. Piddington remained silent
only asking for repetition of an illegible word—he interrupted
himself and said :
" I will go over my utterances again and
repeat them here to you." This it was agreed upon should be
done a week later.
1
See his utterances on Feb. 11 : "I will let you know at our next meeting
how far I have understood" ; and on Feb. '21 : "As far as I could understand,
and I may have to think it over again ..."
2
Of course I must abbreviate the extracts, skipping repetitions and the
like ; but I trust that the reader will find I have omitted nothing that has
any bearing upon the question.
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment.
And this time he is determined to give his opinion. On
the whole, it is characteristic of the Latin message case that
the trance-personality, when at a standstill, far from making
guesses or feeling his way, simply defers his answer to a later
sitting, and in the mean time seems to go on with his own
train of thought. On Feb. 27 MyersP , on meeting Mr. Pid-
dington, immediately reverts to the question. Assuming as
before that it is he who is the internxmtius of the message, he
gives the following version of its beginning :
" Although you
as intermediary have long since united mutually ideas, you fail,"
continuing without reference to the actual words :
" to convince
us of your existence." Jamdudum has here found its place as
" long since ", and " united mutually ideas " shows better than
the earlier translation—" coherent messages "
—that invicem inter
sc respondentia has been comprehended. Quod has been taken
to mean " although "
;
" you fail " is a mistake, caused probably
by the Latin word fallit : a mistake, however, which is the
outcome of a most logical reasoning. MyersP has no knowledge
of the plan about the third medium, and, therefore, must
believe that it is a simple cross-correspondence he " as interme-
diary " is asked to bring about ; this is what he has " long since
"
done ;
accordingly, something must be wrong with his former
experiments. How necessary it is for him to state things
logically is seen from the paraphrase of the same sentence
he on May 27 gives to Sir Oliver Lodge. Then he has long
aero understood that the message contained no blame against
him ; so he gives the beginning of it in the following words :
" You have long since been trying to assimilate ideas." It is
''
failed " in disguise—indispensable if the want of a new cross-
correspondence should be properly explained.
This much for the translation. Even Mr. Podmore admits
that it would be impossible to give it without some knowledge
of Latin. The mistake of it—the belief of MyersP that his
performances were thought unconvincing—was, however, destined
to have far-reaching consequences. It led him to mention a
few of these performances, and among them Browning's poems
Evelyn Hope and My Star. The importance of this will appear
from an extract of the conversation held on Peb. 27 between
himself and Mr. Piddington. MyersP has given his " transla-
tion " and continues
154 Mrs. Anna Hude, Ph.D. [part
Now I believe that since you sent this message to me I have
sufficiently replied to your various questions to convince the
ordinary scientific mind that I am at least a fragment of
the once incarnate individual whom you called Myers.
Mr. P. You say you have replied. Tell me in what messages
your reply is given.
M. In my messages reported here and through Mrs. Verrall. The
poems, the Halcyon days, Evangelic. . . .
Mr. P. Tell me what poems.
M. Chiefly Browning's lines as given through Mrs. Verrall.
Mr. P. Thank you very much. I think you are making it clear
but I want you to make it completely clear. I think if
you can get through a clear and complete answer to my
Latin message you will have forged a new and strong link
in the claim of evidence for survival of bodily death.
M. I understood that you asked me to reply referring to my
utterances through Mrs. Verrall.
Mr. P. Now I think you have done enough for to-day in the
matter of replying to the Latin message.
MyerSp then asked for the last sentence of the Latin to
be repeated, which was done. Afterwards Mr. Piddington
said :
I want to say that you have, I believe, given an answer worthy
of your intelligence—not to-day, I mean, but some time back
—but the interpretation must not be mine. You must explain
your answer at this light.
M. Yes.
Mr. P. You could do it in two words.
M. Yes, I understand.
Mr. P. Well?
M. Hope Star.
Mr. P. Well? Yes?
M. Browning.
Mr. P. Exactly. It couldn't be better.
M. That is my answer.
Mr. P. I can't thank you enough. That is what I have been
waiting for.
M. Well what I wished was to translate the whole message for
you into English. But from your kindness in replying to
my request in repeating the whole of the last sentence so
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 155
that each word reached my understanding clearly and con-
cisely I am able with Pelham's help to reply to-day.
Mr. P. Translate into English certainly, if you like. ... In
telling me that " Browning, Hope and a Star " contains
your answer to the Latin message you have given an
answer which to me is both intelligible and clear ; but still
I should like you to bring out one more point still, so as
to leave no doubt in any one's mind of your meaning.
M. My Star. Evely. ... I am too [weak] to tell it to-day. My
thoughts wander. . . .
Seen in the light of later developments, it will probably be
clear to all readers that Mr. Piddington and MyersP have
spoken of quite different things. MyersP does not mean that
he has answered the Latin message, but mentions his replies
to Mr. Piddington's various questions and the cross-correspon-
dences between Mrs. Piper and Mrs. Verrall as performances
that are not quite despicable. When in the midst of this
Mr. Piddington reverts to the Latin message, he doesn't seem
to comprehend why the conversation has been turned that
way, but says with some astonishment :
" I understood that you
asked me to reply referring to my utterances through Mrs.
Verrall," i.e. to the cross-correspondences. And beginning now
to suspect that Mr. Piddington is speaking of something he
doesn't understand, he asks for a repetition of the last sentence
of the message. Afterwards Mr. Piddington praises him for
the reply already given, but adds that he must explain it
through Mrs. Piper. MyersP tries to escape with a vague
" Yes," but Mr. Piddington continues :
" You could do it in
two words." It is fatal, but not to be wondered at, that
MyerSp believes that Mr. Piddington has in mind the two
words of the cross-correspondence that has formerly been spoken
of as a great success Hope and Star. Evidently he is unable
to understand his enthusiasm on receiving them,1
and quite
at a loss when asked to " bring out one more point." He
x At this point lie offers to reply, then and there, remarking that the whole
of the last sentence has now reached his understanding, thus implying that
he has not understood it before. As his offer is not accepted, it is impossible
to conjecture what and how much he has really grasped. To judge from
later sittings, and from the manner in which the first sentence was received,
it has been fragments only (cf. p. 169, note 1).
156 Mrs. Anna Hude, Ph.D. [part
makes a feeble attempt to explain, faltering out at last the
real titles of the two poems, and leaves the matter there for
the time being.
As usual MyerSp apparently does some thinking before he
goes to another meeting. Meanwhile, I want to point out
how strongly the view taken above is confirmed by the con-
versation, on March G, between Mr. Piddington and the
trance-personality " George Pelham ", who seems determined to
throw a little light upon the case. " Did he [i.e. Myers] tell
you about My Star ?
" he asks. " He did,
-
'
Mr. Piddington
replies ;
" can you explain about My Star ?
" " Yes it was a
poem he had on his mind of Browning's." " And why had
he this poem on his mind ?
" " He said because it was one
of his test experiments with a lady in the body to whom he
refers as V. He also had another : Evelyn—Evelyn Hope."
" Is that the explanation of the word which came out here
as Evangelical ?
" " Yes."
Nothing could be clearer. Afterwards George Pelham repeats
the " translation " given by MyersP of the beginning of the
message, adding to it as follows :
" Now if you can give a
clear message through Mrs. V. and reproduce it here it will
convince." A little later he says :
" And the answer was
that lie had given a message, viz. Browning Star Hope, and
reproduced it here." This is what George Pelham feels justi-
fied in concluding from the sitting of Feb. 27 where Mr.
Piddington had praised MyersP for his answer through Mrs.
Verrall, and afterwards warmly thanked him for the repetition
of the three words. Mr. Piddington replies :
" You show a
general knowledge of the meaning of the message ; but one
special point you have not brought out. The answer he gave
to Mrs. Verrall was clever and characteristic ; but though he
has referred to that here, he has not made it clear here why
it was so appropriate."
In these words Mr. Piddington has confirmed the conception
of the Latin message as referring to cross-correspondence between
Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Piper ; he has stated that he believes
it to have been answered through Mrs. Verrall and a reference
to this answer to be contained in the words Hope, Star and
Browning. From this moment the actual message has lost
all importance. George Pelham, on asking for a repetition of
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment 157
the " lines in Latin " which referred to the " special point ",
got the last sentence spelt out ; but it is evident that small
use was made of the fragments which eventually came through,1
—the trance-personalities taking it for granted that they con-
tained much the same as Mr. Piddington's own utterances.
What in this way was put into them may be seen from the
version MyersP , on May 27, gave of the message to Sir Oliver
Lodge; "he [Mr. Piddington] mentioned my own words in
it," he says, " viz. the survival of bodily death " ; this expression
from the title of Frederic Myers's great work had been used
by Mr. Piddington on Feb. 27 in connection with the message.
2
Thus MyerSp never got to know what Mr. Piddington had
really wanted him to do. A new direction was given to the
experiment, and MyersP had got a quite new task before him.
After the sitting of Feb. 27, and still more after George
Pelham's conversation with Mr. Piddington, he could not help
seeing that the latter, when speaking of " Hope Star Browning ",
had meant something different from what he had himself clone.
When George Pelham had left, Rector says :
" I understand
it was a cross-correspondence message and to her [Mrs. Verrall]
he gave the same words that I brought out here " ; and
Myersp adds :
" it was the poem in which Hope and Star
came out," thus showing that he no longer thinks that Mr.
Piddington had referred to the two poems which had been
the subjects of his own experiments, but has begun to com-
prehend that Mrs. Verrall's script contained another Browning-
poem about hope and star.
A question which here presents itself is that of the relation
of MyersP to the script of Mrs. Verrall. It is a question,
however, that can only be answered through the solving of
the larger problem—that of the identity of MyersP . Here
it must suffice to say that MyersP himself claims to take a
part in the production of the script, and that his claim is
supported by the knowledge of it which he no doubt displays.
How far it is probable that he can have acquired this knowledge
in other ways—by mind-reading or through the utterances of
the experimenters—the study of the case itself must show.
Provisionally it must be allowable to adopt the first alter-
native.
1
V. p. 169, note 1. - V. p. 154.
15S Mrs. Anna Hude, Ph.D. [part
But, even if we suppose that part of Mrs. Verrall's script is
due to impressions received from the personality who claims
to be Myers, he could not know for certain whether those
impressions came really through ;
" I am very pleased to hear
that she fully registered the thoughts I indubitably gave her,"
he says once, when told of a success.
1
And no doubt he
might in the course of time forget some of his attempts. In
the present case, it must be remembered that no script of
Mrs. Verrall had for MyersP the importance which Mr.
Piddington ascribed to one of them—that of being the answer
to the Latin message. Neither could it be of much help to
him to have learned that Hope and Star played a part in
the poem, if he had not thought specially of these words
when he gave it.
With Browning, however, it was quite different. There is
every reason to believe that the Latin message had made
MyerSp think of Browning, as he himself says later. The
message had made him realise his position as an intermediary
between two worlds ; such a thought might well have filled
his mind with recollections of words and lines from this
poet that speak of earth and heaven and the intercourse between
them, and induced him to attempt to bring them out in a
script of Mrs. Verrall's. Such a script had been produced
and he seems to know of its existence even if he could have
only a general notion of its contents.
The script is that of Jan. 28, 1907, spoken of above, and
runs as follows :
Aster [star]
repas [wonder]
the world's wonder
And all a wonder and a wild desire.
The very wings of her
A WINGED DESIRE
iVo7i-Tepos epws [winged love]
Then there is Blake
and mocked my loss of liberty.
But it is all the same thing— the winged desire epois ttoQulvos
[passion] the hope that leaves the earth for the sky—Abt
l
Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 55.
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 159
Vogler—for earth too hard that found itself or lost itself
in the sky.
That is what I want
On the earth the broken sounds
threads
In the sky the perfect arc.
The C major of this life
But your recollection is at fault
ADB is the part that unseen completes the arc.
No doubt the personality who impressed these words was
filled with thoughts of an unseen world—of the hope that leaves
earth to find it, the winged desire that overleaps distance—and
strove to express them through all that came to his mind about
that which was " all the same thing ". That more may have been
in his thoughts without gaining expression goes without saying.
That MyerSp had in his thoughts reverted to this script is
seen already on March 6 before Mr. Piddington's conversation
with George Pelham. Spontaneously and for the first time he
speaks of his attempt to draw through Mrs. Verrall a circle and
a triangle. This refers to an experiment suggested by Mr. Pid-
dington on Jan. 16, and though the drawings in the script of
Jan. 28 serve another purpose, it can scarcely be doubted that
it is these figures MyersP is thinking of ;
they appear in no
other script of Mrs. Verrall's. On March 13 he connects them
directly with the Latin message.
IGO Mrs. Anna Hucle, PJt.D. [part
I have tried to trace the thoughts of MyersP after the sitting
of Feb. 27. But of course he couldn't at once feel certain that
he was on the riqht track. When on March 13 Mr. Piddinsfton
asked for a clear answer, he said openly :
" I think I can get
your idea and when it is quite clear to me I shall give my
answer. I believe I get a glimmer of what you wish." At
this time he is groping his way, so to speak. At the beginning
of the sitting he himself had introduced the question, saying
" I understood your reference to the poem in your Latin message
to me which led me to refer to Browning, and the circle gave
me a better understanding of it, as it came to me through this
light. I helped Mrs. Verrall to draw it." As Mr. Piddington
did not understand this utterance, MyersP added :
" Re-read the
part where you refer to the poem," and, Mr. Piddington now
denying that the message referred to a poem, he continued
" Not exactly to a poem, but it suggested a poem to my mind.
Hence B H S etc." With this correction the utterance may be
taken to mean :
" I understood your reference to another life
[i.e. to '
messenger '] in the message which [reference] led me
to refer to Browning ; as this reference came to me through
Mrs. Piper [i.e. through the mention of '
Survival '] the remem-
brance of the circle [i.e. of the script of Jan. 28] made me
understand it." Later in the sitting Mr. Piddington asked him
to make it clear why the passage given to Mrs. Verrall and
described through Mrs. Piper as " Browning, Hope and Star
furnished an excellent answer to the message. Mr. Piddington
himself points out that he ought not to have said " the passage ",
as the line about the star was not quoted in Mrs. Verrall's
script ; at all events MyersP must needs take it to mean the
poem. " Poem ?" he asked, " I understand she [Mrs. Verrall] got
it in my answer, but I did not give it here ; is that what you
say?" This is a concise statement of his view of the case: he has
given through Mrs. Verrall quotations from a poem or the title
of a poem which he has not given through Mrs. Piper. What
he now wants is to have the correctness of this conception
confirmed. When Mr. Piddin«?ton asks him to qive "a detailed
reference to a particular passage," he answers vaguely :
" Oh yes
I understand," and the sentence is altered to : "I want you to
give more details through this light." This at last is some-
thing he can understand. It is with evident joy that he
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 161
answers :
" I see now what you wish me to [do] : repeat or
give more words perhaps. I understand and will go over it
and do so. T for the first time clearly understand your special
point
1
. You have at last made me understand, I am glad to
say." This is his last meeting with Mr. Piddington, but he
has now got a firm basis to stand upon. It seems clear to him
that one of the Browning poems referring to another life
i.e. to hope of Survival—which he, impressed by the thought
of being an intermediary, has quoted through Mrs. Verrall
a poem about stars, too—has been taken by Mr. Piddington to
be a direct answer to the message, and that by showing his
knowledge of it, by " repeating or giving more words perhaps,"
he can complete the cross-correspondence message wanted from
him.
2
At the first sitting, on March 20, with Mrs. Sidgwick, who
had taken the place of Mr. Piddington, MyersP displays great
eagerness to get his view confirmed by the new leader of the
1
This expression dates from the conversation with George Pelham (v. p. 150).
2
A curious mistake occurred at the sitting of March 13, Myersp transferring to
the Hope-Star-incident a number of details belonging to another case. On Feb.
12 Mr. Piddington, after telling him that " Browning, Star and Hope " had come
out in Mrs. Verrall's script, added that he had succeeded besides in getting
through a communication which he himself had denied having seen, but which
Myers? had asserted he had given together with his own name ; it referred
to a conversation between the late Mr. Myers and Mrs. Sidgwick. A few days
before, on Feb. 5, Myersp had been in a great hurry ; Eector explained that he
was going to give a message to Mrs. Verrall. On Feb. 11 Myersp connected this
hurry with the above-mentioned script where his name was given—as a matter of
fact this script was produced on Feb. 4, but this mistake is of no account here
saying to Mr. Piddington :
" Did I not tell you I would go to Mrs. Verrall ? Did
I not refer to that ?" On the next day Mr. Piddington excused his own mistake,
and with great pleasure acknowledged that Myersp had given the communication
and signed it with his name ; Myersp was very glad at having succeeded. Later,
however, he confused the two things he had been praised for on Feb. 12. When
on March 13 he is trying to recollect the script of Jan. 28 and of the circle he
says: "IhelpedMrs. Verrall to draw it," and adds :
" and signed my name to it,"
and afterwards: "It [the Latin message] suggested it [the poem] so strongly I
rushed off to Mrs. Verrall, gave it her, rushed back here and although you did
not understand it at the time, you did later, if I remember rightly"; all three
circumstances—the signing of the name, the hurrying from one medium to
another, Mr. Piddington's not having understood at first —being transferred from
one successful case to the other. Mr. Piddington's answer: "Yes that is quite
right" confirmed him in his mistake, and on April 8 the hurrying from Mrs. Piper
to Mrs. Verrall once more was connected with the writing of the poem.
L
162 Mrs. Anna Hude, Ph.D. [part
experiment. He immediately begins :
" I told Mrs. Verrall
about Browning, hope of [survival of] bodily death. . . . No not
quite understood. I said I told her of the passage in Browning's
poems where stars and life meet." " Stars and life " is at a
later sitting repeated as " this life and the stars"; accordingly
life means life after death ;
" hope of bodily death " is probably
abandoned on account of the words omitted ; in any case the
expression shows how MyersP had combined Hope with his own
idea of the point of the message. He goes on asking Mrs.
Sidgwick whether she knows which poem he had referred to
" You remember Browning's poem I was fond of and to which
I referred?" "You remember the poem I referred to, do you
not?" and as she answered vaguely: "Yes you referred to
poems of Browning": "But you do understand which one?"
It is evident that he wants to be sure of its being one special
poem Mr. Piddington is thinking of. Of course he doesn't ask
her what poem it is. On the contrary, he puts the question
almost as if he himself knew the name of it ; his uncertainty
on this point he must prefer to conceal while he is still searching
his memory for the answer.
Mrs. Sidgwick's replies to the utterances of MyersP, on March
20, had been too vague to help him. But for the sitting of
April 2 Mr. Piddington had furnished her with two written
questions to be answered by him, of which the first gave him
the assurance that he wanted. " Mr. Piddington says," Mrs.
Sidgwick read, " you promised to try to tell us what particular
poem of Browning's you meant to refer to by the words Brown-
ing, Hope and Star." MyersP replied :
" Oh yes. I am glad you
remind me of this so clearly. I will answer this at our next
meeting. Meanwhile I will think it over." The simple question
had confirmed him in his opinion and held no disturbing elements
like those which had confused him before ;
so, leaving aside the
second question which referred to " the passage ", he on the very
next occasion when Mrs. Sidgwick was present alone, on April 8,
made his first attempt to answer about " the poem ".
His answer was that it was Browning's poem La Saisiaz
the message had made him think of. " Do you remember the
Latin message ?
" he began ;
" I thought I could tell you that
I specially thought of the poem about the stars which read
thus," afterwards describing it in a manner that sufficiently
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 163
shows what he is thinking of :
" one of Browning's poems
which he wrote to a friend," " lonely wandering," " which had
also hope." This long poem, as will be remembered, has for
its sole subject the possibility of another life ;
ending with
a vision of Hope, whose arrow pierces the cloud of doubt.
MyerSp, however, was far from sure of having found the right
poem ;
" I thought I could tell you " is indicative of his uncer-
tainty ;
" specially " shows that he had thought of more than
one. And of course Mrs. Sidgwick's surprise must add to his
doubts. So at the sitting of April 17, though in no way
trying to cover up his mistake—on the contrary spontaneously
reverting to La Saisiaz, and this time succeeding in giving the
name—he has evidently ceased to regard it as the poem and
is once more searching his memory. But it will be seen
what significance this attempt has even through being a failure.
Alt Vogler MyersP might have got by mind-reading ; La Saisiaz
cannot be thus explained, while it is easily accounted for on the
supposition here adopted.
Probably MyersP has thought of other possibilities,1
which
are, however, now rejected, as at this point he has found the
poem Abt Vogler. At last it has come to his memory, and
on April 24 he succeeds in getting through the difficult German
name. That he is right now he has not the slightest doubt
Mrs. Sidgwick's thanks tell him so, but he is also him-
self fully satisfied; for even this poem, which he can now
be certain of having quoted through Mrs. Verrall, more than
anything expresses the idea that for him has been the central
thought of the message. " The thing which impressed me
1
I cannot help believing that Myersp has thought of the sentence "A cloudless
sky beyond the horizon " as possibly belonging to Mrs. Verrall's script of
Jan. 2S. On March 6 it is connected with the circle ; on April 10—after
the attempt with La Saisiaz on April 8—it is mentioned again : on April 15
Myersp says that " it was brought to his mind because of Piddington's message,"
and on April 17 he explains : "it came out I believe with a star being drawn
(r. p. 168) . . . horizon yes which comes from the poem." Before April 24,
however, he has seen that this was a mistake : horizon does not belong to
Mrs. Verrall's script with the poem. The sitting of that day begins with
Hodgsonp asking if "horizon" did not come out at Mrs. VerralFs later than
the lines of Browning's poem ; and when afterwards Myersp happens to say
" Hope Star Horizon," he immediately corrects himself, saying :
" Horizon comes
elsewhere," and asking Mrs. Sidgwick to excuse the confusion. Later he doesn't
return to the Horizon-sentence, having now found Abt Vogler.
164 Mrs. Anna Hude, Ph.D. [part
most was the lines beyond the grave," he goes on when he
has got the name through and expressed his joy ; he would
have added something, but, as implied by Rector and confirmed
at a later sitting, some words are left out here. Afterwards
he—as Rector has it
—" tries to explain a little about the
poem," speaking of the resemblance between his own experience
and Abt Vogler's " doubts and fears, then his acceptance of
God and faith in him."
1
Now he believes himself to have
performed his task, and asks :
" Now can I do more to help
you than give other messages ?
" But Mrs. Sidgwick, who has
not got the explanation of his choice of the poem expected by
Mr. Piddington, answers :
" I should like you to say exactly
why that poem was so appropriate as an answer to the Latin
message." MyersP repeats :
" Because of the appropriate con-
ditions mentioned in it which applied to my own life ; and
nothing I could think of so completely answered it to my
mind as those special words." That he is speaking of the
words " beyond the grave " and the lines left out by Rector
is made clear in the following sittings. It is Abt Vogler's
faith in a future life he has thought of and, above all, the
lines about the dead who return to earth !
Mrs. Sidgwick got no other reply that time ; but MyersP did
not forget that at the end of the sitting she had seemed less
content than when he had first spoken of Abt Vogler. So
when he met with her again, on May 1, he at once began
" I am anxious to-day to clear one or two things. Do you
remember my reference to the poem ? Did you wish to ask
anything more ? Do you remember when I said I had passed
through my body and returned ? I tried to give it clearly,
but was not sure that you understood." And as Mrs. Sidgwick
asks :
" Do you mean you gave the name of the poem ?
" he
goes on :
" Oh yes. I mean I tried to give another part also
which referred to completed happiness in this life and the
possibility of returning to the old world again to prove the
truth of survival of bodily death." All that the message has
meant to him is given in this single sentence. But he feels
the absence of sympathy and says entreatingly :
" Mrs. Sidgwick,
dear old friend, do you hear me at all ?
" " Yes," she answers,
" and I think I shall understand." He makes a last effort,
1
Abt Voghr, Stanza IX.
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 165
exclaiming :
" I believe you will when I tell you I have
returned to breathe in the old world which is not however
better than our new." 1
This time he believes himself to have answered completely ;
no lack of enthusiasm on the part of the experimenters can
make him doubt the sufficiency of this response. So at the
next meeting, on May 6, it is not he who reverts to the
message ; on the contrary, he says a propos of another question :
" and the Latin I have previously answered through both
lights sufficiently for you to understand that I have really
answered at last." When Mrs. Sidgwick replies :
" The Latin
message, as you know, refers to cross-correspondences, but also
to something more, and there is a line in Aht Vogler which
we think you had in your mind as describing that something-
more," he at first doesn't understand. " Did you say line ?
he asks ;
" [of the] poem ?
" He has ceased to think of it
now and is unprepared to return to it. " I remember the
message as referring to my giving proofs of survival of bodily
death through cross-correspondence messages. ... I could not
help thinking of Browning." Only after a time he is able
to repeat his former reply,—that the point where the poem
suggested itself to him was this :
" those who passed beyond
do return, those beyond mortal vision." 2
This and no other
is the central point to him ; the message asked him to prove
the survival of bodily death ; he had done so by returning as
a messenger from the life beyond.
And what a faithful and untiring messenger he is ! Before
the sitting of the next day he has meditated upon Mrs. Siclg-
wick's words and comprehended that he cannot yet have done
all that was wanted of him. And, certainly, there is one
thing which in his eagerness to explain his choice of Aht
Vogler he has in the later sittings quite lost sight of: the
1
Abt Vogler, Stanza v. :
'•
The wonderful Dead who have passed through the
body and gone, but were back once more to breathe in an old world worth
their new."
2
Afterwards Mrs. Sidgwick, who did not recognise the quotation, sug-
gested that it might apply to another question, —that of the Horace Ode.
Myersp accepted her suggestion ; but he had not before given the slightest
hint of so applying it, and his compliance can in no way alter the main
fact, —that the lines about the return of the dead were quoted—in two sittings,
moreover—in answer to the Latin message.
166 Mrs. Anna Hade, Ph.J). [part
Star. Of course it had been clear to him that the Hope-
Star-poem must in some way be connected with stars ; at
the first sittings with Mrs. Sidgwick he had described it as
referring to life after death and stars ; in La Saisiaz he had
unsuccessfully tried to introduce them ("poem about the stars," 1
" which he wrote to a friend about star and hope "), and as to
AM Voglcr, he once mentions " his questioning and the answer
through his seeing a star " ; it is only a passing remark, but
the mistake—which is not at all like MyersP—may be due to
the idea of a star as part of the poem. But the star had another
significance for him, which appears for the first time at the
sitting of April 8 when he tried to give La Saisiaz as the
poem of Mrs. Verrall's script. He had done his best to explain
that he spoke about the poem that was his answer to the
Latin message. He strove to make clear which script he was
referring to. " I made a circle," he said, " as it suggested it
to my mind," and immediately added :
" I then drew or tried
to draw a star yes through the other light [i.e. Mrs. Verrall]
and I did so so you would understand that I understood the
message. ... I drew it so you would understand that I did it.
Also a crescent." He has here spoken of three different figures.
To understand this it will be necessary to revert to an incident
slightly referred to before 2
which had preceded the production
of Mrs. Verrall's script of Jan. 28.
On Jan. 16 Mr. Piddington had spoken to MyersP as follows
3
:
" Myers, when you send a message to, say, Mrs. Verrall, and
then a similar message to Mrs. Holland, could you not mark
each with some simple but distinctive sign—say, a triangle within
a circle ?
"
MyerSp had replied
" I think I understand. You wish me to make a sign when
giving a word at Mrs. Verrall's also at Mrs. Holland's, the same
sign."
1
1 should think, however, that some of the Stars are due to Rector's
inability to grasp the name Saisiaz. Once, on April 8, the script has S'tars,
and Rector answers "Yes" when Mrs. Sidgwick asks whether it is Stars, but
Myersp exclaims: "I wish you could hear what I am saying," which points
to the answer being wrong. On April 17 the script has Siazies, and afterwards :
"To the Stars. Siacriez."
2
V. p. 159. 3
iVoc, Vol. XXII. , p. 36.
The Latin Message Experiment. 167
It will be seen that MyersP had comprehended that the
triangle within a circle was mentioned only by way of exempli-
fication ; that this was also the case with the mediums he is
sure to have understood, although not clearly stating it. And
in the following time he seems to have made several attempts
to carry out the idea. It is true that the drawing in Mrs.
Verrall's script of Jan. 28 is used as an illustration to the
quotation from Abt Vogler, which correctly runs :
" On the earth
the broken arcs ; in the heaven a perfect round." But the
thought of thus illustrating it may have come to his mind
through Mr. Piddington mentioning the figure ; when on March 6
he speaks to him of his attempt to draw a triangle within a
circle he adds :
" as you suggested " ; thus he seems to have
made a double use of it.
1
From the beginning, however, MyersP seems to have preferred
another sign. Mrs. Verrall herself never drew a star ; but her
script of Jan. 28 begins with the words Star Sign ; on Feb. 6
she writes " five pointed star " ; Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 3
has the following words and figures
the crescent moon
remember that and the star
and that of Feb. 17 :
that was the sign she will understand
when she sees it.
Imperfect as they are, in view of his later utterances these seem
attempts to carry out Mr. Piddington's plan. But he seems to
have thought of the crescent as another sign ; thus he makes
the mistake of connecting it with the star when on April 8
he for the first time mentions this figure, though the crescent
1
On March 13 he mentions the circle as "a connecting link"; on April 8
he says: "I made a circle, as it [i.e. the message] suggested it to my mind."
168 Mrs. Anna Hude, Ph.D. [part
has no place in the script of Jan. 28. The parallel use, how-
ever, of the two words confirms the conception that on this
occasion the star too is mentioned as a sign only.
Returning, then, to the sitting of April 8, it is clear that
Myersp had called attention to the star as a sign used by him
to make it understood that it was he who impressed Mrs.
Verrall when " the poem " was quoted (" so you would under-
stand that I did it," i.e. wrote it). Evidently he didn't know
that on that occasion no star was drawn, but only the word
aster written, and Mrs. Sidgwick's answer :
" Yes, there was a
star drawn," confirmed him in his opinion. Thence onwards he
unhesitatingly connects the star with the script of " the poem ",
while the circle is no more mentioned. On April 24, immedi-
ately before his efforts to give the name Abt Vogler, a star is
drawn and he exclaims :
" I remembered Vol [i.e. Vogler] as it
[the star] came to my memory." But it is as the sign that
it makes him recollect Abt Vogler. When he quotes from the
poem, it is no star but the return of the dead that fills his
thoughts.
Mrs. Sidgwick, however, has not been satisfied with his
quotations; she has asked for a, line which is not among them.
Then he remembers the star which of course must not be want-
ing in the Hope-Star-poem. And he succeeds in recalling a
line about a star. It is not among those which have impressed
him ; indeed his remembrance of it is faint. But its significance,
he believes, is that of referring to the sign. So he strives to
reproduce it at the sitting of May 7. A star is drawn, and
alluding to another line from Abt Vogler, he says :
" In my
passion to reach you as clear as the sky I quote : if instead
of a fourth
1
framed a star—came a star. And," he adds, " to
make it clearer I drew a star. This completes my answer to
the Latin message, if you have received all my words clearly.
In my passion to reach you clearly I have made Bector try
to draw a star for me so there can be no mistake. When I
quoted to Mrs. Verrall I drew the star so as to make it clearer
and I wished Bector to reproduce it in connection with the
words in the line."
Thus at last MyersP has really " completed his answer ". But
the message is reverted to in his very interesting dialogues with
1 " Sound" gets through in Mrs. Piper's waking-stage and later.
LXV.] The Latin Message Experiment. 169
Sir Oliver Lodge on May 27 and June 2, 1907. In the former
he explains that Mr. Piddington had wished him to prove con-
clusively the survival of bodily death by giving a message
through Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Piper concerning the same
subject ; the message had suggested Browning to him, and from
its last sentence
1
he had got: "Instead of a fourth sound came
a star." At the sitting of June 2 he is more explicit, and
though it will be seen that he is unable to reproduce the message
so as to give a meaning to it, at the same time a clear light
is thrown upon the development of his own conception of it.
He begins by saying that Mr. Piddington had said :
" If you
will give me a message, not a message really but a sign of
some kind through the lights, corresponding message which I
cannot mistake, I shall consider it the greatest proof of your
survival of bodily death," adding :
" Hence my reason for draw-
ing a star." But he seems to discover that he has here confused
the message with Mr. Piddington's request to him about the
sign (on Jan. 16); so he reverts to the beginning, giving a fairly
correct translation of the first Latin words. " The message in
Latin was this," he says. " For a long time you have been
assimilating ideas one with another through different lights,
2
but
what is most important of all if to prove the survival of bodily
death is for you to give in a certain way a sign." He perceives
that he is on the wrong track once more and alters the last
sentence :
" But what we want is for you to give us proof in
such a way as to make your proof conclusive."
No, he cannot make it clear ! So he leaves aside the message
and describes the experiment from his own point of view :
" I
wish you would follow me now for a moment. Kemember when
Piddington gave me his message the special point in it was
1
Of course Myers? must connect " the line " with the last part of the message.
From the sittings of April 17 and May 27 it is seen that he had caught at
least some words from the last sentence : nullus—appareat—perficias —illud
prioribus ;
probably he had taken them to mean that he should mcike apparent
and complete more than in former messages. Complete is a word he often makes
use of in connection with the Latin message.
-Here for the first time Myersp has correctly translated the words diversis
internuntiis ; this part of the message—the only one which had really come
through before Mr. Piddington's idea gave a new direction to the experiment
he has thus been able to understand completely, though he did not succeed in
doing so at once.
170 Mrs. Anna Hade, Ph.D. [part
for me to give definite proof through both lights. The first
thought I had was to repeat a few words or lines of Browning's
poem, but in order to make it still more definite I registered
a star, and the lines I quoted to you before [on May 27] were
the most appropriate I could find." Here in a few words
MyersP gives the outlines of the whole experiment from the
moment, on March 13, when he had said that he for the first
time clearly understood what Mr. Piddington wished him to do
" to repeat or give more words of Browning's poem." Ever since
he had tried to do this ; with the words from Alt Vogler about
the returning dead he had believed that he had solved the
problem. Perceiving that more was wanted he had drawn the
star and quoted " the line," not knowing what Mr. Piddington
had seen in it and not having thought of it before. To the
last his recollection of it is imperfect.
It is true, then, that MyersP has neither understood nor
replied to the Latin message. But had he not performed a
greater task ? He had found a meaning where an ingenious
but unfounded idea had brought confusion ; he had clung to his
own thought in spite of all discouragement ; he had in a beautiful
manner illustrated his understanding of the message, such as it
was. Naturally he must believe that it had a meaning ; the
incongruities he explained through the difficulties of the trans-
mission.
1
Thus it became possible that in his own way, though
of course guided by the sympathy or want of it with which his
words were received, he could obtain a result that satisfied both
himself and the experimenters. His identity may be questioned ;
his intelligence seems to me indisputable.
1
Of course Eector was made responsible ; "I did have a time of it in making
him understand my meaning," Myersp says to Sir Oliver Lodge (Proc. , Vol. XXIII.,
p. 249).
LXV.] Note on Mrs. Hudes Paper. 171
NOTE ON MBS. HUDES PAPEB.
By J. G. PIDDINGTON.
Mrs. Hude may be right in her contention that MyersP and
I were at cross-purposes over the Latin Message experiment.
It was, anyhow, unfortunate that I read into Mrs. Verrall's
script of Jan. 28, 1907 —no matter whether justifiably or not
—an answer to the Latin Message ;
for, whether I would or no,
from Feb. 19, 1907, onwards, I could not help expecting
MyerSp to confirm my interpretation of this script.
But I am dissatisfied with my conduct of this experiment
for other reasons.
1
I did my best, of course, to give no hints to the trance-
personalities which might help them to guess either the meaning
of the Latin or the general purport of the experiment. Some
of my critics say I did give hints, and so enabled the
trance-personalities to score a partial success. Other critics take
the view that the trance-personalities showed no signs of having
understood the object of the experiment : from which it seems
to follow, either that I gave no useful hints, or that, if I did,
the trance-personalities did not turn them to account.
I suspect that the truth lies between these two extremes
and that, while I may have given—though quite accidentally
and unintentionally—one useful hint (see Proc, Vol. XXII., p.
336, footnote), more than once, in our efforts to avoid helping
the trance-personalities, both Mrs. Sidgwick and I did the
precise opposite and misled them.
The main error, in my opinion, lay partly in an experiment
of this kind being conducted by experimenters who knew the
1
In speaking of myself only I am not forgetting Mrs. .Sidgwick's share in the
conduct of the experiment. But Mrs. Sidgwick hardly had a free hand. She
was in the difficult position of having to carry on an experiment, for the initial
stages of which I, and not she, was responsible. Consequently blame must
attach to me and not to her for any faults in the experimentation.
172 J. G. Piddington. [part
answer required; and partly in their having to conduct it with
trance-personalities, who need encouragement if they are to do
their best, who are inclined to " fish," and who can talk hack.
One learns by experience, and had I to carry out another
experiment of the kind I would not do it with Mrs. Piper,
but with Mrs. Holland or Mrs. Verrall, whose " communicators
"
can't talk back.
In dealing in such a case as this with trance-personalities
like Mrs. Piper's, it is difficult for the experimenter to avoid
committing one or both of two blunders : he will be likely either
to " give himself away," or to mystify unfairly and so discourage
the trance-personalities.
One result of conducting the Latin Message experiment under
the conditions obtaining in Mrs. Piper's trance was the accumu-
lation of a large mass of material—much of it consisting of
" cross-questions and crooked answers." Of so voluminous, un-
wieldy, and labyrinthine a character is the material thus
accumulated, that we need not be surprised if various inter-
pretations can be placed upon it, all more or less possible.
Though my own reading of the facts seems to me, on the
whole, less unsatisfactory than other interpretations of them that
have been ottered, considering the nature of the evidence, I
doubt whether the problem is ever likely to receive a con-
vincing solution. Hence I am inclined to deprecate further
discussion of the case as a whole. If it deserves further
attention at all, I think that various episodes contained in
it would otter a more profitable field for study.
Although I have read Mrs. Hude's paper with some degree
of adhesion, I must protest against one point in it.
She makes certain phrases which I have connected with the
Horace Ode Question form part of the answer given by MyersP
to the Latin Message. The phrases in question are these
" passed out of their bodies and gone," " every peak and
point" (Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 377-378), "the possibility of
returning to the old world again," " peak followed star," " I
have returned to breathe in the old world which is not however
better than our new" (id. ib. y pp. 379-380), "Those who passed
beyond do return," " Passed through body and gone " (id. ib.,
pp. 385-386).
I do not think that Mrs. Hude has paid sufficient attention
Note on Mrs. Hudes Paper. 173
to the fact that on April 24, 1907, the Horace Ode Question
was put to Myersp for the third time, and on April 30,
1907, for the fourth time, and to the fact that before it was
put the fourth time MyersP had spontaneously announced his
intention of answering it on May 1, 1907. I cannot go over
all the ground in detail again ; but if the reader will study
carefully the relevant extracts from the Piper sittings of
April 24 and 30, and May 1, 6 and 7, 1907, given in Proc,
Vol. XXII., pp. 376-393, and what I have to say about
them on pp. 402-404 of the same volume, and in my third
paper on the Horace Ode Question (see above, pp. 201 and 233-
235), I believe he will not accept Mrs. Hude's interpretation,
and will agree with me that MyersP meant to connect these
phrases, not with the Latin Message, but with the Horace Ode
Question ; and did so, not as Mrs. Hude says, in consequence
of a hint given by Mrs. Sidgwick, but on his own initiative.
If Myersp did not connect these phrases with the Horace
Ode Question, or dissociate them from the Latin Message, as
clearly and explicitly as could be wished, I believe that was due
to the fact that Mrs. Sidgwick and Miss Johnson, as was only
natural in the circumstances, were under the misapprehension
all the time that these phrases, being reminiscent of Alt Vogler,
must be meant to apply to the Latin Message. Their misappre-
hension tended to unsettle and perplex MyersP somewhat ; but
I claim that on the whole he came successfully through the
ordeal, and indicated with sufficient clearness that he meant
these particular phrases to form part of his answer to the
Horace Ode Question.
174 J. G. Pidclhigton. [part
V.
A HITHERTO UNSUSPECTED ANSWER TO THE
HORACE ODE QUESTION.
By J. G. PIDDINOTON.
I saw the spiritual city and all her spires
And gateways in a glory like one pearl
No larger, tho' the goal of all the saints
Strike from the sea.
Tennyson, The Holy Grail.
Eive years ago a question was put to MyersP about an Ode
of Horace; and already twice (Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 397-407,
and Vol. XXIV., pp. 150-169) I have dealt with the answers
to it. For returning to the subject once again I offer three
excuses. First, this case, in my opinion, in spite of its com-
plexities and in spite of the conjectural character of some
parts of my interpretation of it, constitutes some of the best
evidence we possess, not merely of the supernormal but also
of the identity of a professing communicating spirit. Secondly,
I know of no published case more difficult to explain on any
hypothesis that postulates the action of living persons only
to the exclusion of the dead. And thirdly, fresh light has
been thrown on the whole subject by certain scripts of Mrs.
Verrall's written in 1907 whose connexion with the Horace
Ode test-question has until quite recently remained unsuspected.
The present paper is mainly devoted to the discussion and
interpretation of the new evidence furnished by these scripts
though, in order to render the new evidence intelligible, it
will be necessary first to recapitulate some of the chief points
of my two earlier papers.
The whole business of the Horace Ode Question was started
—at least so far as the normal activities of any of us were
concerned—by Mrs. Verrall's coming across on January 1,
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. l7-">
1907, an old letter of Frederic Myers's 1
in which he had
expressed himself to Dr. Verrall in the following terms
The first 6 lines of Archytas [i.e. Hor. C. i. 28] have entered as
deeply as almost any Horatian passage into my own inner history. 2
The discovery of this letter led Mrs. Verrall to ask me to
put the following question to MyersP :
" Which Ode of Horace
entered deeply into your inner life?"; and this question I
put on January 23, 1907.
No answer was given or attempted so long as I was in
charge of the Piper sittings. But on April 17, 1907, Mrs.
Sidgwick, who had taken my place, repeated the question,
3
and MyersP at once replied :
" Oh ! yes, ... I recall the
question and I had Ode to Nature on my mind, hut as I
thought I loved another ode better I did not reply until I
could say it more clearly. Do you remember imortality [sic]
. . . I thought I could answer."
Neither Mrs. Sidgwick nor I saw any sense in this answer.
Mrs. Verrall was told nothing about it ;
and, as will appear
later, it is all to the good that she was kept in ignorance
of it.
This, however, was not the only answer.
On April 29 and May 1, 1907, MyersP quoted, not quite
correctly but recognisably, the two following passages from
Browning's Abt V~ogler
. . . the wonderful Dead who have passed through the body
and gone,
1
When Mrs. Verrall read this letter of Myers's on January 1, 1907, she
was reminded by it of the reminiscences of Hor. C. i. 28 in her scripts of
March and April, 1901 (for which see Proc, Vol. XXIV., pp. 162-166, and
below, pp. 171, 181, 226 and 227). That as a matter of fact her normal
memory was thus stimulated is not, however, a point of much importance
for we should in any case have been bound to assume that the reading of the
letter provoked a subconscious recollection of the content of these scripts.
2
It should be observed, by the way, that Myers spoke, not of any purely
literary or pedantic interest in the "Archytas" Ode, but of its emotional or
moral influence on him.
a
Mrs. Sidgwick repeated the question at my suggestion. I had written to her
on April 15, 1907, as follows :
" Perhaps [an answer] has been given since I left
but if not, I think it should Depressed for, not only because the question is a good
one to ask, but also because reference to it might very possibly produce a
spontaneous cross-correspondence with Mrs. Verrall."
170 ./. G. Piddington. [part
But were back once more to breathe in an old world worth
their new;
and
Not a point nor peak but found and fixed its wandering star
and on Majr
6, 1907, definitely connected the former, and
may be fairly said 1
to have connected the latter also by
implication, with his answer to the Horace Ode Question.
2
Mrs. Sidgwick, on May 4, 1907, told Mrs. Verrall of the
allusion to these two quotations on May 1, and Mrs. Verrall
thought that the first of the two might have been used to
identify the " Archytas " Ode, which has an incidental allusion
to the reincarnation of Euphorbus as Pythagoras.
At that time Mrs. Verrall thought, and ever since she had
come across the letter to her husband had thought, and for
nearly a year to come continued to think, that it was this
allusion to reincarnation that had specially interested Frederic
Myers in the " Archytas " Ode.
3
Consequently the first AM
Vogler quotation seemed to her a not unpromising attempt at
identifying the Ode.
We pass on now to a year later.
On this side of the Atlantic I was at work on the Piper
records of 1906-1907, and on April 25, 1908, I interpreted
the first answer given by MyersP, viz. :
" I had Ode to Nature
on my mind. . . . Do you remember Immortality ? ", as mean-
ing that a poem of Frederic Myers's, entitled Ode to Nature,4"
contained echoes of Hor. C. iii. 4,
5
and that another poem of
his, entitled Immortality? contained echoes of Hor. C. i. 28,
the " Archytas " Ode. While I thought the connexion between
Ode to Nature and Hor. C. iii. 4- was merely incidental, I
argued that between Immortality and the " Archytas " Ode
1
See for a summary of the facts, Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 402-403.
"
In view of what follows (see pp. 204-206 below), it should be noted that in
each of these quotations from Abt Vor/ler is involved the idea of the dead
being in touch with the living, and of both mutually influencing each other.
3
This supposition of Mrs. VerralFs was clearly wrong, for Myers says in the
letter that it was "the first 6 lines" of the Ode that had entered deeply into
his inner history, and the allusion to Pythagoras does not come in these lines.
4
These two poems appear in Fragments of Prose and Poetry, pp. 127 and 172
respectively.
5
See Proc., Vol. XXII., pp. 401-402.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 177
there were not only incidental coincidences of expression, but
also and chiefly a connexion of thought as well. Myers, I
suggested, in Immortality was re-echoing, and, as the '
verbal
coincidences indicated, consciously re-echoing, the gloomy pre-
sentiments about man's destiny to which Horace gives utter-
ance in the " Archytas " Ode.
Meanwhile, on the other side of the Atlantic, Mr. Dorr
was having sittings with Mrs. Piper, and putting to MyersP a
number of questions on literary and classical subjects. In the
course of answering them MyersP, between February 25 and
May 26, 1908, in a very ingenious manner 1
clearly identified
the Ode which had formed the subject of the Horace Ode
Question. This he did off his own bat, quite independently
of any hint or help from Mr. Dorr, who did not know that
any question about an Ode of Horace had ever been put to
MyerSp. Moreover, MyersP, it would seem, connected the
" Archytas " Ode with those lines in the Eleventh Book of
the Odyssey where Achilles says to Odysseus when they meet
in the Under-world :
" Nay, speak not comfortably to me of
death. . . . Eather would I live e7rdpovpo<;—attached to the
soil (or, " above ground ") as the hireling of another, than
bear sway among all the dead that be departed "
2
words
obviously in harmony with the sentiments of the " Archytas
Ode and Immortality, and out of harmony with those expressed
in Alt Vogler.
"We pass on now—nearly a year—to February, 1909, at
which time I was working at the records of the Dorr-Piper
sittings of 1908. The references which they contained to the
Horace Ode I discussed in a paper entitled " A Prelude and
a Sequel to the Horace Ode Question." What I called the
" Prelude " was some very early scripts of Mrs. Verrall's written
in 1901, a few weeks after Myers's death. Conjoined in them
were quotations from the " Archytas " Ode and allusions to
the words of Achilles which I have just quoted : the allusions
being effected by means of the phrase adscriptus glebae, " bound
to the soil," which is one rendering of e-irdpovpo^.
These early scripts of Mrs. Verrall's thus seemed to fall
into line not only with the Horace Ode references in Mr.
x
For details see Proc, Vol. XXIV., pp. 157-158.
2
See Proc, Vol. XXIV., pp. 155-156, 159-160.
M
178 J. G. Piddington. [part
Dorr's Piper sittings of 1908, but also with the answers to
the Horace Ode Question given by MyersP in 1907,—at
least with those answers as I interpreted them in February
1908, without reference to the contemporaneous Dorr sittings
or to Mrs. Verrall's early scripts of 1901.
But besides the quotations from the " Archytas " Ode and
the allusions to Achilles' words, there were, I suggested, in
these early scripts of Mrs. Verrall's, allusions to Myers's Im-
mortality and to another poem of his, called On a Spring
Morning at Sea: a poem which was not published till 1904,
and which Mrs. Verrall, to the best of her belief, never saw
until it was published in Fragments of Prose and Poetry (p. 54).
In this latter poem Myers has prefigured the life to come
in terms of the rosiest optimism, painting a picture of it as
much opposed as can be to the melancholy that pervades the
forebodings of Horace in the " Archytas " Ode, of Homer in
the Eleventh Book of the Odyssey, and of Myers himself in
Immortality.
By conjoining in these early Verrall scripts allusions to
Achilles' words from the Eleventh Book of the Odyssey, to the
" Archytas " Ode, and to the poems Immortality and On a
Spring Morning at Sea, Myersv meant, I suggested, to compare
and contrast the various views about the next life represented
in these various poems.
This completes the epitome of the old evidence. Before,
however, I begin to discuss the new evidence, it will be con-
venient to show what the verbal coincidences are between
On a Spring Morning cd Sea and Mrs. Verrall's four early
scripts of 1901.
Coincidences between " On a Spring Morning at Sea
"
and Four Early Scripts of Mrs. Verrall's.
In estimating what the coincidences are worth the reader
must bear in mind that the four scripts all belong to the
very earliest stages of Mrs. Verrall's development as an auto-
matic writer, are spasmodic in style, and are most markedly
inferior both in coherence and grammatical construction to her
later scripts ; and that consequently the coincidences may
appear more indeterminate than they otherwise would.
LXV.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 179
The first of the four scripts has the following string of
words : Postridie [on the morrow] morgenstern [morning star]
opus [work] rosea [rosy] angelica [angelic].
The fourth script has omnia ibi plana, omnia rosea suffusa
luce vel caecis bene [e]videntia oculi autem tui caligine circum-
fusi ; which means, " There all is clear, all bathed in rosy light,
plain even for the blind to see—but thine eyes are shrouded
in darkness."
If in place of opns (meaning " work ") opedus (meaning
" opal ") is read, we get five coincidences with leading words
in the first five lines of the poem On a Spring Morning at Sea.
Thus :
"And such a sight as this is, I suppose,
Shall meet thee on the morrow of thy death
And pearl to sapphire, opal into rose,
Melt in that mom no heart imagineth
Fair as when now thine eyes thou dar'st not close
"
The foregoing were all the coincidences between the four scripts
and the poem which I cited in my second paper on the Horace
Ode Question (Proc., Vol. XXIV., pp. 166-167). I had, how-
ever, discovered more coincidences than these, but refrained
from publishing them in deference to the advice of Mrs. Sidgwick
and Mrs. Verrall, who thought them too fanciful to gain
credence, if not to be true. But the discovery of similar,
though not identical, verbal coincidences between the poem and
a script of Mrs. Verrali's written long before the coincidences
between the poem and the four early scripts of 1901 were
noticed (see pp. 185-186), emboldens me to publish here the
cancelled sentences from my second paper. They ran thus
Nor were these [i.e. the coincidences described above and on
pp. 167-168 of Proc, Vol. XXIV.] the only attempt in these four
scripts to give leading words from the poem. Not without misgiving
—for I am only too well aware how preposterous such an inter-
pretation will seem to all but those who have made a close study
of the peculiar mental processes exhibited in automatic writings —
venture to put forward the following suggestion : That the two
Horatian quotations in the script of March 12, 1901 [quoted in full
in Proc., Vol. XXIV., p. 163], Splendidior vitro o fans and eras ingens
iterabimus aequor are the form into which the automatist rendered
180 G. Piddington. [part
three leading words from the poem, namely, "spring" and "glassy-
sea." The scribe, whose thoughts were at the same time occupied
with an Ode of Horace's, was, I conceive, trying to impress on the
automatist's mind the words "spring" (the season) and "glassy sea."
The message was misinterpreted and entangled by the automatist,
and emerged in the form of two Horatian quotations embodying the
words fons (spring of water), vitro (glass) and aequor (sea).
Thus far the deleted passage. To it I now add the following
points :
(1) The conjunction of splendidior vitro o fons and eras ingens
iterabimus aequor may have been suggested, or at any
rate aided, by the assonance between eras donaberis (part
of the third line of the Ode which begins 0 fons
Bandusiac, splendidior vitro) and eras . . . iterabimus ;
(2) Cras ingens iterabimus aequor may have suggested itself
as an appropriate quotation, because it introduces not
only the word aequor (" sea ") but also the word cras
(" to-morrow " or " on the morrow ") : both leading words
in the poem
(3) An instance of " spring " being used equivocally, as I
suggest fons (a spring of water) was here, occurs in
Miss Verrall's script of Nov. 19, 1908, where the
drawing of a mechanical spring is followed by the
words " a spring—spring the season also both will
serve."
The Horatian quotations, then, in the script of March 12,
1901, represent, I suggest, an attempt at three words in the
following couplet of the poem
" Ay ! there some jewelled visionary spring
Shall charm the strange shore and the glassy sea."
So much for the verbal coincidences. But there is besides,
I suspect, a coincidence in subject between On a Spring Morning
at Sea and the four early scripts of 1901. In her report on
her own script from the time of its inception to the end of
1904 (Proc., Vol. XX., pp. 1-432) Mrs. Verrall writes:
There occur from time to time in the script descriptions . . . which
seem to relate to a visionary dwelling place, a kind of Elysian Fields
or Isles of the Blest. . . . Though the first unmistakeable description
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 181
of an "Isle of the Blest" did not appear till nearly two years after
the inception of the script, there are among the quite early writings
fragments which suggest that some such idea had been seeking
expression earlier in the subliminal consciousness (id. ib., p. 112).
As illustrations of these early fragments she then proceeds
to quote and discuss her scripts of March 11, March 29, and
April 27, 1901. Of this last she says:
On April 27, 1901, some one, probably myself, is reproached with
having a mind too much fixed on this earth, and urged in language
reminiscent of Horace's Ode to Archytas, and of Lucretius' address
to Epicurus, to let the soul soar to the regions of the sky, "where
all is clear, all bathed in rosy light" . . . (id. ib., p. 113).
Since Mrs. Verrall included the script of April 27, 1901, in
her list of scripts descriptive of some Abode of the Blest,1
we
are, I think, justified in including what for convenience' sake
I have called "the four early scripts of 1901" in the same
category, for the script of April 27, 1901, is one of these four,
and (for reasons explained on p. 167 of Proc., Vol. XXIV.) the
other three unquestionably form part of a suite with it. Hence,
since On a Spring Morning at Sea describes a vision of the
Abode of the Blest, there is a coincidence of subject between
it and the four scripts, as well as coincidence in phraseology.
The reader should, however, keep his judgement about these
coincidences in suspense for the present. Further on (see
pp. 185-186) I shall show that six years later two other
scripts of Mrs. Verrall's, connected like those of 1901 with the
" Archytas " Ode, likewise contain coincidences with On a Spring
Morning at Sea. The fact that coincidences with the poem thus
exist in two different sets of scripts, both connected with the
" Archytas " Ode, increases the probability that the coincidences
in both sets with On a Spring Morning at Sea are not accidental.
I am sorry, both for my own sake and the reader's, that I
have had to spend so much time over the question of these
particular coincidences ; but from a theoretical point of view so
much depends on the character of them (i.e. whether they are
fortuitous or purposive) that detailed discussion could hardly
be avoided.
J
See also Proc, Vol. XX., pp. 377-379 and 340-345.
J. G. Piddington. [part
Discussion of the New Evidence.
We are now free to examine and discuss the scripts of Mrs.
Verrall's—five in all—which constitute the new evidence. They
are reproduced below in chronological order, and, in accordance
with the numbering adopted in a complete collection of Mrs.
Verrall's scripts prepared for private use, are numbered respec-
tively 136, 171, 176, 178 and 180.
I shall refer to these scripts by their numbers, as this is
a far more convenient plan than reference by dates.
(136) (February 12, 1907. 11 a.m.)
The voyage of Maeldune faery lands forlorn and noises of the
western sea.
thundering noises of the western sea.
It is about Merlin and Arthur's realm Merlin's prophetic
vision
'
all night long
mid thundering noises of the western sea
and how he would not go—the passing of Arthur.
And then the island valley of Avilion
where blows not any wind none nor ever falls the least light
no not that but you have the sense
there falls no rain nor snow nor any breath of wind shakes the
least leaf.
I will try to get the idea elsewhere conveyed—but it is hard and
I know I have failed before.
Why will you not put the signature ?
Surely you know now that it is not you.
F.W.H.M.
(171) (April 29, 1907.)
Victor in Poesy Victor in Romance
and Lord of Human Tears
think of the phrase '
fine flower of poesy '
—and again '
posy of
a ring '
—pro patria [for fatherland] is written on a circle, not I
think a ring. But I mean a wider thing, a universal country, the
mother of us all,
Not '
0 fair city of Cecrops,'
but Oh fair city of God.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 183
That gives one clue—I have long wanted to say that—I tried
before— I spoke of Athens, but you did not complete.
Golden City of God. The city of Cecrops is violet and hoary
look back at that. The Universal City is all colours and no colour,
but best described as a golden GLEAM.
(176) (May 7, 1907.)
Nec non tibi etsi ceteris.
[To you if not to others.]
Write in a small regular hand without ever taking the pencil
off the paper. It makes it easier to keep the attention to the
immediate subject of communication.
But you cannot work like that.
Spires of flame like the tops of cypress trees,
cypress tops against a pearly sky no movement. It is the sky of
early morning but there is no sun. There is a building and a
tower on the left, white faintly white but the colours are hardly
visible
Dance
with dances and delight.
That is different altogether.
May 13 thirteen has been given you for a date.
Tell Helen to try for the answer then—and after that you shld [sic]
write no more till we give the word.
184 J. G. Picldington. [part
(178) (May 13, 1907.)
O and cuoA.09 [gleaming] and idXXecv [to
C brandish].
There is some play upon those words.
The gleaming light.
The light that gleamed on sea and shore
The light that never was on sea or shore
Ask about the pearl pearl I think—the pearly light of dawn
in orient pearl in pearly contours lost
The gates of pearl
No you do not get it quite right.
It should be about the dawn, a dawn of pearl,
pearl and mother of pearl gives the idea—and all the glow of the
Orient in their opalescent radiance of soft light.
(180) (June 24, 1907. 10.45 p.m.)
Regina vespertino cruore omnes tentavit vias nusquam invenit.
[The queen with bloodshed at evening tried all the ways, but
nowhere found one]
They keep the even tenor of their way
Drops was to be written
pearly drops
like liquid pearls dissolved in sparkling cup
By the swarthy queen of Egypt
I am dying Egypt, dying
And so take up the tale
Antony and Cleopatra.
The Connexion between 176 and 178.
In discussing and collating these five scripts, I think it will
be best not to adhere to chronological order, but to take first
176 and 178.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 185
176 has "a pearly sky . . . the sky of early morning"; while
178 has "the pearly light of dawn ... It should be about
the dawn, a dawn of pearl."
176 has " there is no sun," while 178 has " the gates of pearl."
These two phrases seem to be reminiscent of the following
passages from the Revelation of St. John the Divine
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls ;
every several gate was
of one pearl. . . . And the city had no need of the sun ... to shine
in it : for the glory of God did lighten it. Bev. xxi. 21, 23.
They need no candle, neither light of the sun ; for the Lord God
giveth them light. 1
id. xxii. 5.
Another sign of connexion between these two scripts is that
in 176 the automatist is reminded of an injunction given in a
previous script (that of May 1, 1907) to write on May 13, the
date of 178.
2
Then both 176 and 178 contain several words and phrases,
either identical with, or closely corresponding to, words and
phrases in Myers's poem On a Spring Morning at Sea. 3
Thus:
Scripts.
" Pearly sky no movement
(176)
"It is the sky of early morning"
(176)
" a dawn of pearl" (178)
"PEARL" "opalescent radi-
ance" (178)
" sea and shore " " sea or shore
"
(178)
"liquid pearls dissolved" (180) 4
Poem.
"And pearl to sapphire, opal
into rose, Melt in that
morn "
"the strange shore and the glassy
sea
"
" the heaven's repose
"
" A spring morning at sea
"
1
The words "there is no sun" in 176 have, I believe, a double significance.
See below, pp. 198-199.
2 The injunction in the script of May 1, 1907 (174) runs as follows: "I want
you to try a special experiment. On May 13 wait for a message I cannot tell
how it will reach you—but there is some special interest in that day . . . Don't
ask more—a veil is best—but in the end you will understand and find the
record complete." For the full text of this script see pp. 238-239.
3
See Note A, p. 211.
1 Later on (p. 189) I shall justify the insertion here of an extract from 180
by showing that between 178 and 180 a very close link exists.
186 J. G. Piddington. [part
I believe that the misquotation in 178 of Wordsworth's line,
" The light that never was on sea or land," was purposive, the
substituted words " sea or shore " serving to introduce two words
from On a Spring Morning at Sea. If it was not purposive, it
is not easy to account for, since the line in its proper form is
very well known, and had only a few weeks earlier (Feb. 20,
1907) been correctly given in a script of Mrs. Verrall's (140),
except for the transposition of " land " and " sea."
1
The Connexion between 136, 171 and 178.
Next let us turn to 136 and 171.
136 speaks of " Merlin's prophetic vision," " the passing of
Arthur," and " the island valley of Avilion where . . . falls no
rain nor snow."
At the time when this script was written Mrs. Verrall did
not understand the meaning of " Merlin's prophetic vision," but
five weeks later—on March 15, 1907—she interpreted it as an
allusion to Tennyson's Merlin and the Gleam, which she read for
the first time on that day.
171 has " a universal country, the mother of us all, Not '
0
fair city of Cecrops,' but Oh fair city of God . . . Golden City
of God. The universal City is all colours and no colour, but
best described clS <& golden GLEAM."
In her contemporaneous, or nearly contemporaneous, notes on
171 Mrs. Verrall gives a reference back to Merlin and the Gleam
mentioned in her note on 136. So " Gleam" serves as a con-
necting link between 136 and 171. But " gleam" occurs thrice
explicitly in 178, and once implicitly, because the context of " the
light that never was, on sea or land " is
Ah ! THEN, if mine had been the Painter's hand,
To express what then I saw ; and add the gleam,
The light that never was, on sea or land.
So the word "gleam" links together not only 136 and 171, but
178 also.
Before I point out further links between the five scripts, let
me go back again for a moment to the context of " the light that
never was, on sea or land." In the poem from which these
1
This script is quoted and discussed in Note B, pp. 212-213.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 187
words come Elegiac Stanzas suggested by a Picture of Peele Castle
in a Storm—occur the following lines
Four summer weeks I dwelt in sight of thee
I saw thee every day ; and all the while
Thy Form was sleeping on a glassy sea.
The fact that these lines are part of the context of a quotation
occurring in 178 tends to confirm my theory that 178 presents
coincidences with On a Spring Morning at Sea, since both poems
contain the words " glassy sea."
The Connexion between 171, 176 and 178.
I was explaining, before this digression, how 136, 171 and 178
are linked together by the word " Gleam." I now proceed to
point out that 171, 176 and 178 are also connected together : the
link in this case being made by means of allusions in all three
to the description of the Heavenly Jerusalem in the 21st chapter
of The Revelation of St. John the Divine. 176 seems, as I have
already mentioned, to allude to the Heavenly City's having no
need of the sun, and 178 to its gates of pearl ; while the phrase
in 171 "Golden City of God " recalls vv. 13 and 21: "the city
was pure gold, like unto clear glass," " and the street of the city
was pure gold, as it were transparent glass."
In support of my theory that these coincidences with the
Apocalypse are not due to chance, I would point out : first,
that the imagery of the 21st chapter of Revelation, like that
of On a Spring Morning at Sect (with which poem 178 presents
coincidences of word and phrase) is drawn from jewels and
colours ;
and, secondly, that the " sea of glass " that was before
the throne of God (Rev. iv. 6) recalls both the " glassy sea
of On a Spring Morning at Sea
Ay, there some jewelled visionary spring
Shall charm the strange shore and the glassy sea
and the " glassy sea " of Wordsworth's Stanzas suggested by
a Picture of Peele Castle in a Storm
and all the while
Thy Form was sleeping on a glassy sea.
188 J. G. Pidclington. [part
And this coincidence with the Wordsworth poem is not a
merely verbal one. There is a real connexion of thought as
well, for the sight of Peele Castle reflected in the glassy summer
sea brings to the poet's mind the thought of Heavenly or
Elysian calm
Thou shouldst have seemed a treasure-house divine
Of peaceful years ; a chronicle of heaven ;
and
A Picture had it been of lasting ease,
Elysian quiet, without toil or strife ;
No motion but the moving tide.
136, 176 AND 178.
Now let us turn for a moment to 136, 176 and 178. 176
and 178, I have suggested, allude to On a Spring Morning at
Sea, the poem in which Myers has painted a vision of the next
world, and also to the 21st chapter of Revelation wherein is
described the Heavenly Jerusalem. 136 mentions the Island
of Avilion, which was " in Welsh mythology the kingdom of
the dead," and at a later date became " an earthly paradise
in the western seas " (Unci. Brit. s.v. Avalon). Visions of
another world form, then, a common subject of these three
scripts. I have mentioned three of these visions, but I believe
that indirect allusion to a fourth is involved in the quotation
from Tennyson's Morte d'Arthur, which follows the mention of
the Island of Avilion in 136. This quotation—I give it in its
correct form, instead of in the form in which it appears in
the script—is as follows
the island-valley of Avilion
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
Nor ever wind blows loudly.
These lines are Tennyson's version of a passage in the Fourth
Book of Homer's Odyssey (11. 566-568), where Proteus says to
Menelans :
But thou, Menelaus, son of Zeus, art not ordained to die . . .
but the deathless gods will convey thee to the Elysian plain and
the world's end . . . , where life is easiest for men. No snow is
there, nor yet great storm, nor any rain; but always ocean sendeth
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 189
forth the breeze of the shrill west to blow cool on men (Butcher
and Lang's Translation).
So I think that 136 may be said to contribute implicitly
a fourth vision of the Heavenly City.
The Connexion between 178 and 180.
In 180, the next script but one after 178, there is a refer-
ence to the story of Cleopatra's first melting a pearl ear-drop
and then drinking it in Antony's honour, and this is followed
by a quotation
—" I am dying, Egypt, dying "
—from Shakespeare's
Antony and Cleopatra.
In 178 occur the words " in orient pearl " and " P E A E L
pearl mother of pearl gives the idea—and all the glow of the
Orient."
In Shakespeare's play Antony sends as a gift to Cleopatra
an " orient pearl " ; and the coincidence establishes clearly, I
think, the close connexion between 178 and 180.
The connexion between 178 and 176 has already been ex-
plained, and accordingly I feel justified in treating 176, 178 and
180 as what may be called a suite of scripts.
The Connexion between a Poem of Myees's entitled "Venice"
AND 176, 178 AND 180.
In January 1912, I told Mrs. Verrall of my theory that
176 and 178 1
contain allusions to On a Sirring Morning at Sea.
In reply she pointed out to me that in these two scripts there
seems to be also a verbal coincidence with another poem of
Myers's named Venice. Thus, while 176 has " a pearly sky
and 178 mentions the sea and " a dawn of pearl," in Venice
occurs the phrase " her melted Pearl of sky and sea."
Seven considerations, all unnoticed by Mrs. Verrall, support
her conjecture, and go to show that the coincidence is not
accidental.
First, the reference to " pearly drops like liquid pearls dis-
solved " in 180—a script, which, as we have just seen, forms a
1
1 said nothing to Mrs. Verrall about 180, because at this time I had not
noticed its close connexion with 176 and 178.
190 /. G. Piddington. [part
suite with 178 and 176—may be taken to represent an attempt
at the " melted Pearl of sea and sky " of Venice.1
Secondly, the symbols, with which 178 opens, may be the
first letters of the word " Venice." The first is a capital V,
and the second a Greek epsilon ( = English short e).
Thirdly, in Mrs. Yerrall's script of January 18, 19 0 8 ( 223)
occur the words :
" The Orient splendours of the dawn The
pearl of sea and sky no not that." The conjunction of
" Orient," " dawn " and " pearl " here seems to connect this
script with 178, which likewise has " Orient," " dawn " and
"pearl"; and the phrase in 223, "The pearl of sea and sky,"
is very like the phrase in Venice, " melted Pearl of sky and
sea." Moreover, the fact of this phrase in 223 being followed
by the comment, " no not that," suggests to any one familiar
with the mannerisms of Mrs. Verrall's script that the phrase
thus negatived has previously emerged in some other script.
As a matter of fact it had not ; but I would suggest that the
scribe had intended to get this phrase recorded in 176 or 178,
and thought that either the actual phrase or something very
like it had been recorded. 2
Fourthly, Mrs. Verrall's script of February 20, 19 0 7 (140),
which is connected with 178 by means of a Wordsworth
quotation common to each (" The Light that never was, on sea
or land "), contains reminiscences of some lines in Shakespeare's
Merchant of Venice, and a connexion with Venice is thereby
suggested. Moreover, 140 opens with the word " Chiaroscuro,"
which in the form " Clear-obscure " occurs in Myers's Renewal
of Youth in reference to Tintoretto's pictures, some of which,
as we shall see later (pp. 197-199), are almost certainly referred
to in the poem Venice?
Fifthly, the script of May 1, 19 0 7 (174)—the script, that
is, in which Mrs. Verrall was enjoined to " wait for a message
"
on May 13, the date of 178—opens with the word "Evangel"; 4
1 It also serves, as I have already suggested (see p. 185), to represent the
similar expression in On a Sjjring Morning at Sea: "And pearl to sapphire,
opal into rose Melt." Besides this verbal similarity between the two poems,
I hope to show later (see p. 206) that a connexion of thought also exists
between them.
-For full details on this point, see Note C, pp. 213-214.
3
For the text of 140, and comments on it, see Note B, pp. 212-213.
4
For the text of this script, see pp. 238-239.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 191
and by means of this word seems to refer back to the only
other script of Mrs. Verrall's between January 1905 and
May 1910, in which the word "Evangel" is found. This
script, written on October 27, 1905, presents some curious
coincidences with Myers's poem Venice}
Though by itself any one of these five considerations may
not be very cogent, cumulatively they seem to me to have
very considerable force.
The sixth and seventh considerations in support of a con-
nexion between 176 and Venice, being full of complexities, will
best be dealt with in separate sections.
Comparison of 176 with a Passage in George Sand's _
lettb.es i) un voyaoeur.
The sixth consideration is the most cogent ;
though I did not
discover the facts on which it is based until the whole of
this paper (except, of course, the paragraphs in which it is
explained) and the appendices were completed.
The opening pages of the second chapter of George Sand's
Lettres cVun Voyagew (pp. 34-40 in the edition published by
Michel Levy Freres, 1869) are occupied with a description
of a dream which the Traveller (George Sand herself, of
course) has experienced again and again from early childhood
onwards. When the dream begins the dreamer is sitting on
a desolate shore. A bark approaches, and he is hailed by
unknown friends aboard it. He joins them, and off they sail
to an enchanted land, beautiful beyond description ; and here,
singing and crowned with flowers, they frolic through scented
woodlands. At this point the dreamer wakes ; but when
awake he cannot recall either the looks or names of his dream-
companions, or the words of their songs. " Who," he asks,
" are these unknown friends who come to summon me in my
sleep and lead me into fairy land ?
" He debates whether
they are spirits of the dead, or ghosts of old loves, or dim
prefigurements of loves to be, or merely the creation of an
active imagination ? Though he returns no certain answer to
1
For the text of the script of October 27, 1905, and comments on it, see
Note D, pp. 215-217.
192 J. G. Piddington. [part
his own question, he seems to lean towards a mystical inter-
pretation of his experience :
Je brule de savoir s'il y a dans les songes quelque sens prophetique,
quelque revelation de l'avenir, soit pour cette vie, soit pour les autres.
And again,
Mon reve . . . ressemble a la terre libre et vierge que je vais
cherchant, et que je peuple d'affections saintes et de bonheur
impossible. . . .
Then he goes on to describe how, seated one evening in
the Giardini Pubblici at Venice,
il m'est arrive . . . de me trouver en realite dans une situation
qui ressemblait un peu a mon reve . . .
. . . Le petit promontoir plante a l'anglaise est si beau, si touffu,
si riche de fleurs, de parfums et d'aspects, que je me demandai si
ce n'etait pas la le rivage magique que mes reves m'avaient fait
pressentir. Mais non, la terre promise est vierge de douleurs, et
celle-ci est deja trempee de mes larmes.
And then comes the following passage . (quoted—with slight
variations of text—in Hare's Venice, p. 121 of the 2nd
edition)
Le soleil efcait descendu derriere les monts Vicentins. De grandes
nuees violettes traversaient le ciel au-dessus de Venise. La tour
de Saint-Marc, les coupoles de Sainte-Marie, et cette pepiniere de
fieches et de minarets qui s'elevent de tous les points de la ville, se
dessinaient en aiguilles noires sur le ton ^tincelant de l'horizon. Le
ciel arrivait, par une admirable degradation de nuances, du rouge-
cerise au bleu de smalt ; et Veau, calme et limpide comme une glace,
recevait exactement le reflet de cette immense irisation. Au-dessous
de la ville elle avait l'air d'un grand miroir de cuivre rouge. Jamais
je n'avais vu Venise si belle et si feerique. Cette noire silhouette, jetie
entre le ciel et Veau ardente comme dans une mer de feu, ttait alors
une de ces sublimes aberrations d'architecture que le poete de I'Apocalypse
a du voir flotter sur les greves de Patmos quand il remit sa Jerusalem
nouvelle, et qu'il la comparait a une belle epousee de la veille.
Peu a peu les couleurs s'obscurcirent, les contours devinrent plus
massifs, les profondeurs plus mysterieuses. Venise prit I'aspect d'une
flotte immense, puis d'un bois de hauls cypres oil les canaux s'en-
foncaient comme de grands chemins de sable argente. Ce sont la
les instants oil j'aime a regarder au loin. Quand les formes s'effacent,
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 19o
quand les objets semblent trembler dans la brume, quand mon
imagination pent s'elancer dans un champ immense de conjectures
et de caprices, quand je peux, en clignant un pen la paupiere,
renverser et bouleverser une cite, en faire une foret, un camp ou
un ciniitiere ; . . . alors je jouis vraiment de la nature, j'en dispose a
mon gre, je regne sur elle, je la traverse d'un regard, je la peuple
de mes fantaisies.
Let me compare the phrases which I have underlined with
140, 171, 176 and 178 ; and the whole passage with the closing
lines of Myers's Venice
George Sand.
(1) " cette pepiniere de flecbes
"
—"Venise prit l'aspect . . .
d'un bois de hauts cypres"
(2) " l'eau, calme et limpide
(3) The whole passage quoted
above.
(4) " Cette noire silhouette—
sa Jerusalem nouvelle."
Scripts and Venice.
(1) "Spires of flame like the
tops of cypress trees, cypress
tops against a pearly sky
"
(176).
(2)
" The glassy sea " implicit in
the Wordsworth's quotations
in 140 and 178. (Cf. also
" the glassj7
sea " of On a
Spring Morning at Sea, and
the "sea of glass" of the
Apocalypse.)
(3) " but she [i.e. Venice]
Dreams in her melted Pearl of
sky and sea.
For me too dreaming let the
sunset fire
Shade the dark dome and pierce
the pillared spire !
" etc.
(Myers's Venice.)
(4) The allusions to the New
Jerusalem of the Apocalypse
in three scripts (171, 176,
178), which, for various
reasons already cited or to be
cited, I connect with Myers's
poem about Venice, written
at Venice, and called Venice.
N
194 J. G. Piddington. [part
It seems to me not unlikely that wheu writing the last
stanza of his poem Venice Myers, who was a great admirer
of George Sand's works and had written an essay on her,
in which the Lettres d'un Voyageur are highly, if briefly,
praised {Essays Modern, p. 87), had this passage in his mind.1
That the intelligence responsible for 140, 171, 176 and 178
knew the George Sand passage I can hardly doubt,'2
The reader will not be in a position to appreciate the full
force of these parallelisms, and especially of the fourth, until
he reaches the end of this paper. When, arrived at that
point, he realises how close a parallel my interpretation of
Mrs. Verrall's scripts presents with the passage in the Lettres
d'un Voyageur about Venice and the vision of the New
Jerusalem, let him remember what I have said above and
now repeat and emphasise : namely, that my interpretation of
the new evidence presented in this paper was completed in
its present form before I knew of the existence of the George
Sand passage, and before I knew that she, or for that matter
any writer, had ever traced any sort of relationship between
the vision of the New Jerusalem and Venice.3
1
He probably knew it in the original ; but it is not unlikely that he came
across it in Hare's Venice during his stay at Venice in 1900. He was, I
know, fond of Hare's Borne, and had it in Rome with him on one of his last
visits there. I do not know that he had Hare's Venice with him at Venice
in 1900, but in view of his fondness for Hare's Rome, it seems a likely
conjecture that he had.
2
As the allusion to the Lettres d'un Voyayeur in Essays Modern shows,
Frederic Myers may well have known the passage. Had Mrs. Verrall ever
read it? On June 3, 1912, she wrote, in answer to my enquiries: "I am
sure I have never read Hare's Venice. ... I have never been or planned
to go to Venice, and I have no knowledge of any books about Venice, except
Ruskin's Stones of Venice, and an old Baedeker." Then, on June 6, 1912,
having looked up the passage first in Hare's Venice and then in the original,
and after looking through Lettres d'un Voyageur generally, she wrote :
" Nothing in it was in the least familiar, and no faintest recollection
suggested that I had any previous acquaintance with it."
3
Since writing the above I see that, according to Ruskin (St. Mark's Rest,
ch. I. and II.), the Venetians, as a result of their conquest of Tyre and of
their acquisition under treaty from Baldwin II. of a street in the city of
Sion, came to associate their own city with the civitas Dei of the 86th Psalm.
I have also come across a passage in Modern Painters (quoted in Hare's
Venice, p. 9) which suggests that in Ruskin's mind the New Jerusalem of
Revelation and Venice were associated :
" A city of marble, did I say ? nay, rather a golden city, paved with
emerald. For truly, every pinnacle and turret glanced and glowed, overlaid
with gold, or bossed with jasper."
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 195
176 and the Poem " Venice."
It would have been convenient for all concerned had I
been able to reprint at this point the full text of the poem
Venice as it appeared in Fragments of Prose and Poetry,
pp. 121-122. But as permission to do so has been refused,
my readers must either refer to the book for the original
poem, or content themselves with the following paraphase of it
in prose :
With good reason one of the Venetian painters placed the guardian
Margaret between Doge and Doge ; and represented the Madonna
and Child as smiling from " a soft and whirling glory " upon Venice,
and the Doges as kneeling before them and hearing the words
Pax tibi, Marce Evangelista mens, and as so deeply enraptured that
their earthly city and its buildings fade from their sight, eclipsed
by the glory of the Heavenly Visitants, who throng to welcome
them.
The saints truly were with these faithful Doges. Angels are but
discarnate men that have passed to a higher sphere ; and we too
may have visions of their vanished light and know that without
us their joy cannot be complete. If we hold fast to our belief in
them we shall obtain grace from them. They foresee our fates
and look forward to our rejoining them ;
they still share our
quenchless aspirations ;
they still love, and still are fair.
Venice now slumbers, and her old fights and politics are but
remote memories. Her fame still lives, but she herself only dreams
"in her melted Pearl of sky and sea." Would that I too might
dream, and see the rays of the setting sun pierce between the
pillars of the spire and throw the dome into deeper shade, until
at last night and peace bring with them the fulfilment of the
cosmic promise, and my soul dreams itself into the celestial
dawn !
176 has " There is a building and a tower on the left, white
faintly white but the colours are hardly visible," these words
being followed by drawings, evidently meant to represent the
building and the tower on the left of the building. The poem
Venice speaks of the distant view of Venice which forms the
background of some picture or pictures :
196 J. G. Piddivgton. [part
Till for the grave enraptured kneeling man,
Thro' that clear vision fades, remotely fair,
The imperial City of all his earthly care,
Whose few last arches glimmer,
When Mrs. Verrall pointed out to me the verbal coincidences
with the poem Venice in 176 and 178, it occurred to me that
the words, " There is a building and a tower on the left,"
1
and the two drawings in 176 might be meant to represent the
distant view of " the imperial City " in the background of
the picture or pictures described in the poem. Though I had
not the faintest notion at that time as to what picture is the
subject of the poem Venice, I communicated this conjecture to
Mrs. Verrall, and, with a view to testing whether there was
anything in it, asked her if she knew what picture it was
that had inspired the poem.
Mrs. Verrall in reply told me that in the autumn of 1908
she had taken a good deal of trouble (for reasons which have
nothing to do with the subject of this paper) to identify the
picture described in Venice. As a result of her own enquiries
and of investigations made at Venice by a friend on her
behalf, she had come to the conclusion—which she had duly
recorded at the time of forming it—that the poem was " based,
not on a special picture, but on the general type of pictures
in the Ducal Palace."
With this conclusion I find myself, after a long investigation,
in complete agreement.
Two considerations especially have convinced me that Myers
in the poem Venice is referring not to one particular picture,
but to a general type. The first of these considerations is
the actual words of the poem :
Till for the grave enraptured man,
Grimani, or Priuli, or Loredan.
If the poem were referring to a single picture, these words
could only mean that the poet had forgotten exactly what
1
Grammatically these words may mean either that both building and tower
are on the left of something unnamed, or that there is a tower on the left
of the building. The second meaning is much the likelier of the two, because
the drawing places the tower on the left of the building.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 197
Doge it was that figured in the picture, and that he hadn't
troubled to identify him. Now, no poet could surely be quite
so easy-going and casual as that ! The meaning must be that
the poet has in mind a whole class of pictures in which
one Doge or another is represented in a kneeling attitude
before the Virgin or the Holy Child. This type of picture is
" frequently to be met with," says Bio, 1 " in private collections,
in the churches, and above all in the Ducal Palace, in which
these allegorical compositions, intended to express the close
alliance between Eeligion and the State, seem to have been
purposely multiplied."
The second consideration is that in spite of enquiries made
on the spot by Mrs. Verrall's friend and others, and of searches
through works of reference, guide-books and picture-catalogues
by Mrs. Verrall, Miss Johnson and myself, we have failed to
trace any one picture at Venice which comprises all the details
mentioned in the poem.
On the assumption, then, that the details given in the poem
are not to be found in any one single picture at Venice, but
may be found scattered over various pictures belonging to the
special type just mentioned, I propose, first, to state what the
details are, and then to look for them in examples of the type
in question.
The details are these : the Madonna and Holy Child with
Saints and Angels in a " whirling glory " ; St. Mark and the
motto of Venice, Pax tibi, Marce, Evangelista mens (rendered
in the poem, "My peace be with thee, Mark Evangelist"); a
Doge or Doges (e.g. a Grimani, Priuli or Loredano) kneeling
before the Madonna and Holy Child ; a distant view of Venice ;
and "the guardian Margaret" "set 'twixt Doge and Doge."
In Tintoretto's " Doge Loredano praying to the Virgin
(Plate 1), we find the Madonna, " the thronging welcome of
the Blest " and the " whirling glory " ; the Doge Loredano
kneeling before the Madonna ; St. Mark and the motto of
Venice ;
in the background, a view of Venice ;
arches, and, as
176 says, " a building and a tower on the left." But there is
no Holy Child, and no St. Margaret " set 'twixt Doge and
Doge."
In the picture by Palma Giovine (Plate 2), we find the
1 Quoted in Hare's Venice, p. 43.
198 J. G. Piddington. [PART
Madonna with Christ (but not as a Child) ; two Doges, the
brothers Lorenzo and Gerolamo Priuli, kneeling ; a " whirling
glory " ; St. Mark ; a distant peep of Venice ; arches in the
remote distance ;
" a building and a tower [the Campanile]
on the left." But there is no St. Margaret, and the motto of
Venice does not appear.
In Titian's " Grimani kneeling before Eeligion " (Plate 3),
we find a " whirling glory "
;
Doge Grimani kneeling ; St. Mark ;
and a distant view of Venice. But there is no Madonna, no
Child, no St. Margaret, and no motto of Venice.
The picture of the Doge Mocenigo kneeling before Christ
(Plate 4) shows a view of Venice in the background, and
the motto of Venice on the open book to the right of St. Mark's
lion.
Tintoretto's picture of the Virgin in Glory and the .Doge
Nicolo da Ponte (Plate 5) contains the Virgin and Child, the
kneeling Doge, St. Mark, the " whirling glory " and the
" thronging welcome of the Blest," and a distant peep of
Venice.
Carpaccio's "Lion of St. Mark" (Plate 6), though displaying
only the motto of Venice, and a view of Venice with the
Campanile on the left, may, I think, have contributed to the
composite impression which Myers received, and recorded in
the poem, during his stay in Venice.
Tintoretto's "Espousals of St. Catherine" (Plate 7) shows
the Madonna and Child, a kneeling Doge (F. Dona) ; St. Mark ;
a " whirling glory " (of which, however, only part is shown in
the reproduction) ; the guardian Saint Catherine (not Margaret)
in the middle distance on the right some arches ; and beyond
them in the background, buildings and a tower.
Immediately preceding the reference in 176 to the building
and the tower on the left, come these words :
" a pearly sky
no movement. It is the sky of early morning but there is
no sun." I am inclined to see in them an allusion to the
lighting of the pictures described in Venice. In none of the
examples reproduced here, and in no examples of the same
type that I have examined, is the sun visible. The natural
light in the backgrounds seems, so far as I can judge, to be
that of a calm, early morning sky. The foregrounds are so
lit by the glory of the Heavenly Visitants, that the earthly
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 199
citizens " need no candle, neither light of the sun."
1
Or, as
the poem says
"Thro' that clear vision fades, remotely fair,
The imperial City ....
and all the test
Whelmed in that thronging welcome of the Blest."
On the whole, the pictures which fit the poem best are
Tintoretto's " Doge Loredano " and " Espousals of St. Catherine."
It will be noticed that no example is given of a picture
showing St. Margaret, whether " set 'twixt Doge and Doge
"
or not.
I am entirely puzzled by the reference in the poem to St.
Margaret. Why, in the first place, is she called " the guardian " ?
Venice has, or has had, several guardian or patron saints e.g.
St. Theodore, St. Justina, St. Catherine, St. Mark—but St.
Margaret is not one of them. Then, what does " set 'twixt
Doge and Doge " mean ? Does it mean a picture wherein St.
Margaret is represented with a Doge on either side of her ?
If so, I can only say that enquiries made at Venice, and
careful search through catalogues, have so far failed to reveal
any such picture at Veuice ;
or, indeed, any picture showing
St. Margaret with any Doge. Or, does it mean that there is
a picture of St. Margaret with pictures containing portraits of
Doges on either side of it ? If so, the only picture of St.
Margaret that I have been able to trace in the Ducal Palace
is one by Tintoretto showing her in company with St. Louis
and St. George ;
and, if the guide-books can be trusted, this
picture is not flanked on either side by portraits of Doges.
I do not, of course, assert that " there's no sich a " picture
though I am bound to say that, if there be, it is of a retiring
disposition, and that as great mystery seems to surround it as
surrounded the " lady of the name of Harris."
Should there prove to be no picture at Venice of St. Margaret
" 'twixt Doge and Doge," then the only suggestion I can offer
is that Myers mistook Tintoretto's St. Catherine for St. Margaret.
He might have been misled by the pearls which, among other
jewels, St. Catherine is wearing, for in sacred pictures St.
Margaret is sometimes represented with pearls (margaritae) in
J
See p. 185.
200 J. G. Piddington. [PAKT
her hair. Tintoretto's St. Catherine hangs in the Salxi del Collegia,
where hang, too, several pictures containing portraits of Doges ;
and this might perhaps be held to explain " 'twixt Doge and
Doge."
Still, whatever be the true explanation of the reference to
St. Margaret, I think it is hardly open to dispute that Myers
in Venice was thinking of a type of picture, and that the
examples reproduced above belong to this type. So far I feel
on firm ground. But I do not feel equally sure that a con-
nexion exists between the drawings in 176 and the buildings which
form the backgrounds of some of the pictures we have been
discussing. I do, indeed, suggest that there may be a connexion
but I lay more stress on the verbal coincidences between 176,
178 and 180 on the one hand and Venice on the other, and on
the five considerations adduced in their support in the last
section but one, and still more on the sixth consideration
discussed in the last section. The drawings in 176 and the
accompanying text
—" There is a building and a tower on the
left, white faintly white but the colours are hardly visible "
do show a certain correspondence with some of the back-
grounds of the pictures ; but I do not wish to press the
coincidence, or to treat it as more than an auxiliary argu-
ment.
The conclusion I draw from the facts dealt with in this and
the two preceding sections is that 176, 178 and 180, partly by means
of verbal coincidences, partly by coincidences of subject, and partly
by means of graphic coincidences, were intended to refer to
Venice. But if so, what was the object of the reference ?
The Object of the Reference to " Venice," and the
Meaning of that Poem.
My answer to that question will not be intelligible unless 1
first recall some facts and theories published in my two previous
papers on the Horace Ode Question, and unless at the same time
I disclose an essential fact relating to 176 which I have hitherto
withheld.
The Horace Ode Question was first put to MyersP on Jan. 23,
1907. It elicited no response till April 17, 1907, when, on
its being repeated, MyersP gave his first answer—" I had Ode
Plate I.
TINTORETTO.—DOGE LOREDANO PRAYING TO THE VIRGIN.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 201
to Nature on my mind. . . . Do you remember Immortality?".
Of this answer Mrs. Verrall knew nothing, and in it no one
saw any sense until a year later. iSTo meaning being apparent
in this first answer, on April 2d, 1907, Mrs. Sidgwick again
put the question; and on April 29, 1907, MyersP said he
would give his answer on May 1, 1907.
In the waking-stage of Mrs. Piper's trance of April 29, 1907,
—at which Mrs. Verrall was present—came the words " Myers
. . . passed out of their bodies and gone [thrice repeated]
every peak and point . . . star Abt." On May 1, 1907, MyersP
said " Do you remember when I said I had passed through
my body and returned . . . those words were lingering in my
memory and I gave it as peak followed Star " ; and at the
end of the sitting made a spontaneous reference to Horace's
Odes (see Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 379-381). The intention was
clearly to quote the following lines from Abt Voyler
Not a peak nor point but found and fixed its wandering star,
and
the wonderful Dead who have passed through the body and
gone,
But were back once more in an old world worth their new.
On neither occasion were the quotations definitely connected
with any particular subject. It should, however, be noted that
the first time they occurred was during a sitting at which
MyerSp had announced his intention of answering the Horace
Ode Question on May 1, 1907 ; and the second time was
during a sitting held on that particular day. Anyhow, on
May 6, 1907, MyersP definitely and without any beating about
the bush did connect the Abt Vogler lines with the Horace
Ode.
Meanwhile on May 4, 1907, Mrs. Verrall happened to meet
Mrs. Sidgwick when she (Mrs. Sidgwick) was engaged upon
writing out the record of Mrs. Piper's trance of May 1. Mrs.
Sidgwick read out to her parts of the record, and among others
the part where MyersP gave the words " passed through my body
and returned." It struck Mrs. A
r
errall at once that these words
(which, by the way, neither she nor Mrs. Sidgwick at that time
recognised as being reminiscent of Abt Vogler) might have been
202 J. G. Piddington. [part
intended as an allusion to the case of reincarnation mentioned
in the " Archytas " Ode. 1
We now come to May 7, 1907, the date of Mrs. Verrall's
script, No. 176.
On the morning of May 7, 1907, Mrs. Verrall, before
beginning to try for script, deliberately read and fixed her
attention on the " Archytas " Ode. Her idea—recorded con-
temporaneously—was that if MyersP had meant " passed through
my body and returned " to refer to the reincarnation of Pytha-
goras mentioned in the " Archytas " Ode, he might make his
intention plain and unmistakable by giving through Mrs. Piper
some distinctive word such as " Pythagoras " or " Panthoides "
;
and that this might be facilitated by her fixing her mind on
the Ode. The reasons which thus led her to fix her attention
on the " Archytas " Ode before writing automatically, she re-
corded in two notes: the first written at 10.55 a.m., five
minutes before the script began, the second at 11.30 a.m.,
just after the script was finished. 2
Now, although it is perfectly true that the object of Mrs.
Verrall's experiment was not to bring about an explanatory
reference in her own, but in Mrs. Piper's script, yet the fact
remains that her script of May 7, 1907, was written just
after her mind was purposely concentrated on the " Archytas
1
Mrs. Verrall made the following note in her diary on May 4, 1907: "From
what Mrs. S[idgwick] told me this morning of the sitting of May 1, 1 think
there may be something about the Ode of Horace (i. 28) for which I asked.
There was a sentence suggesting re-incarnation, but no connexion with Horace,
though Horace was referred to in the course of the sitting."
Why, it may be asked, had it not occurred to Mrs. Verrall on April 29, when
she heard the words " passed out of their bodies and gone " uttered in the
waking-stage, to connect them with the "Archytas" Ode? Possibly it was
because "passed out of their bodies and gone" does not, as does "passed
through my body and returned," suggest reincarnation ; but much more
probably it was because on April 29 the Horace Ode Question had passed so
completely out of her mind that even when Myersp made an explicit reference
to it she did not understand what he was talking about (see p. 234).
2 It may occur to students of this case to ask why in my two previous
papers I never made any reference to this experiment of Mrs. Verrall's. The
reason is that I never realised until January 1912, that she ever had made
any such experiment. I never saw the original sheet of paper on which the
script of May 7, 1907, and the two accompanying notes were written, but
only a typed copy, in which Mrs. Verrall's two contemporaneous notes were
compressed into the following inadequate summary: "Before writing above script,
I had fixed my attention on Hor. Od. i. 28." This brief note escaped my
observation until January 1912.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 203
Ode, and that after the script was finished her thoughts at
once reverted to it. Of the hundreds of scripts which she
has written, before and after this date, she has never written
a single other one under similar conditions : that is to say,
with the " Archytas " Ode or the Horace Ode Question specially
and definitely in her mind. Hence it cannot be said that I
have picked a script at random out of hundreds of others,
or picked one simply because it happened to suit my book.
I think, on the contrary, that I can fairly claim that I have
fixed upon the only script of Mrs. Verrall's, which, apart
from internal evidence, there is any reason for connecting
with the " Archytas" Ode.
From Mrs. Verrall's point of view her experiment of May
7, 1907, failed. But the remainder of this paper will be
largely taken up with an attempt to show that nevertheless
it did have a successful result, though the result was quite
different from the one she aimed at, and was achieved in a
manner the very reverse of what she expected. Mrs. Verrall
was looking for an answer in Mrs. Piper's script : the answer
came in her own. She thought the answer would consist of
an allusion to reincarnation, and the event belied her. She
hoped that the result of her experiment would be to confirm
her own interpretation of the second answer given by MyersP ;
whereas, as we shall see, it did not do so, but instead fell
into line with, and so confirmed, the first answer of MyersP
(which had nothing to do with reincarnation), although Mrs.
Verrall did not know what this first answer was, nor indeed
that a first answer had been given at all.
1
Six days after making the experiment in connexion with
176 described above, Mrs. Verrall wrote 178 ; and then six weeks
later 180.
2
These three scripts, as I have already explained,
1
From the theoretic and evidential point of view, too much stress cannot be
laid on the fact that Mrs. Verrall wrote 176 and its sequels 178 and 180 in
entire ignorance of the first answer of Myersp ("I had Ode to Nature on my
mind . . . Do you remember Immortality?"'); many months before the only
people (Mrs. Sidgwick and myself) who knew of this first answer, saw any
sense whatever in it ; and two years before any one suggested any sort of link
between the "Archytas" Ode and On a Spring Morning at Sea.
2
After May 13, 1907, the date of 178, Mrs. Verrall gave up writing script
till June 19, 1907. 180 was the second script she wrote after resuming. So
between 176 and 178, and 178 and 180 (as the numbers show) only one script
intervened respectively.
204 J. G. Piddington. [part
form a suite, and contain allusions to Venice and On a Sjwing
Morning at Sea.
As I have already (see Proc., Vol. XXIV., p. 168, and above,
p. 178) twice explained what in my view was the meaning-
underlying the combination of allusions to On a Spring Morning
at Sea and the " Archytas " Ode when discussing the allusions
to both found in Mrs. Verrall's early scripts of 1901, I need now
only say that I place the same interpretation on the occurrence
of allusions to the same poem in a suite of scripts, of which the
first (176) is closely associated with the "Archytas" Ode by
reason of Mrs. Verrall's experiment.
The way is now clear to answer the question which I
left unanswered some time back :
" "What was the object of
the reference to Venice ?
"
I am indebted to Mr. Gerald Balfour for being able to supply
what I hope will seem to be not only a plausible but a con-
vincing answer. I felt sure that 176, 178 and 180 do allude
to Venice ;
but, as I could not understand the poem, I not
unnaturally failed to see any reason for the allusions. Mr.
Balfour interpreted the poem for me, and at the same time
showed me why the allusions to it were appropriate. The poem
is obscure, perhaps intentionally obscure ; but I have no doubt
that Mr. Balfour is right in his interpretation of it, which,
rendered into my own language, is this :
It was a true instinct that led the Venetian painters
to portray their Doges in a setting in which were embodied
both the Heavenly City of their spiritual aspirations and
the City of their " earthly care," the one gradually eclipsing
the other and more transient interest. It was a true
instinct, because " the wonderful Dead who have passed
through the body and gone" are still mindful of those
" militant here on earth " ;
not, indeed, restricting their
interest to a merely passive sympathy, but rather actively
guiding and inspiring the " race of men." Moreover, this
" communion of saints " is no one-sided fellowship, for the
spirits of "just men made perfect" need our love and
remembrance that their joy may be full.
1
lr
rhis paraphrase does not cover the concluding lines of the poem, which I
shall touch on later (see p. 210).
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 205
The general correctness of the interpretation here offered is,
I think, proved by the motto Nee me meet cura fefellit—
attached to the poem in Fragments. This motto is taken from
the first words of greeting spoken by Anchises when Aeneas
meets him in the Elysian Fields :
" Art thou come at last,
and has thy love, child of my desire, conquered the difficult
road ? Is it granted, 0 my son, to gaze on thy face, to hear
and to answer in the speech we know ? Thus indeed did I
forecast in spirit, counting the days between ; nor has my care
misled me."
1
(Sic cquidem. ducebam animo rebarquc futurum,
Tcmpora dimimcrans, nee me mea cura fefellit.)
2
Moreover, to a MS. copy of the poem which Myers sent to
a friend, he had affixed another motto, in place of the Vergilian
one, which equally indicates the intention of the poem. This
other motto was Ut non. sine nobis consummarentur, the
Vulgate version of the last half of the last verse of the
eleventh chapter of the Epistle to the Hebrews. I will quote
its context in order to make the applicability of the motto
plain :
And these all [i.e. the fathers of old time], having obtained a good
report through faith, received not the promise : God having provided
some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made
perfect [Ut non sine nobis consummarentur]. Wherefore seeing we also
are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. . . .
3
1
Mackail's Translation.
2
The first line and half of the second are thus paraphrased in the poem :
"They count thy coming, and thy fates foreknow."
3
The MS. copy of Venice with the motto Ut non sine nobis consummarentur
is dated March 21, 1900. Since this paper was written Miss Alice Johnson
has pointed out to me that the words Ut non sine nobis consummarentur occur
in Myers's Presidential Address which was delivered on May 18, 1900, and
occur in a context which gives expression to exactly the same thought as
informs Venice.
"Perhaps," writes Myers, "in the spiritual world as well we have strained
our gaze too exclusively on luminaries that are beyond the parallactic limit :
and eyes turned steadily on some nearer brightness may teach us at last our
kinship and community in the firmament of souls.
" Not, then, with tears and lamentations should we think of the blessed dead.
Rather we should rejoice with them in their enfranchisement, and know that
206 J. G. Pidclington. [part
The thought that inspired Venice, the thought, that is, of
the dependence of the two worlds on each other, of the con-
tinued interest of the dead in us, and of their desire for our
continued interest in them, how complete a contrast it pre-
sents with the thought of the " Archytas " Ode and with
the doubts and misgivings of Im mortality !
But let us go back for a moment to On a Spring Morning
at Sea. This poem is clearly in harmony with Venice on the
one hand, and as clearly in disaccord with the " Archytas
Ode and Immortality on the other ;
though both the harmony
and the disaccord will be all the more plainly revealed if we
read the context in which On a Spring Morning appears in
Myers's Fragments of Prose and Poetry (p. 53). It runs thus:
We need, as I have elsewhere said, a summons " to no houri-
haunted paradise, no passionless contemplation, no monotony of prayer
and praise ; but to endless advance by endless effort, and, if need
be, by endless pain." Be it mine, then, to plunge among the unknown
Destinies, to dare and still to dare !
Meanwhile the background of Eternity shows steadfast through all
the pageants of the shifting world. . . .
And then, except for four lines which I need not quote, comes
the poem. For my part I find it impossible to believe that
Myers could have written the opening sentence of the above
extract without having in his mind the second stanza of his
poem Immortality.
The image in the last sentence about " the background of
Eternity " showing " steadfast through all the pageants of the
shifting world " exactly reverses the imagery in Venice
Thro' that clear vision fades, remotely fair,
The Imperial City of all his earthly care,
Whose few last arches glimmer, —and all the rest
Whelmed in that thronging welcome of the Blest.
they are still minded to keep us as sharers in their joy. It is they, not we,
who are working now ;
they are more ready to hear than we to pray ;
they
guide us as with a cloudy pillar, but it is kindling into steadfast fire.
" Nay, it may be that our response, our devotion, is a needful element in
their ascending joy ; and God may have provided some better thing for us,
that they without us should not be made perfect; Ut non sine nobis consum-
marentur." (Pror., Vol. XV., p. 123.)
lxv.] Unsuspected Ansiver to tJte Horace Ode Question. 207
Here, as also of course in the pictures which inspired the
poem, Eternity is in the foreground and the earthly city in
the background. But though the imagery differs, the funda-
mental thought is the same ;
and I think it not unlikely
that Myers had this part of the context of On a Spring
Morning at Sea in his mind when he wrote the lines in
Venice.1
While, then, on the one hand, we have reasons for believ-
ing that in Frederic Myers's mind the " Archytas " Ode was
associated with Immortality, and Immortality in turn with
the context of On a Spring Morning at Sea, and hence with
the poem itself, and some grounds for thinking that the
context of On a Spring Morning at Sea, and accordingly the
poem itself, may have been associated in his mind with
Venice—while, I say, we have reasons for thinking that these
associations did exist or may have existed in the mind of
Frederic Myers ; we have reasons also for believing that
MyersP and Myersv shared these associations.
" Ode to Nature."
Myersp and Myersv and Frederic Myers, I have suggested,
associated Immortality, On a Spring Morning at Sea and
Venice with the " Archytas " Ode, and with each other, because
these three poems give utterance to views about man's destiny
either accordant, discordant or comparable with the view
expressed by Horace on the same subject in the " Archytas
Ode.
But Myersp, it will be remembered, also associated a fourth
poem of Frederic Myers's with the Horace Ode, namely, Ode
to Nature. It was, indeed, so he said, the first poem that
came to his mind in connexion with the question :
" Which
Ode of Horace had entered deeply into your inner life ?
The only explanation I have hitherto been able to offer
(Proc., Vol. XXII., pp. 401-402) of why MyersP mentioned
Ode to Nature in connexion with the Horace Ode Question is
that it contains echoes of Hor. C. iii. 4, an ode entirely dis-
tinct from C. i. 28, the "Archytas" Ode.
1
On a Spring Morning at Sea and the passages quoted above from Fragments
were written not later than 1893. Venice was composed in 1900.
208 G. Piddington. [part
Although I still think that Ode to Nature does contain
echoes of Hor. C. iii. 4, this explanation no longer appears to
me a sufficient one. Miss Johnson has discovered another
solution, and, as I think, a much better one, because it
explains the reference to Ode to Nature on exactly the same
lines as I have explained the references to the three other
poems of Myers's.
But before stating what Miss Johnson's interpretation is, I
had better first quote and discuss the exact words in which
the reference to Ode to Nature was made by MyersP.
They
were as follows :
" I had Ode to Nature on my mind, but as
I thought I loved another ode better I did not reply until I
could say it more clearly. Do you remember imortality [sic] . .
."
(Proc., Vol. XXII., p. 369).
In my first paper I took " another ode " to mean another
Ode of Horaces. This interpretation, in the first place, in-
volves the assumption that MyersP at first hesitated as to
which Ode of Horace's was the subject of Mrs. Verrall's
question.
1
In the second place it involves taking the actual
words of MyerSp in a sense which, though legitimate, is not,
I think, on the whole the most obvious one ; for while the
first " Ode " certainly means Myers's Ode, I had to make the
word " ode " when it occurred a second time refer to an
Horatian Ode.
But let us apply the second " ode " as well as the first to
Myers's poems. Then " another ode " must mean Immortality.
I need not debate the purely academic question of whether
Immortality may properly be called an "Ode"; though I am
told on good authority that it has at least as good a claim to
the designation as many other English poems so entitled. What
we need is evidence to show that MyersP called Immortality
an Ode. Evidence to this effect is to be found in one of Mr.
Dorr's sittings with Mrs. Piper. On March 10, 1908—nearly
a year after the Horace Ode Question had been asked and
answered—Mr. Dorr, who knew nothing whatever about the
1
In saying this I must not be understood to imply that such hesitation
would he prejudicial to the theory that Myersp has access to the memories of
Frederic Myers ; for a man with the readiest and best equipped of memories,
if challenged to recall a literary judgement that he had passed in years gone
by, might surely show some hesitation about his reply, and yet run no risk
of the integrity of his personality being called in question.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to tUk Horace Ode Question. 209-
question or the answers to it, on his own initiative read to
MyerSp a passage from Fragments in which Frederic Myers
describes his early familiarity with various Greek and Latin
poets, among them Horace. As the name Horace was read out,
MyerSp wrote :
Ode to i motalty imortality
. . . Ode Horace to Mortality.
Here it seems clear that the poem Immortality is called
" Ode to Immortality." I do not think that it is an error for
" Ode to Mortality " which immediately follows it. On the
contrary, I believe that " Ode to Immortality " is meant to
refer to Myers's poem, and that " Ode to Mortality " is a title
—and not a bad title, either—invented by MyersP to designate
the " Archytas " Ode.
So I now am of opinion that MyersP did not connect Ode to
Nature with one Horatian Ode and Immortality with another,
but that he connected both poems with one and the same Ode
of Horace, namely, the " Archytas " Ode.
What, then, is the connexion between Ode to Nature and the
" Archytas " Ode ? Miss Johnson's answer to that problem is
this : In Ode to Nature Myers assigns to the soul after the
death of the body only some sort of un-individualised existence.
Nature only " endureth to the end " : the soul at death is
reabsorbed into the blind world of Nature from which it
sprang
Let all in darkness end, as darkly all began !
Hence, hence I too had birth,
One soul with the ancient Earth,
Beyond this human ancestry of pain :
My soul was even as ye 1 —
She was, —and she would be; —
O Earth, and Night, and Nought, enfold her once again !
So Ode to Nature strikes as sombre a note as the " Archytas
"
Ode, for absorption into the physical universe is the annihilation
of personality.
1 " Ye " means the blind forces of nature.
0
210 J. G. Piddington. [part
Now contrast the cheerless speculations of Ode to Nature with
the closing lines of Venice :
1
but she [i.e. Venice]
Dreams in her melted Pearl of sky and sea.
For me too dreaming let the sunset fire
Shade the dark dome and pierce the pillared spire !
Let night and peace the cosmic promise pay,
And even the Soul's self dream into the day!
There is no loss of personality here ; the self is no longer
to he enfolded into Night and Nought, but dreams " into the
day."
Conclusion.
As I have now done my best to explain why, in answering
the Horace Ode Question, MyersP referred to Ode to Nature and
Immortality, and Myersv to Venice and On a Spring Morning at
Sea, it only remains for me to state in a few words the upshot
of the new evidence.
The five scripts of Mrs. Verrall's, 136, 171, 176, 178 and 180,
which constitute the new evidence, tend, I submit, to confirm
the interpretation which in 1909 I placed upon her four early
scripts of 1901. They likewise tend to confirm the two
interpretations, which I arrived at in 1908 and 1909, of the
answers given by MyersP to the Horace Ode Question in 1907
and 1908.
But they do something more.
In my two previous papers I suggested that Myersv and
MyerSp had contrasted the dismal speculations about " the
doubtful doom of human kind " in the " Archytas " Ode and
Immortality (and to these I should now add Ode to Nature)
with the optimistic forecasts of Abt Vogler and On a Spring
Morning at Sea. If I have interpreted the new evidence
1
For the assistance of readers who may wish to trace the development of
Myers's views about a future life, I append the dates of the four poems dis-
cussed in this paper :
Immortality was first published in 1870 ;
Ode to Nature was written between 1869 and 1873 ;
On a Spring Morning at Sea was written not later than 1893 ; and
Venice was written in March 1900, some ten months or so before Myers's
death.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 211
aright, to these two happier forecasts must now be added the
Heavenly Jerusalem of the Apocalypse, the Elysian plain of
the Fourth Book of the Odyssey, the Paradise of Celtic Legend,
the Tennysonian Island-Valley of Avilion, and that " Universal
Country," depicted for us in Venice, which embraces in one
common and conscious citizenship both the living and the dead.
Note A.
On the Discovery of Coincidences between 178 and
" On a Spring Morning at Sea."
The verbal coincidences between this poem and 178 I first
noticed in 1910, when, some months after the publication of my
second paper on the Horace Ode Question, I was engaged in
indexing and annotating a large batch of Mrs. Verrall's scripts.
In this second paper I had pointed out the verbal resemblances
between On a Spring Morning cd Sea and four early scripts
of Mrs. Verrall's written in 1901. But as I did not in 1910
notice the connexion between 178 and 176, and was not then
aware of any sort of link between 176 and the " Archytas " Ode,
the discovery of verbal coincidences between the poem and 178,
while they appeared interesting enough to be worth noting,
conveyed nothing further to my mind. The date of the discovery
is important, because it shows that in detecting the coincidences
I could not have been influenced by the interpretation of 176 and
178 at which I arrived only in January 1912. In other words,
after interpreting 176 and 178 as an answer to the Horace Ode
Question, I did not say to myself, " Go to ! you must now
discover in 176 and 178 coincidences with On a Spring Morning
at Sea." Likewise, after discovering the coincidences with the
poem, I did not say to myself, " You must now by hook or crook
somehow manage to hitch 178 on to the Horace Ode." The
discovery of the coincidences between 178 and the poem, and the
discovery of the connexion between 176 and the " Archytas
Ode were independently made.
212 G. Piddington. [part
Note B.
Mrs. Verrall's Script of Feb. 20, 1907 (140).
(140) (February 20, 1907. 11.10 a.m.)
Chiaroscuro
non semper possum tibi confidere hortationes
meas. sed auscrdta.
[I cannot always confide to you my exhortations, but listen.]
There are messages for you in Monday and Wednesday's words
not on Tuesday. To-day is important. Sit still and help—it will
not come to you but to Piddington.
no the word is very difficult to give
Print it Rector.
Behind the darkening billows there is peace
Peace—and the Light that never was On Land or Sea
No not right but partly. Do not write—sit still and wait.
Behind our darkness there is light.
'
High Emprize '
adventure forth—a full sail
Argosy ' comes beetling forth '.
" Chiaroscuro " occurs in the form " clear-obscure " in F. W. H.
Myers's Renewal of Youth, p. 223, with reference to Tintoretto's
pictures. Tintoretto was one of the Venetian masters who
painted those " allegorical compositions intended to express the
close alliance between Religion and the State " which are
described in Myers's Venice. Two examples of this type of
picture painted by Tintoretto have been reproduced and dis-
cussed above (Plates 1 and 7).
" The Light that, never tvas On Land or Sect " occurs again
in 178 in the forms " The light that gleamed on sea and
shore The light that never was on sea or shore " : all
three being incorrect versions of Wordsworth's
and add the gleam,
The light that never was, on sea or land.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 213
It is by means of this Wordsworthian reminiscence common
to both that 140 is linked on to 178.
But if I am right in seeing in 178 allusions to Myers's
Venice, there is another link between 140 and 178, for the
words " adventure forth—a full sail Argosy " in the former are
clearly reminiscent of phrases in Shakespeare's Merchant of
Venice. Thus
Salarino. There, where your argosies with portly sail,
Like signiors and rich burghers on the flood,
Or, as it were, the pageants of the sea,
Do overpeer the petty traffickers,
That curtsy to them, do them reverence,
As they fly by them with their woven wings.
Salanio. Believe me, sir, had I such venture forth. . . .
Act i. Sc. i.
and again
Shylock. ... he hath an argosy bound to Tripolis, ... a fourth
for England, and other ventures he hath.
Note C.
On the Occurrences of " Pearl," " Pearly," etc., in Mrs.
Verrall's Scripts between January 1905 and May
1910.
" Pearl," or a derivative of it, occurs in only seven scripts of
Mrs. Verrall's between Jan. 1905 and May 1910.
First in 93 (Sep. 1, 1906): "pearls and a jasper gate";
next, as cpuoted above, in 176, 178 and 180 ;
next in 212 (Nov. 26, 1907): "Aurora's faintest light in
Eastern skies and then the pearled chariot of the Dawn "
next in 223 (Jan. 18, 1908): "The Orient splendours of the
dawn The pearl of sea and sky no not that "
and last in 344 (Dec. 22, 1909): "Soft draperies of pearly
grey Have veiled the Empyreal Blue So rising mists at break
of day Obscure the distant view." 1
1
1 have purposely omitted from the above list the occurrence of " these pearls "
in Mrs. Verrall's script of April 18, 1906 ; for while writing this script Mrs.
Verrall was holding an ornament containing pearls in her hand or lap, for the
purpose of an experiment ; and to this ornament " these pearls " refers.
214 J. G. Piddington. [part
In every instance, except perhaps the last (and even there we
find combined the ideas of a pearly sky and of early morning),
the emergence of the word " pearl " is, I believe, traceable to
one and the same group of associated ideas as is exhibited in
the scripts connected with the Horace Ode. Thus, " orient
pearl " occurs in 178 ;
" pearl " occurs in 180 in connexion with
Cleopatra and with a quotation from Antony and Cleopatra, in
which play Antony makes a gift to Cleopatra of an " orient
pearl"; "pearl" and "Eastern" occur in 212, a script containing
reminiscences of a passage in Paradise Lost, Book Y. ; and
" orient " and " pearl " occur in 223, a script containing reminis-
cences of the same passage in Paradise Lost ; and in 176, 178, 212,
223 and 344, " pearl " is combined with " early morning " or
" dawn." Moreover, 223 has " the pearl of sky and sea," which
looks like an echo of "her melted Pearl of sky and sea" in
Venice. The fact of this close approximation to the phrase
in Venice being followed by the words " no not that " goes
to support Mrs. Verrall's theory that there are allusions to Venice
in 176 and 178 ; for to a student familiar with the scripts " no
not that" signifies that the phrase thus negatived has previously
emerged in some other script. It is true that the phrase " pearl
of sky and sea " had not occurred before in Mrs. Verrall's script,
but we may legitimately suppose that the scribe thought that
either the actual phrase or a sufficiently close approximation to
it had been recorded in 176 and 178.
This way of retracting words or phrases written by the
automatist by means of some such negatory comment as no,
not that," " no, that is different," is very common, and is
usually, I believe, confined to cases where in the course of an
attempt to express some new phrase or idea, an old phrase or
idea, like—though not the same as—the new one has re-emerged
by mistake.
The facts detailed above show that the occurrence of "pearl"
in Mrs. Verrall's script is no haphazard affair, and tell in favour
of the synthesis of " pearl " scripts propounded in this paper.
" Pearls and a jasper gate" in 93 suggests the imagery of the
21st chapter of Pevelation.
lxv.] Unsuspected Ansiver to the Horace Ode Question. 215
Note D.
Mrs. Verrall's Script of October 27, 1905 (51), and its
connexion with 174, 176 and 178.
(51) (Oct. 27, 1905)
[About 10 p.m. in train before Hatfield.]
Pathorne evangel S. Marco. Leone caneque dormientibus iuxta
ipse sedet biblia sacra studiose legens. Apparet angelus cum magna
pennata donaki quam Sancto dedit. quocirca quod nondum
scriptum esset post haec aureochalcatis symbolis in
papyrum pinxit ille magister.
Historiam bene cognitam dictitas. non facile vel credentibus
acceptam. [With a lion and a dog asleep by his side, he him-
self sits, attentively reading the sacred books. An angel appears
with a large winged pen, which he gave to the Saint. Where-
fore what had not yet been written, that master thereafter
painted upon the parchment in brazen signs. You repeat a story
well known but not easily accepted even by believers.] But anyone
will show you where the second pen took up S. Mark's narrative
right in the middle of a chapter.1
There is a picture—is it at Perugia.
[Hatfield.]
It is not the St. Jerome story —quite another S. Marco.
" Evangel " does not occur again in Mrs. Verrall's script
till May 1, 1907, the date of the script (174) in which she
was instructed to " wait for a message " in connexion with " a
special experiment" till May 13, 1907, the date on which
178 was written.
Consequently, by means of the catch-word " Evangel," 51 is
linked with 174 and 178 : and, since 178 is a sequel to 176, 51
seems to be one of a series consisting of itself, 174, 176 and 178.
As we know, 176 and 178 present coincidences with Myers's
Venice. I believe that 51 represents a partially successful,
though muddled, attempt to refer to the same poem, and to
'On Oct. 29, 1905, Mrs. Verrall made the following note:— "A. W. V.
[i.e. Dr. Verrall] says the end of St. Mark is lost ; he has been reading this
term an article on it in the Hibbert Journal for July. I find there that St.
Mark xvi. 9-20 is, 'as is well known, an old addition, added presumably by
a certain Ariston.'" Mrs. Verrall at the time knew nothing of this.
21G J. G. Piddington. [part
some of the details found in the type of pictures described
in it.
Thus, with evangel S. Marco. Leone caneque donnientibus
juxta ipse sedet biblia sacra studiose legens, compare the following
details in the pictures reproduced above
(1) St. Mak with the "sacred books" (Plates 2, 3, 5 and 7);
(2) St. Mark with a lion at his feet or by his side
(Plates 1, 2, 3, 4 and 7);
(3) Near either St. Mark or his lion the motto of Venice
Pax tibi, Marce Evangelista meus (Plates 1, 4 and 6),
rendered in the poem " My peace be with thee, Mark
Evangelist !
"
The coincidences with the poem are verbal, and are as follows:
Script. Poem.
" evangel S. Marco." " Mark Evangelist."
" ille magister." " that Venetian master."
If it should seem to the reader absurd to lay any stress
on the second of these verbal coincidences, I would ask him
to observe that the word pinxit (" he painted "), which
immediately precedes ille magister, adds something to the coin-
cidence, for " that Venetian master " of the poem is, of course,
a painter.
That the script is about a picture is shown by the words
" There is a picture " ; and that the picture is an Italian one
is suggested by the query " is it at Perugia ?
" and by St.
Mark's name being twice given in its Italian form. The
scribe, it should be noticed, recognises that there has been
some confusion between the picture he is trying to describe
and a picture connected with St. Jerome ; for he remarks :
" it
is not the St. Jerome story—quite another S. Marco." I
should explain the confusion in this way : The scribe wishes to
make the automatist describe some of the details commonly
found in the type of pictures described in Venice. So he begins
by thinking of the patron Saint of Venice, St. Mark the
Evangelist, book in hand, and his lion couchant at his feet.
But once the automatist has got hold of the idea of a picture
of a Saint with a book and a lion, it suggests to her pictures
of St. Jerome, whose regular emblem is a lion, and who is
very frequently represented studying " the sacred books " or trans-
Lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 217
lating them. Frequently, too, an angel is inspiring or dictating
to St. Jerome. Hence the angel of the script. And in one
picture, at least—-and that one very familiar to Mrs. Verrall
in a photographic reproduction—Carpaccio's " St. Jerome in
his Study " (in the chapel of S. Giorgio dei Schiavoni at
Venice), there is, as Euskin says, a " happy white dog
" watching his master translating the Bible, with highest com-
placency of approval." And in Diirer's engraving with the
same title—also known to Mrs. Verrall—St. Jerome is seated
at a desk in the background, while in the foreground a lion
and another animal, which some authorities call a dog and
others a fox, are asleep. Hence the leone eaneqne dormientibus
of the script.
The script, then, is the resultant of a struggle between the
scribe's thoughts and thoughts aroused thereby in the auto-
matist's mind. On the whole the scribe managed to hold his
own fairly well, for he succeeded in negativing the allusions to
St. Jerome, and in insisting on his original reference to St. Mark.
It may be that the emergence of the automatist's recollec-
tions of the St. Jerome picture was facilitated by there being
latent in the scribe's consciousness a recollection of the picture
by Palma Giovine (Plate 2), in which St. Mark and St.
Jerome both appear with their respective lions.
It should be noted that this script (as also the script of
August 15, 1906, discussed in Note E), was written after the
publication of Fragments of Prose and Poetry, and accordingly
after Mrs. Verrall was normally acquainted with the poem
Venice.
Mrs. Verrall's Script of August 15, 19 0 6 (88), and
Note E.
ITS CONNEXION WITH 176 AND 178.
(88) (Aug. 15, 1906. 10 p.m.)
Mary Tredegan. on a long green slope crowned with
firs against a western sky.
218 J. G. Piddington. [part
There has been till to-night no trace of connexion but to-night
we have made her understand. She has thought of the double
thread.
Richard Hodgson is on her paper what's the line about not
wanting to be a King in Hades— Achilles I mean, write that line.
Phthia and a slave there.
The initial capital V with which this script opens is found
again in none of Mrs. Verrall's scripts except 178. The V
in 178, I have suggested, is the initial letter of the word
Venice. Here, I fancy, it may have the same significance.
The words in 88 " on a long green slope crowned with firs
against a western sky " may be compared with the words in
176 :
" Spires of flame like the tops of cypress trees, cypress
tops against a pearly sky" (see pp. 183 and 193).
The last paragraph of 88 unmistakably refers to the passage
in Odyssey, XI. 487-491, where Achilles says to Odysseus:
Nay, speak not comfortably to me of death, oh great Odysseus.
Rather would I live attached to the soil (or, " above ground ")
as the serf of another, with a landless man who had no great
livelihood, than bear sway among all the dead that be departed.
Now it was to these very words that reference was made
in Mrs. Verrall's four early scripts of 1901 by means of
the phrase adscriptus glehae, " attached to the soil
" 1
; and these
four early scripts contained reminiscences of the " Archytas
Ode, and also, I have suggested, allusions to Myers's Immortality
and On a Spring Morning at Sea.
But 176 and 178 are connected with the " Archytas " Ode,
and present coincidences with On a Spring Morning at Sea, and
Venice. Hence, if I am right in connecting 176 and 178 with
the first paragraph of 88, 88 links Achilles' speech to Odysseus
with Myers's Venice ; and so, I would argue, contributes
another instance of contrasted forecasts of the future life.
The middle paragraph of 88 I interpret as follows
" 1
There has been till to-night no trace of connexion
between Venice and the words of Achilles to Odysseus. She
(i.e. Mrs. Verrall) has previously got references to each
1
On a future occasion I hope to show that Dr. Maxwell's criticism of our
interpretation of adscriptus glebcce as an allusion to ewdpovpos (see pp. 114-115)
is beside the mark.
lxv.] Unsuspected Answer to the Horace Ode Question. 219
separately, namely to Achilles' words in her early scripts of
1901, and to Venice in her script of Oct. 27, 1905 (see
note D above) ; but hitherto she has never connected the two.
'
But to-night we have made her understand. She has thought
of the double thread.'
If, then, my interpretation of this script, of Mrs. Verrall's
script of October 27, 1905 (see Note D), and of her four
early scripts of 1901, is right, MyersP and Myersv in 1907
constructed their answers to the Horace Ode Question largely
out of old material taken from Mrs. Verrall's scripts. New
illustrations were indeed introduced—namely, Ode to Nature
and the lines from Aht Vogler by MyersP, and the allusions
to the Heavenly Jerusalem and so on by Myersv ; but the
keynote was the same throughout.
It is by no means rare to find a subject being thus
pursued, with what seems almost relentless and tiresome per-
sistence, over a period of several years. It is a feature common
to the scripts of Mrs. Verrall, Miss Verrall and Mrs. Holland,
both jointly and severally. And one of the most interesting
points about it is that only, as a rule, in the most obvious
instances is the automatist aware of the reiterations : and,
even when she is, she seldom sees the point of them.
It has usually been reserved for a student of the scripts to
trace the series of allusions—often taking very diverse
shape—to a given subject running through a number of widely
separated scripts, and to furnish a clue to their meaning.
Sometimes, however, light has been thrown on the meaning
of such a series occurring in the script of A by a comment
or comments in the script of B, who in some cases has, and
in others has not, been acquainted with A's scripts. Some-
times, too, Mrs. Verrall has traced such a series of allusions
in her own or others' scripts, and worked out the meaning
underlying them ; but then she is in the exceptional position
of playing at one time the role of automatist, at another
that of student. In this case, however, it should be clearly
understood that she is not responsible for the interpretation
of any of the scripts discussed in this paper. Her only
contribution was to point out that 176 and 178 contain verbal
coincidences with Venice.
The ideas which eventually constituted the answers of
220 J. G. Pidclington. [part
Myersp and Myersv to the Horace Ode Question had, then,
it would seem, been lying dormant in Mrs. Verrall's script
for several years. But they had been so cryptically or
imperfectly expressed, had emerged in so disconnected a
fashion and at such long intervals, that their meaning had
escaped detection.
Then in 1907 the putting of a test-question about an
Ode of Horace afforded—though quite undesignedly—an appro-
priate focus for the scattered fragments of former years.
Myersp and Myersv seized the chance, and grouped the frag-
ments round the " Archytas " Ode. But the fact of 176 being
connected with the " Archytas " Ode was overlooked until
1912, and it was only then, when the connexion was for
the first time recognised, that the entire series of fragmentary
allusions in Mrs. Verrall's scripts between 1901 and 1907
could be put together so as to yield a coherent meaning.
When indexing and annotating Mrs. Verrall's scripts in 1910
and 1911, I had noted many of the verbal coincidences
between 55, 88, 136, 140, 171, 174, 176, 178 and 180, which I have
pointed out in the course of this paper. But, though fully
alive to the importance of such coincidences as indicating how
one script should be dovetailed with another, the unifying
thought that explains and justifies the synthesis indicated by
the superficial coincidences would have remained unrevealed,
had not the connexion of 176 with the " Archytas " Ode
supplied the clue.
lxv.] Some Observations on the Foregoing Paper. 221
SOME OBSERVATIONS ON THE FOREGOING PAPER.
By the Right Hon. G. W. BALFOUR.
There are altogether four sets of scripts which hear on this
case. These are
(1) Mrs. Verrall's scripts of 1901.
(2) Mrs. Piper's scripts of 1907.
(3) Mrs. Verrall's scripts of 1907.
(4) Mrs. Piper's scripts of 1908.
Let us for the moment dismiss from our minds the first
and last of these, and confine our attention entirely to the
scripts of 1907. It was in that year that the Horace Ode
Question was asked and answered, and it is with this question
and the answer to it that we are primarily concerned.
The question was first put to MyersP on Jan. 23, 1907 :
" Which Ode of Horace entered deeply into your inner life ?
".
Any answer would be correct which pointed directly or indirectly
to the Archytas Ode.
No direct answer was attempted ; but if we are to accept
Mr. Piddington's views, a satisfactory indirect answer may be
elicited (1) from the Piper scripts taken alone, (2) from the
Piper scripts and the contemporaneous Verrall scripts when
compared together.
The Piper scripts taken alone connect the desired. Ode of
Horace (a) with certain lines in Alt Vogler; (b) with Myers's
poem Immortality ;
(c) with the Odyssey, and so by implication
though this is conjectural—with the famous declaration of Achilles
in the Underworld that a living serf is better off than a king
among the dead. These literary references ail have a bearing
on man's state after death ; and as this subject also forms
the burden of the " Archytas " Ode, and as, moreover, the poem
on Immortality seems to show some coincidence of language
222 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
as well as of thought with the " Archytas " Ode, an intention
to indicate the latter as the Ode in question may be inferred
with a great measure of probability.
Mr. Piddington further points out that, whereas in the
" Archytas " Ode, in Myers's Immortality, and in the eleventh
book of the Odyssey, gloomy views are taken of man's hereafter,
a different and happier conception of it inspires Abt Vogler.
Accordingly he suggests that this also is intentional, and that
MyerSp deliberately meant to call attention to the contrast.
Here we are clearly on more doubtful ground, since there is
no hint of such intention in the script itself.
1
I now pass to the connexion which Mr. Piddington believes
he has discovered between the Horace Ode Question and certain
of Mrs. Verrall's contemporaneous scripts. If he is right, the
answer to the Horace Ode Question given in the Piper scripts is
supplemented and confirmed by a cross-correspondence between
those scripts and Mrs. Verrall's.
The five Verrall scripts cited by Mr. Piddington contain
unmistakable allusions to mystic or legendary descriptions of
the Abode of Blest.
The " island valley of Avilion " of the Morte d'Arthur and the
" Heavenly City " of the Apocalypse are quite definitely referred
to ; and I am disposed to agree with Mr. Piddington that allusions
are probably made to Myers's Venice, and perhaps also to his
On a S2rring Morning at Sea, both of which poems depict in
celestial colours the future in store for those who have
" passed through the body and gone."
It is clear, then, that we have here the elements of a cross-
correspondence, man's future destiny forming the central topic
round which all the scripts turn, and different views, favour-
able or unfavourable, of that destiny forming the subordinate
topics distributed between the two automatists. What is not
so clear is that the cross-correspondence is intentional, in other
words, that the allusions in the Verrall scripts are meant by
1
Mr. Piddington now connects the mention of Myers's Ode to Nature in the
Piper sitting of April 17, 1907, with the "Archytas" Ode, whereas formerly he
took it to refer to another Ode of Horace altogether, viz. C. iii. 4, which
Myersr ultimately rejected as not being the Horatian Ode which " entered most
deeply into his inner life." For reasons which it is unnecessary to go into
now, I believe his original interpretation was right. I have accordingly
omitted all mention of the Ode to Nature from my remarks on the case.
lxv.] Some Observations on the Foregoing Paper. 223
the communicating intelligence to be taken as part of the
answer to the Horace Ode Question.
If we confine our attention to the two sets of scripts
produced in 1907, what reasons are there (apart from the
general similarity of subject) for thus connecting them
together ?
Mr. Piddington gives one reason and one reason only.
On May 7, the date of Script No. 176, which he interprets
as referring to Myers's Venice, Mrs. Verrall, before beginning
to write, deliberately fixed her attention on the " Archytas " Ode.
From this circumstance Mr. Piddington thinks we are entitled
to infer that the script which followed was intended by the
" communicator " to be taken in connection with the Horace
Ode Question. It is certainly noteworthy that a script produced
under these conditions should be found capable of being fitted
into the answer to that question. But I cannot regard the
argument as by any means conclusive. The odds against such
a coincidence are surely not so great as Mr. Piddington seems
to imply. Mrs. Verrall produced only a limited number of
scripts during the time that she had any reason for fixing
her miud on the " Archytas " Ode, and of this limited number
at least five, according to Mr. Piddington's own showing,
are capable of being fitted into the answer to the Horace Ode
Question.
On the other hand, there are two considerations which, so
far as they go, seem to me to tell against Mr. Piddington's
contention. The first of these is the complete absence from
the Verrall scripts themselves of any hint of a connexion
with the Horace Ode Question. The second is the possibility
of connecting them with what, prima facie at least, must be
regarded as a different topic altogether.
Mr. Piddington has not, 1 think, noticed in his paper that
one of the five Verrall scripts which he quotes has been
already cited by him (in Ar
ol. XXII. of the Proc.) as belonging
to the avros ovpavo? oucufiaiv series. I refer to Script No. 136,
which contains the passage about " the island valley of Avilion
where blows not any wind," etc. The date of this script is
Feb. 12, 1907, and it was followed on Feb. 25 by another
which quotes from the well-known passage in Tennyson's
Lucretius, describing the abode of the Epicurean gods :
224 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
The lucid interspace of world and world
Where never creeps, a cloud, nor moves a wind, <
Nor ever falls the least white star of snow,
Nor ever lowest roll of thunder moans,
Nor sound of human sorrow mounts to mar
Their sacred everlasting calm ! and such
Not all so fine, nor so divine a calm,
Not such, nor all unlike it, man may gain
Letting his own life go.
This script, like No. 136, is included by Mr. Piddington in
the avTog oupavo<; uKufxcov series, and if it is legitimate to
connect No. 136 with the Horace Ode series, I do not
understand why the script of Feb. 25 is not entitled to the
same distinction.
A " heavenly calm " may indeed be said to be a prominent
feature in every one of the visionary Abodes of the Blest alluded
to in the five Verrall scripts selected by Mr. Piddington as
forming part of the answer to the Horace Ode Question, and
all of them, it seems to me, might find an appropriate place
in the avTog ovpavos cucufutiv series. It is no doubt possible
that they may have been intended to play a double part.
I certainly do not summarily reject such a hypothesis ; but
I think it is one which should be received with caution.
On the whole, if account is taken of the 1907 scripts only,
it does not appear to me that a strong case has been made
out for the supposed cross-correspondence. Is any further light
thrown upon the question by the Verrall scripts of 1901 or
the Piper scripts of 1908 ?
Of the Piper scripts of 1908 (produced in America in the
presence of Mr. Dorr, who was in complete ignorance that
any question about an Ode of Horace had been either asked
or answered), it may at once be said that, while they confirm
in the strongest manner, and indeed in my judgment make
practically certain, the general correctness of Mr. Piddington's
interpretation of the answer given to it in the Piper scripts
of the previous year, they give us no assistance in forming a
conclusion on the further issue raised in his latest paper.
It is otherwise with the Verrall scripts of 1901. These
scripts, which at first seemed little better than mere gibberish,
are now turning out to be of great interest and possibly of
lxv.] Some Observations on the Foregoing Paper. 225
great importance. For they not only seem to associate the
" Archytas " Ode with the stanzas on Immortality and with the
€7rdpovpo<; passage of the eleventh book of the Odyssey (thereby
anticipating the Piper scripts of 1907 and 1908), but also
possibly—with Myers's lines On a Spring Morning at Sea, a
poem which was not published until the year 1904. The
elucidation of these early Verrall scripts we owe, like that
of so many others, to the ingenuity of Mr. Piddington, and
if his interpretation of them is correct, they practically
contain, in skeleton, the whole of the answer to the Horace
Ode Question which he reads into the subsequent Piper and
Verrall scripts of 1907.
I shall probably be doing Mr. Piddington no injustice in
surmising that had it not been for the early Verrall scripts
of 1901 the idea of connecting the later Verrall scripts of
1907 with the answer to the Horace Ode Question would
never have occurred to him. At the same time, I must frankly
admit that the fact of the earlier and the later Verrall scripts
both lending themselves to his interpretation is, to say the
least of it, curious ; and whatever the explanation of the fact
may be, it does, I think, very materially corroborate his view
of the case as a whole. I still cannot regard as definitely
proved either the connexion of the Verrall scripts of 1907
with the Horace Ode Question, or the hypothesis of a
deliberate cross-correspondence intended to suggest a contrast
between the despairing and the hopeful conceptions of man's
destiny after death. But the cumulative effect of the evidence
does, in my judgment, make Mr. Piddington's interpretation
plausible and even probable.
The question still remains, What is the significance of the
entire incident, and what light does it throw upon the source
from which the scripts emanate ?
The new matter now brought forward by Mr. Piddington
has a bearing on the answer to this question, as will presently
be seen. But for the moment let us ignore it.
The outstanding point in the case will still be this : that
the materials employed in providing a correct, though indirect,
reply to the Horace Ode Question in the Piper scripts of 1907
and 1908 are also found conjoined in the early Verrall scripts
of 1901.
p
226 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
Thus we have
Two quotations from the " Archy-
In V. Scripts of 1901. In P. Scripts of 1907-8.
a; = the "Archytas " Ode.
tas " Ode.
" Sperne elegos quos audax
composui " (probably an allusion
to the poem Immortality).
Ode to Immortality.
Adscripta glebse = i-apovpos. Odyssey—Achilles.
The coincidence can hardly be accidental. Nor can it be
ascribed to any normal knowledge acquired by Mrs. Piper
before 1907 of the early Verrall scripts, because these scripts,
even if she had read them in Mrs. Verrall's volume published in
October, 1906, must have been quite unintelligible to her without
explanation, and no explanation had at that time been offered.
Nor again can we ascribe it to Mrs. Verrall's supraliminal
consciousness, for her conscious understanding of the interest
taken by Myers in the " Archytas " Ode would have suggested
quite a different answer from that which MyersP actually gives.
It would seem, therefore, that we must attribute the coinci-
dence either to the action of some intelligence external to
both automatists, or else to a supernormal communication of
ideas between their subconscious selves. This latter is the
hypothesis to which the cautious enquirer would naturally
have recourse in the first instance, especially in view of the
fact that the question started from Mrs. Verrall herself, that
she knew the straightforward answer to it, and that the
" Archytas " Ode already had associations in her own script, the
significance of which might have been comprehended by her
subliminal, though hidden from her normal, self.
The weak point in this explanation is that it takes no
account of the origin of the early Verrall scripts. Are we to
regard these as purely the work of Mrs. Verrall's subliminal
imagination ?
The references to the " Archytas " Ode might no doubt be
due to subliminal memory of Myers's letter to Dr. Verrall, in
which he specially emphasises the impression produced on his
mind by lines 5 and 6 of the " Archytas " Ode
Aerias tentasse domos animoque rotundum
Percurisse polum morituro."
lxv.] Some Observations on the Foregoing Paper. 227
(It is from these very lines that the reminiscent phrases in the
Verrall scripts of Mar. 5 and Apr. 27, 1901, are drawn.) Myers's
letter was written in 1884, and had not been seen by Mrs.
Verrall since the beginning of 1885 ; but there is nothing
unusual in the emergence of a cryptic memory after that
interval of time. References, on the other hand, to Immortality
and to On a Spring Morning at Sea cannot be explained in
this easy manner. For Mrs. Verrall is confident that she
never saw either of these poems until several years later.
She might be mistaken with respect to Immortality, which had
been published in 1870 and again in 1875, although it had
been long out of print in 1901. But she could hardly be
mistaken as regards On a Spring Morning at Sea,
1
which
did not see the light until it was published in Fragments of
Prose and Poetry in 1904. Immortality also was reprinted
in this volume, and was there read by Mrs. Verrall (as she
firmly believes) for the first time.
If it be admitted that Mrs. Verrall never saw the two
poems until 1904, it is obvious that the question whether her
early scripts really do contain references to them becomes
the most important of all the questions raised by the entire
incident. An affirmative answer clearly carries with it the
conclusion that some source of information other than her
conscious or subconscious self must have been drawn upon in
producing the scripts.
No doubt it might still be argued that the external source
of information was the mind of some living person to whom
the poems were known, and not the surviving personality of
Frederic Myers ; and that Mrs. Verrall's subliminal self,
having acquired knowledge of the poems in this way, proceeded
to weave it, together with other materials, into the texture
which Mr. Piddington's ingenuity has at last succeeded in
unravelling. While such a view cannot, I think, be definitely
refuted, I will only say that it seems to me to throw a
burden on Mrs. Verrall's subliminal consciousness which we
cannot lightly accept for it.
If we believe that the early Verrall scripts contain allusions
to poems by Myers which Mrs. Verrall had never seen or
even heard of, and the communicator professes to be Myers
1
See, however, the Note appended to this Paper.
228 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
himself, the explanation which consists in accepting his state-
ment is so much simpler than any other, that it is likely to
commend itself to all but those who beg the question at issue
by declaring survival to be a priori an impossibility ; and once
this was granted it would no longer be worth while to resist
the conclusion that the answer given in the Piper scripts of
1907 to the Horace Ode Question had also been inspired
from the same source.
But can we be sure that the early Verrall scripts do
really allude to Immortality and On a Spring Morning at Sea ?
My own position is that I think these poems probably
arc alluded to, but that I could wish the evidence were
sti'onger. Judgment on this point must rest in the main on
the considerations set forth in a previous paper published by
Mr. Piddington in Vol. XXIV. of the Proceedings (pp. 162-169);
and to the account there given of the internal evidence to be
derived from the scripts themselves I have nothing to add.
The case, however, comes so near to affording a crucial test
of the truth of survival, that any confirmatory evidence, slight
though it may be, is yet of value.
We have seen that a certain group of references in the
early Verrall scripts is subsequently utilised in the Piper
scripts of 1907 to provide an answer to the Horace Ode
Question. Xow if to this group, as contained in the early
Verrall scripts, we are to add allusions to On a Spring
Morning at Sea, we should naturally expect that in this
answer to the Horace Ode Question a corresponding allusion
would appear. In the Piper scripts there is no trace of it
but if Mr. Piddington's latest theory is sound, our expectation
would be equally well satisfied by finding the required allusion
in one or more of the five Verrall scripts of 1907, which
according to him form a cross-correspondence with the Piper
answer to the question. Indeed, we should naturally look for
it in the Verrall scripts rather than in the Piper scripts
for this cross-correspondence, if it be one, is in so far of the
" complementary " type, that all the unfavourable previsions
concerning a future life are allotted to Mrs. Piper, and to
Mrs. Verrall none but favourable ones.
Mr. Piddington has given his reasons for believing that the
Verrall Scripts 176 and 178 do actually contain references
lxv.] Some Observations on the Foregoing Paper. 229
to On a Spring Morning at Sea. These reasons may not be
conclusive, but neither can they in my opinion be summarily
set aside. It is not certain that this poem is alluded to in
the early Verrall scripts ; it is not certain that it is alluded
to in the later. But the affirmative view can be plausibly
maintained in both cases, and on independent grounds ; and
while two uncertainties do not make a certainty, two " fairly
probables " may, and in this instance do, I think, go some
way to corroborate each other.
Be that as it may, the case is undeniably one which
deserves the serious attention of all who are interested in
the evidence for personal survival after bodily dissolution.
Note.
Since this paper was sent to the printers Mrs. F. W. H.
Myers (to whom a proof was submitted) has called my attention
to the possibility, or even, as she thinks, the probability, that
the poem Immortality and also On a Spring Morning at Sea
were unconsciously seen by Mrs. Verrall in the early spring
of 1901 when helping her to arrange and sort her late husband's
papers. Manuscript copies of On a Spring Morning at Sea were
lying, Mrs. Myers states, in note- books on the table of the
study at Leckhampton, a room which Mrs. Verrall was often
in at that time, and in the same room were also four copies
of the early editions containing Immortality.
I sent Mrs. Myers's observations to Mrs. Verrall and have
received from her the following reply dated from Switzerland,
July 16, 1912:
It is possible that during my visits to Mrs. Myers in the early
spring and summer of 1901, I may have seen, without noticing at
the time, books or papers that were lying about in the library at
Leckhampton House. Such a possibility I recognised in my comments
on the allusions in my script to the Symposium incident (Proc, Vol.
XX., p. 317, footnote) ;
though I feel certain that I took out no
books from the shelves, and that I read no papers except such as
were shown to me by Mrs. Myers or given to me to sort.
It is thus not impossible, though I think it unlikely, that at that
time one or both of the poems, Immortality and On a Sjning Morning
230 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [PAKT
at Sea, came within the range of my normal knowledge, though not
within my conscious observation.
Nor can it be actually proved that some knowledge of these poems
had not been conveyed to me at an earlier period, before the incep-
tion of my automatic writing, at a time when I was not keeping
careful record—as I have done since my experiments began—of
anything likely to affect the contents of my script. It is, for instance,
impossible for me to assert positively that neither the MSS. of the
poems nor the printed Immortality (in the early volume) fell under
my observation during one of my talks with Mr. Myers in his
library.
All I can assert is (1) that Mr. Myers never read or quoted to
me any unpublished poem of his, and (2) that when, upon its pub-
lication in October, 1904, I read with great interest and close attention
the volume of Fragments, neither of these poems awoke in me the
least recollection or suggestion of previous acquaintance. To the
best of my belief I came across both poems for the first time in
October, 1904.
The footnote to Proc, Vol. XX., p. 317, is as follows:
" The proofs of Human Personality were in Mrs. Myers's
house at Cambridge where I was a frequent visitor during the
spring and summer of 1901. It is therefore not impossible
that I should have seen, without consciously noticing, the direct
reference to Diotima in the first volume or the indirect allusion
to the Dialogue in the second volume."
This statement, published in 1906, was overlooked by me
in preparing my paper, and the fact that the two poems may
have come under Mrs. Verrall's eye, whether they actually
did so or not, does undoubtedly weaken the cogency of any
inferences based on the contrary assumption.
I freely recognise, therefore, that certain of the expressions
in the present paper are stronger than I should now feel justified
in using ; and I should have introduced some modifications into
the text had not the substance of what I have written been
already read to a meeting of the S.P.E. In the circumstances
it seemed best to allow the text to remain unaltered, and append
this Note to correct any mistaken impression which might
otherwise be left in the reader's mind.
lxv.] A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. 231
A EEPLY TO MR. BALFOUR'S OBSERVATIONS.
By J. G. PIDDINGTON.
Ml:. Balfour has laid his finger on a weak spot in my
argument : namely, the reason I gave in support of my theory
that Myersv intended 176 to be read in connexion with the
Horace Ode Question. I agree that I exaggerated the odds
against the chance of this particular script proving relevant
as an answer to the Horace Ode Question. I propose
accordingly to substitute the following argument for the one
offered on pp. 202-203 :—
Mrs. Verrall's subconscious thoughts may be presumed to
have been occupied with the Horace Ode Question between
January 1, 1907, when she first formulated it, and June 2,
1907, when Mrs. Piper's sittings came to an end. During
that period Mrs. Verrall wrote 57 scripts. Four of them (140,
171, 176 and 178) I claim as relating exclusively ; three of them
(136, 141 1
and 174) as relating partly to the Horace Ode Question.'2
It was apparent to me when indexing and collating Mrs.
Verrall's scripts in 1910 and 1911 that these seven scripts
are linked together by various devices, such as catch-words,
cross-references, similar quotations or phrases. But though
these superficial coincidences were then known to me, and
though I was fully alive to the fact that coincidences of this
kind usually betoken the existence in the scripts so linked
of some deeper underlying meaning, I had no inkling of what
this deeper meaning might be. To discover it a clue was
needed. The clue had been there all the time—by which I
1
1 have not hitherto claimed. 141 as belonging to the Horace Ode Question
group of scripts ;
but, as will appear later, a suggestion of Mr. Balfour's has
now led me to do so.
2
1 say "partly," because I regard 136, 141 and 174 as relating also to the
avro% ovpavos &Kvfj.wv topic. I make no mention here of 180, because it was not
written until June 24, 1907, and so does not fall within the period in
question.
232 J. G. Piddington. [part
mean the connexion established by Mrs. Verrall's experiment
between the " Archytas " Ode and 176—but until January
1912 it was overlooked. When once it was perceived, the
problem was solved. Now, though it cannot be said that the
clue was attached to one of the seven scripts, it can be said
that one of the seven scripts was attached to the clue. The
odds against this being accidental are not so great as I
represented them to be on p. 203, but they are still not
negligible.
But even had they been as great as I previously represented
them to be, there would still have been something wanting to
make the evidence for design completely satisfactory. The
want would have been met by a statement or hint in 176 to
the effect that this script had reference to the Horace Ode
Question ; and had there been besides a hint that this script
was meant as a counterpart to the answers to the Horace
Ode Question given in Mrs. Piper's trance, it would have
been better still. But no such statements or hints appear in
176 or in the scripts allied with it ; and so we must content
ourselves with the presumptive evidence to be derived from
the coincidence that 176 was written immediately after Mrs.
Verrall had been fixing her thoughts on the " Archytas " Ode.
Nevertheless, although 176 contains no statement indicating a
connexion between itself and the Horace Ode Question, 174
and 176 do contain statements which indicate that 174, 176 and
178 have to do with a special experiment, and that this
experiment involves the answering of some question. The
relevant passages are as follows
I want you to try a special experiment. On May 13 wait for a
message, I cannot tell how it will reach you—but there is some
special interest in that day. Tell Helen too—she might help.
Don't ask more—a veil is best—but in the end you will understand
and find the record complete. (174.)
May 13 thirteen has been given you for a date.
Tell Helen to try for the answer then—and after that you shld
[sic] write no more till we give the word. (176.)
As she wrote no script between March 18 and May 26,
1907, we can leave out of account the references to Miss
LXV.] A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. 233
Helen Verrall, except iu so far as they suggest that " the
answer " is to be given partly through one automatist and
partly through another : in other words, by means of a cross-
correspondence.
Obviously part of " the answer " is to be given in Mrs.
Verrall's script on May 13, 1907 : the date of 178. But it
is not necessary to conclude that 178, the script of May 13,
1907, is to be the only script of Mrs. Verrall's to convey
this answer. It seems legitimate to assume that any script
of hers between which and 178 a connexion can be clearly
established may contribute to it.
Certain facts which I am about to cite create a fairly
strong presumption that the " special experiment " requiring
an answer had reference either to the avros ovpavog a/cu/uLwv
Question or to the Horace Ode Question, and more probably
to the latter than to the former.
Two test-questions formed the subject of two experiments
during the Piper sittings of 1906-1907. Both had been
formulated by Mrs. Verrall, and were put to MyersP at her
instance: the Horace Ode Question on Jan. 23, and the
avros ovpavos aKv/mwv Question on Jan. 29, 1907. By
March 13, 1907, MyersP had shown knowledge of the
associations of uvtos ovpavos aKvfj.wv with In Memoriam and with
Myers's poem To Tennyson, and had given a satisfactory para-
phrase of the three Greek words. But he had not named the
author of them, Plotinus. Accordingly, Mrs. Verrall had sittings
with Mrs. Piper on April 29 and 30, 1907, and explained to
MyeiSp that though, so far as it went, his answer to the au-o?
ovpavos ukv/jlwv question was clear and satisfactory, he had not
given the author's name. She also wished that MyersP would
display knowledge of the fact that a translation of the three
Greek words occurs in Human Personality : but did not actually
express her wish to him. Without going into details—which
are fully given in Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 130-136 and 157-168
—-I may say that by the afternoon of May 6, 1907, Mrs. Verrall
knew that MyersP had satisfied her on both points : he had
alluded to Human Personality and given the name Plotinus.
ISTow, since these were admittedly the only associations wanting
to round off and complete the answer of MyersP, and as Myersv
had completed his answer as far back as March 11, 1907
234 J. G. Piddington. [part
{id. ib., p. 116), it seems justifiable to assume that by the after-
noon of May 6, 1907, Mrs. Verrall's immediate interest in
the au-ro? oupavos ukv/j.wv experiment ceased.
But not so her interest in the other test-question, the Horace
Ode Question. In this her interest was still alive, for so far
(or so, at least, she thought) MyersP had given no satisfactory
answer to it.
The Horace Ode Question was first put to MyersP on Jan. 23,
1907. MyerSp gave his first answer to it
1
on April 17, 1907;
but Mrs. Verrall was told nothing about it, nor had she even
been told that the question had ever been asked at all.
When Mrs. Verrall had her sitting with Mrs. Piper on
April 29, 1907, MyersP spontaneously referred to the subject
of the Horace Ode Question. So completely, however, had the
matter passed out of Mrs. Verrall's mind, that she did not
understand the reference.2
After the sitting she recalled the
matter, and at the sitting next day, April 30, she herself
put the Horace Ode Question to MyersP, and asked for
an answer. Then on May 4, she heard from Mrs. Sidgwick
about the Aht Vogler quotation, and thought it might have been
meant to identify the "Archytas" Ode. But in view of the fact
that the Alt Vogler quotation had been given disconnectedly and
without reference to the Horace Ode Question, she decided on
May 7, 1907, before trying for script, to fix her mind on the
" Archytas " Ode : her idea being that, if MyersP had really
meant the Aht Vogler quotation to be connected with the Horace
Ode, she might thereby help him to establish the connexion
clearly.
So it appears that while Mrs. Verrall's immediate normal
interest in the avro? ovpavos (akv/jloov Question ceased on the
afternoon of May 6, her normal interest in the Horace Ode
Question continued at least until May 7, 1907, and possibly
longer.
1
Mrs. Sidgwick and myself were the only people who knew of this answer
and to both of us it seemed to be meaningless.
2
It is perhaps not without significance that Myersp spontaneously mentioned
the Horace Ode Question to Mrs. Verrall at the sitting of April 29, for, an hour
or so before the sitting began, 171 — a certain Myersv script—had been written ;
and 171 is the first script after 141 (written on Feb. 25, 1907) which, according
to my interpretation at least, has any relevance to the Horace Ode Question.
lxv.] A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. 235
Although it does not, of course, necessarily follow that, because
Mrs. Verrall ceased on May 6 to be preoccupied in her normal
state with the Plotinian Question, the consciousness concerned
in the production of her scripts followed suit ; still it does
seem likely that the " script " consciousness should, like
the normal consciousness, occupy itself with the incomplete
rather than with the completed experiment. That in fact
it did so, is rendered probable by a comparison of the
scripts wi'itten while Mrs. Verrall was normally interested in
both test-questions with the scripts written while she was
interested in the Horace Ode Question only. The former,
I hope to show, reflect both interests : the latter make far
better sense if interpreted as answers to the Horace Ode
Question, than they would, if interpreted as reverberations of
the Plotinian topic.
In the course of producing the evidence on which I base
these statements, I shall at the same time deal with an objec-
tion raised by Mr. Balfour. This objection may be formulated
as follows :
—There being no hint in those Verrall scripts which
I have connected with the Horace Ode Question of such a con-
nexion having been intended, it may be urged that all the scripts
really belong to the series of avros ovpavos ctKUjuun' scripts, with
which they show certain analogies and among which they would
find an appropriate place. That as a matter of fact I have
included one script, 136, in the Horace Ode series, which I had
previously included in the avrog ovpavos aKv/uwp series ; and
that, to be consistent, I ought to have included another avro?
ovpcwos cIkv/uloov script, that of Feb. 25, 1907. These two
scripts, it is true, may possibly have been intended to belong
to both series, but such a hypothesis must be received with
caution.
As it may perhaps be a help to the reader, I will state in
advance what form my answers to the points raised by Mr.
Balfour will take. I shall maintain
(1) that the script of Feb. 25, 1907 (which I shall in
future refer to as 141) does belong, and should therefore
be added, to the group of scripts—136, 140, 171, 174, 176,
178 and 180—which I have already connected with the
Horace Ode Question ;
(2) that out of this group—as now enlarged by the addition
236 J. G. Pidclington. [part
of 141 —136, 141 and 174 relate to the avros ovpavos
aicvfxwv Question as well as to the Horace Ode
Question ;
(3) that references to both topics were combined in 136 and 141,
because for Myersv the two topics were closely inter-
woven, as they had been in the mind of Frederic
Myers ; and
(4) that if 140, 171, 176, 178 and 180 are referred, as Mr.
Balfour suggests they might be, to the avros ovpavos
aKviJ.wv topic, they contribute nothing of any importance
while if they are referred to the Horace Ode Question
they contribute an intelligent and appropriate answer
thereto.
Let us begin by considering 141, the script which I formerly
connected with the Plotinian Question and am now prepared
to connect as well with the Horatian Question. The text of
it is as follows
(141) (Feb. 25, 1907. 6.45 p.m.)
Not each but all United stand —a firm knit band —but, single,
fall.
Test the weakest link but even that stands firm
I stretch my hand across the vaporous space, the interlunar
space
—'twixt moon and earth, —where the gods of Lucretius quaff
their nectar.
Do you not understand 1
The lucid interspace of world and world
Well that is bridged by the thought of a friend, bridged before
for your passage, but today for the passage of any that will walk
it, not in hope but in faith.
The bridge has been built from our side, it is our thought that
builds it —but it rests on a pier of your founding, —not yours—of
you only, —of all of yours
Non T U a opera, sed omnibus adiuvantibus qui in ista causa
laborant.
[not by T H Y help, but with the assistance of all who labour in
this cause.]
not tua but but vestra he means
R [i.e. Rector]
but he does not talk our language.
LXV.] A Reply to Mr. Balfour s Observations. 237
The lucid interspace of world and world is a quotation from
Tennyson's Lucretius
The Gods, who haunt
The lucid interspace of world and world,
Where never creeps a cloud, or moves a wind,
Nor ever falls the least white star of snow, . . .
Tennyson is here paraphrasing 11. 18-22 of the third book
of Lucretius' Be Poerum Natura.
Exactly the same idea of Elysian calm had already been
implicitly expressed in 136 by means of a reference to the
following lines from Tennyson's Morte d'Arthur
the island-valley of Avilion ;
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
Nor ever wind blows loudly . . .
which (see p. 188) are a paraphrase of Odyssey, IV. 566-568.
They appeared in the script in this form :
the island valley of Avilion where blows not any wind nor ever
falls the least light—no not that but you have the sense—there
falls no rain nor snow nor any breath of wind shakes the least
leaf.
The words I have underlined seem clearly to be an attempt
at the line
" Nor ever falls the least white star of snow "
—which belongs
to the passage from Tennyson's Lucretius quoted in 141.
The passage from Tennyson's Lucretius is, I have said, an
imitation of Lucretius, Book in. 11. 18-22, which are them-
selves in turn an imitation of the following passage in the
Sixth Book of the Odyssey (11. 42-45):
Athene . . . departed to Olympus, where, as they say, is the
seat of the gods that standeth fast for ever. Not by winds is it
shaken, nor ever wet with rain, nor doth the snow come nigh
thereto, but most clear air is spread about it cloudless, and the
white light floats over it. (Butcher and Lang's translation.)
The resemblance between Odyssey, iv. 5 66-568 (the original
of the Morte d'Arthur passage) and Odyssey, VI. 42-45 (to
which the Lucretius passage ultimately goes back) is obvious
23S J. G. Piddington. [part
at a glance, and is a matter of common knowledge to classical
scholars.
Hence it is as certain as anything based merely on internal
evidence, as apart from direct statements, can be, that the two
Tennysonian quotations are meant to stand in close relation
to each other, and that the quotation from Lucretius in 141
is an intentional reference back to the quotation from Morte
d'Arthur in 136.
As there were, then, allusions, and closely related allusions,
in 136 and 141 to the calm of external nature, I naturally
and, I think, rightly—included both in the series of auTo?
ovpavos aKi'/uwi' scripts.1
While, however, retaining both in the avros ovpavds cckv/jlodv
series, I have included 136 (for reasons explained on pp. 186 and
188), and I now include 141, in the series of Horace Ode
Question scripts.
I include 141 in this series not simply because it links on
to 136—though that is one of my reasons—but also because
it links on to 174. The link that unites 141 with 174, as will
be seen on reference to the appended copy of the latter, is
the same link that unites 141 with 136 : namely, the quotation
from Tennyson's Lucretius.
(174) (May 1, 1907. 10.50 a.m.)
Evangel
then speed the word
Sleep Death's twin brother
I stretch my hand across the gulf of time—that was said before
to you. the intervening space twixt world and world, the lucid inter-
space. I want you to try a special experiment. On May 13 wait
for a message I cannot tell how it will reach you—but there is
some special interest in that day. Tell Helen too—she might help.
Don't ask more—a veil is best—but in the end you will understand
and find the record complete.
Try to say the eagle soaring over Plato's tomb.
(Draiving of bird with large outspread wings.)
I
I included them in this series solely because they possessed a certain
psychological interest (see Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 112-113), not because I
attached any evidential value to them. Lately, for reasons explained in a
separate note on pp. 245-250, I have come to attach considerable evidential
importance to them.
lxv.] A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. 230
write slowly for him to repeat again
vagitus Wailing
kwkvto? [wailing.]
We cease and may the blessings of the Most High rest on you
all Farewell R ^' €'
Recfcor-]
The sentence beginning " I stretch my hand " and ending
" lucid interspace
1
is an unquestionable, and also a deliberate
reference back to the passage in 141 beginning " I stretch
my hand " and ending " the lucid interspace of world and
world."
But, like 136 and 141, 174 contains matter relating to the
cwto? ovpai'os aKUjULwv case ; for the words " the eagle soaring
over Plato's tomb " are a quotation of a quotation applied to
Plotinus in Human Personality {Xo\. II., p. 26 1).
2
We have arrived, then, at this position : 136, 141 and 174
contain matter relevant to the aurog ovpavos ukv/j-oov Question
and 136 and 174 matter relevant to the Horace Ode Question.
But I have claimed 141 as belonging to both series. What
matter, then, does it contain relevant to the answer to the
Horace Ode Question ?
In my opinion the whole of 141, including the Lucretian
passage, forms part of the answer to the Horace Ode Question
given by Myersv in the following group of Verrall scripts,
140, 171, 174, 176, 178 and 180; into which group 141 is entitled
to enter by virtue of its correlation with 174.
The whole of 141 insists on the need of co-operation between
incarnate and discarnate spirits ; and one passage in it
—" The
bridge has been built from our side, it is our thought that
builds it "—speaks of the preponderant share borne by the
1
Note that this sentence is followed immediately, without the slightest break in
the writing, by the reference to the "special experiment" which is to form
the subject of a message in the script of May 13 (178).
It may also be noted that both 141 and 174 are signed by Rector on behalf
of the communicator (whom the internal evidence shows to be Myersv) : a
fact which suggests that both these scripts are intended to form part of a
cross-correspondence with Mrs. Piper. Only two other scripts of Mrs. Verrall's
during the period contemporaneous with the Piper sittings of 1906-1907 are
signed by Rector.
2
The significance of the appearance of this quotation in 174 is explained in
Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 131-133.
240 G. Piddington. [part
discarnate in that co-operation. But these are the very
themes of Myers's Venice, and of that passage in his almost
contemporaneous Presidential Address, which, as I have pre-
viously pointed out (see footnote to p. 205), reproduces in
prose the thought poetically expressed in Venice.
To appreciate the parallelism fully the reader should peruse
the whole of the 9th paragraph of Myers's Address (Proc,
Vol. XV., pp. 122-123). Meanwhile I will copy here the
.specially pertinent sentences :
The new conception is neither of benefactors dead and done for,
inspiring us automatically from their dates in an almanac . . . ; —but
rather of a human unity, . . . wherein every man who hath been or
now is makes a living element ;
—inalienably incorporate, and im-
perishably co-operant, and joint-inheritor of one infinite Hope. . . .
It is they [i.e. the blessed dead], not we, who are working now
they are more ready to hear than we to pray. . . .
Nay, it may be that our response, our devotion, is a needful
element in their ascending joy; and God may have provided some
better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect;
ut non sine nobis consummarentur. 1
So I regard 136 and 141 as double-barrelled scripts,
designedly framed in such a manner as to be relevant to both
test-questions. To Mrs. Verrall, in her normal state at least,
the avTo? ovpavos clkv/awv and the Horace Ode Questions were
two absolutely distinct things. But to Myersv they were not.
To him—or, if you will, to it—they were yoked by a natural
association of ideas. Tor, while one was concerned with the
Ode of a pagan poet, who would never have uttered his
hopeless " Eat and drink ; for to-morrow we die," had he
1
Ut non sine nobis consummarentur, it will be remembered (see p. 205),
was the motto affixed to Venice in a MS. copy of it sent by Myers to a
friend. Mrs. Verrall saw a copy of this MS. in 1903. She did not, how-
ever, recognise the source of the motto, from which the important word sine
had been accidentally omitted, until a year or two later, perhaps in 1905. It
is conceivable that in 1905, or at some time previous to the dates of 141 and
174, the motto affixed to the poem in the MS. copy reminded her of the passage
in Myers's Presidential Address into which the same motto is introduced ; and
that this may explain the connexion of 141 (which seems to reflect the passage
in the Address) with 174 and the other " Venice" scripts. But if this was so,
it at any rate strongly enforces my view that 176, 178 and 180 allude to Myers's
Venice.
lxv.] A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. 241
known of man's " kinship and community in the firmament of
souls " ; the other bore upon the conditions under which the
realisation of this kinship and community could best be
attained.
That it was appropriate for a personality who claims to
be Frederic Myers thus to fuse these two distinct subjects,
the reader will, I think, agree, if he will study carefully
the 8th and 9th paragraphs of Myers's Presidential Address
(Proc, Vol. XV., pp. 119-123) and sections 1013 and 1014 of
Human Personality (Vol. II., pp. 290-291).1
But for the sake of argument let us accept Mr. Balfour's
suggestion and assume that 171, 174, 176, 178 and 180 have no
reference to the Horace Ode Question and are really avros
ovpavo? aKi'/uwi' scripts 2
and consider whether they contribute
matter relevant thereto, and, if so, whether this matter is of
any interest or of evidential value.
I may say at once that they do contain matter vaguely
applicable to the Plotinian topic—as, indeed, on the hypothesis
that the answers to the two test-questions were drawn from
a common range of ideas, might have been expected ; but
in my opinion it has neither interest nor evidential value.
The passage of Plotinus, from which the words avTOs ovpavos
aKujtioov come, lays down the conditions essential to communion
with the Divine Soul ; and one of these conditions is the
complete tranquillity of external nature :
" Calm be the earth,
the sea, the air, and let Heaven itself be waveless."
To this condition the reference to " the lucid interspace of
world and world " in 174, to " a pearly sky no movement " in
176, to On a Spring Morning ed Sea and Wordsworth's Peele
Castle in 178, to " the melted Pearl of sky and sea " in 178 and
180, may be supposed to relate. If the phrases in 171, 176
and 178 reminiscent of the Apocalypse are regarded as allusions
]
I would direct his attention especially to the passage about "a Plato and
a Newton " in the Address, because it exactly reverses what Horace says
about Archytas in the first six lines of the "Archytas" Ode; and to "the
cloud encompassing of unforgetful souls " in the 1013th section of Human
Personality, because it seems like a reminiscence of part of the context ("we
also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses") of at nnn sine
nohis consummarentur.
2
It is unnecessary to take 136 and 141 into account here, because I agree
that they do in part belong to the avros ovpavos aKVfiwv group.
Q
242 J. G. Piddington. [part
to the Heavenly Jerusalem, they might be taken in the same
sense; but they might be regarded as allusions to the vision
of John (" I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day ") suggested
by the ecstatic vision of Plotinus. These are the only refer-
ences which, so far as 1 can see, could be claimed as having
any relevancy to the outos ovpavos aKVfiwv topic. Let us
now compare them with the earlier references to this topic in
Mrs. VerraU's script : that is to say, with the references
which began on February 12 and ended on March 11, 1907
(see Proc, Vol. XXIL, pp. 112-118).1
The script of February 12, 19 0 7 (136) quoted the lines
from Tennyson's Morte <VArthur descriptive of the calm of the
island-valley of Avilion. This was followed on Feb. 25, 1907
(141) by the quotation from Tennyson's Lucretius descriptive of
the " sacred everlasting calm " of the gods. This again was
followed on March 6, 1907, by a quotation from Section xi.
of Tennyson's In Memoriarn :
" Calm is the sea—and in my
heart if calm at all, if any calm, a calm despair " : and to it
this comment was appended :
" That is only part of the
answer—just as it is not the final thought. The symphony
does not close upon despair but on harmony. So does the
poem. Wait for the last word."
But there was no need for " the last word " to be spoken,
for sufficient clues had already been afforded to make the
purport of these scripts plain. Starting from Tennysonian
passages descriptive of nature at peace (the Mortv d'Arthur and
Lucretius passages) the scribe had led up to a passage (In
Memoriarn xi. and XII.) where a trance, occurring under some,
though not all, of the conditions laid down by Plotinus as
essential to communion with the Divine, brings no assurance
of reality;
2
and then had indicated that In Memoriarn contains
another passage which would be found to harmonize more
closely with the context of avro? ovpavos a.Kv/u.a>v. Following
1
After March 11 there is nothing in Mrs. VerraU's scripts which seems to
bear upon the avros oupavos ant'iAw topic until April 29, J 907 (the date of 171),
except the following sentence on March 27, 1907 :
" The In Memoriarn passage
is not the only one I have explained to you— there are others, which perhaps
are not clear."
2
The earth, sea and air are calm, but the poet's heart is filled with "wild
unrest." Hence true ecstatic communion does not ensue. (See Proc, Vol.
XXIV., pp. 19-20.)
lxv.] A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. 243
the hints thrown out by her script, Mrs. Verrall made the
discovery that Sections xciv. and xcv. of In Memoriam describes
a trance which took place under all the conditions laid clown
by Plotinus, and resulted first in communion with a discarnate
spirit and at its culmination in communion with the Divine.
The parallelisms between In Memoriam xi., XII., xciv. and
xcv. were, to the best of our belief, revealed for the first
time by Mrs. Verrall's script ;
for, so far as we can discover,
they had not been observed by any of the commentators, and
they were not within Mrs. Verrall's normal knowledge.
Additional interest, moreover, was lent to the parallelism with
In Memoriam xciv. and xcv. by the discovery that the actual
language in which Tennyson there records the conditions ante-
cedent to his trance appears to reflect the language used by
Plotinus in the cwto? ovpavos aKv/xav passage.
Now, whatever view be taken of the source of this answer,
its great originality, effectiveness and appropriateness must be
admitted. On the other hand, the passages in 171, 174, 176, 178 and
180, which, for argument's sake, we are assuming to be connected
with the avros ovpavos UKVjuwv topic, either merely reproduce
illustrations of nature at peace given in earlier scripts (e.g. the
quotation from Lucretius in 174), or merely accumulate fresh
illustrations of the same topic (e.g. the " Elysian quiet" of
AVordsworth's Peek Castle, of the Heavenly Jerusalem, of On
a Spring Morning at Sea and Venice) which, not being associated
in any way with ecstacy, have no particular point ; or allude
to a vision, that of John in Revelation, which presents no
analogy, as do the trances of In Memoriam xn. and xcv., to
the Vision of Plotinus. Kegarded, then, as contributions to
the cwto? ohpavos aKupiwv topic, I must pronounce these passages
to be either vain repetitions, or inappropriate or otiose rever-
berations, and as falling very far below the standard of the
earlier references.
A priori it would not be surprising to find pointless repe-
titions and stale rehashes in automatic script or speech ; and
in fact they are not uncommon features of Mrs. Piper's trances.
In Mrs. Verrall's case repetitions and reverberations are plentiful
enough ; but the longer I study her script, the more clearly
have I come to realise that they are rarely otiose. As a general
rule they either serve the purpose of useful, sometimes of
244 J. G. Piddington. [part
indispensable, guides through the maze, and indicate how various
topics or scripts, apparently disconnected, are to be synthesized
or else they are devices for effecting a transition from one idea
to another of similar, though not identical, character.1
Hence I am not readily disposed to consider the references in
171, 174, 176, 178 and 180 which we have been discussing, as otiose
reverberations of the avros ovpavos aKVjuwi' subject. If, however,
they really are, then it must not be lost sight of that they
possess the remarkable property of being convertible into an
appropriate answer to the Horace Ode Question. Whether
in so converting them I have gone beyond the intentions of
the communicator, is a question that I must leave to the reader
to decide.
In conclusion I should like to express my thanks to Mr.
Balfour for his comments on my paper. They have proved
instructive and suggestive in various ways, and have enabled
me to perceive connexions between the answers given by Myersv
to the two test-questions which otherwise would have escaped
my observation.
1
An example of this can, I think, be seen in the quotation from Tennyson's
Lucretius common to 141 and 174. In 141 it is used as an illustration of nature
at peace ; in 174 as an illustration of an Abode of the Blest.
lxv.] Two Tennysonian Quotations. 245
VI.
TWO TENNYSONIAN QUOTATIONS IN
MRS. VEKKALL'S SCEIPTS
Relating to the avro? ovpavos ukv/uwv Case.
By J. G. PIDDINGTON.
Ill my account of the avro\ ovpavos aKVfxwv ease (Proc,
Vol. XXIL, pp. 107-172) I treated the references in 136 to
the island-valley of Avilion,
Where falls not hail, or rain, or any snow,
Nor ever wind blows loudly ;
and the references in 141 to
Tlie lucid interspace of world and world,
Where never creeps a cloud, or moves a wind.
Nor ever falls the least white star of snow,
as possessing only a general relevancy (id. ib., pp. 112-114).
I supposed either that their emergence was due to Mrs.
Verrall's thoughts having been directed by the Plotinian passage
to descriptions of nature at peace ; or else that these two
Tennysonian passages had served to smooth the way towards
the desired goal, namely, other Tennysonian passages (In
Memoriam, XL, xciv., and xcv.), where trance occurs during a
profound calm.
But I have since noticed a fact which suggests that the
references to the Morte d'Arthur and Lucretius passages may
possess a far more pointed significance.
As previously stated (see p. 188), the Morte d'Arthur passage
is modelled on Odyssey, iv. 566-568, and the Lucretius passage
on Lucretius, in. 18-22, which in turn is modelled on Odyssey,
vi. 42-45. Now, neither Tennyson, Lucretius, nor Homer in
these passages touches upon trance or ecstasy or the conditions
•246 J. G. Piddington. [part
favourable thereto. There is, however, a passage in the
Bisscrtationcs of the little-known and less read Platonic philo-
sopher, Maximus of Tyre, where both the Odyssey passages
(the originals of the Lucretian and Tennysonian imitations)
are in the most direct manner connected with the subject of
ecstatic intuition.
The soul, according to Maximus, has a higher and a lower
reason. While the lower is concerned with the things of
sense, with the higher we may see God, even while in the
body, if freed for a moment from the tumult of the sensuous
world.
If with upright and steadfast soul a man gaze without growing
dizzy on that unsullied light, and look not back earthwards ; if he
stop his ears, and turn his sight and all his other senses inwards
upon himself ;
if, utterly unheeding of earthly cares and afflictions,
of pleasures and honours, of glory and infamy, he let himself be led
by true reason and steadfast love . . . then, as he goes thitherwards
and leaves the world behind him, always that which is in front of
him shall grow clear and brilliant, preluding, as it were, the Godhead.
So, as he travels on, he shall hear the Godhead, and, the journey
done, shall behold it face to face.
Yet his journey's goal is not the firmament of heaven, nor such
bodies as are therein, . . . but he must pass beyond these, and
overstep the firmament 1
until he reach the real goal and its perfect
calm,
"Where neither is great winter-storm, nor is it ever wet
with rain ; but most clear air is spread about it cloudless, 1
and
the white light floats upon it ;
and where no fleshly affection, such as vexes the wretched soul here
below, can trouble the vision. 2
(Dissertationes, xvn. 10-11.)
In this passage Maximus combines Odyssey, iv. 566 and VI.
43-45 in a curious and unmetrical manner, quoting neither
correctly, as the following comparison will show
1
Compare the paraphrase given in Mrs. Piper's trance of the words avros
vrpavos a.KU/j.wi' : "Cloudless *ky beyond the horizon" (Proc, Vol. XXII., p. 12(5).
'-'The above is a close paraphrase, but does not profess to be a literal
translation.
lxv.] Two Tennysonian Quotations. 247
Homer. Maximus of Tyre.
ei'd' ovk €(tt out' dp yei/xwv —oAi's,
ovSe —ot' ofippa)
Several, dXXd yudA' aWpi]
—(.—raTiii direc^eAos, XevKi] 5' e— iSe-
8pop.ev alyXq.
OV l't</)€TOS, out' dp xeiyuuv 7ToAi'S, OVT€
7T0t' 0/x/?/30S.
Oa
7
., iv. 566.
. . . out' dvkjioMTi TivdtTcre.Ta.1 ovre
TTOT O/x/3/30)
<5eu€Tat ouYe X'tov £—t— [Xvarac. dAAa
/-id A' aWpi]
—€TTTarai. dve(j>eXo<;, \evK7j S' eVtSe-
opo[X€v atyXij.
Od., vi. 43-45.
Since the Mortc d'Arthur passage is an imitation of Odyssey,
iv. 566-568, and the Liicretius passage is an imitation of
Lucretius, ill. 18-22, which is in turn an imitation of Odyssey,
vi. 4 3-45, 136 and 141 together may in a sense be said to
combine the two passages here combined by Maximus of Tyre.
But as a matter of fact 136 alone combines the two Homeric
passages, and does so in much the same way as Maximus of
Tyre, as the following comparison shows
" the island valley of Aviliou I
"... the island-valley of Avilion ;
where blows not any wind none Where falls not hail, or rain, or
nor ever falls the least light —. . . any snow,
there falls no rain nor snow nor Nor ever wind blows loudly."
any breath of wind shakes the I Tennyson's Morte d'Arthur.
least leaf." !
£(
The lucid interspace of world
and world,
Where never creeps a cloud, or
moves a wind,
Nor ever falls the least white star
oi snow.
Tennyson's Lucretius
In view of these coincidences, I find it difficult to believe
that the quotations from Tennyson's Morte d'Arthur and
Lucretius in 136 and 141 were not intended to connect the
passage from Maximus of Tyre quoted above with the uvtos
ovpapos aKu/jLwv topic.
I came across the passage from the Dissertationes about the
248 J, G. Piddington. [part
end of October 1010: not, however, in the original, but in
Dill's Roman Society from Nero to Marcus Au.relius. On
pages 421-423 of this book Dill, in the course of giving some
account of the philosophy of Maximus, paraphrases concisely
various passages in Dissertationes, IV., VIII., x., XVI., and XVII.
The particular passage in Dissertationes, xvn., with which we
are concerned, he paraphrases thus :
It is by this higher faculty that God is seen, so far as He may be,
in this mixed and imperfect state. For the vision of God can only
in any degree be won by abstraction from sense and passion and
everything earthly, in a struggle ever upwards, beyond the paths
of the heavenly orbs, to the region of eternal calm " where falls
not rain or hail or any snow, but a white cloudless radiance spreads
over all" (p. 421).
When I read this passage in Dill's book (which was first
published in 1904) it reminded me at once of 136 and 141:
and I naturally suspected that Mrs. Verrall had read it, and
read it before 1907. Accordingly I wrote and asked her
without, however, explaining the reason for my question
whether she had read Dill's Roman Society from Nero to Marcus
Aurelius.
She wrote in reply on Nov. 5, 1910, as follows:
I have never read Dill's Roman Society, etc., nor seen the book
though of course I know of its existence, and have probably read
reviews.
I cannot, of course, pretend to prove that the passage quoted
above has not been reproduced in some review of Dill's book ;
but a passage of this kind, half summary and half paraphrase,
is not at all a likely one to be selected by a reviewer for
quotation.
I next wrote and asked Mrs. Verrall—again without explain-
ing why I wanted the information—whether she had ever read
the Dissertationes of Maximus of Tyre. Her reply, dated Nov. 7,
1910, was a large and emphatically underlined "No."'
Here again it is impossible, of course, to exclude the possi-
bility of Mrs. Verrall's having come across Dissertationes, xvu.,
in an " Unseen Translation " paper, or in some such way ; but
to those who know the kind of passages selected for " Unseen
LXV.] Two Tennysonian Quotations. 249
Translation " at the Universities, and who are good enough
Grecians to appreciate how crabbed the style of Maximus is
in this passage—if, indeed, the text is not corrupt—this
possibility will appear to be remote.
Having learnt that Mrs. Verrall had read neither Dill's book
nor the Dissertationes, it occurred to me to inquire whether
Frederic Myers had been acquainted with the writings of
Maximus of Tyre. I accordingly searched through Myers's
books, and found the following reference to the Dissertationes
in his Essay on Greek Oracles {Essays Classical, p. 60) :
Alexander himself consulted Zeus Amnion not only on his own
parentage but as to the sources of the Nile, and an ingenuous author
regrets that, instead of seeking information on this purely geographical
problem, . . . Alexander did not employ his prestige and his oppor-
tunities to get the question of the origin of evil set at rest for ever.
Who the " ingenuous author " is, is explained by a foot-note
—"Max. Tyr. Diss. 25"—-appended to this sentence.1
This—the only reference that I have traced in Myers's
writings to Maximus of Tyre—establishes the fact that Myers
had some acquaintance with the Dissertationes. And he may
well have been familiar with them, for, as is well known and
as his writings bear witness, he was deeply read in Neoplatonic
literature, and Maximus of Tyre was a 2nd century precursor
of the Neoplatonists of the 3rd century.
Moreover, Myers's study of the Daemon of Socrates (see
Proc, Vol. V., pp. 538-543, and Human Personality, Vol. II.,
pp. 95-100) is likely to have sent him to the Dissertationes
of Maximus, since they are one of the sources of information
on this subject (see Dissertationes, xiv. and XV.).2
In Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 16-19, I have given a list
of nine instances of what I have called " literary personation
"
of Frederic Myers by Myersv ,
MyersHV, and MyersP.
These instances, however, with the probable exception of
the eighth, are not on all fours with the apparent knowledge
1
" Diss. 25" = Diss. xli. in Diibner's edition: the edition to which I have
given references.
Z
L. F. Lilut in Le D4mon de Socrate, which Myers (loc. cit.) criticises
adversely, thrice at least refers to Maximus and his Dissertationes. For this,
if for no other reason, Myers's attention is likely to have been drawn to
them.
250 J. G. Piddington. [part
of a passage in the Dissertation.es shown by Myersv ;
for in them
the " literary personation " was effected by means of allusions to
passages in the writings of Frederic Myers which had been, or
may reasonably be supposed to have been, within the cognisance
of the automatist in whose script the allusions appeared.
The present case is rather to be compared with those cases
where an automatist's script has contained allusions to passages
in literature witli which she herself to the best of her know-
ledge and belief has never been acquainted, but which either
certainly or probably had once been within the range of
Myers's knowledge (see Proa, Vol. XXIV., pp. 23-30, 98-
120, 128-13:'., 138-141, 142-144, 144-150; Vol. XXV.,
pp. 246-250; and above pp. 191-194 and footnotes to p. 194).
Review. 251
SUPPLEMENT.
EEVIEW.
Les Hallucinations Telepathiques, by N. Vaschide. 100 pp. ("Biblio-
theque de Psychologie Experimentale et de Metapsychie."
Librairie Bloud et Cie. Paris, 1908).
It must be by an oversight that this interesting little book, published
posthumously, has not yet been reviewed in our Proceedings, for it
is in effect an attack on an important part of the work of the
S.P.R. The author, who was, as he tells us on p. 28, led to the
investigation of telepathy by perusal of Phantasms of the Living, found
that the results of his own observations did not agree with those
arrived at in that work. In his opinion this is probably due to
want of intimate acquaintance by the authors of Phantasms of the
Living with the psychological conditions affecting their percipients ;
but examination seems to us to show that it is chiefly due to the
fact that his own observations concern a different order of phenomena
from that with which he compares them.
M. Vaschide made his observations on the experiences of thirty-
four persons—friends or colleagues of his own, or persons with whom
he was intimately as-ociated—twenty-one of whom were Roumanian
and thirteen French men or women. During periods varying for
different persons from six months to nine years, the average period
being between four and five years, he noted down at the time of its
occurrence every " telepathic hallucination " experienced by those
persons which came to his notice, and compared them with the contem-
poraneous condition of the supposed agent. He thus noted 1374 experi-
ences ! This gives an average of over forty per head. Only one person
had as few as two such experiences, and this person was observed for
four years. On the other hand, one person had 100 experiences in the
two years during which he was observed, or on an average nearly
one a week; and another person, a woman, had 172 experiences
252 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
noted by M. Vaschide in the course of five years. These figures are
certainly startling. It appears, however, that M. Vaschide merely
means by "hallucinations telepathiques " an experience having some
sort of sensory quality, and suggesting in some way to the percipient
a definite person at a distance. He does not regard the term tele-
pathic as implying that any communication otherwise than through
the ordinary channels of sense actually occurred between agent and
percipient. This is clear, because in only forty-eight of the 1374
cases did he find any real coincidence between the " hallucination
"
and the condition of the agent, counting as a coincidence a certain
amount of agreement between the state of the agent and the impression
of the percipient within a period of from six to sixty hours. 1
It is
an interesting fact, however, that in 1325 of the 1374 cases the
percipients believed, presumably at the time of the experience, that
it was veridical ; and we are left to infer that for the most part
their confidence was not disturbed by subsequent discovery that the
coincidence was inadequate. Some explanation could always be
found—some adaptation of recollections on comparing notes with
the agent. The possibility of such persistent though misplaced
confidence is not surprising to the psychical researcher; what is
new is the scale on which with M. Vaschide's subjects it actually
occurred. This is probably due to an uncritical habit of mind
induced by the social milieu in which the percipients lived, in which
one gathers that belief in the frequency of a kind of second sight
was very general.
Quite apart from questions of veridicality, however, M. Vaschide's
numbers would be very surprising—indeed almost incredible, as his
percipients are apparently ordinary sane and healthy people—if he
meant the same thing by " hallucination " as is meant in Phantasms
of the Living and in the Proceedings of the S.P.R. generally. From
the specimens he gives us in detail, however, it would appear that
his "hallucinations" are not those fully externalised hallucinations
hallucinatory percepts which lack, but can only by distinct reflection
be recognised as lacking, the objective basis which they suggest
which have been the subject of statistical investigation by the S.P.R.
They seem, on the contrary, to be the phenomena called in our
Census of Hallucinations (after Kandinsky) pseudo-hallucinations.
These appear to the percipient to be seen with the eye of the mind,
not the bodily eye; to be heard with the mental, not the bodily,
ear. The degree of externalisation was not apparently a matter of
1
Apparently none were closer than six hours.
LXV.] Review. 253
enquiry by M. Vaschide, and it is even possible that he never came
across a case of really externalised hallucination, at least of a visual
sort.
M. Vaschide gives interesting classifications of the content of the
impressions, but describes only four "hallucinations visuelles" speci-
fically—one experienced by a Madame N. and three by himself.
Madame N.'s impression, which occurred while she was at supper,
was like a clear vision of her daughter dying (comme la vision claire
de sa fille mourante) wrapped in white sheets and on the point of
yielding her last breath. Madame N. was in some anxiety about
her daughter, but did not know that she was ill with typhoid fever
and that fifteen hours earlier she had gone through the crisis of the
illness. The experiences of Monsieur Vaschide himself which he
describes were connected with the death of his father, who was
seventy-three years of age and ill, and about whom his son was feeling
anxious. Coming in with his wife, the latter remarked that she had
an impression of the smell of quinces 1
—a smell which she recognised
as characteristic of his father's house, distant three days' railway
journey. Thereupon he saw his father dying (a ce rappel j'ai vu
mon pere mourant). As he learnt afterwards, his father had died
seven hours earlier. The day before he had had " une hallucination
vague de son regard bleu et doux," and on the evening of his death
—perhaps while he was dying—he had had a "hallucination" of his
state (j'avais eu hallucination de son etat). He saw him as he had
left him, with his habitual expression and gestures, and he seemed
to have greatly changed.
Any one who takes the trouble to compare these experiences, the
only visual ones described in detail by M. Vaschide, with Mrs.
Bettany's case described in Phantasms of the Living, Vol. I. Chap. v.
§ 3, or with those given in Chap. vi. § 5 of the same volume, or with
Chap. iv. of the " Census of Hallucinations," S.P.R. Proceedings,
Vol. X., will, we think, agree with us that they should be classified
as pseudo-hallucinations. Such experiences may be very impressive,
but may easily be the reverse and, like dreams, easily forgotten. 2
Olfactory impressions were unexpectedly frequent among the "hallucina-
tions telepathiques " noted by M. "Vaschide, more so than tactile impressions.
He recorded seventy-four, he tells us.
2
The distinction between hallucinations and pseudo-hallucinations is not of
course in vividness or impressiveness. Some of the pseudo-hallucinations described
in the chapters of Phantasms and of the "Census" referred to above were very
vivid and impressive. On the other hand, the colourless and somewhat
formless figures seen by Dr. Henry Head's patients when suffering from
254 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
They are not experiences to which we have attempted to apply any
statistical method of investigation, and there is, therefore, nothing in
the publications of the Society with which M. Vaschide's results are
exactly comparable. This is indeed the reason why his results are
new and interesting. He has had an opportunity of observing, at
the time of their occurrence, evanescent phenomena, the frequency
of which in any circle it would be otherwise impossible to ascertain,
and of showing how little the impression of the percipients in his
circle that they are veridical is warranted. It is only to be re-
gretted that he has not given a fuller account of his observations,
and especially particulars of more of the actual experiences.
The 1374 experiences noted by M. Vaschide consisted of 962
visual, 298 auditory, 74 olfactory, and 40 tactile cases. 1
The per-
centage of what he counts as coincidental cases as defined above
was 3
-
49. He gives rather more particulars about the Roumanian
results. The total of these was 1011 with forty coincidences (3 96 per
cent.), of which in nineteen cases the percipient's experience preceded
and in twenty-one followed the corresponding event in the agent's life.
There were 740 visual cases among the Roumanian ones, of which
twenty-one (2-84 per cent.) are counted by M. Vaschide as coin-
cidental. M. Vaschide is sceptical about the applicability of a mathe-
matical calculation of chances to any real facts so far as I understand
him, and at any rate to psychological facts. And certainly it is difficult
to see how it could be applied to his figures in the absence of any
definition of the event in the asrent's life with which coincidence is
to be counted, or knowledge of the frequency of that event.
However, without calculation he expresses confidence (p. 81) that the
coincidences he has observed exceed what chance alone would give
(la veracite de ces 48 cas de coincidences . . . montre suffisament qu'elles
visceral disease (see Mr. Piddington's discussion of Dr. Head's Goulstonian
Lectures, Proceedings, Vol. XIX., pp. "267-341) must in themselves have been unim-
pressive. Nevertheless these last were truly externalised hallucinations, as
various things indicate. Thus, for instance, some patients before admission to the
hospital sprang out of bed to seize the figure standing near their beds, which
they supposed to be a person who had entered the room (p. 291). This would
not happen with a vision seen with the mind's eye only.
1
M. Vaschide very rarely found in the cases observed by him that two
senses appeared to be concerned simultaneously or nearly so (p. 54). This is
probably due to their being pseudo-hallucinations. In the externalised and
therefore more realistic experiences dealt with in our " Census of Hallucina-
tions " about 14 per cent, are reported as affecting simultaneously two or more
senses.
lxv.] Revieiv. 255
depassent la probability). He gives us no means of forming an inde-
pendent judgment on this conclusion, but it is not necessary that
we should do so, as he practically withdraws it two pages further
on, where he says that he does not regard the proportion ot
veridical cases as a chance, but as an accidental coincidence easily
explicable (cette proportion des cas veridiques nous ne la considerons
pas comme un hasard ; c'est une coincidence fortuite facilement
interpretable). The explanation is a little obscure, but seems to be
that all " telepathic hallucinations " in M. Vaschide's sense depend
on a special mental state of the percipient—chiefly of emotional
sympathy with the agent apparently—and that in most veridical
cases there is a kind of pre-established intellectual harmony (harmonie
intellectuelle preetablie) (p. 95 ; see also p. 73). At any rate the
emotional condition of the percipient seems a sufficient explanation
of the form of the impression in the cases described by M. Vaschide,
and no one we imagine would be inclined to found a theory of
telepathy on them.
It would be interesting to know to what extent M. Vaschide has
really studied the work of the S.P.K. He claims acquaintance with
the French (abbreviated) translation of Phantasms of the Living, and
has seen summaries of the papers on our " Census of Hallucinations
"
(Proceedings, Vol. X.) read at the Psychological Congress held at
Munich in 1896. But his use of the terminology of Phantasms of
the Living in a new sense and without explanation while criticising
that work, his failure to distinguish between hallucinations and
pseudo-hallucinations, his impression that information was accepted
by the authors of Phantasms from anonymous persons (p. 70), and
even that the inquiry was carried on through newspapers (p. 71),
as well as other errors, suggest a very superficial reading. We
cannot regard his book as affording useful criticism either of the
methods or the results of the investigations of our Society ; but his
own investigation is, as already said, interesting and useful, and
should not be lost sight of. We only regret that he has not given
his results to the world in greater detail.
Eleanor Mildred Sjdgwjok.
SPECIAL MEDICAL PART
OF THE
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LX.VI.
November, 191 2.
I.
SOME TYPES OF MULTIPLE PERSONALITY.
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Well-marked cases of multiple personality are rare, and if
we confined ourselves to the study of these cases alone we should
make little progress towards an understanding of the strange
and seemingly inexplicable phenomena which they present.
Fortunately, however, these are not the only ones that occur.
When we examine the records we find that a great variety of
forms may be observed, and that there are many gradations
between the well-marked cases and those which can hardly be
looked upon as examples of multiple personality at all. An
examination of some of these latter conditions will provide the
best introduction to the study of the complex phenomena of
double and multiple personality.
It is now very generally admitted by psychologists that in
some persons at least consciousness may be split up into two
or more parts. The split-off or dissociated portion may be but
a fragment of the whole self, or it may be so extensive, so
R
258 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
complex, and so self-sufficient as to be capable of fulfilling all
the functions of a personal consciousness. In hysteria we find
isolated paralyses or localized anaesthesias which are due to
the dissociation of relatively simple ideas, or we may find a
splitting so deep, a dissociation of so many kinds of mental
activity, that it leads to a complete change of personality.
All ideas, feelings, and actions associated in experience tend
to become linked together into systems or groups in such a way
that the stimulation of one element of a group excites the
activity of all the rest. Such a system or group is commonly
referred to as a complex. Now just as dissociation may fall
upon a relatively simple idea, such as the use of a limb, so
it may fall upon a complex of ideas related to some particular
experience. A complex formed in relation to some event accom-
panied by great emotion may become dissociated from the
personal consciousness, so that all recollection of the event
and of the feelings and actions connected with it becomes
impossible. A complex so dissociated does not cease to be
capable of functioning. For the time being it may become
latent, but it may occasionally exhibit extremely independent
activity. A case recorded by Professor Janet 1
well illustrates
the results of the functioning of such dissociated complexes.
A young girl nursed her dying mother. The poor woman,
who had reached the last stage of consumption, lived alone
with her daughter in a poor garret. Death came slowly with
suffocation, blood vomiting, and all its frightful procession of
symptoms. The girl struggled hopelessly against the impossible.
She watched her mother during sixty nights, working at her
sewing-machine to earn a few pennies necessary to sustain their
lives. After the mother's death she tried to revive the corpse, to
call the breath back again ; then as she put the limbs upright
the body fell to the floor, and it took infinite exertion to lift
it up again into the bed. Some time after the funeral the
young girl began to fall into somnambulic attacks in which
she acted again all the events that took place at her mother's
death, without forgetting the least detail.
One of the characteristics of these recurrent psychomotor
states or somnambulisms, as Janet calls them, is that they
repeat themselves indefinitely. Not only are the attacks always
1
The Major Symptoms of Hysteria, p. '29.
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 259
exactly alike, repeating the same movements, expressions and
words, but in the course of the same attack the same scene
may be repeated many times exactly in the same way. The
patient acts out some past experience as if in a dream, and
during the attack the senses are shut to all impressions not
connected with the dream. He perceives nothing except the
idea he is possessed of, and he remembers nothing except that
one idea. When the attack is over there is a return of all
sensations, the lost memories of waking life are restored, and
the events of the dream are forgotten. This loss of memory
bears not only on the period of the somnambulism ; it bears
also on the event that has given birth to the somnambulism,
on all the facts that are connected with it, and on the feelings
that are related to it. Thus the young girl referred to forgot
during her waking state all the events connected with her
mother's illness and death. She was callous and insensible,
and her filial love, the feeling of affection she had felt for
her mother, seemed to have quite vanished.
Many separate experiences may have taken part in the
formation of a dissociated complex, but they are all bound
together by some common element of feeling or emotion.
When these experiences are reproduced in somnambulic attacks,
the various episodes are enacted in succession, though not
always in the same order, and the reproduction may or may
not be modified by perception and association of ideas. When
the reproduction is not modified by external impressions, the
attacks are very similar to those already described. But if
ability to perceive surrounding objects be retained, the regular
development of the somnambulism may be interfered with and
modified by the performance of actions determined by the
actual situation. In other cases still further modifications may
be introduced by association of ideas. When dissociation bears
upon any large section of mental life, the interlinking of the
various dissociated complexes may afford material for the deter-
mination of a great variety of somnambulic acts. In illustration
of this we may refer to the case of the old soldier recorded by
Mesnet. This man had received a gunshot wound in the
head and was afterwards subject to attacks of somnambulism
in which he gave an exact repetition of events of his life
when in hospital. But when a pen was put into his hand
2G0 T. W. Mitchell, M.J). [part
during the somnambulic state, he would write letters having
reference to other periods of his life. He could hear nothing
in this state, but if ideas were suggested to him through the
sense of touch, he would perform appropriate actions which
were determined by old memories.
In all these cases conduct consists mainly of repetitions of
actions appropriate to past events in the patient's history,
and it is not relevant to his actual circumstances during the
somnambulism. When the dissociation is of such a nature as
to permit a just appreciation of the surroundings during the
secondary state, and ability to react in an appropriate manner,
there is a tendency for the state to be prolonged and to be
filled up by a course of conduct in which are displayed the
purpose and contingency which we usually regard as character-
istic of waking life. Attacks of this kind usually take the
form of fugues or ambulatory automatisms and are generally
described as such ; but the change of character which is
sometimes exhibited during the secondary state, and the amnesia
for the events of the fugue which ensues when the normal
state is restored, justify us in regarding them as genuine
instances of double personality.
Prolonged fugues appear to be generally of hysterical origin,
but shorter periods of intelligent conduct followed by amnesia
are frequently met with as a result of a variety of causes.
Head injuries, profound emotional shock, carbon monoxide poison-
ing, alcoholic intoxication, epileptic attacks, and other conditions,
may so affect consciousness that acts performed during hours or
days subsequent to the trauma are completely forgotten when
recovery of normal health occurs. But the lost memories are not
destroyed ;
they are merely dissociated ; and by using various
artificial measures, such as hypnotism or hypnoidization, they
can be restored, and an account of what happened during the
abnormal state may be obtained.
Fugues are of not infrequent occurrence, and many of the
cases of loss of memory reported from time to time in the
newspapers are undoubtedly of this character. These people
have lost for the time being the memory of their real personality.
Some system of thoughts which determines their wandering has
become dissociated from the personal consciousness. As is the
tendency of all dissociated ideas, this system of thoughts takes
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 261
on independent functioning, and when it is working itself out
in action, the other systems of thoughts relating to the per-
sonality, to the former life and its responsibilities, become
latent. The whole personality is no longer in control of con-
duct. When through some chance association or through
artificial means the memory of the former existence is restored,
the lately active complex becomes latent again, and the events
associated with its recent activity are forgotten.
The principal characteristics of a fugue are well brought
out in the following case, which I quote from Professor Janet
The subject is a boy of seventeen, Rou., son of a neuropathic
mother, rather nervous himself, who already had, when he was ten
years old, tics and contractures in the neck. ... At thirteen he often
went to a small public-house, visited by old sailors. They would
urge him to drink, and, when he was somewhat flustered, they
would fill his imagination with beautiful tales in which deserts,
palm trees, lions, camels, and negroes were pictured in a most
wonderful and alluring way. The young boy was very much struck
by those pictures, particularly as he was half tipsy. However,
when his drunkenness was over, the stories seemed to be quite
forgotten ; he never spoke of travels, and on the contrary led a
very sedentary life, for he had chosen the placid occupation of a
grocer's boy, and he only sought to rise in that honourable career.
Now there came on quite unforeseen accidents, almost always on
the occasion of some fatigue or a fit of drunkenness. He then felt
transformed, forgot to return home, and thought no more of his
family. ... I will dwell on only one of his fugues, which is
particularly amusing, and was of extraordinary duration, for it
lasted three months. He had left Paris about the fifteenth of May,
and had walked to the neighbourhood of Melun. This time he was
thinking about the means of succeeding in his scheme and of
getting safely to the Mediterranean. Until then he had failed,
owing to fatigue and misery : the question was to find means of
living as he went along. A bright idea had occurred to him ; not
far from Melun, at Moret, there are canals that go more or less
straight to the south of France, and in those canals there are ships
laden with goods. He succeeded in being accepted as a servant
on a ship laden with coal. His work was terrible ; now he had
to shovel the coal, now to haul the rope in company with a donkey
called Cadet, his only friend. He was badly fed, often beaten,
262 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
exhausted with fatigue, but, though you would scarcely believe it,
he was radiant with happiness. He thought only of one thing,
of the joy of drawing nearer to the sea. Unhappily, in Auvergne,
the boat stopped, and he was forced to leave it and continue his
journey on foot, which was more difficult. In order not to be
resourceless, he hired himself as a helper to an old china mender.
They went slowly along, working on the road.
Then, one evening, an unlooked-for event took place again. The
day's work had been a success ; the two companions had earned
seven francs. The old china mender stopped and said to E., " My
boy, we deserve a good supper : and we will keep to-day's feast
it is the fifteenth of August." On hearing this, the boy heedlessly
said :
" The fifteenth of August 1 Why, it is the feast of the
Virgin Mary, the anniversary of my mother's name-da}'." He had
scarcely uttered these words when he appeared to be quite changed.
He looked all round him with astonishment, and turning to his
companion, said, " But who are you, and what am I doing here
with you 1
" The poor man was amazed, and was quite unable to
make the boy understand the situation ; the latter still believed
himself in Paris, and had lost all memory of the preceding months.
They had to go to the village mayor's, where, with great difficulty,
the matter was made more or less clear. The mayor telegraphed to
Paris, and the prodigal child was sent back home. 1
In this case we see something of the way in which fugues
may originate. It is exceptional in showing so clearly how
the ideas and desires which determined the fugue became
implanted in the patient's mind, and how they became dis-
sociated from the waking consciousness under the influence
of alcoholic intoxication. As a rule it is not so easy to dis-
cover how the determining ideas found an entrance into the
mind or how they became dissociated. In some cases they
seem to have originated in day-dreaming or in other states of
abstraction. Sometimes they appear to be ideas or wishes
that have been entertained in the normal state, but have been
voluntarily repressed as being incompatible with the general
character and purposes of the individual.
The termination of this fugue is also instructive. Just as
an attack of hysterical somnambulism may be artificially repro-
duced by insistently directing the patient's attention towards
'Janet, loc. cit., p. 51.
lxvl] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 263
the idea which dominates it, so a fugue may he brought to
a close by some chance impression which succeeds in arousing
emotional complexes related to the normal life.
It seems impossible to draw any hard and fast line between
fugues and some of the classical cases of double personality.
On the whole it may be said that the fugue is characterized
by a tendency to wander, by a certain unity of purpose which
links the dissociated ideas together, and by the persistence
of this purpose as a directive force in determining conduct
while the fugue lasts. It is true that in some fugues the
Working out of this purpose seems vague and obscure, and
the wandering may appear quite purposeless to an observer
but it is probable that in every fugue the conduct of the
patient is determined by a subconscious desire for some new
experience or by aversion to some experience of his ordinary
life. There is something in his life from which he feels he
must fly, or some anticipated good towards which he must go.
In conditions which may more strictly be regarded as cases
of double personality, conduct in the secondary state seems
to have no such continuity of purpose running through it.
Dissociation seems to bear upon a larger section of the self,
and the mental activity displayed is of a more varied character.
In some respects at least it more closely resembles the activity
of ordinary life and seems less guided by any fixed idea. But
we find transitional forms where any such distinction seems
to break down. The well-known case of Ansel Bourne 1
may
perhaps come under this category. In the first fortnight of
his secondary state, Ansel Bourne's conduct conformed to that
of an ordinary fugue. He forgot his personal identity, assumed
a new name, and wandered about from city to city. In the
remaining six weeks he led a quiet, respectable life as a small
shop-keeper. In his second state he had no recollection of
his former life, and when he came to himself he had no recol-
lection of his life during the second state. The lost memories
were, however, recovered during hypnosis, and the revelation
so obtained of his frame of mind at the beginning of his
fugue probably indicates the nature of the ideas that deter-
mined it. He said " he wanted to get away somewhere—he
didn't know where—and have rest." When he opened his
1
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII., p. 221.
264 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
little shop, the fugue proper came to an end. The idea which
determined his flight was about to be realized, and while it
was working itself out he lived the life of a secondary per-
sonality which was conditioned by the breach in the continuity
of his memory, rather than by any great change in his char-
acter or conduct.
So far we have considered disintegrations of personality in
which the dissociated elements comprise only a small portion
of the mental life. A single idea, or a group of ideas linked
together into a complex by some common underlying feeling,
becomes split off more or less completely from the personpi
consciousness. When it is aroused to function, it displays
great independence and takes possession of the whole organism.
A new state is entered upon, a new personality appears,
whose actions are initiated and guided by the dominating
complex.
The section of mental life thus cut off is relatively so small
that its disappearance does not appreciably affect the integrity
of the personal consciousness, so that both before and after the
somnambulistic attack the individual is regarded as being his
normal self. But it is possible for the dissociation to bear
upon such a large section of consciousness that the curtailment
of the self which its withdrawal entails may amount to a
change of personality. And the dissociated portions of con-
sciousness may lack the community of feeling or of purpose
which would enable them to take possession of the bodily
organism on their own account. Dissociation is revealed by
gaps or disabilities in the normal self, rather than by the
appearance of any new form of activity simulating a second
self. But if the dissociated portions of consciousness should
suddenly become reinstated so as to lead to the formation once
more of the normal personality, and if again they should
gradually or suddenly drop out of consciousness so as again
to leave the normal self crippled and curtailed by their
disappearance, we should have an alternation of two selves
whose relation to each other might not readily be recognized.
Some of the best known of the recorded examples of double
personality are to be explained in this way, and the misinter-
pretation of such cases has given unwarrantable support to
the view that a secondary self is sometimes an improvement
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 2G5
on the primary personality. Such a view may or may not be
true ; but these cases cannot be adduced in support of it.
The classical example of this form of double personality is
Azam's Felida X.1
The condition which Azam described as
Felida's primary state was undoubtedly the crippled or curtailed
self produced by hysterical dissociation ; and the condition
which he described as secondary was really the normal self
restored by the synthesis of the dissociated states. But the
real secondary personality in this case was, in fact, the
hysterical condition (see diagrams on Plate II, p. 285), which had
come on so gradually that no distinct gap in the continuity of
memory was observed. When the two phases began to alter-
nate, the curtailed self became amnesic for the restored self,
while the restored self had no amnesia for the hysterical phase.
There is in cases of the Felida type no reciprocal amnesia
such as is observed in the cases we have previously examined.
Felida's alternations occurred spontaneously and for a long
time they were misinterpreted. It was only when it was
discovered that similar phenomena could be artificially produced
that the status of the two phases and the mechanism of their
alternation became apparent. Janet's prolonged researches on
Marcelline I!.
2
—an artificial Felida, as he has termed her
afford us the clearest notion of the way in which double
personalities of this kind come into being, but we do not seem
justified in adopting Janet's view that this is the type to which
all forms of multiple personality must in the last analysis be
held to conform.
In cases of the Felida type I have supposed that the split-
off section of consciousness has not the structural unity which
would permit it to manifest as a secondary personality, and
that the two selves which are exhibited are merely the normal
self and the same self shorn of some of its faculties or powers.
But it is possible for a split-off section of consciousness, even
when dissociation is extensive, to have so much structural unity
that it is capable of utilizing the whole bodily organism for its
expression, and of showing all the features of a second self.
"We may thus have the curtailed primary self alternating with
a self formed by the split-off portion, and a hypothetical third
1
Bitiet, Les Alterations de la Personnalite, pp. 6-20.
-Revue Philosophique : Avril, 1910, p. 3'29 ;
Mai, 1910, p. 483.
2G6 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
self, the normal self, which will appear if a synthesis of the
dissociated states can be effected.
There are several cases on record in which this interpretation
seems legitimate. But before going on to examine some
instances in which such a third self has appeared or in which
its possible formation could be predicted, we may look for a
moment at an intermediate type in which a third personality
may arise. These are cases in which the stress causing
the dissociation has been so severe that everything that goes to
the formation of a personal consciousness disappears, leaving
seemingly nothing but a bare consciousness without any
content to play the part of a secondary personality. It
was to such a condition that Mr. Hanna was reduced as the
result of an accident.1
All knowledge of his former life, all
his acquisitions and memories, even his acquaintance with the
meaning of the organic sensations of his own body, had com-
pletely disappeared. But he was capable of learning, and at
the end of a few weeks he had learnt much. In doing so he
developed a new personality which had no knowledge of his
former self. But the old memories were not destroyed, they
were only dissociated ; and in the course of the treatment
adopted by Dr. Sidis, the old self began to alternate with the
new self. The old self when it reappeared was as ignorant of the
new self as the new self was of the old self (see diagrams on Plate
I, p. 284), therein differing from what happens in alternations
of the Felida type. The only way to ensure the stability and
permanence of the old self was to get it to synthesize with the
new self, thus producing a third self which knew both the others.
This third self was, however, different from the normal self
which emerges as a third self in the synthesis of two selves
which are each but fragments of an original whole self. For
in the Hanna case each self was a whole self, although one
had a much fuller content, a much richer store of memories,
than the other. And the third self, instead of being the
original self restored by the union of two halves, was the
original self with the memories of the new self superadded.
The third self in the Hanna case must not then be confused
with the third self which arises from the reintegration of two
selves, each of which is abnormal and fragmentary. The case
1
Sidis and Goodhart, Multiple Personality (New York, 1905).
LXVI.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 267
of Mary Eeynolds,1
described by Weir Mitchell, may probably
have been of this latter kind, but the restoration of the normal
personality seemed to take place gradually late in life, and
there is no definite record of the inclusive memory which such
a third self should imply. A far more striking instance of
the restoration of the normal personality by the synthesis of
two dissociated states is to be found in the history of Miss
Beauchamp.2
Dr. Prince has shown that by a synthesis of
B I and B IV the original Miss Beauchamp was reconstructed.
B I was the original self curtailed by the dissociation of a
portion of consciousness which six years afterwards reappeared
as another personality, B IV. B I's memory was continuous
for her whole waking life up to the appearance of B IV.
B IV's memory was continuous and coextensive with B I's up
to the time of the dissociation, but B IV had no knowledge
of the six years of B I's existence. When B I and B IV
began to alternate, there was reciprocal amnesia. When the
real Miss Beauchamp was reconstructed she had memory for
the whole lives of B I and B IV. She was a third self formed
by the synthesis of two dissociated states, each of which was
a portion of the original self (see diagrams on Plate I, p. 284).
The kind of disintegration of personality which leads to
the formation of two curtailed selves may in rare instances
be carried much farther, and instead of two selves, either of
which might be mistaken for a more or less normal self—so
many of the characteristics of selfhood do they retain—we may
get a large number of incomplete selves, some of which are so
abortive as hardly to warrant the designation of selves at all.
The multiple personalities of Louis V.3
and of Mary Barnes 4
seem to belong to this category. But however many of these
personalities appear in any particular case, so long as they are
but split-off fragments of the original self, restoration of the
normal personality by a reintegration and synthesis of all the
parts is always hypothetically possible.
We have thus constructed a series of dissociations of con-
sciousness, ranging from the split-off ideas of hysterical som-
nambulisms to the most extreme forms of multiple personality,
:
See Myers, Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 336.
2
Morton Prince, The Dissociation of a Personality (New York, 1906).
3
See Myers, Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 338.
4
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XVIII., p. 352.
268 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
and we have found the mechanism of dissociation and the
resulting phenomena to be of the same general type throughout
the whole of the series. A portion of the self becomes split off
and excluded from the experience of the remaining consciousness.
The split-off portion remains, for the most part, latent ; but
when by any means it is aroused, it displays extremely inde-
pendent functioning. When it is sufficiently unified to be
able to take possession of the bodily organism it manifests as
a somnambulism, a fugue, or a secondary personality ; it
alternates with the normal consciousness, or rather with what
is left of the normal consciousness ; the experience of the
two states is discontinuous, and their memories are mutually
exclusive. Have we then exhausted the possibilities of dissocia-
tions of consciousness ? Can we find a place in this series for
every form of multiple personality ?
In speaking of the Beauchamp case I said that the real
Miss Beauchamp was reconstructed by the synthesis of B I and
B IV. But what about Sally 1 There is hardly a vestige of
Sally in the restored Miss Beauchamp. When the real Miss
Beauchamp was found, Sally went, as she herself said, back
to where she came from, and it is there that we must look
for her, if we can find out where it is.
I have said nothing of the differences of character which
the various selves of multiple personalities may present, and
we may disregard the character of Sally and confine our attention
to one special feature in which she differs from all the other
cases referred to so far. This feature is that Sally not only
alternated with B I and B IV, but also existed as a co-conscious
personality when B I or B IV was present as an alternating per-
sonality. Thus when B I was present as an alternating person-
ality, Sally co-consciously knew B Fs experiences—her feelings,
thoughts, and actions—and knew them as belonging to B I.
But she also claimed to have at the same time concomitant
experiences of her own. And when she appeared as an alter-
nating personality, she remembered not only B I's experiences
but also her own co-conscious experiences. She claimed to
exist continuously as an independent personality throughout all
the various phases of Miss Beauchamp's life. A consciousness
like this seems something quite different from any of the forms
of multiple personality we have examined, and if we find other
LXVI.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 269
examples of a similar kind we must conclude that we have
here a new type of secondary self which cannot be fitted
into the series of dissociations which we have constructed.
The simplest examples of two separate streams of thought
coexisting in the same individual are to be found in certain
hypnotic experiments. The only satisfactory explanation of the
fulfilment of a post-hypnotic suggestion at a time that the
waking consciousness is fully occupied with other matters is
to suppose that some sort of co-conscious intelligence is at the
same time attending to the fulfilment of the suggestion. When
the performance of the suggested act necessitates some definite
mental process, such as making an elaborate calculation, the
evidence for the existence of two simultaneously acting streams
of thought is still better. Although we are not bound to
suppose that when waking life is resumed the hypnotic con-
sciousness ordinarily persists as anything worthy of being
called a second self, yet the phenomena observable in trained
hypnotic subjects do point to something of this kind in these
cases. Indeed, it can be shown that a true secondary personality
which is demonstrably co-conscious with the waking self, may
be artificially produced or may develop spontaneously during
hypnosis. A good example of this may be found in Janet's
account of his experiments with his subject Lucie, but perhaps
the best instances on record are the Leontine and Leonore
personalities which he discovered on hypnotizing Leonie (Madame
B.).1
In Janet's description of the origin of Adrienne (Lucie 3)
we see the very beginning of such a personality taking form
under the hands of the experimenter. In Leontine and Leonore
he seemed to encounter two personalities already fully formed,
each having definite characteristics and in some respects differ-
ent memories. Leonie knew nothing of Leontine or of Leonore.
Leontine was co-conscious with Leonie and knew her life, but
did not know Leonore. Leonore was co-conscious with and
knew the lives of both Leonie and Leontine (see diagrams on
Plate II, p. 285).
I have been able on several occasions to obtain similar
stages of memory in suitable hypnotic subjects, but only very
rarely have the different stages displayed any distinct differ-
ences in character. My experience is that if the experimenter
'See Myers, Human Personality, Vol. I., pp. 322-330.
270 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
maintains the same attitude towards the subject in each stage,
if he speaks in the same tone and about the same topics,
the stages do not in respect of character show any distinguishing
peculiarities. But if the experimenter adopts a more familiar
or frivolous attitude towards one stage, and a more reserved or
serious attitude towards another, the change of attitude in the
experimenter is responded to by the subject, and each stage
when it is subsequently induced exhibits respectively the levity
or seriousness which was indirectly suggested by the experi-
menter on their first appearance. And although the characters
of Leontine and Leonore seemed to exist ready made when
Janet first discovered them, it must be remembered that Leonie
had frequently been hypnotized by different physicians many
years before she came under Janet's observation. It seems
probable that the differences of character exhibited in the three
states, although no doubt expressions of tendencies potential in
Leonie's original nature, may have had in their development
some outside encouragement of the kind I have suggested.
Nevertheless, we do sometimes find secondary personalities of
this kind which seem to exist, in an incipient form at least, where
no possibility of their artificial origin can be entertained. In my
own case of Milly P. (see below, pp. 286 et seq.) the patient
had not been previously hypnotized by any one, yet I seemed
to discover a hypnotic personality, claiming to be co-conscious,
whose character differed in some respects from that of the
waking personality. But I confess that the extraordinary
rapidity with which Amelia developed self-consciousness and
initiative after I had given her a name, tends to make me
suspect the genuineness of the spontaneous formation of any
co-conscious personality that may appear in the course of
hypnotic experiment or treatment.
There are, however, several recorded cases which seem to
indicate that a co-conscious personality may arise spontaneously,
or that it may develop from some split-off fragment of con-
sciousness acting as a nucleus around which subconscious
experiences during normal life, or experiences during spontaneous
states of mental dissociation, may accrete. The most notorious
example of this kind is the B III personality (Sally) of the
Beauchamp case.
Whatever our final view of Sally's personality may be, we
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 271
must not minimize or forget the resemblances between Sally
and the other co-conscious personalities already referred to.
One feature in particular which is common to them all is that
it seems unnecessary for them to be synthesized with the
waking consciousness in order to form a " normal " personality.
These co-conscious states do not as a rule seem ever to have
participated in the structure of the waking self, and no synthesis
of them with the waking self is necessary in the interests of
mental health. This is certainly true of the co-conscious per-
sonalities developed by hypnotism. And even if the nucleus
of Sally Beauchamp's individuality had been derived from
split-off elements of the primary personality, her growth and
development must have taken place in the subconscious. So
that as a fully formed personality Sally was never a part of
the original Miss Beauchamp in the same sense that B I or B IV
was, and when the reconstruction of the disintegrated self
was to be brought about, there was no room for Sally except
" where she came from."
Are we to conceive of her as being still there as an imprisoned
and impotent co-consciousness, or may we suppose that in Miss
Beauchamp's reconstruction those very elements from which
Sally evolved have become reintegrated in the complete Miss
Beauchamp, and that by the withdrawal of these elements from
the subconscious, Sally's personality has become for the time
being totally disintegrated ? There is not much evidence in
Dr. Prince's book that anything of this kind took place, but
writing at a later date he says 1
"In Miss Beauchamp as a
whole, normal, without disintegration, it was easy to recognize
all three dispositions as '
sides of her character,' though each
was kept ordinarily within proper bounds by the correcting
influence of the others. It was only necessary to put her in
an environment which encouraged one or the other side, to
associate her with people who strongly suggested one or the
other of her own characteristics, whether religious, social,
pleasure-loving, or intellectual, to see the characteristics of B I,
Sally, or B IV stand out in relief as the predominant personality."
It is hard to say just how much or how little, if any, of the
original self may be necessary to form a nucleus around which
a co-conscious personality may grow, or what kind and extent
1
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Vol. III., No. 4, p. 2S7.
272 T. W. Mitchell, M.J). [part
of dissociation may be sufficient to afford the requisite mental
material. Every normal self is an ideal construction, and in
its formation much has to be cast aside as being useless or
unsuitable. A secondary self that arises as a parasitic growth
around a nucleus of cast-off mental dispositions may be more
excellent in some respects than the primary self. Yet it may
be not only unsuited for the practical purposes of life, but
even positively detrimental to their realization. It may, indeed,
be so incompatible with the practical self which has to adjust
itself to its environment at all costs, that any real synthesis
of the two selves is impossible. We need not be surprised
that in the reconstruction of the real Miss Beauchamp there
was no room for Sally. Sally may, indeed, appear to be a
stronger and more interesting personality than either B I or
B IV, but her status is different. She is no integral part
of the Miss Beauchamp who, for years before the final
disintegrating shock, had been endeavouring to construct a
self that would be best suited to the practical purposes of
life. She represents rather a phase of Miss Beauchamp's nature
that had long been subject to repression as being incompatible
with the system of purposes on which the construction of her
true self essentially depended.
In tracing the development of co-conscious processes from
the doubling of the stream of thought in hypnotic experiments
up to the co-conscious life of such a personality as Sally
Beauchamp, we seem to have constructed another series of
dissociations whose differentia is this very fact of co-conscious
activity. I do not wish to suggest that in practice we can
draw a sharp line between these two kinds of dissociation or
that mixed forms may not be met with, but there are certain
features peculiar to each which seem to justify us in regarding
them as separate types. In the first series the split-off portions
of the self seem to remain latent until the attack or alternation
occurs. During their periods of latency they seem cut off
from all experience, and do not grow or develop in any way.
There is a division of the self without any true doubling of
consciousness. In the second series the dissociated portion
of consciousness may never have formed a part of the waking
self, and consequently cannot properly be described as a split-off
part of the mind. When it is not in evidence as an alternating
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 273
personality, it is not latent. It is co-conscious, and may have
experience and grow and develop in the subconscious. There
is a doubling of consciousness without any true division of
the normal self.
A co-consciousness, whether associated with hysteria or not,
usually, if not always, manifests only in cases that have been
subjected to hypnotic or other artificial procedures, and we
may regard it as being essentially of the same nature as
other hypnotic phenomena, without thereby implying that
these procedures have produced it. Split-off portions of the
self may indeed sometimes exhibit proof of their co-conscious
existence, but it is very rare to have any manifestation of
such co-consciousness unless some artificial means are taken to
elicit it. It may seem unjustifiable to class Sally Beauchamp
with ordinary hypnotic phenomena. And so it may be, for
Sally has been a puzzle to many of her commentators. But
one cannot help feeling that if B I had never been hypnotized,
Sally would never have been " born."
Were it not for our knowledge of the possibility of the
coexistence in one individual of two independent streams of
thought as revealed by hypnotic experiments, we might be
inclined to think that the claim of a secondary personality to
continuous co-conscious activity is an illusion. But when we
survey all the evidence for the existence of co-conscious states
there seems no good reason why we should deny the claim
of such a personality as Sally Beauchamp. There is, however,
one case on record which seems greatly to increase the difficulty
of forming any conception of the relations which obtain between
the various personalities when co-consciousness is claimed by
one or more of them. Dr. Prince has published the autobio-
graphy of a personality who describes with great fullness and
care her own origin by dissociation from an originally inte-
grated personality C, and her development into a secondary
personality B. who claimed to be co-conscious with another
personality A., formed by the secession of B. from C.
1
The
original healthy person C. broke up into A. and B., who alter-
nated one with another. B. claimed to be co-conscious when
A. was present as an alternating personality, but A. was
1
"My Life as a Dissociated Personality," Journal of Abnormal Psychology,
Vol. III., Nos. 4 and 5.
274 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
latent when B. was present. Consequently A. was amnesic
for B., but B. was not amnesic for A. Under Dr. Prince's
treatment the original C. was obtained by the synthesis of
A. and B., and the most puzzling feature of the case is the
claim of B. to persist as a co-consciousness after the normal
C. had been thus reconstructed. Dr. Prince, in a prefatory
note to B.'s account of her life, after referring to the co-
consciousness when A. was present, says :
" The writer, B.,
claims to have the same co-conscious life with this apparently
normal stable personality." Now it is very difficult to under-
stand how B. could participate in the synthesis by which C.
was obtained, and at the same time persist as a personality
distinct from and co-conscious with the personality thus
reconstructed.
It is in our second series, I think, that we must find a
place for many of those more or less fully formed personalities
which are met with in connexion with " mediumship " and are
usually referred to as " trance personalities." It is true that
trance personalities do not, as a rule, alternate with the waking
consciousness to the extent of taking possession of the whole
bodily organism, and in many instances they afford no definite
evidence of their existence as co-conscious activities. Yet in
so far as their origin cannot be traced to any large splitting
off or secession from the waking self, they seem to conform
to the type of secondary personality whose growth and develop-
ment take place entirely in the subconscious.
I have assumed that the evolution of these personalities
must be dependent on subconscious experiences in relation to
the ordinary environment. But if, as some people think, man
has an environment which transcends sense, it may be that
this environment can affect the subconscious without having
any noticeable influence on the waking self. It would then
be legitimate to suppose that experiences related to such an
environment might sometimes take part in the formation of
secondary personalities.
It would be out of place here to enter into any consideration
of the supernormal phenomena which have been claimed to
be sometimes associated with trance or other dissociated states.
These are commonly lightly dismissed by medical men as being
merely products of hysteria and mal-observation. But even
LXVI.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 275
if every state of dissociation be labelled hysterical, we gain
nothing by claiming this, and we lose nothing by admitting it.
If there is any transcendental world, and if it is possible for
us to get into relation with it, it may very well be that such
intercommunication is only possible during states of mental
dissociation. And in regard to supernormal phenomena it does
not matter in the least what the term hysteria may connote.
The supernormality of an automatic script has to be determined
by other considerations than the psychological state of the
automatist. If it can be shown that any hysteric really has
the gift of clairvoyance or any other supernormal power, it
will be just as good evidence as if he were a normal person.
If physical objects do move without contact in the presence
of any one who is said to be hysterical, it is just as wonderful
as if they so move in the presence of some one who is not.
In all these conditions which we have examined there is a
division or a doubling of personality. Normally, we know all
our thoughts, our feelings, and our actions, as cohering together
in our one personal consciousness, but in cases of multiple
personality the self may become divided or curtailed, and the
stream of consciousness may become discontinuous or doubled
or multiplied. The unity of the self is broken, the parts
may function alternately or concomitantly, and one part may
not know the other.
If we try to put forward any hypothesis that will be
explanatory of the various forms of multiple personality, we
are immediately confronted by a problem which is in itself
so difficult of solution that no satisfactory answer to it has
yet been found. In order to explain how consciousness can
be split into two, we must first be able to explain how it
ever comes to be one. If we try to understand how a dis-
sociation of personality can occur, we must first understand
how a unitary personality ever comes into existence.
There are two main views as to what constitutes the ground
or basis of the unity of consciousness. All who accept the
doctrine of psycho-physical parallelism or any other monistic
view of mind and body maintain that this ground must be
sought in the structural and functional continuity of the nervous
system. The whole neuronic substratum of mental life is
270 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
functionally continuous, and the unity of the conscious stream
which is correlated with its activity depends upon this continuity.
If the total aggregate of inter-related neurones becomes func-
tionally discontinuous, there will be a splitting or dissociation
of consciousness. As happens in our first series of dissociations,
one part of the disaggregated mass of neurones may continue
to function and to be accompanied by a stream of consciousness,
while the other becomes for a time latent. This latent portion
may afterwards become functionally active while the other becomes
latent. Or, as in Dr. Prince's case of B. C. A. (if we can trust
the introspection of the personality B.), both portions of the dis-
aggregated mass may continue to function so as to give rise
to two coexisting streams of consciousness in one individual.
A somewhat similar explanation may with some difficulty be
given of the co-conscious streams of thought manifested in
hypnotic experiments and by hypnotic personalities. The
chief difficulty consists in providing for a duplicating of neural
structures corresponding to the duplicating of the content of
the mind which these personalities show.
The other main view of the unity of consciousness is that
it must have as its ground some psychical subject or being,
the ego, soul, or spirit, which alone can account for the
fusion of the physical manifold of experience into one psychical
unitary whole. Those who adopt this dualistic hypothesis find
it difficult to reconcile cases of double personality with that
view of the soul which regards it as being in itself the full
personality independently of the nervous system. If we
ascribe to the soul only the forms of mental activity, and
to the nervous system the content of the mind, we may
suppose that in the cases of divided personality described in
our first series of dissociations the soul interacts alternately
with two or more functionally discontinuous systems of neurones.
Or we may suppose that when the split-off part functions as
a secondary personality, a second psychic being or soul enters
into relation with this portion of the nervous system, while
the original soul retains its relations with the other portion.
This latter supposition seems to be unnecessary, for if these
phases of the empirical self have their original ground of
unity in the soul, they may still be so unified during their
phenomenally separate existence. However diverse or opposed
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 277
these phases may appear when exhibiting as alternating person-
alities, the fact that they have formed part of the originally
unitary self seems to get over the difficulty of regarding them
as manifestations of the activity of one and the same soul.
But if such diversity of character and of conduct as may
occur in secondary personalities which are alternately but not
simultaneously conscious can be unified in one and the same
psychical subject or soul, there would seem to be no need to
postulate any second soul in cases of secondary personality
which show co-conscious activity. Yet we know that some
modern defenders of the soul have felt bound to suggest some-
thing of this kind in order to explain the occurrence of such
a personality as Sally Beauchamp. Dr. M'Dougall thinks that
the facts of this case can best be explained " by assuming
that a normally subordinate psychic being obtains, through
the weakening of the control of the normally dominant soul,
an opportunity for exercising and developing its potentialities
in an unusual degree." 1
In view of the gradations that may be observed between
the simpler forms of co-conscious activity and fully developed
co-conscious personalities, the acceptance of this hypothesis
is only compatible with belief in a plurality of psychical
beings or souls in every bodily organism. And if belief in
a plurality of psychical existents associated with one bodily
organism be accepted on general metaphysical grounds, we must
apply it consistently wherever such application is logically
demanded. There seem no good grounds for Dr. M'Dougall's
contention that " abnormal conditions of two distinct types
are commonly confused together under the head of co-conscious
or subconscious activity," 2
and that a second soul or psyche
is necessary in the one type and not in the other. At the
extremes of the series of co-conscious phenomena the conditions
do indeed seem to be very different, but it is impossible to
say at what point secondary psychical beings or souls must
be assumed.
If we must postulate a soul as the necessary ground of
unity of the normal consciousness, it is perhaps more probable
that in even the most pronounced cases of multiple person-
ality there is some underlying unity, rather than that secondary
1
Body and Mind, p. 368, foot-note. 2 Ibid., p. 368.
278 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
personalities are manifestations of the activity of secondary
and independent souls. One possible ground of such under-
lying unity is indeed self-evident in the fact that all the
different personalities make use of one and the same bodily
organism, and it does not seem impossible to believe that
they are all manifestations of one and the same psychical
organism.
This possibility will seem the more easily conceivable if
we adopt the view of the relation between mind and body out-
lined by M. Bergson in his philosophical writings. His
conception of " pure memory " as being entirely a spiritual
manifestation and totally unconnected with any brain traces,
has the same practical consequences as the conception of the
soul as bearing both the form and the content of the mind.
But his view of the "bodily memory," made up of the sum
of the sensori-motor systems organized by habit, as being a
necessary factor in the reappearance of any recollection in
consciousness, helps us to understand how secondary person-
alities, even when exhibiting co-consciousness, may be manifesta-
tions of the activity of a single soul. On this view the soul
may be regarded as the ground of the unity of consciousness,
but the structural and functional continuity of the higher
nervous system is a necessary factor in the phenomenal
manifestation of this unity. Although consciousness may not
have its true ground of unity in the functional or structural
continuity of the nervous system, its manifestation as a unity is
conditioned by such continuity, and any breach of continuity in
the nervous system will lead to a disruption of the unity of
the personal consciousness. We may, therefore, suppose that
all the cases included in our first series of dissociations may
be accounted for by a breach in the functional continuity of
the systems of neurones through which the soul habitually
manifests.
Can the same principles be applied to explain cases of
multiple personality of the co-conscious or hypnotic type ?
Can these be accounted for by any disruption of the systems
of neurones, whose functioning is correlated with the normal
waking consciousness ? I do not think they can. Divisions
of the self dependent on a dissociation of neurones do not
know each other. They manifest as personalities alternately,
LXVI.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 279
and the one does not remember the other. But in person-
alities of the co-conscious type—in the hypnotic consciousness
and in hypnotic personalities—one of the phases or personalities
does know the other. It may know it as part of itself,
or it may know it as something so different from itself that
it will not admit any identity or recognize any community
of interest with it.
The knowledge of the primary personality by the secondary
seems totally opposed to the view that these personalities are
produced by a breach in the continuity of the systems of
neurones subserving waking consciousness. To say that such
knowledge is telepathically acquired, is to invoke a precision
and fullness of thought-transference of which we have no
experimental evidence and to which all the evidence we have
is directly opposed. A co-conscious personality's experience, in
so far as it is experience of the same things as that of the
primary personality, must be obtained through the same
sensory channels and must be subserved by the same neuronic
systems. In so far as the co-conscious experience is a different
experience, or an experience of different things, it must be due
to the inclusion in the functioning aggregate of a wider system
of neural elements. The hypnotic consciousness, and the con-
sciousness of hypnotic personalities, is invariably wider and
more inclusive than that of the waking person, and it cannot
be correlated with the functioning of a split-off portion or of
a curtailed remnant of the total neural substratum of con-
sciousness.
In view of the occurrence of co-conscious personalities, we
seem bound to look for some other ground of the felt unity
of consciousness besides the spatial continuity of a nervous
system through which a unitary soul may manifest. Such a
ground may, perhaps, be found in the conception of a psycho-
physical threshold which delimits, though it does not con-
stitute, personality. Fechner introduced the conception of a
psycho-physical threshold in order to account for the dis-
continuity of consciousness in nature as a whole, but it may
also be applied to the discontinuity which is sometimes met
with in the consciousness associated with one nervous system.
If we adopt Fechner's symbolic representation of a human
consciousness as a wave with its crest rising over a certain
280 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
threshold above which only can waking consciousness occur, 1
we may regard this threshold as the normal threshold deter-
mined in the course of evolution by its being that at which
consciousness is most useful for life. But the height of the
threshold may vary under different circumstances. If it is
considerably raised, the activity of large systems of neurones
ceases to have any conscious accompaniment of which the
individual is aware, and the extent of the field of con-
sciousness is proportionately curtailed. A permanently raised
threshold will produce a curtailed personality. On the other
hand, if the threshold is lowered, we get an expansion of the
normal consciousness. Neurone aggregates, whose activity is
not intense enough to manifest in waking consciousness, become
functionally continuous with the general mass of neurones now
functioning at a lower threshold level. This low threshold
activity is accompanied by a form of consciousness which is
not the normal waking consciousness, although it may appear
to be like it. It may be called the hypnotic consciousness,
and is a result of a general lowering of the threshold. Any
considerable lowering of the threshold will produce hypnosis,
and a permanently lowered threshold will lead to the formation
of a hypnotic personality.
Now it would seem that functional activity at the lower
level may go on concomitantly with activity at the normal
threshold, and that each form of activity may be accompanied
by consciousness. But the only consciousness of which there
is awareness in the waking state is that which occurs at or
above the normal threshold. Yet we know that a concomitant
awareness at a lower level occurs in hypnotic subjects and is
claimed by hypnotic or co-conscious personalities. This secon-
dary consciousness includes all that belongs to the primary
consciousness, but it also includes much of which the primary
consciousness knows nothing. And so extensive may the
additional mental material be that it may greatly modify or
totally alter the character pertaining to the primary personality.
We may thus have two coexisting streams of consciousness
manifesting as two distinct personalities through one bodily
organism.
It seems impossible to account for the inclusive knowledge
1
The diagrams given below are constructed on the basis of this conception.
lxvl] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 281
of hypnotic personalities on any hypothesis which regards
them as being split-off' portions of the waking self. This
knowledge seems more consistent with the view that these
personalities are expansions rather than curtailments of the
waking self. The form that the expansion takes will depend
on the nature of the complexes that are available for incor-
poration with those of the normal personality at the hypnotic
level, for these complexes may dominate the whole aggregate
of complexes thus formed and stamp the resulting personality
with their own peculiarities.
On this view co-conscious personalities would be due to a
doubling of the threshold at which consciousness can appear.
The intensity of neural activity which is necessary for the
appearance of a consciousness is not sufficient for the appear-
ance of the waking consciousness. The threshold of waking-
consciousness has been determined and fixed by natural
selection. A rise in the organic scale is accompanied, and to
some extent conditioned, by' a rise in the threshold of waking-
consciousness ; but consciousness which is not immediately
useful for life may still occur at the older and lower
thresholds. It is at the level of these lower thresholds that
co-conscious personalities appear.
In attempting to construct two series of separate types of
multiple personality I described in each series a form of
dissociation which seemed to be out of place there. Felida X.,
although in one of her states she had knowledge of the other
state, was ranged along with those splittings of the self which
show reciprocal amnesia. And, again, among co-conscious per-
sonalities which were shown to be not due to splittings of
the self I placed Dr. Prince's case of B. C. A., although the co-
conscious personality B. describes her own formation as being
due to a splitting off of the B. complex from the original
whole personality C. Both of these cases seem to be mixed
types, and we may, perhaps, regard them as being partly the
result of dissociation of neurone aggregates and partly of
changes of psycho-physical thresholds.
In Felicia's case we may suppose that the dissociation was
brought about by a gradual rise of the threshold of con-
sciousness. As the threshold rose, groups of neurones would
split off, one after another, from the main mass, and a gradual
282 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
curtailment of the personality would result. When the
threshold fell suddenly to the normal level, the dissociated
neurones became re-synthesized and the normal personality
reappeared. This normal personality had no amnesia for the
curtailed self, but when the threshold again became raised,
the resulting curtailed self had amnesia for the normal per-
sonality. Now it is instructive to compare the memory
relations of these two phases with what occurs in hypnotic
personalities. Here also the consciousness at the lower
threshold has no amnesia for the consciousness at the higher
threshold, while that at the higher has amnesia for that at
the lower. In cases of the Felida type, the normal self has
exactly the same relation to the curtailed self as the hypnotic
self has to the normal self in other cases (see diagrams on
Plate II). In fact, the normal self is a hypnotic phase of
the curtailed self; it is a self resulting from a lowering of the
threshold. This is well seen in some other cases of this type.
When Blanche Wittmann,1
in her curtailed phase, was hypnotized
by Jules Janet she became her normal self. And this normal
self—a hypnotic phase of the curtailed self—had, like all
hypnotic phases of consciousness, knowledge of the self that
had been hypnotized. But when Blanche was " awakened
into her former curtailed phase she had no knowledge of her
normal state, just as a person awakened from deep hypnosis
has no knowledge of the events of the hypnotic state. It was
also shown that the normal self of Blanche persisted as a
co-consciousness when the curtailed self was present as an
alternating personality.
It would seem then that cases of the Felida type ought
properly to be included in our second series of dissociations.
A co-conscious personality, as a rule, is a hypnotic self which
knows, but is not known by, the normal self. Here, however,
we have a normal self which knows, but is not known by,
a curtailed self. But in each case we have two selves func-
tioning concomitantly at different threshold levels, and in each
case the lower knows the higher and the higher does not
know the lower.
The case of B. C. A. was included in the second series of
dissociations because the personality B. claimed to be co-
1
See Myers's Human Personality, Vol. I. , p. 447.
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 283
conscious, although the way iu which the two personalities
are said to have been formed allies this case to those of the
B I-B IV type described in the first series. In the Beauchamp
case B I and B IV had amnesia for each other, as they might
be expected to have if they resulted from a splitting of two
systems of neurones, but B. of the B. C. A. case had no amnesia
for A. and claimed co-consciousness. We can only suppose
that here in addition to the neurone dissociation there was
also some dislocation of thresholds. But as I have already
said, it is difficult to bring this case into line with any of
the forms of multiple personality hitherto recorded.
Although these two types of multiple personality may be
difficult to classify, they raise no new problems in regard to
the ground of the unity of consciousness or in regard to
the hypotheses that may be put forward in explanation of
dissociation of various kinds. If we have to postulate a soul
as the ground of the unity of any consciousness, we must
postulate a soul as the ground of the unity of each of the
consciousnesses met with in personalities of the co-conscious or
hypnotic type. But there seems no reason why we should not
regard one and the same soul as the effective ground in each and
all of the phases of consciousness occurring in one individual.
The personality formed at the lowest threshold is the most
inclusive and has the fullest content. The soul as bearing this
content can project the " pure " memories of this personality
into consciousness at this level only, because only here are the
appropriate sensori-motor memories to be found. The waking
consciousness cannot know these pure memories, because the
necessary sensori-motor memories cannot rise above the
normal threshold. The soul as pure memory can manifest
in consciousness only when it finds the appropriate sensori-
motor memories ready to hand. As M. Bergson says, 1 " l'esprit
humain presse sans cesse avec la totalite de sa memoire contre
la porte cpie le corps va lui entr'ouvrir," and where there is
more than one threshold, there is more than one door.
We may, therefore, regard the unity of consciousness re-
vealed on introspection as being conditioned by the spatial
continuity of neural elements and by a psycho-physical thres-
hold above which only is the functional activity of these
1
Bergson, Matiere et Memoire, p. 198.
284 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PAKT
elements effective in this respect. Multiple personalities of
the simply alternating type are due to a structural or func-
tional discontinuity or dissociation of neurone systems. Those
of the co-conscious type are due to the existence of different
threshold levels at which conscious processes may arise. One
unitary soul may persist behind all dissociations of conscious-
ness, but it will be unable to appear as a unity, and its
manifestations will be fragmentary and discordant. Its unity
will be masked by the imperfections of its instrument.
Explanation of the Plates.
The horizontal straight line passing continuously through the
diagrams represents the level of the normal threshold of con-
sciousness in each case ; the shaded part below this line represents
the subliminal, the unshaded part above represents the supra-
liminal.
In the case of the alternating types shown in Plate I, different
parts of the threshold have risen, making various portions of the
self subliminal at various times, and so leading to the formation of
alternating personalities.
In the case of the co-conscious types shown in Plate II, the
threshold rises or falls as a whole, so that some of the personalities
include the others.
Plate I.
Alternating Types.
(1) Rou : a case of simple alternation.
(2) Hanna : immediately after the accident his consciousness is
almost completely submerged; later the "new self" and the
"old self" alternate.
(3) Miss Beauchamp : BI and BIV are alternating personalities,
the synthesis of whom forms Miss B. Sally is a co-conscious
personality, analogous to those represented in Plate II.
To face p. 2S4.
To face p. 285.
lxvi.] Some Types of Multiple Personality. 285
Plate II.
Co-conscious Types.
(1) Madame B. : below the threshold of the normal personality,
Leonie, are the two thresholds of the two hypnotic personalities,
Leontine and Leonore.
(2) Felida : Azam's "secondary state" is really the normal, his
" primary state " being the constricted hysterical personality.
(3) Ordinary hypnosis : here the normal threshold is lowered, so
that sensations and memories, etc., which are ordinarily sub-
liminal become supraliminal.
286 T. W. Mitchell. M.D. [part
II.
A STUDY IX HYSTERIA AND MULTIPLE PERSONALITY,
WITH REPORT OF A CASE.
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
It is with considerable hesitation that I venture to give to the
Society some account of a case of hysteria which I have had
under observation for the past ten years. The facts which
I am about to record may seem to have little bearing on
Psychical Research. It may be said that these are pathological
phenomena, and that our Society is not concerned with disease.
To this I would answer in the words of Mr. Myers, " These
are not pathological phenomena, but pathological revelations of
normal phenomena, which is a very different thing. The gearing
of the hysteric's inward factory is disconnected ; the couplings
are shifted in all sorts of injurious ways ; some of the wheels
are standing still, and some are whizzing uselessly round and
round. But the wheelwork is still all there ; and by observing
the various hitches and stoppages which are now taking place,
we can get a better notion of the way the power is applied
than the smoothly working, carefully-boxed machinery of the
healthy subject is likely to give us." 1
If Mr. Myers's defence
of hysteria as a fit subject of study for our Society is accepted,
I need make no apology for recording this case here, for it
abounds in hitches and stoppages in the working of the mental
machinery which are of a very peculiar character.
Amelia Geraldine P. . . . was 29 years of age when I first
attended her professionally in 1901. She is unmarried, and
lives at home with her father and two sisters. Her father is
1
Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VI., p. 200.
lxvl] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 287
a retired tradesman, and she has had an education suitable to
her station in life. Her family history is good, there is no
discoverable neurotic taint, and she enjoyed good health up to
the beginning of 1901. There is an indefinite history of some
slight affection of a choreic nature when she was about eleven
years old.
On Feb. 3rd, 1901, a very cold day, whilst out walking,
she was suddenly seized with a paroxysm of coughing. She
went home, and as the cough persisted, I was sent for. I
found her temperature just over 100 F. and sent her to bed.
The cough was of hysterical type, and lasted for twenty-four
hours with very little intermission.
Two days afterwards, the patient still being in bed, a
twitching of her left hand was observed. I was called in as
soon as it was noticed, and I found the movements limited to
a rhythmic extension of the left wrist. This soon came to be
combined with supination of the hand. If opposed, the move-
ments became more violent and irregular. In the course of
the evening, the left elbow joint was included in the movements,
and next day the whole of the left arm was affected. The
temperature ranged from 99° F. to 101° F. The movements
ceased during sleep. The deep reflexes were much exaggerated,
especially on the left side. The patient was dull and apathetic,
and complained of pain in the head. On Feb. 7th the left
arm was still jerking vigorously, and the left leg became
affected in a similar manner. The leg movements began with
rhythmic contractions of the muscles which produce inversion
of the foot. Next day the whole of the left leg was included
in the movements, and the arm was still in the same condition.
On Feb. 10th the right foot began to be affected in the same
way as the left had begun, namely by rhythmic inversion of
the foot, aud on Feb. 11th the whole of the ris;ht le" was
included in the movements, and the right hand had begun
to be extended at the wrist aud supinated. On Feb. 12th
the whole of the right arm was affected, while the movements
of the left hand had somewhat abated. The patient's speech
became affected in a peculiar manner. There was ptosis and
photophobia of the left eye. Pain in the head was severe.
The temperature was 100*6° F.
The speech defect was not investigated at this time as the
288 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
patient was too ill, but the general impression it gave was
that there was a great preponderance of sibilants. She seemed
to have no difficulty in saying what she wanted to say, but
merely a faulty pronunciation, such as " ses " for " yes," " sad
"
for " bad," and so on.
From this date, Feb. 12th, 1901, the movements began to
abate, and in their disappearance they followed the exact
order in which they had come on. First the left hand and
arm became quiescent, then the left foot and leg, then the
right foot and leg, and lastly the right hand and arm. The
pain in the head got better and the temperature went down.
By March 5th, 1901, all the movements had ceased. The
deep reflexes were still exaggerated, and testing them tended
to produce a temporary return of the contractions.
There was now found to be complete anaesthesia with loss
of muscular sense of the whole of the right arm with the
exception of the thumb and index finger. This had been
preceded for some time by a loss of accuracy in localising
impressions. Some time later it was discovered that the whole
of the right half of the body had become totally anaesthetic
and analgesic with the exception of the thumb and index
finger. There was paresis, more or less pronounced, of all the
limbs, and for many weeks there was almost total inability to
walk. The left arm and leg were at first more paralysed than
the right, but they recovered more quickly. There was very
marked concentric reduction of both visual fields.
At various times during her convalescence there was some
recurrence of the muscular spasms, but as time went on, the
rhythm of the movements became quicker and their extent
more restricted, so that they had in the end rather the character
of a coarse tremor than of clonic contractions. Sometimes they
lasted for days in one limb without any intermission except
during sleep. All her limbs were affected in this way at some
period of her convalescence, but in no definite order. At
various times there was a return of coarser movements of the
limbs, but they had to a great extent lost their rhythmic
character and were of a more choreic type. The left arm
and shoulder were affected for a long time in this way, but
by July 20th, 1901, both the choreic movements and the
coarse tremor had quite disappeared. There was, however, still
lxvl] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 289
great loss of power in the limbs. In the beginning of August
I sent her to Folkestone for a change. At the end of a
fortnight she returned very much improved in every way.
She afterwards made a more or less uninterrupted recovery,
and in the course of some months became practically well.
By the end of July, 1902, the only trace of her illness was
a total hemianalgesia of the right side of the body with the
exception of the thumb and index finger. This condition seemed
to cause no inconvenience whatsoever, and it remained unaltered
until Nov. 9th, 1906, when it suddenly completely disappeared.
The patient's condition with regard to motor power, sensation,
kinaesthesis, and the reception and production of spoken and
written language was tested many times during the course of
her illness. I will only refer to some of the most striking
peculiarities observed in regard to kinaesthesis and speech.
It must be remembered that the index finger and thumb
of the right hand were at no period of her illness involved
in the hemianaesthesia which for so long affected her, nor was
she ever deprived of the knowledge to be gained by kinaesthetic
impressions from these two members, even when the loss of
muscular sense was complete in the rest of the arm. If passive
movements of the right arm were made, the patient being blind-
folded, she had no knowledge of the position of the limb, except
when the forefinger and thumb came in contact with something
that she recognised, such as her dress or her hair. When she
was blindfolded, active movements of the right arm were very
imperfectly performed. If asked to raise her hand on to her
knees she felt with her forefinger and thumb as she slowly
slid her hand along her dress. When the arm was kept away
from her side she was unable to perform the action, but she
kept moving the forefinger and thumb as if trying to come in
contact with something that she might recognise.
One day in July, 1901, she was lying on a sofa when I
called to see her. I asked her which leg she could move best.
Her answer was, " The right one, if I can see it." I asked her
to bend the leg at the knee without looking at it. She said
she could not, but on being urged to try she made the limb
move slightly, and the foot slipped off the sofa on to the floor.
On asking her where her foot was now, she said she did not
know. I told her to look. She did so, and said it had slipped
290 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
down. " Now," I said, " lift it up and lay it beside the other
one." In order to do so she sat upright, so that she could see
exactly where her foot was, and then quite easily and rapidly
she replaced it on the sofa.
The type of paralysis here disclosed is of very rare occur-
rence, and is met with only, I think, in cases of most profound
anaesthesia. Very few instances of the kind have been recorded.
The earliest indication of any disturbance of speech was the
sibilant lalling which came on at the end of the first week of
her illness. On analysing at a later date the defects in her
speech production it was found that all the vowels were given
their proper value when used in words. If the vowels were
pronounced by themselves they were always prefixed by a y
sound, thus, ya, ye, yi, yo. Of the voiceless oral consonants p
was always given as s, and the voiceless w as ?/. Of the voiced
oral consonants w, I, and r were always pronounced as >/, while
g was given as d in the earlier part of her illness and later
as g. B was at first given as s, but later as b. Of the voiced
nasal resonants n was the only sound which gave any trouble.
For example, she always referred to the letter in as " am m."
It may be noticed that the difficulties were confined to the
labials and the linguo-palatals.
Although for more than a year her speech was characterised
by these peculiarities, her sisters assured me that on several
occasions during that period they had heard her saying her
prayers with a faultless pronunciation.
When the acute phase of her illness was over it was found
that she could not read. She could still write, but her writing
reproduced all the peculiarities of her speech, the substitution
of the letters y and s for other letters corresponding to the
substitution of these sounds in her spoken language. She was
unable to read what she wrote, so the peculiarities which
rendered her writing rather difficult to understand were not
noticed by her. The handwriting was good when the tremor
and paresis of the right arm had passed off. The following is
a good example of the sort of letters she wrote at this period :
My dea Hayy
I was veyy seaseg to hea you ayyieg home safey
You will be sussised to hea E . . . yode down on Sungay. 0 . . .
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 291
& I went to meet him & as usuay he dave us a yost joyney tooc
the yond tunind & came though . he is yoocind vey well &
is comind adain nex Sattye weec. Well I cant yite any mo e I
am tyied Love f om everyone.
S.S. Do you yice you Sotos.
The translation is :
My dear Harry,
I was very pleased to hear you arrived home
safely. You will be surprised to hear E . . . rode down on Sunday.
Ro . . . and I went to meet him and as usual he gave us a lost
journey—took the wrong turning and came through . He is
looking very well and is coming again next Saturday week. Well
I can't write any more. I am tired. Love from everyone.
P.S. Do you like your photos.
It may be seen that the substitution of letters is very
similar to that which was noticeable in her speech. There
are, however, some differences. The only constant similarity
in her speech and writing was the use of y and s for other
letters. Yet it may be noticed that the letter r is sometimes
written y and sometimes omitted altogether. The letter I is
generally written as y, but in short words like " well " and
" will " it is often written correctly. The phrase " love to all
is in some of her letters written correctly, in others as " yove
to ayy."
In writing to dictation the same mistakes were made as in
spontaneous writing. Thus the phrase " Let us go out " was
written " Yet us do out." She could not do transfer copying
that is, copying from printed into written characters. In copy-
ing from writing she copied only such letters as she recognised ;
the others she " drew " very badly.
For many months she was almost totally word-blind and to
a great extent letter-blind. On testing her with large printed
capitals it was found that she could seldom recognise at sight
the letters h, c, d, c, g, Je, I, n, p, q, r, x, y, z. D was always
called y without any hesitation, while g was not recognised at
all or was mistaken for c. K, I, and r were always called y.
P was always called s. S was recognised and named correctly,
but she could not distinguish it from p. She had the same
292 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
difficulties with written letters as with printed ones, but when
she was allowed to trace over the written letters with the
tip of her index finger she could name many of them correctly.
This held good of all the letters which she made use of in
spontaneous writing.
There were, however, certain letters of which she seemed
to have lost all knowledge. For many months the letters k,
I, p, and t were not recognised by sight, by sound, or by
kinaesthetic impressions. They were not used in writing, nor
were their sounds used in speech. One day after much trouble
I taught her to pronounce the letter p, and the curious fact
was observed that from that day she could use the p sound
in speech, could read the letter in print and in writing, and
could use it in writing spontaneously or from dictation.
She could name the numerals correctly up to 20, after which
she said 30, 40, 50, etc. She could also write them, but was
unable to read them after she had written. Even when allowed
to trace over the figures with her forefinger, she rarely was
able to name them correctly. In consequence of her difficulty
in reading figures she was incapable of doing the simplest
addition sums on paper. Yet she was still good at mental
arithmetic. She was especially quick at the multiplication
table, and never made a mistake.
The word-blindness was almost total for some months, but
she was able to read with understanding long before she could
recognise all the letters. Her power of reading, like her
recognition of letters, came back gradually, and so far as could
be judged, re-education had little to do with her recovery,
although she had lessons every day. This was especially
noticeable with regard to those letters which she had most
completely forgotten. Prolonged efforts to teach her to recog-
nise the letters k, r, and I, having resulted in complete failure,
the attempt was given up. Yet in the course of time these
letters came back to her. One day she discovered she could
recognise k; some weeks later the same thing was observed
with regard to I ; and in the end she once more knew all
the letters of the alphabet. The most striking instance of a
good result from trying to teach her was the effect of showing
her how to pronounce the letter p, or rather the p sound in
words. Why regaining the power to produce the sound should
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 293
have enabled her to recognise the letter may be difficult to
explain, but there is no doubt as to the fact that the one
followed the other almost immediately.
Since we may get word-blindness without letter-blindness,
and letter-blindness without word-blindness, it is probable that
her recovery of the power of reading words was not dependent
on her recovery of the power of recognising letters ; but
it was observed that improvement in both respects took place
at about the same rate. The same holds good in regard to
her speech, and the recovery of ability to recognise a letter
was generally accompanied by the reinstatement of its sound
in her speech. Whether one invariably preceded the other,
and if so which returned first, I cannot say, as by the time
such recovery took place her general health had so much
improved that I had stopped seeing her regularly. Eighteen
months after the onset of her illness she had quite recovered
in every respect, with the exception of right hemianalgesia,
which persisted for nearly six years.
During the whole course of this illness of eighteen months,
and after recovery had taken place, the interpretation of the
case was exceedingly difficult. The symptoms pointed to serious
organic disturbance of the brain, combined, however, with a
large functional element whose extent it was impossible to de-
termine. The acute condition at the beginning corresponded
to no known affection, and the long duration of the word-
blindness was opposed to the view that it was of a purely
functional nature. Yet it was almost impossible to understand
how the various peculiarities of the case could be accounted
for by any definite organic lesion. The fact that the patient
could write, although she could not read, except by kinaesthetic
impressions, showed that her word-blindness conformed to the
type of " pure " word-blindness first described by Dejerine in
1892, but with regard to certain letters of the alphabet there
was not only " blindness " but agraphia.
Except for the hemianalgesia, which caused her no incon-
venience, the patient remained very well until December, 1904.
On Dec. 3rd I was called to see her on account of a twitching
of the mouth which had been present for a few days. I found
her lying on a sofa asleep. Her face was in repose until she
294 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PART
awoke. As soon as she awoke, choreic movements of the
mouth began. The mouth twitched first to one side, then to
the other, and continued to do so without ceasing. Next day,
while the movements of the mouth continued, the tongue
became affected in a similar manner. She was drowsy and
disinclined to talk. The temperature was 101° F.
On Dec. Sth she became very deaf, especially in the right
ear, and her speech became affected in the old way. Asked
to spell " lazy," she said "
y, a, z, y" and pronounced it " yazy."
On Dec. 19th the movements of the mouth suddenly stopped,
but the tongue-movements continued. On Dec. 20th severe
headache came on suddenly. Complaint of headache continued
for a month. On Dec. 22nd the tongue-movements stopped.
On this date I found that the right leg was paralysed. She
was also anaesthetic and analgesic on the right half of the
body. She was apparently very deaf, and did not understand
what was said to her unless it was shouted into her left ear.
Yet I sometimes got her to answer questions spoken in a low
voice close to her right ear, and on several occasions she seemed
to know what I was saying to her sisters. At all events she
frequently made remarks very relevant to what we were talking
about. Her sister told me that the patient had written some
letters, and that her writing showed all the peculiarities which
characterised it during her former illness. On Jan. 19th, 1905,
rhythmic movements of the right hand, like those which
occurred at the beginning of her former illness, began. They
lasted for eight days and then suddenly stopped. She became
duller and less inclined to talk, and still complained of headache,
earache, and deafness.
Her condition remained more or less unaltered for many
weeks. Some of her symptoms passed off and new ones took
their place. The following note was written by me on March
25th, 1905 :
Some days ago the paralysis of the right leg suddenly passed
away. She said she heard a voice within her saying, "You can
walk." She immediately got out of bed and walked without difficulty.
There has been a serous discharge from the left ear for about a
week, and now hearing in this ear is very much better. The right
ear is still very deaf. For three months the middle, ring, and little
fingers of the right hand have been closed in contracture on the
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 295
palm. It was found necessary to place a pad of cotton wool in
the palm to prevent the finger nails from cutting into the flesh.
By using some force I can open the hand, but she complains that
doing so hurts her. She can open the fingers quite easily by
using the other hand to force them open. She really uses no force
at all, but the fingers open at once when she uses the other hand
to open them.
She is now totally word-blind and letter-blind except for the letter o.
She seems to have lost all knowledge of written and printed words.
She cannot remember that she has ever known anything about
them. She is absolutely agraphic and cannot even write her own
name. She cannot read any words or letters by kinaesthetic im-
pressions. Speech is very imperfect. There is lalling on many
consonants. There does not seem to be any real word-deafness,
although there seem to be some words which she does not under-
stand. She does not know the multiplication table. She cannot
count up to ten. After a little teaching she tries to do so, but
always leaves out 2 and 8. She does not recognise any written
figures. Although she has forgotten the multiplication table, she
has a good memory for certain money tables learnt at school. She
never makes a mistake in turning pence into shillings. I ask her
what thirty-two pence make, and she answers immediately "two
and eight pence."
Throughout April, May, and June, 1905, her condition did
not vary much. The discharge from the left ear became tinged
with blood. The left eye became affected in the same way,
and every day some blood oozed from the lower eyelid, although
no abrasion or solution of continuity of the skin or mucous
membrane could be detected. This condition lasted until the
end of July, 1905.
In the beginning of July, 1905, she went to Folkestone for
a fortnight. She came back improved in health, and was now
able to open and close all the fingers of her right hand. Her
eye and ear still bled almost every morning, and she com-
plained of great difficulty in seeing. On Aug. 16th she
consulted an eye specialist, who found an enormous amount
of hypermetropia and prescribed Sph. + 3
-
75 glasses for both
eyes. She could not see at all with these glasses, but on the
other hand she could see much better than formerly without
them. On Aug. 19th, the day before she got her glasses, her
296 T. W. Mitchell, M.I). [part
eye did not bleed. On Aug. 20th her ear did not bleed, and
she told her father that her eye and her ear would not bleed
any more. She had frequently made such announcements with
regard to the disappearance of other symptoms, and on this
as on former occasions her prognostication was correct. With
the cessation of the bleeding from the ear, the deafness, which
had lasted for seven months, entirely disappeared.
She still remained totally word- and letter-blind, she was
also still completely agraphic, and she lalled in her speech
almost as badly as ever. Yet her sisters informed me that
they had occasionally heard her pronounce all her words per-
fectly when talking to children or strangers.
On Oct. 28th, 1905, the total agraphia stopped, and she
wrote me a letter in the style of the letters she used to write
during her illness in 1901. The spelling in this letter corre-
sponded to that which was observed in the latter part of her
former illness, namely, the period during which her main
trouble was with the letters h, I, r, and p.
On Dec. 1st, 1905, there was sudden and complete recovery
of sight, speech, and ability to read and write in a normal
manner. The hemianaesthesia which had persisted since De-
cember, 1904, disappeared, but the hemianalgesia remained.
I now stopped seeing her, but I learnt some months later that
her sight became troublesome a«ain, and that on the advice
of a friend she consulted another eye-specialist. He prescribed
Sph. + 1 glasses, and with these she was able to see much
better than with her former ones.
On Nov. 7th, 1906, the right hemianalgesia which had
existed uninterruptedly since June, 1901, suddenly and com-
pletely disappeared.
During the course of this second illness, which lasted from
the beginning of December, 1904, to Dec. 1st, 1905, there
was hardly any doubt as to the nature of the troubles from
which the patient was suffering. Every fresh symptom helped
to strengthen the conviction that all the peculiar phenomena
which I have described were of functional or hysterical origin,
and were not dependent on any organic lesion whatsoever.
I did not see the patient again until Nov. 5th, 1908. She
was then in bed complaining of headache and general malaise,
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 297
and had a temperature of 100° F. She had kept well for
nearly three years until a few weeks prior to the date of my
visit. She had then begun to complain of her head, and had
been much troubled by obsessional thoughts. These still con-
tinued to trouble her, and when I saw her on Nov. 5th, 1908,
they were her chief complaint. She said she constantly heard
voices telling her to run away from home, or to throw herself
into the water, and she was greatly distressed in consequence.
I tried to hypnotise her, but with little apparent success.
Every day for a week I went through some brief hypnotic
process, but thinking there was little probability of inducing
a true hypnosis, I confined my attention almost entirely to
making suggestions with regard to the headache and obsessions.
During this treatment the headache got well and the obsessions
became much less troublesome ; but she developed many of her
old hysterical symptoms. The old tremor appeared in both
legs with occasional choreic jerks of the arms. Her walking
powers were very defective, and she twice fell and hurt her-
self. Her old balling speech returned. She became cpuite
word-blind and letter-blind except for the letter o, and totally
agraphic. I persevered with suggestions of her speedy recovery
from all these symptoms, but with no effect.
On Nov. 24th, 1908, I discovered that she now went into
what seemed to be a genuine hypnosis with amnesia on waking,
and I was disappointed that her speech affection, which I was
now convinced had no organic basis, did not respond to my
suggestions of recovery.
On Eov. 25th, 1908, she developed her old contracture of
the middle, ring, and index fingers of the right hand. She had
no recollection of having suffered from this condition before,
and its occurrence alarmed and worried her. She told her
sisters that she was sure I could put it all right, and when
I called next day she asked me to make her hand open. I
hypnotised her, and told her that she could now open her
hand quite easily, and that it would never again become closed
against her will. She immediately opened her hand, and from
that moment had complete use of all her fingers. Suggestions
during this hypnosis as to cessation of the coarse tremors in
the legs had no effect. Later in the day she complained of
pain in the left ear, and feared that she was going deaf.
298 T. W. Mitchell, M.J). [part
There was also some blood-stained discharge from the right
eye. Her sisters, remembering the trouble her eyes and ears
had been in her illness in 1906, were uneasy about this
symptom. The patient told them that she was sure I could
cure the pain in tbe ear, and next morning she asked me to
do so. This was easily effected, but suggestions as to cessation
of the tremor in the legs and ability to walk and speak
properly were of no avail.
On Nov. 29th, 1908, what troubled her most was complete
colour-blindness. She asked me to cure this. I hypnotised her
and gave appropriate suggestions. At the same time I made
a whispered suggestion to the effect that at 12 o'clock she
would suddenly be able to read. Before waking her I said,
" You feel now that you can see colours properly, don't you ?
" Yes," she answered with great assurance.
<:
And what did I
say about 12 o'clock?" "That I should be able to read."
" And you feel you will ?
" She assented, but not with the
same assurance as she had shown with regard to the colour-
blindness. I then woke her, and showed her various pieces of
coloured material. She at once named the colour of each of
them correctly. Her sisters afterwards told me that at or
about 12 o'clock the patient said she felt as if she could read
a little. She tried to do so, and could understand most of the
words, but long words still troubled her. In the course of the
day this partial recovery regressed, and she could read only
small words. Two clays afterwards I succeeded in restoring her
power of reading completely, and there has been no return of
the word-blindness.
In the course of my attempts to dissipate some of her dis-
abilities by suggestion, I was struck by the unequal success
which attended my efforts. Some symptoms, like the contrac-
ture of the fingers, which in her former illnesses had remained
unaltered for months, disappeared instantly at the first sugges-
tion. Others, like the speech troubles and the difficulty in
walking, seemed to be quite unaffected, no matter how often
or how impressively appropriate suggestions were given. It
soon became evident that the symptoms which were easily
relieved were those which in her waking state she asked me
to relieve, or those to the relief of which I had gained her
free and unqualified assent during hypnosis. Without stopping
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 299
here to inquire into the meaning of this peculiarity, I may
say that, rightly or wrongly, I tried to make use of it for
therapeutic purposes, and I endeavoured to induce her to ask
me definitely to relieve those symptoms which most seriously
impaired her bodily and mental health.
The condition I was most anxious to alleviate was the
paresis and tremor of the legs, for, as she was practically
unable to walk, she was kept a prisoner in the house, and her
general health was suffering in consequence. Every day for
a week I predicted to her that on Wednesday, Dec. 2nd, 1908,
all her trembling would cease, and that she would be able to
walk as well as ever she did. On Dec. 1st I told her in
hypnosis to ask me to cure her legs when I saw her next
day. This she promised to do, but there was a lack of assur-
ance in her reply when I asked her if she felt sure that I
could make her walk properly.
On several occasions when I had desired her to ask me to
relieve some particular symptom, I had found on visiting her
that some fresh trouble had arisen, which seemed to her more
urgent than that which I was anxious to relieve. I was not
surprised then to find on the Wednesday morning that she
had fallen downstairs and hurt her back. When I asked her
what she wanted me to do for her, she said I must take away
the pain in her back ; but she made no reference to the
trembling of the legs, or the inability to walk. I led her up
to this by saying that, besides taking away the pain in her
back, which I said would be quite easy, I wanted her to ask
me to do something more for her. She then said that she
wished me to keep her from falling and hurting herself any
more. This gave me the opportunity to remark that the best
way to do this would be to stop the trembling in her legs
and to make her walk properly. To this she half reluctantly
assented. I then hypnotised her, and made suggestions that
her legs would stop trembling. These suggestions I continued
for about fifteen minutes, but, although the tremor seemed to
subside a little, there was no sign of its stopping. On being
asked if she did not feel that her legs were going to become
still in a very short time, she said she was trying to make
them stop, but could not. " Oh," I said, " you need not try.
All you have to do is to sleep a little more deeply, and they
soo T. W. Mitchell, M.D: [part lxvi.]
will stop of their own accord. Now, I am going to stroke
your face, and at each stroke you will go more and more
deeply asleep." I then began to stroke her face slowly from
above downwards, and at the fourth stroke the legs suddenly
became quite still. I told her that the trembling had stopped
and would never return, and that now she could walk perfectly
well. That evening she walked to my house, a distance of
a mile.
I would like to dwell for a moment on the nature of these
tremors, which thus suddenly stopped after existing unchanged
for over three weeks. A similar trembling could possibly have
been produced by voluntary muscular efforts, but this trembling-
was, as a matter of fact, occasioned by a series of inco-ordinate
muscular contractions, which can by no possibility be produced
by the waking will. All over both limbs could be seen groups
of muscles and even individual muscles, momentarily standing
out as if stimulated by a Faradic current. Each contraction
was a violent twitch, which immediately passed off, or was
repeated once or twice in rapid succession. At the same time
other muscles in other parts of the limb were similarly affected,
and a constant succession of such isolated and widely separated
twitchings went on uninterruptedly.
Why those twitchings stopped in response to suggestion I
do not know. I do not think any one knows why such a
result should occur, and it seems to me to be folly or dis-
honesty to pretend that we do. I have seen many strange
things happen in response to suggestion during hypnosis, but
I have not, I think, ever seen anything which more profoundly
impressed me than the sudden cessation of those muscular
contractions.
Encouraged by the complete restoration of her walking
powers, I lost no time in trying to get an equally good result
with regard to her speech and writing. During hypnosis on the
evening of Dec. 2nd, I told her to ask me next morning to make
her talk properly and write correctly. This she said she
would like, but she seemed a little doubtful as to the result.
On Dec. 3rd she asked me to make her talk properly and
to be able to write, but the request did not come without
some prompting from me. During hypnosis I made her pro-
Letter of Dec. 3rd, 1908.
1/ in (Cmr^Ajm^A) A&
/n nji^i (/? ocas
/ula <m*» inu^ -yrun
Letter of Dec. UK 1908.
UM, £t^vi^J /£ir-t*,
cL
pt. lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 301
mise to write me a letter in the course of the day, and to
bring it to me. After hypnosis her speech was better, but by
no means perfect, and I told her that it did not yet satisfy
me. I said I still had difficulty in understanding her, and
that I wanted her to talk properly and to write nicely. Both
in the waking state and in hypnosis I made her promise to
ask me next morning to complete the cure. The effect of
the suggestions given on Dec. 3rd with regard to writing
may be seen in the letter of this date, which is reproduced
above. It is very difficult to read, and her sister, who saw
her writing it, told me that each individual letter in its
composition was written backwards.
On Dec. 4th she asked me quite spontaneously to make
her talk properly and write nicely. She promised in hypnosis
to write me another letter during the clay. Immediately after
this hypnosis her speech was practically normal, and the letter
written in the afternoon was well written and free from mis-
take. This letter of Dec. 4th, 1908, is also reproduced for
comparison with the other.
Her chief disabilities having been removed, she very soon
recovered her health, and although for many weeks she provided
me with a variety of hysterical symptoms on which to exercise
my therapeutic ingenuity, she was during this time a very
different person from the helpless invalid of the years 1902
and 1904.
As I have already said, I was very much struck by the
unequal results produced by suggestion in this case. Hypnosis
was apparently profound ;
post-hypnotic amnesia was complete
the disabilities I was anxious to remove were obviously of a
functional nature ; all the conditions favourable to the speedy
removal of any particular symptom seemed to be present ;
yet
it was clear that to most of my suggestions there was some
resistance of a kind quite different from the mere failure of
response to suggestion that may be met with in ordinary
psycho-therapeutic work. It is difficult to account for such
resistance to therapeutic suggestion as was met with in this
case. Obstinacy was certainly a very marked characteristic of
the hypnotised patient, but we feel that there must be some
good reason for unwillingness to accept curative suggestions.
302 T. W. Mitchell, M.J). [part
It seems to me probable that the resistance to which I have
referred may be related to the resistance met with by Freud
in the practice of psycho-analysis in cases of hysteria.
In Freud's opinion, hysterical symptoms are due to the
repression of painful ideas, so that they no longer occupy a
part of the conscious field, and cannot be recalled voluntarily
or by association. Eeliet' from the psychical pain caused by
an unbearable idea is obtained by a conversion of the repressed
feeling into physical manifestations. This transformation is
described by Freud as a defence reaction of the ego against
unbearable ideas, and the " repugnance of the ego " is the
psychic force which determines the repression. The aim of
psycho-analysis is to recover the repressed ideas in their
entirety, to bring them back into consciousness, and to let the
feelings connected with them have their proper emotional ex-
pression. According to Freud, " a patient can rid himself of
a hysterical symptom only after reproducing and uttering
under emotion its causal pathogenic impressions." 1
In the process of psycho-analysis, as practised by Freud,
great resistance is sometimes encountered in trying to recover
forgotten memories connected with the original psychic trauma,
and Freud concludes that the resistance is due to the same
psychic force which led to the repression, namely, " repugnance
of the ego." When we try to drag these painful memories
back into consciousness, some part of the patient's mind seems
to know that the restoration of these lost memories will be
accompanied by feelings that are unbearable.
Now if Freud's views on the causation of hysterical symptoms
are correct, it would seem that when a hysterical symptom is
removed by suggestion, the disappearance of the symptom must
be accompanied by its re-conversion into some other symptom
or into the original unbearable idea. And just as the " re-
pugnance of the ego " to the unbearable idea may lead to
resistance in psycho-analysis undertaken to disclose it, so the
same psychic force may lead to the rejection of suggestions
directed towards the removal of the hysterical symptom.
The mutual interchangeableness of somatic and mental
affections in hysteria was strikingly shown on several occasions
in the course of the treatment of A. G. P. by suggestion.
'Freud, Selected Papers on Hysteria (English Trans.), p. 100.
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 303
When the obsessions of the early stage of the last illness
disappeared, the physical manifestations began. When cessation
of the muscular twitching and ability to walk were obtained,
there occurred a series of dreadful dreams, which affected the
patient very strongly (see p. 304). When the most persistent of
all the bodily symptoms—the right hemianalgesia—was removed
by suggestion, she passed almost immediately from a state of
comparatively normal mental health into a state of profound
depression, accompanied by phobias and obsessions. In the
middle of the night, some hours after the disappearance of
the hemianalgesia, she wrote a most pitiful letter to her sister,
in whicii she expressed the fear that she was going out of
her mind, and begged her sister not to send her to an asylum.
I received a letter from her next day, in which she said that
" the awful thing in her head " kept shouting at her and
telling her to do dreadful things. So great was her distress,
and so evident seemed the connection between the disappearance
of the hemianalgesia and the appearance of the morbid mental
symptoms, that I decided to bring back the bodily defect by
suggestion, in the hope that by so doing the mental troubles
might be ameliorated. I was careful not to give any indication
to the patient why I wished the loss of sensibility to return,
yet with the recurrence of the hemianalgesia she soon returned
to her ordinary state and became free from all mental distress.
Now if we can suppose that somewhere in her mind there
was some sort of prevision that the removal of the hemianal-
gesia would be accompanied by such mental distress, there
would be good reason for her prolonged rejection of my
curative suggestions in regard to this symptom, and this rejec-
tion may be regarded as being due to the same cause as that
which leads to resistance in psycho-analysis.
But although the relations between the resistance met with
in psycho-analysis and the rejection of therapeutic suggestions
are interesting, and may be worthy of further consideration, I
wish here rather to describe how the resistance to suggestion
met with in this case appeared to me at the time. In the
course of treatment it seemed to become more and more
apparent that there was a wilful rejection of certain therapeutic
suggestions and an exercise of choice and discrimination as to
what suggestions were to be allowed to be effective. Here was
304 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
no passive state in which every suggestion is readily accepted,
but rather a very obstinate and capricious person, who seemed
to have some unusual kind of control over her own bodily
organism. The rejection of therapeutic suggestions appeared to
be the deliberate act of a second personality brought to light
by the induction of hypnosis. In order to estimate the nature
of this personality, there is one circumstance connected with
the patient's history to which some reference must be made.
Soon after I began to attend A. G. P. in 1908, it became
a common occurrence for her to talk in her sleep to her sisters
before she awoke in the mornings. If one of them happened
to be passing her door, she would call her by name, and she
was never known to be in error as to which of her sisters it
was. Indeed, they found it difficult to explain how she acquired
the knowledge she sometimes showed in regard to their actions
in various parts of the house. She was never known to speak
in her sleep unless she had something definite to say and
some one to say it to. There was no aimless or incoherent
sleep-talking, as in dream or delirium. What she said was
always the definite expression of a person who knew what she
wanted to say and said it. The subject-matter of these con-
versations was as a rule confined to the symptoms or events
of her illness, and her purpose in speaking apparently was
that I should be informed of certain matters which she thought
it important for me to know.
In the morning of Dec. 4th, 1908, her father heard her
crying out, and went into her bedroom. He found her asleep
and evidently dreaming, as she was struggling and crying as
if in terror. Later she called her sister to her room, because
her right eye was streaming with blood and blood was oozing
from her right ear. When I heard this story next day, I
asked her if she had dreamt in the night. She said she did
not think so. In hypnosis she told me that in the night a
nasty man had attacked her, and hit her on the head with a
hammer. When I referred to this episode as a dream, she
insisted very firmly that it was a real experience, not a dream.
In the waking state she had no knowledge of the matter at all.
Soon after this various articles of value belonging to her
disappeared—her watch, some money, and her keys, for example,
were lost, and could not be found. In the waking state she
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 305
did not know where these things were, and she sought for
them in vain. In hypnosis she confessed that she herself had
hidden them, and told me where they might be found. She
said she had hidden them because a nasty man had come to
her in the night and wanted to steal them.- This man who
wanted to steal her watch and money was the same man who
had attacked her with the hammer.
The whole of this dream life, and all the actions associated
with it, belonged to the stratum of consciousness revealed in
hypnosis. The waking consciousness had no knowledge of any
of the events of this phase of the patient's life. But although
in the primary state there was no knowledge of the events of
the second state, there was in the second state full knowledge
of all the events of waking life. This is, of course, the
ordinary type of amnesia observed in all cases of deep hypnosis.
But in this case there were many indications that the person-
ality of the second state was different from that of a mere
state of hypnosis, and it seemed to persist throughout waking
life as a co-conscious personality capable of acting on its own
initiative, and also capable of taking possession of the bodily
organism at will.
Very soon after the sleep-talking in bed began, it was noticed
that the patient often dropped into the second state in the
day-time, and always on these occasions she spoke to her
sisters of events connected with this phase of her existence, or
made remarks in regard to events of her waking life which
she would not have made if she had been awake. For example,
in talking to her father, a querulous old man who was some-
times very trying, she would often make cutting or sarcastic
remarks, which she would not have made in her ordinary state.
He was often surprised at the things she said, but excused her
on account of her ill-health. Her sisters, however, knew that
when she said those things she had dropped into the second
state, and they found that shortly afterwards she knew nothing
of having said them. They said they never had any doubt as
to which state she was in. In the second state her voice was
different, her manner of speaking was more vivacious, she was
more determined and assertive. She was exceedingly obstinate,
very petulant, and rather childish. Her eyes were closed or
half-closed.
u
306 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
For a long time I was scrupulously careful to avoid any
suggestion that might increase the separateness of the two
personalities. One day, however, when trying to discover their
points of resemblance and difference, I .proposed to the hypno-
tised patient to speak of her in the hypnotic state as Amelia
and in the waking state as Milly—the name ordinarily used
by her friends. Amelia, on being asked what was the differ-
ence, if any, between herself and Milly, said she was not very
sure, but that she knew more than Milly did, and remembered
many things that Milly had forgotten. This seemed especially
true of many of the events of her illnesses. Milly, when in
good health, had no recollection of her three illnesses. She
knew she had been ill, but she did not remember much about
it. During the course of these illnesses her memory was of
course very defective in many ways, and in each attack one
curious loss, which proved very persistent, was observed. She
forgot that her second name was Geraldine. Each time when
she got well, although she forgot the events of the illness,
most of her old memories came back to her ; but she still
denied for many months that Geraldine was part of her name.
Now I found that Amelia knew no more than Milly about
Geraldine being her second name.
When I first tried to get Amelia to write automatically
through Milly's hand she refused, giving as a reason that she
did not wish Milly to see what she wrote. I therefore asked
her to write me a letter some time when Milly was asleep.
Next day her sister brought me a letter which the patient,
when in the second state, had asked her to give to me. It
is interesting to notice how readily Amelia adopted the style
of an orthodox second personality. The letter begins :
" My
dear Doctor, She does not know I am writing this "—" she
"
being, of course, Milly.
Amelia denied all responsibility for most of the morbid
symptoms from which Milly suffered, but she confessed to
having caused some of them. She said in a letter to me, " I
made her hands shake and her legs as well, and I scratched
her and made all those nasty places on her hands and legs,
and made her fingers close down and her thumbs so that she
could not move them. ... I made her fall downstairs and hurt
herself." She said, however, that she had nothing to do with
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 307
causing the difficulties of speech, reading, and writing, or the
bleeding from the eyes and ears, or the hemianaesthesia. Although
we must be cautious in accepting these statements, there are
some grounds for thinking that they have some foundation in
fact. During the course of the patient's illness it seemed evident
to me that those more serious disturbances, for the production
of which Amelia denied all responsibility, were connected with
the functioning of dissociated states of consciousness which
were not synthesised within the hypnotic personality ; and
when I succeeded in removing any of the more obstinate
symptoms by suggestion, I generally found it necessary to try
to render hypnosis as deep as possible. The nature, or even
the existence, of such deeper hypnotic states was not experi-
mentally tested at the time for fear of compromising the
therapeutic results, but when the patient was practically well
I was able to hypnotise Amelia and so to obtain a new state
which assumed the name of Amelia Geraldine—from the fact that
in it Amelia remembered her second name. Amelia Geraldine
seemed to present a more normal character than Amelia. The
childishness of Amelia seemed to disappear and to give place
to a more serious and womanly personality.
Both Amelia and Milly claimed to be amnesic of all that
transpired when Amelia Geraldine was present ; but although
this was no doubt true in regard to Milly, it sometimes appeared
as if Amelia had some sort of knowledge of Amelia Geraldine.
Both Amelia and Amelia Geraldine ascribed the more serious
functional disabilities to something beyond or within them.
There seemed indeed to be in this case some dissociated states
which could not be recovered in hypnosis, dissociated ideas
which were outside the mental content of any discoverable
personality, dissociated emotions deeply buried in the sub-
conscious which revealed their presence by these bizarre defects
of the psycho-physical organism. Amelia, in trying to excuse
herself for her participation in the production of Milly 's troubles,
says, " it is that awjul thing in my head that makes me do
those things to her ; it is dreadful and makes me feel bad,
and I must do something to hurt her."
Notwithstanding the beneficial results that had been obtained
in this case by the use of suggestion, a stage was reached
where it became evident that something more was necessary
308 T. W. Mitchell, M.R [part
to restore the patient to normal health. Every attempt at
producing complete freedom from all physical manifestations
of hysteria was followed by an increase of mental pain and
depression. Although it is no uncommon experience to be
able by suggestion to remove completely and permanently the
disabilities met with in mild cases of hysteria, it is the general
opinion of those who have had much to do with graver cases
that complete restoration to health is difficult to obtain. Janet,
in accordance with his view that hysterical symptoms are the
result of a narrowing of the field of consciousness, says that,
so long as the field of consciousness remains contracted, we
can never add one phenomenon on one side without taking
one away from another side. Janet's hysterical has been well
compared by Freud to a weak woman who has been shopping,
and is now on her way home laden with packages and bundles
of every description. She cannot manage the whole lot with
her two arms and her ten fingers, and soon she drops one.
When she stoops to pick this up, another breaks loose, and so
it goes on. This view of the nature of hysteria is hardly in
keeping with the observation commonly made that in hysteria
exaltation of faculty in some directions is to be found along
with diminished power in others. More in accord, on the
whole, with clinical facts is Freud's view that the somatic
symptoms of hysteria are due to the conversion of repressed
emotions into physical disabilities, and that where adaptation
for such conversion does not exist, purely mental symptoms
such as phobies and obsessions may appear.
In view of the remarkable findings of Freud and his pupils
in regard to the pathogenesis of hysteria, I decided to undertake
a psycho-analysis of A. G. P. in the hope that I might be
able to achieve the complete restoration to health which sug-
gestion alone seemed unable to effect. For various reasons I
adopted, to begin with, the technique used by Freud in his
earlier work, making use of the hypnotic state as a means of
facilitating the analysis. At a later period this was supple-
mented by word-association tests in the waking state and
other measures.
It soon became evident that the memory of incidents forgotten
in the waking state was most readily resuscitated in the state
known as Amelia Geraldine (AG). Her memory of such in-
lxvi.] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 309
cidents of a pathogenic kind seemed much wider and more
accessible than that of Amelia (A). But it was soon found
that a still better state for psycho-analysis was one which
may be called AG2 ,
produced by hypnotising AG. When AG
first appeared I suggested to her that she should open her
eyes, and that she should always " come " with her eyes open.
AG2 had her eyes closed and said she was AG asleep. Thus
when Milly (M) was hypnotised, A came with eyes closed.
When A was told to sleep, AG appeared after a little time with
eyes open. On continuing the hypnotising process—verbal
suggestions of sleep combined with light passes with contact
on the face—AG closed her eyes and claimed to be AG2 . On
telling AG., to awake, she opened her eyes and was AG.
On telling AG to awake, she closed her eyes and A appeared.
When A was told to awake, she opened her eyes and M
appeared. M was amnesic for all the stages. A was amnesic
for AG and AG2
. AG remembered what I said to A, but
" lost herself " when AG2
appeared.
From the very beginning A had persistently asserted that
she was not responsible for all the things that Milly said and
did when asleep. I had assumed that it was A who spoke
to her sisters and father in what I have described as the
second state ; but in her first letter to me A had said, " I do
not make her talk." For a long time I took no notice of
this denial, accounting it merely a ruse on A's part by which
she might escape a scolding from me. A, however, maintained
very persistently that Milly in her sleep often said and did
things for which she (A) was not responsible. These things
were ascribed by A to " Milly asleep " (Ma). But Ma was
a phase of consciousness with which I had no personal dealings,
and in which I did not believe until A came to my assistance.
She told me that the way to find Ma was " to put her
to sleep—very sound sleep—ever so much deeper than you
put me, and then make her open her eyes." The process
here described amounted to producing AG2 , or some deeper
state, and then getting her to open her eyes. After Ma was
discovered, AG2
appeared only as a transition stage between
AG and Ma, and this latter stage was used in the remaining
stages of the psycho-analysis.
I find it very difficult to come to any conclusion regarding
310 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PAKT
the interpretation which should be put upon these various
phases of the hypnotic state in this case. I believe they were
to a large extent artificial products, partly due to direct or
indirect suggestion from me, but to a still greater degree to
self-suggestion on the part of the patient. It seems to me
impossible to disentangle from the whole series of phenomena
that which might be due to self-suggestion and that which
occurred apparently spontaneously. The different personalities
exhibited no very striking differences of character, but, such as
they were, these differences were fairly consistently maintained
throughout the whole period of investigation. I charged both
A and AG to take care of Milly, and to keep her well and
free from accidents or injuries. A became rather a fussy
guardian of Milly's welfare, and reported her various misdeeds
to me with an exaggerated sense of her own importance and
rectitude. She was rather proud of her disciplinary methods,
which consisted in biting and scratching Milly when the latter
did not act in accordance with A's ideas of what was con-
ducive to health. AG, on the other hand, generally spoke
" more in sorrow than in anger " of Milly's delinquencies. Ma
was very like Milly awake, but with a greatly extended memory
as regards certain experiences which were of hysterogenic
significance.
According to Freud, the pathogenic psychic material which
has been crowded out of the ordinary consciousness in hysteria
may be shown still to exist in an orderly form ; and again
and again in the course of psycho-analysis undertaken in the
waking state, Freud seems struck by the appearance of its
being in the possession of a second intelligence. He says
" One receives a delusive impression of a superior intelligence,
external to the patient's consciousness, which systematically
holds a large psychic material for definite purposes. ... I
presume, however, that this unconscious second intelligence is
only apparent." 1
In another place he says :
" The pathogenic
psychic material appears as the property of an intelligence
which is not necessarily inferior to the normal ego. The
semblance of a second personality is often most delusively
produced." 2
There are some grounds, I think, for demurring to Freud's
1
Freud, loc. cit., p. 90. 2
Ibid., p. 104.
lxvl] A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality. 311
view that this semblance is necessarily delusive. It seemed
to me that in the case of A. G. P. the induction of hypnosis
brought me into touch with a series of personalities who held
in their possession a vast amount of psychic material of which
the waking consciousness had lost all knowledge, and of a
kind which, on Freud's own showing, must be regarded as
hysterogenic.
On trying to recover some of the incidents of Milly's past
from A, AG, or AG.,, great resistance was very often en-
countered, and little progress was sometimes made for weeks
at a time. It was apparently in order to help me over these
difficulties that A voluntarily offered to tell me how to find
" Milly asleep." " She knows everything," A said, " and she
will tell you everything, if you do as I say." And A's pro-
gnostication was on the whole correct. Resistances were still
met with, but in the end all the episodes of which AG., could
only recover fragments were filled out in detail by Ma.
Concurrently with the revelation of the emotional shocks
which had led to disintegration of personality. Milly's health
recovered. But I must add that, all through the later period
of treatment, as at the beginning, suggestion was employed.
After the psycho-analysis had reached a certain point the
hemianalgesia was again made to disappear by suggestion and
no untoward results followed. Very likely from the Freudian
point of view the analysis was incomplete, but I had attained
my end, and Milly became to all appearance a normal healthy
woman. And so she remains. The phases A, AG, and Ma
can still be obtained, but their spontaneous manifestations have,
so far as I know, ceased.
312 Professor Sigm. Freud, 31. D. [part
III.
A NOTE ON THE UNCONSCIOUS IN PSYCHO-ANALYSIS.
By Professor SIGM. FREUD, M.D., LL.D. (Vienna).
I wish to expound in a few words and as plainly as possible
what the term " unconscious " has come to mean in Psycho-
analysis and in Psycho-analysis alone.
A conception—or any other psychical element—which is
now -present to my consciousness may become absent the next
moment, and may become present again, after an interval,
unchanged, and, as we say, from memory, not as a result of
a fresh perception by our senses. It is this fact which we are
accustomed to account for by the supposition that during the
interval the conception has been present in our mind,
although latent in consciousness. In what shape it may have
existed while present in the mind and latent in consciousness
we have no means of guessing.
At this very point we may be prepared to meet with the
philosophical objection that the latent conception did not exist
as an object of psychology, but as a physical disposition for
the recurrence of the same psychical phenomenon, i.e. of the
said conception. But we may reply that this is a theory far
overstepping the domain of psychology proper ; that it simply
begs the question by asserting " conscious " to be an identical
term with " psychical," and that it is clearly at fault in denying
psychology the right to account for its most common facts,
such as memory, by its own means.
Now let us call " conscious " the conception which is present
to our consciousness and of which we are aware, and let this
be the only meaning of the term " conscious." As for latent
lxvi.] A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis. 313
conceptions, if we have any reason to suppose that they exist
in the mind—as we had in the case of memory,—let them be
denoted by the term " unconscious."
Thus an unconscious conception is one of which we are not
aware, but the existence of which we are nevertheless ready
to admit on account of other proofs or signs.
This might be considered an uninteresting piece of descriptive
or classificatory work if no experience appealed to our judg-
ment other than the facts of memory, or the cases of
association by unconscious links. The well-known experiment,
however, of " the post-hypnotic suggestion " teaches us to insist
upon the importance of the distinction between conscious and
unconscious, and seems to increase its value.
In this experiment, as performed by Bernheim, a person is
put into a hypnotic state and is subsequently aroused. While
he was in the hypnotic state, under the influence of the
physician, he was ordered to execute a certain action at a
certain fixed moment after his awakening, say half-an-hour
later. He awakes, and seems fully conscious and in his
ordinary condition ; he has no recollection of his hypnotic
state, and yet at the pre-arranged moment there rushes into
his mind the impulse to do such and such a thing, and he
does it consciously, though not knowing why. It seems
impossible to give any other description of the phenomenon
than to say that the order had been present in the mind of
the person in a condition of latency, or had been present
unconsciously, until the given moment came, and then had
become conscious. But not the whole of it emerged into
consciousness : only the conception of the act to be executed.
All the other ideas associated with this conception,—the order,
the influence of the physician, the recollection of the hypnotic
state, remained unconscious even then.
But we have more to learn from such an experiment. We
are led from the purely descriptive to a dynamic view of the
phenomenon. The idea of the action ordered in hypnosis not
only became an object of consciousness at a certain moment,
but the more striking aspect of the fact is that this idea grew
active : it was translated into action as soon as consciousness
became aware of its presence. The real stimulus to the action
being the order of the physician, it is hard not to concede
314 Professor Sigm. Freud, M.D. [part
that the idea of the physician's order became active too.
Yet this last idea did not reveal itself to consciousness, as did
its outcome, the idea of the action ; it remained unconscious,
and so it was active and 'unconscious at the same time.
A post-hypnotic suggestion is a laboratory production, an
artificial fact. But if we adopt the theory of hysterical
phenomena first put forward by P. Janet and elaborated by
Breuer and myself, we shall not be at a loss for plenty of
natural facts showing the psychological character of the post-
hypnotic suggestion even more clearly and distinctly.
The mind of the hysterical patient is full of active yet
unconscious ideas ; all her symptoms proceed from such ideas.
It is in fact the most striking character of the hysterical
mind to be ruled by them. If the hysterical woman vomits,
she may do so from the idea of being pregnant. She has,
however, no knowledge of this idea, although it can easily be
detected in her mind, and made conscious to her, by one of
the technical procedures of Psycho-analysis. If she is executing
the jerks and movements constituting her "fit," she does not
even consciously represent to herself the intended actions, and
she may perceive those actions with the detached feelings of
an onlooker. Nevertheless analysis will show that she was
acting her part in the dramatic reproduction of some incident
in her life, the memory of which was unconsciously active
during the attack. The same preponderance of active un-
conscious ideas is revealed by analysis as the essential fact in
the psychology of all other forms of neurosis.
We learn therefore by the analysis of neurotic phenomena
that a latent or unconscious idea is not necessarily a weak
one, and that the presence of such an idea in the mind admits
of indirect proofs of the most cogent kind, which are equivalent
to the direct proof furnished by consciousness. We feel justified
in making our classification agree with this addition to our
knowledge by introducing a fundamental distinction between
different kinds of latent or unconscious ideas. We were
accustomed to think that every latent idea was so because it
was weak and that it grew conscious as soon as it became
strong. We have now gained the conviction that there are
some latent ideas which do not penetrate into consciousness,
however strong they may have become. Therefore we may
lxvi.] A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis. 315
call the latent ideas of the first type foreconscious, while we
reserve the term unconscious (proper) for the latter type which
we came to study in the neuroses. The term unconscious,
which was used in the purely descriptive sense before, now
comes to imply something more. It designates not only latent
ideas in general, but especially ideas with a certain dynamic
character, ideas keeping apart from consciousness in spite of
their intensity and activity.
Before continuing my exposition I will refer to two objections
which are likely to be raised at this point. The first of these
may be stated thus : instead of subscribing to the hypothesis
of unconscious ideas of which we know nothing, we had better
assume that consciousness can be split up, so that certain
ideas or other psychical acts may constitute a consciousness
apart, which has become detached and estranged from the
bulk of conscious psychical activity. Well-known pathological
cases like that of Dr. Azam seem to go far to show that the
splitting up of consciousness is no fanciful imagination.
I venture to urge against this theory that it is a gratuitous
assumption, based on the abuse of the word " conscious." We
have no right to extend the meaning of this word so far as
to make it include a consciousness of which its owner himself
is not aware. If philosophers find difficulty in accepting the
existence of unconscious ideas, the existence of an unconscious
consciousness seems to me even more objectionable. The cases
described as splitting of consciousness, like Dr. Azam's, might
better be denoted as shifting of consciousness,—that function—or
whatever it be—oscillating between two different psychical com-
plexes which become conscious and unconscious in alternation.
The other objection that may probably be raised would be
that we apply to normal psychology conclusions which are
drawn chiefly from the study of pathological conditions. We
are enabled to answer it by another fact, the knowledge of
which we owe to psycho-analysis. Certain deficiencies of function
of most frequent occurrence among healthy people, e.g. lapsus
linguae, errors in memory and speech, forgetting of names, etc.,
may easily be shown to depend on the action of strong un-
conscious ideas in the same way as neurotic symptoms. We
shall meet with another still more convincing argument at a
later stage of this discussion.
316 Professor Sigm. Freud, M.D. [part
By the differentiation of foreconscious and unconscious ideas,
we are led on to leave the field of classification and to form
an opinion about functional and dynamical relations in psychical
action. We have found a foreconscious activity passing into
consciousness with no difficulty, and an unconscious activity
which remains so and seems to be cut off from conscious-
ness.
Now we do not know whether these two modes of psychical
activity are identical or essentially divergent from their
beginning, but we may ask why they should become different
in the course of psychical action. To this last question psycho-
analysis gives a clear and unhesitating answer. It is by no
means impossible for the product of unconscious activity to
pierce into consciousness, but a certain amount of exertion
is needed for this task. When we try to do it in ourselves,
we become aware of a distinct feeling of repulsion which
must be overcome, and when we produce it in a patient we
get the most unquestionable signs of what we call his resistance
to it. So we learn that the unconscious idea is excluded from
consciousness by living forces which oppose themselves to its
reception, while they do not object to other ideas, the fore-
conscious ones. Psyche-analysis leaves no room for doubt
that the repulsion from unconscious ideas is only provoked by
the tendencies embodied in their contents. The next and most
probable theory which can be formulated at this stage of our
knowledge is the following. Unconsciousness is a regular and
inevitable phase in the processes constituting our psychical
activity ;
every psychical act begins as an unconscious one,
and it may either remain so or go on developing into con-
sciousness, according as it meets with resistance or not. The
distinction between foreconscious and unconscious activity is
not a primary one, but comes to be established after repulsion
has sprung up. Only then the difference between fore-conscious
ideas, which can appear in consciousness and reappear at
any moment, and unconscious ideas which cannot do so
gains a theoretical as well as a practical value. A rough but
not inadequate analogy to this supposed relation of conscious
to unconscious activity might be drawn from the field of
ordinary photography. The first stage of the photograph is
the " negative "
;
every photographic picture has to pass through
lxvi.] A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho- Analysis. 317
the " negative process," and some of these negatives which
have held good in examination are admitted to the " positive
process " ending in the picture.
But the distinction between foreconscious and unconscious
activity, and the recognition of the barrier which keeps them
asunder, is not the last or the most important result of the
psycho-analytic investigation of psychical life. There is one
psychical product to be met with in the most normal persons,
which yet presents a very striking analogy to the wildest produc-
tions of insanity, and was no more intelligible to philosophers than
insanity itself. I refer to dreams. Psycho-analysis is founded
upon the analysis of dreams ; the interpretation of dreams is the
most complete piece of work the young science has done up to
the present. One of the most common types of dream-forma-
tion may be described as follows : a train of thoughts has
been aroused by the working of the mind in the daytime,
and retained some of its activity, escaping from the general
inhibition of interests which introduces sleep and constitutes
the psychical preparation for sleeping. During the night this
train of thoughts succeeds in finding connections with one of
the unconscious tendencies present ever since his childhood in
the mind of the dreamer, but ordinarily repressed and excluded
from his conscious life. By the borrowed force of this un-
conscious help, the thoughts, the residue of the day's work,
now become active again, and emerge into consciousness in
the shape of the dream. Now three things have happened
(1) The thoughts have undergone a change, a disguise and
a distortion, which represents the part of the un-
conscious helpmate.
(2) The thoughts have occupied consciousness at a time
when they ought not.
(3) Some part of the unconscious, which could not other-
wise have done so, has emerged into consciousness.
We have learnt the art of finding out the " residual thoughts,"
the latent thoughts of the dream, and, by comparing them with
the apparent dream, we are able to form a judgment on the
changes they underwent and the manner in which these were
brought about.
The latent thoughts of the dream differ in no respect from
the products of our regular conscious activity ;
they deserve
318 Professor Sigm. Freud, M.D. [part
the name of foreconscious thoughts, and may indeed have been
conscious at some moment of waking life. But, by entering
into connection with the unconscious tendencies during the
night, they have become assimilated to the latter, degraded as
it were to the condition of unconscious thoughts, and sub-
jected to the laws by which unconscious activity is governed.
And here is the opportunity to learn what we could not have
guessed from speculation, or from another source of empirical
information,—that the laws of unconscious activity differ widely
from those of the conscious. We gather in detail what the
peculiarities of the Unconscious are, and we may hope to learn
still more about them by a profounder investigation of the
processes of dream-formation.
This enquiry is not yet half finished, and an exposition of
the results obtained hitherto is scarcely possible without entering
into the most intricate problems of dream-analysis. But I
would not break off this discussion without indicating the
change and progress in our comprehension of the Unconscious
which are due to our psycho-analytic study of dreams.
Unconsciousness seemed to us at first only an enigmatical
characteristic of a definite psychical act. Now it means more
for us. It is a sign that this act partakes of the nature of
a certain psychical category known to us by other and more
important characters, and that it belongs to a system of
psychical activity which is deserving of our fullest attention.
The index-value of the unconscious has far outgrown its im-
portance as a property. The system revealed by the sign
that the single acts forming parts of it are unconscious we
designate by the name " The Unconscious," for want of a
better and less ambiguous term. In German, I propose to
denote this system by the letters Ubw, an abbreviation of the
German word " Unbewusst." And this is the third and most
significant sense which the term " unconscious " has acquired in
psycho-analysis.
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious.
IV.
THE THEORY OF THE SUBCONSCIOUS.
By BORIS SIDIS, M.A., Ph.D., M.D.
(Sidis Psychotherapeutic Institute, Portsmouth, N.H. ).
CHAPTER I.
THE SUBCONSCIOUS AND UNCONSCIOUS CEREBRATION.
Plato put on the portals of his academy the inscription, " No
one can enter here without a knowledge of geometry." Similarly
no one can gain access to the facts of abnormal psychology
without a thorough understanding of the subconscious. The
subconscious may be briefly defined as mental processes of
which the individual is not directly conscious. The general
drift of my Psychology of Suggestion is the description of the
subconscious as a diffused consciousness below the margin of
personal consciousness. I sometimes use the term subconscious
self. I designate by " self " not personal consciousness, but mere
consciousness. In Multiple Personality, in which I develop the
theory of thresholds in regard to the phenomena of normal and
abnormal mental life, I define the subconscious as consciousness
below the threshold of attentive personal consciousness. I find
that my clinical and psychological investigations more and
more confirm me in the view of the subconscious advanced
by me in The Psychology of Suggestion. I am pleased to find
that Prof. James, in a recent article, accepts the same view,
and advances the same theory of threshold in regard to the
subconscious. " Nobody knows," he writes, " how far we are
'
marginally ' conscious of these memories, concepts and cona-
tional states at ordinary times, or how far beyond the '
margin
320 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
of our present thought trans-marginal consciousness of them
may exist."
In my Psychology of Suggestion I pointed out the difficulties
of the purely physiological interpretation of the subconscious.
Since this view still lingers among some psychologists, I
cannot do better than reproduce the passage verbatim (pp. 118
et seq.)
The facts of hypnotic memory alone strongly indicate the intel-
ligent nature of the subconscious. Can the theory of unconscious
cerebration explain, for instance, the fact of suggested amnesia
during hypnosis 1 I hypnotize Mr. V. F. and make him pass
through many lively scenes and actions. I give him hypnotic and
posthypnotic suggestions. The subject is wakened and hypnotized
time and again. At last he is put into a hypnotic state, and it
is suggested that on awakening he shall not remember anything of
what had happened in the state of hypnosis. The subject, on
emerging from his trance, remembers nothing of what he has
passed through. I then put my hand on his forehead and tell him
in a commanding voice, "You remember now everything." As if
touched by the wand of a magician, the suppressed memories
become endowed with life and movement, and invade the con-
sciousness of the subject. Everything is now clearly remembered,
and the subject is able to relate the tale of his adventures without
the omission of the least incident. So detailed is the account that
one cannot help wondering at the extraordinary memory displayed
by the subject. How is the theory of unconscious cerebration to
account for this strange fact ? Prof. Ziehen, in his Physiological
Psychology, tells us that "it is still a matter of doubt whether,
despite their complicatedness, all the facts of the hypnotized individual
are not motions accomplished without any concomitant psychical
processes," and that "even the recollection of the hypnotic psychical
processes do not necessarily argue in favour of their existence
during the hypnotic trance." This extreme view is certainly wrong,
for the subject during hypnosis not only acts, moves, but he also
speaks, answers questions intelligently, reasons, discusses; and if
such an individual may be regarded as a mere machine, on the
same grounds we may consider any rational man as a mere
unconscious automaton.
The advocates of unconscious cerebration must admit at least
this much, that hypnosis is a conscious state. Now, on the theory
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 321
of unconscious cerebration, it is truly inconceivable how psychical
states can be suppressed, the accompanying physiological processes
alone being left, and all that done by a mere word of the experi-
menter. The restoration of memory is still more incomprehensible
than the suggested amnesia. A command by the experimenter,
" Now you can remember," brings into consciousness a flood of
ideas and images. It is not that the experimenter gives the subject
a clue which starts the train of particular images and ideas ; but
the mere general, abstract suggestion, "You can remember," is
sufficient to restore memories which to all appearances have com-
pletely vanished from the mind of the subject. Are the unconscious
physiological nervous modifications so intelligent as to understand
suggestions and follow them 1 Does unconscious cerebration under-
stand the command of the experimenter, and does it oblige him to
become conscious ? On closer examination, we find the term uncon-
scious cerebration to be of so loose a nature that under its head
are often recorded facts that clearly indicate the working of an
intelligence. Thus, Mr. Charles M. Child brings the following fact
as a specimen of unconscious cerebration :
" I had earnestly been
trying," a gentleman writes to Mr. Child, "to make a trial balance,
and at last left off working, the summary of the Dr. and Cr. sides
of the account showing a difference of £2 10s., the Dr. side being
so much smaller. The error I had not found on Saturday night
when I left the counting-house. On this same Saturday night I
retired feeling nervous and angry with myself. Some time in the
night I dreamed thus : I was seated at my desk in the counting-
house and in a good light ;
everything was orderly and natural,
the ledger lying before me. I was looking over the balance of the
accounts and comparing them with the sums in the trial-balance
sheet. Soon I came to a debit balance of £2 10s. I looked at it,
called myself sundry names, spoke to myself in a deprecating manner
of my own eyes, and at last put the £2 10s. to its proper side of
the trial-balance sheet and went home. I arose at the usual Sunday
time, dressed carefully, breakfasted, went to call on some . . . friends
to go to church. Suddenly the dream flashed on my memory. I
went for the keys, opened the office, also the safe, got the ledger,
and turned to the folio my dream had indicated. There was the
account whose balance was the sum wanted which I had omitted
to put in the balance-sheet, where it was put now, and my year's
posting proved correct."
The adherents of unconscious cerebration tacitly include under
x
322 Boris Sidis, M.I). [part
this term not only unconscious physiological processes, or nerve
modifications, but also psychical states. Keeping clearly in mind
the real meaning of unconscious cerebration as referring to physio-
logical processes, or nerve modifications with no psychical accom-
paniment, the difficulties of unconscious cerebration to account for
the phenomena of hypnotic memory become truly insurmountable.
For if the physiological processes subsumed under the category of
unconscious cerebration are completely lacking in all psychical elements
whatever, how can a general abstract negative jjhrase, " You cannot
remember," suppress particular psychical states, and how can a
similar positive phrase, " You can remember," bring the forgotten
memories back to consciousness % It is simply incomprehensible.
Furthermore, while the subject is in a hypnotic condition, we can
suggest to him that on awakening he shall not remember anything,
but when put to the automatic recorder he shall be able to write
everything that has taken place in the state of hypnosis. The
subject is then awakened : he remembers nothing at all of what
he has passed through while in the state of hypnotic trance. As
soon, however, as he is put to the automatic recorder the hand
gives a full rational account of all the events. If now you ask
the subject what it is he has written, he stares at you in confusion;
he knows nothing at all of the writing. How shall we account for
this fact on the theory of unconscious cerebration ? Can unconscious
physiological processes write rational discourses 1 It is simply
wonderful, incomprehensible.
These, however, are not the only difficulties which the theory of
unconscious cerebration has to encounter. Take the following
experiment : I gave Mr. V. F. the suggestion that on awakening
he should put my coat on three times, take it off, and put it on
again ; that he should do it when he heard a signal which should
be a knock ; amnesia was suggested and also the possibility of
writing the suggestion. The subject was then roused from his
trance. There was not the slightest recollection of what had been
suggested, but when he was put to the automatic recorder the hand
at once proceeded to write everything. In the middle of the writing,
" when a signal will be given . . .," I stopped the subject and asked
him what he was writing about. "I do not know," he answered.
" How is it," I asked again, " you write and do not know what
you write 1 " "I do not know, I think it was something about a
coat." "What was it you were writing about a coat?" "I do not
know, maybe it was about the make of a coat." Then when the signal
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 323
came, he rose and put on the coat three times. To take another
experiment of the same kind : I give the subject the suggestion
that he should bow to the gas whenever the door should be opened ;
again amnesia is suggested, with the possibility of writing. The
subject is stopped when he finished his account. " What was it
you wrote?" I asked. The subject looked surprised. I repeated
my question. " I do not know, I think something about a door."
" What was it about a door 1" "I do not know." I have made
many similar experiments, and all of them with the same results.
It is evident that the writing is not an unconscious automatic
process, for the subject possesses a general knowledge of what he
has written, or even of what he is going to write. Now, on the
theory of unconscious cerebration this general knowledge ought to
be entirely lacking, since the physiological processes of the suppressed
memory have no psychical accompaniment. It would not do to say
that the subject knows each word as he writes it, but becomes
unconscious of it, forgets it as soon as it is written down, because
the subject is able to tell the central idea; that is, he has a general
knowledge of it, and, what is more, he is able to tell us this
general central idea even before he finishes the writing, —in fact,
he can do it when stopped in the middle of the phrase. On the
theory of secondary consciousness, however, the experiments could
not possibly give other results. The secondary consciousness under-
stands the suggestions given by the experimenter, accepts them,
obeys the commands, keeps the suppressed memories, and sends up
a general knowledge of them to the upper consciousness, and if
commanded, communicates the suppressed particular suggestions in
all their details.
The advocates of unconscious cerebration assume too much : they
assume that normal memory, or recollection in the normal state,
can be fully accounted for by unconscious physiological processes,
and the only thing required is to apply this theory to the phenomena
of hypnotic memory. It would be well to examine this theory and
see how strong its claims are in the case of normal memory.
Many a modern psycho-physiologist no doubt smiles at the crude,
ancient psycho-physiological theory of perception. Images or copies
of objects emanate from objects, get deposited in the mind, hence
perception, cognition, memory. The modern psycho-physiological
speculations, however, the speculations of Maudsley, Carpenter,
Ziehen, Eibot, etc., are no less crude. Thus, Ziehen, for instance,
conceives that each sensation deposits a copy of itself, —an image,
324 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
an idea, in some one of the memory ganglion cells, and memory-
consists in the reproduction of this copy, —the hen lays an egg from
which another hen may come out. Maudsley expresses the same
thing in slightly different terms; instead of "deposits of images in
memory ganglion cells," he uses " modifications of nerve elements."
" It may be supposed," says Maudsley, " that the first activity did
leave behind it, when it subsided, some after-effect, some modification
of the nerve element, whereby the nerve circuit was disposed to fall
again readily into the same action, such disposition (unconscious)
appearing in consciousness as recognition or memory." Ribot and
many other psychologists, with slight variations in minor points,
follow the same beaten track. All of them agree that it is the
nerve modifications produced by the physiological processes of sensa-
tions, emotions, etc., that constitute the basis, nay, the very essence,
of memory itself. It does not require a close examination to find
the deficiencies of this theory. A mere modification left behind as
a trace cannot possibly explain memory, recollection, the fact of
referring a particular bit of experience to an experience felt before.
The retention of a trace or of a nervous modification, and the repro-
duction of that trace or modification, cannot in the least account for
the fact that a series of sensations, ideas, images, emotions felt at
different times, should become combined, brought into a unity, felt like
being similar, like being repetitions, copies of an original experience.
It is not retention or reproduction, but it is the recognition element
that constitutes the essentia of memory. The rose of to-day reminds me
of the rose of yesterday, of the same rose seen the day before
yesterday. Now the image of the rose may be retained, may even
be reproduced, but if it is not recognized as having happened in the
past, there can be no recollection : in short, without recognition there
is no memory. As Prof. James strongly puts it, "the gutter is worn
deeper by each successive shower, but not for that reason brought
into contact with previous showers." Does the theory of unconscious
physiological processes, of material brain traces, of nerve modifica-
tions, does the theory take into account this element of recognition'?
Can the theory of unconscious cerebration offer the faintest suggestion
as to how that element of recognition is brought about 1 What is
that something added to the unconscious physiological trace or nerve
modification that effects a conscious recognition ]
Furthermore, first impressions can be localized in the past, but
so can also each subsequent revival. How shall we explain on the
theory of unconscious physiological nerve registration that the original,
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 325
the primitive sense experience, as well as each subsequent revival,
can be referred to as distinct psychical facts. For if the structural
nerve elements are slightly modified with each revival, how shall
we account for this psychical distinction of the original sense experi-
ence as well as of the modified revivals 1 The remembered experience
leaves its own individual trace, then a trace of its being a copy of
a former original impression, and also a trace of its being a member
in a series of similar traces, each trace being both a copy of another
and a copy of the original impression. How all that is done is a
mystery.
These objections advanced by me many years ago hold true
of recent theories which fall back on the old views of Mill
and Carpenter, namely, unconscious cerebration. The modern
upholders of unconscious cerebration think that they have
discovered new facts and arguments in favour of unconscious
mental activity, and are thus justified in denying subconscious
mental life. The arguments, as we have pointed out, are not
new, nor are the facts advanced in support of these arguments
true. The same objections hold true in the case of the theory
of unconscious cerebration offered us in the garb of nerve
currents and nerve paths, well worn nerve tracks, opening and
closing of nerve currents and tracks, and formation of all shapes
and forms of neurograms. Why be misled by figments and by
sounds ? The subconscious stands for a number of facts, reactions,
and behaviour which are accompanied by psychic life, by mental
activities, by consciousness.
The physiological unconscious registration theories of nerve
currents, nerve-paths and neurograms are not only figments,
arbitrary fanciful weavings of the imagination, they cannot even
hypothetically explain the simplest act of memory and especially
of recognitive memory.
Since the theories of unconscious registration fail us in the
most elementary mental processes, how can we possibly rely
on cerebration-fancies in the case of such complex phenomena
as hypnotic conditions and various mental states of trance and
dissociation ? The physiological theories such as unconscious
cerebration and their modifications failing, we must use for all
those phenomena the psychological interpretation. The sub-
conscious must be taken as a necessary theory in Psycho-
pathology, as atoms, molecules, electrons and ether are in
326 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
Chemistry and Physics. The subconscious is not an " uncon-
scious," it is not a physiological automatism. The subconscious
is a consciousness, a secondary consciousness, a sort of secondary
self, the self being understood by me as a diffused consciousness.
CHAPTER II.
THE SUBCONSCIOUS AND AUTOMATISM.
The theory of unconscious cerebration dies hard. Recently a
few psychologists made an attempt to revive it. The argu-
ments advanced are rather philosophical than psychological.
It may be well to test the validity of these arguments. If we
clear the ground of all superfluous speculations, we find two
main contentions. In the first place, it is assumed that many
hypnotic and hysterical manifestations are solely the result of
physiological activities. It is claimed by some, such as
Miinsterberg, that physiological processes without any psychic
accompaniments, may reach such a high state of complexity
as to account fully for all the observed manifestations in the
different forms of mental dissociations. In the second place, it
is claimed, from a purely philosophical standpoint, that even in
the case of dissociation when consciousness may be granted to be
present, there is no dissociation in consciousness itself, since
consciousness is but a passive onlooker while the active changes
go on in the content of consciousness ; in other words, in
states of dissociation it is not consciousness that is changed,
but only the content of consciousness.
Let us examine these contentions and see whether they
can stand the test of critical analysis. The view of regarding
mental activity from a purely physiological standpoint is not
new, it dates as far back as Descartes, who regards all the
animals, with the exception of man, as mechanical automata.1
1
The philosopher, Maiman, in his "Autobiography" tells an anecdote of
himself. In his youth Maiman was an ardent adherent of Cartesian automatism.
During one of his strolls with a friend Maiman struck a goat. The animal
bleated. The friend rebuked Maiman for his cruelty. Maiman laughed at the
simplicity of his friend. —" The goat is like a drum which sounds when it is
beaten."
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 327
Huxley carried the view further, regarding consciousness as an
epiphenonienon. The physiological mechanism is the engine,
consciousness is hut the whistle accompanying it. Of course,
it goes without saying that all psychologists and physiologists
at present take for granted that all states of consciousness are
accompanied by physiological processes. Every thought, every
feeling, even the most complicated poetical inspirations, or the
most abstruse mathematical, logical and metaphysical specula-
tions, have physiological processes as their accompaniments.
We are, however, hardly justified in carrying this postulate to
the absurdity of the total denial of consciousness, and regarding
all adjustments and adaptations as so many chemical and
mechanical reactions
—"tropisms," as some modern biologists, such
as Loeb and others, are apt to put it in the case of many
animals, a reversion to the Cartesian hypothesis of mechanical
automatism. Motor reactions can be regarded solely from the
physiological standpoint, but consciousness cannot be entirely ruled
out. What probability is there that a play of atoms and electrons
would produce the Iliad, Hamlet, the Principia of Newton, the
Celestial Mechanics of Laplace, or Darwin's Origin of Species ?
Even if we descend to such motor reactions as are expressed
in the compositions of a schoolboy, we still unhesitatingly assume
a conscious activity. We cannot refute the philosopher who
would regard all such manifestations as so many physiological
processes without any conscious accompaniment. For though
every one is directly conscious of his own mental life, no one
can experience directly the mental life of another. We can-
not inspect directly the psychic processes that go on in other
living beings, or in our fellow men. Mind is inferred from
action, from behaviour. Eeactions, adjustments to environment,
accompanied by consciousness, by intelligence in us, are rightly
judged to have the same accompaniment in other beings, in
our neighbours. To deny consciousness to our neighbour, and
to regard him as a physiological automaton, is to put oneself
in the absurd position of denying the existence of states which
are observed in ourselves under similar conditions. In fact the
burden of proof falls on those who make such a denial.
Now, in the case of hypnosis or various states of dissociation,
we meet with intelligent adjustments often expressed in gestures,
writing and speech. We can, by means of various methods, enter
328 Boris Sidis, M.D [part
into active relationship with those dissociated activities unknown
to the individual himself. We can obtain intelligent replies to
our questions either by writing or by speaking or by other
arranged means of communication. What right have we to
deny consciousness in one case while we affirm it in another
case under similar circumstances ? When I receive a letter
from my friend I regard the letter as having been written by
a being who possesses consciousness, but when a similar letter
is written by a friend in a hypnotic or post-hypnotic state, we
regard it as the result of physiological automatism, with no
conscious accompaniment. It is clear that the denial of con-
sciousness to the hypnotic individuality is purely arbitrary. It
is certainly arbitrary in the case of double or multiple person-
ality to regard one personality as conscious and the other
personalities as purely automatic, with no consciousness in them.
It would have been more consistent if the psychologist were to
take the solipsistic point of view and deny consciousness to all
else except himself.
The arbitrary standpoint of the psychologist who denies
secondary and multiple consciousness can be still further
made clear in the case of coexistent, dissociated mental
activity. Thus one hand of the subject or of the patient may
write a letter, while the other hand may be engaged in
drawing or writing a composition, of which the individual is
not cognizant. Both hands enter independently of each other
into communication with the external observer. The communi-
cations are independent and equally intelligent. In each case
we get intelligent replies and reactions to our questions and
stimulations. Which of the two is supposed to be conscious ?
To take a concrete experiment. Mr. M. presents pheno-
mena of dissociation. When in one of those states of dis-
sociation Mr. M. is made to write a letter with one hand,
while the other hand, being anaesthetic, is put under a screen
and made to carry out a calculation. One hand replies to ques-
tions, while the other solves problems. Both hands give
intelligent replies. To which of them is consciousness to be
ascribed ? If we deny it in one case, we should also deny it
in the other. But, then, why not be consistent and deny it
in every case of intelligent adjustment ? We realize how
arbitrary and illogical is the position of those psychologists
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 329
who coquet with physiology under the delusion that they
are more scientific. They are led to take arbitrary positions
wh ch lead into the pitfalls of solipsism, with all its contra-
dictions and absurdities.
Besides, physiological processes are, after all, but hypothetical
concepts ;
physiological currents are conceived after the model
of electrical currents, and are by no means theoretically proven.
While they should be used for the sake of a better elucidation
of the facts, it is not good scientific sense to sacrifice to them
the very material of the science of psychology. Sensations,
ideas, feelings, emotions, are after all the direct data of the
psychologist, while physiological processes and currents are
purely hypothetical. Wben, therefore, these hypothetical exist-
ences lead not to a better understanding of the facts of
mental life, but to their denial, the very purpose of the
hypothetical creations is completely defeated.
Physiological processes are framed to explain states of con-
sciousness with their motor reactions. When, therefore, these
hypothetical creations threaten to sweep away the actual living
facts, it is time to halt and examine closely the sterile character
of the hypothesis. The central fallacy lies in the tacit assump-
tion that unknown and possibly unknowable, highly problematical
brain currents, with their " opening and closing valves," with
"well worn or blocked paths," all of a purely conjectural character,
have, by their ingenious complexity, become, like marionettes, so
marvellously endowed with sense-like activities as to dispense
completely with the mental states which these conceptional
entities were called in to explain.
Clinical cases and experimental facts go further to invali-
date the theory of the purely physical interpretation of the
subconscious, or what may be described as automatism-
psychology. If anything is of the utmost importance in
mental life, it is surely memory. Memory forms a unity of
our life, brings, so to speak, to a focus our life-experiences,
which would have otherwise been disconnected, confused, and
chaotic. I remember just now what I did an hour ago, a
day ago, what I lived through many years ago. I remember
the experiences of my childhood, boyhood, and youth. I
remember my struggles and disappointments, my loves, my
friendships, my enmities, my feelings, sentiments, emotions, ideas,
330 Boris Sidia, 2f.D. [part
and sensations. All these inter-connected, interlocked links of
memories form the solid chain of my conscious personality.
In my memory of the past experiences there is the present
consciousness that all that I had "one through at the time
of the experience—any change, any modification, that had taken
place—occurred in my mind, in my consciousness. Unless under
delusion or illusion of memory we cannot remember what did
not occur in consciousness. We cannot remember lohat we were
not conscious of. The past mental state which the present
memory refers to is a state of consciousness ; otherwise memory is
impossible and meaningless. Memory, recollection, reminiscence,
can only refer to a previous state of consciousness. Surely no one
else can have a better and more direct knowledge than I
myself have of the ideas, emotions, and moods that I remember,
as experienced by me.
The memory factor is all the more important in psychology,
since we have to take account of the subject's inner experi-
ences. In each case of memory the burden of proof falls on
those who deny the validity of that memory, as referring to
a past state of consciousness. Suppose I have a memory in a
full state of consciousness that I lighted a lamp an hour ago,
the burden of proof would fall on those who deny the exist-
ence of such a state. It would be an arbitrary, if not pre-
posterous, position for an outside observer to claim that the
lighting of the lamp was carried out mechanically, by a physio-
logical automatism, and that the subsequent memory was but
an illusion. The onus of proof that the original act had
no conscious accompaniment is entirely on those who take
such a position in opposition to the direct introspective
account. Where such a proof is not forthcoming, the position
taken is arbitrary. Were we to take such a preposterous
position, the very science of psychology would become an
impossibility, since all memory would have to be declared a
snare and a delusion. All psychological studies based on intro-
spection and memory would have to be abandoned, and we
should have to follow Comte, and declare psychology an
impossibility. A psychologist maintaining such a point of
view is, from the very nature of his position, disqualified to
give his opinion ; he must fall back on physiology, and rule
out all psychology.
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 331
If, however, memory and introspection are not rejected, then
the recollection of a conscious state should not be arbitrarily
dismissed, unless there are good reasons for such a dismissal. Now,
the hypnotic subject, or the patient, in the case of functional
psychosis, undergoes an experience of which he is apparently
unconscious. In a subsequent state, in a hypnotic or trance
state, he actually recollects that the experience was a con-
scious one ; we cannot possibly reject this recollection as an
illusion of memory. The burden of proof that the former
state was not a conscious one falls on him who denies the
person's mental experience. Such a proof is all the more
requisite since it can be demonstrated that in subconscious
states there is really present a subconscious consciousness.
CHAPTER III.
THE SUBCONSCIOUS AND THE PASSIVE CONSCIOUSNESS.
Driven out of the psychological fortress, some psychologists of
the philosophical type (Miinsterberg) still take refuge in the
metaphysical citadel. It is claimed that psychologically mental
life is analyzed into consciousness and its content. Now, it
is further assumed that all mental modifications occur in
mental contents, but not in consciousness. Consciousness,
itself, is supposed to be a passive, immutable looker-on, a sort
of psychic deity. We thus have a mental content which is
not conscious and a consciousness which has no content, a
sort of vacant entity resembling the blessed Buddha in his
blissful state of Nirvana. Consciousness is regarded in the
light of a substance which contains the mental content some-
what after the fashion of a material substance underlying
physical qualities. This view of an underlying, immutable
substance, with a changing qualitative content, was long ago
criticized by Hume, both in the case of mind and body.
The assumption of an entity underlying observed phenomena,
whether physical or mental, has since become so weakened
that it is no longer regarded as a living hypothesis among
thinking men of science.
332 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
We can see at a glance that the substance-consciousness
with its changing qualitative content is but a piece of
metaphysical speculation, it is a revival of the old soul-
hypothesis, long ago buried by analytic and experimental
psychologists. The soul-consciousness hypothesis must be re-
jected, for the simple reason that it complicates matters and
explains nothing. In fact, the hypothesis of an imperturbable
soul -consciousness, from the very nature of its hypothetical
being, itself requires an explanation, while it does not in the
least explain the mental content, which is the material of the
psychologist. Such a passive, changeless soul-consciousness is
a sort of box in which the content of soul-consciousness
resides and has its being. This soul-consciousness is but a
survival from a past metaphysical period.
In the case of double and multiple personalities it is claimed
that, while the personalities are different, their consciousness
is not different, but one and the same. In the different
personalities found in the case of multiple personality, there is
among them but one consciousness, somewhat like the Greek
myth of the three old women with one eye among them. By
a parity of reasoning we may say that the minds of
different individuals, such as John's and Peter's, are really
identical. John and Peter are different personalities with
different contents, but with the same consciousness. In fact,
we may generalize further and say that the whole human race
and the beasts of the field and the birds of the air share
in one and the same indivisible, passive, immutable conscious-
ness, a sort of world-soul. This may be a grand metaphysical
speculation, but it is neither psychological nor scientific.
There is another objection to the subconscious, an objection
based on an artificial fast and hard line drawn between the
purpose of science on the one hand, and that of will on the
other. Science, it is claimed, deals with artificial concepts,
while personal will is concerned with the real values of life.
It is claimed that the concept of the subconscious is illegitimate,
because it involves a confusion of this metaphysical double
bookkeeping.
The world of description and the world of appreciation
were brought out and contrasted by Professor Koyce in his
early works, and afterwards elaborated by a few psychologists
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 333
of the Schopenhauerian tinge. The division is not new, and
dates back to the Middle Ages, with its split of science
and philosophy on the one hand, and religion on the other.
It is the doctrine of the two-fold truth (Die Lehre von der
zweifachen Wahrheit). According to mediaeval thought, there
are two realms, the realm of knowledge and the realm of
faith ; the realm of intellect and the realm of will. What
is true in the one may not be true in the other. From
Maimonides, Ibn Gabirol, Albertus Magnus, Thomas Aquinas
to Duns Scotus and Occam the same doctrine of the two-fold
truth and the two reals prevailed. The scholastic could say
anything he wished provided he was cautious to claim that
what was true secundum rationem was not true secundum
Jidem.
This double view still survives in some philosophical quarters.
Instead of finding fault with the subconscious for ignoring
this time-honoured double truth, it should rather be regarded
as a special merit. As a matter of fact, the subconscious,
unless interpreted in metaphysical terms of a cosmic self, has
nothing to do with the heirloom of metaphysical mediaeval
thought. The subconscious is based on experience and facts
to which philosophical and metaphysical distinctions should
adapt themselves.
We thus find that the objections to the subconscious are
based on insufficient grounds. We also find that the abandon-
ment of the subconscious leads to a tangle of difficulties and
to the quagmire of mediaeval metaphysics. If the metaphysical
interpretation of the subconscious in the sense of a cosmic
self lands one in the misty regions of religious mysticism,
the opposite view of the total negation of the subconscious,
apparently in the interests of science, lands one in regions
no less shadowy, regions of naturalistic mysticism.
So fundamental, however, is the concept of the subconscious
that even its opponents have to admit it under different
names. They admit the fact of dissociation, of dissociated
mental systems, and of dissociated personalities. But they
put forth the hypothetical claim that it is one and the same
consciousness present in all the different forms of dissociation.
Now, if we omit that speculative metaphysical consciousness which,
being inactive and unchangeable, is of no use in scientific
334 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
work, we are really left with the mutations and permutations
of mental systems which, from their very nature, must he
conscious. The psychopathologist must postulate the subcon-
scious just as the geometrician postulates space and position,
or as the physicist postulates matter and force.
CHAPTER IV.
SUBCONSCIOUS AND UNCONSCIOUS IDEAS.
There is a school which regards the subconscious as formed
of " suppressed mental complexes." The views of this school
are not psychologically clear. It seems, however, that the
subconscious is viewed in the light of " unconscious ideas."
" Unconscious Ideas " were discussed by me in my Psychology
of Suggestion, and I cannot do better than to quote from that
volume, " For the mechanism of consciousness is hidden deep
down in the depths of the subconscious, and it is thither we
have to descend in order to get a clear understanding of the
phenomena that appear in the broad daylight of consciousness."
The German school, with Wundt at its head, at first started
out on similar lines, but they could not make any use of the
subconscious, and their speculations ran wild in the fancies of
Hartmann. The reason of this failure is due to the fact that
the concept of the subconscious as conceived by the German
school was extremely vague, and had rather the character of
a mechanical than that of a psychical process. An unconscious
consciousness—that was their concept of the subconscious. In
such a form as this the subconscious was certainly meaningless
—mere nonsense—and had to be given up. The German
psychological investigations are now confined to the content
of consciousness in so far as the individual is immediately
conscious of it. But as this form of consciousness is extremely
narrow and circumscribed, the results arrived at, though re-
markable for their thoroughness, are, after all, of a rather
trivial nature. It is what Prof. James aptly characterizes
as " the elaboration of the obvious."
This criticism applies well to Freud and his adherents.
lxvi.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 335
Das Unbevmsstc is conceived as " Suppressed unconscious idea-
complexes." Of course, the claims of that school to originality
and to the apparent unveiling of the causation of psycho-
neurosis are entirely unjustified. A " suppressed complex " is
but another term for a dissociated system, commonly accepted
in Psychopathology. The special theories developed by that
school in regard to desire, to sexuality and to voluntary sup-
pression of unpleasant or painful ideas are highly questionable
in the light of psychology and clinical experience.
This German school of Psychopathology has unfortunately
fallen back on the Herbartian psychology with its metaphysical
Eeals or ideas which by their mutual tension keep suppressing
one another, thus determining the display of the contents of
consciousness. As Herbart tells us :
" Concepts become forces
when they resist one another. This resistance occurs when
two or more opposed concepts encounter one another." This
proposition or principle proclaimed by Herbart is at the basis
of Freud's psychology. " A concept is in consciousness in so
far as it is not suppressed," Herbart tells us, " but is in actual
representation. When it rises out of complete suppression, it
enters into consciousness." According to Herbart and his modern
followers, suppressed ideas become forces and impulses. Con-
cepts which are not opposed or contrasted with one another,
so far as they meet unhindered, form a " complex," a favourite
term used by the German school and their followers.
It may possibly be of interest to remark that Herbart is
closely followed by the German school of Psychopathology in
regard to the doctrine of desire. Desire with Herbart is
fundamental. " The faculty of desire must include wishes,
instincts, and every species of longing." " The expression
'
desire ' must not be so limited as to exclude those wishes
which remain, though they may be vain, or so-called pious
wishes, and which, for the very reason that they do remain,
constantly incite men to new efforts, because through them
the thought of a possibility is ever anew suggested, in spite
of all reasons which appear to prove the impossibility of
attainment. It is very important to give the concept of the
unattainability of the wished-for object strength enough so
that a peaceful renunciation may take place of the desire.
A man dreams of a desirable future for himself, even when
336 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
he knows it will never come." These Herbartian doctrines,
long ago abandoned by psychology, are now being revived by
the German school of Psychopathology as a new discovery in
the science of normal and abnormal psychology. No better
criticism can be passed on this revival of Herbartian psychology
in the domain of Psychopathology than the one made by Prof.
James :
" I must confess that to my mind there is something
almost hideous in the glib Herbartian jargon about Vorstellung-
massen and their Hcmmungcn (suppressions) and sinken and
erheben and schweben and Verschmelzungen and Complexionen
(complexes)."
It is claimed by some of Freud's younger adherents that
the mechanism of " unconscious ideas," though a contradiction,
is nevertheless justified, because of its being a conceptual con-
struct, as Karl Pearson puts it, in order to aid the explanation
of mental phenomena. This is a new epistemological argument
in defence of a tottering system. It is truly amazing that
science has nowadays become so philosophical that when a
theory is unstable, it is unhesitatingly supported by epistemo-
logical considerations.
Perhaps it may be well to point out that self-contra-
dictory hypotheses are not quite acceptable in science. A
scientific hypothesis should at least have the merit of being
rational, logical, and not conceived in a wild harum-scarum
fashion. A good scientific hypothesis must have restrictions
and definite conditions. I think it is Huxley who says
that in the case of stolen goods two hypotheses are at
hand : one hypothesis is that an angel is responsible for it,
and the other that a thief has carried off the goods. The angel-
hypothesis is hardly considered by science. In other words,
the hypothetical causative agency must be conceived in terms
of experience.
The hypothetical agency must either be a fact directly
observed in nature or a fact which can be verified later on.
Thus the theory of gravitation is based on the facts of falling
bodies ; the theory of natural selection is based on the facts
of the struggle for existence observed in the organic world.
In short, a good scientific hypothesis must take as its causative
agency a vera causa, a fact observable in experience or a fact
which can be verified by further experience. Atoms, electrons,
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 337
ether, are not haphazard constructs ;
they are not regarded by the
physicist as unreal fancies, unreal abstract notions to explain the
real facts ; but each of these hypothetical agents is regarded as
real, as a vera causa. We cannot help agreeing with J. S. Mill on
the subject of hypothesis :
" I conceive it to be necessary, when
the hypothesis relates to causation, that the supposed cause should
not only be a real phenomenon, something actually existing in
nature, but should be already known to exercise, or at least
to be capable of exercising, an influence of some sort over the
effect. In any other case it is no sufficient evidence of the
truth of the hypothesis that we are able to deduce the real
phenomenon from it." Again, " What is true in [Newton's]
maxim is that the cause, though not known previously, should
be capable of being known thereafter ; that its existence should
be capable of being detected, and its connection with the effect
ascribed to it should be susceptible of being proved by indepen-
dent evidence" (Logic, p. 53).
If we apply this very simple rule of logic to the theory of
" unconscious ideas," we at once realize the illegitimate character
of such a hypothesis. An idea is essentially of a conscious
nature. To speak, therefore, of unconscious ideas, is to intro-
duce into psychology the self-contradictory impossible concept
of unconscious conscious ideas. This is equivalent to the
assumption of an unconscious consciousness. An unconscious
idea is neither a vera causa nor a fact ultimately to be verified.
The conception of an unconscious idea is like the conception of
a round square.
Moreover it is not true, psychologically, that ideas
can be " suppressed " so that they become dissociated or
" unconscious." It is not true that we suppress painful ideas
into the " unconscious." We do not forget our painful ideas.
On the contrary, painful ideas stand out all the more pro-
minent in our consciousness. Pain hammers experience into the
mind. In fact we may say with more right that it is the
pleasurable ideas that are forgotten, while the painful ideas are
remembered. An experience associated with pain is never for-
gotten. Like a splinter in the flesh, it remains in conscious-
ness to trouble us all our life long. It is due to other causes
that a painful experience becomes subconscious. Teleologically,
we can well see the importance of this fact.
Y
338 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
It would have been suicidal to the individual and ultimately to
the species, if painful experience were forgotten. The individual
must learn to avoid harmful objects and hurtful stimuli. This
can only be accomplished by actually remembering painful experi-
ences. That individual would survive who remembered best his
painful experiences. Were it otherwise, the individual would
be very much in the condition of the proverbial silly bird
that hides its head at the sight of the hunter. The subjective
painful experiences must be remembered ; a painful experience
fixes the attention. On this fact was based the once universally
recognized method of training and education. What is fixed by
pain is never forgotten. What may bring about forgetfulness
is either a constitutionally bad memory or a state of indifference,
or an intense, paralyzing emotion of fear, especially in early
childhood. The whole theory of " suppression "
of painful " com-
plexes " is based on fcdsc clinical and psychological assumptions.
Neither is there such a process as " suppression of complexes,"
nor is there such a mental state as an " unconscious idea."
An " unconscious idea " in the sense that the idea has
no consciousness can have no meaning. If, however, by an
" unconscious idea " is understood a consciousness of which the
individual or personal self is not conscious, then we come
around to a subconscious consciousness, as developed by me in
my various works. A quotation from Hoffding may bring
out my point in a clearer and stronger light
The question before us is, whether the unconscious can be other
than a purely negative concept. In daily speech (and more than
is proper even in the scientific use of the language) we use such
expressions as unconscious sensations, unconscious ideas, unconscious
feeling. As, however, sensations, ideas and feelings are elements,
the expression is in reality absurd. If by an unconscious idea is
meant the idea which I have, then the predicate "unconscious"
signifies only that I do not think of or pay heed to the fact that I
have it. This use of the word unconsciousness is connected with
a twofold use of the word consciousness. It is used to denote not
only the inner presentation of our sensations, ideas and feelings,
but also self-consciousness, the attention especially directed to our
sensations, ideas and feelings. We have, of course, many sensations
and ideas without being conscious that we have them, that is,
without self-consciousness : many feelings and impulses stir within
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 339
us, without our clearly apprehending their nature and direction.
In this sense we speak, for example, of unconscious love. A man
who has this feeling does not know what is astir in him ;
perhaps
others see it, or he himself gradually discovers it ; but he has the
feeling his conscious life is determined in a particular way.
In other words, what Hoffding practically claims here is that
there is no such mental state, no idea that is " unconscious,"
but that there are mental states, ideas, feelings, which, though
conscious, do not reach self-consciousness. In other words,
there are in us mental processes which have consciousness, but no
self-consciousness. This is precisely what I mean by the sub-
conscious,—mental states which have consciousness, but do not
reach the personal consciousness. In short, the only possible
psychological assumption is a subconscious consciousness.
CHAPTER V.
THE SUBCONSCIOUS, CONSCIOUS AND UNCONSCIOUS.
Those who accept the division of the subconscious into co-existing
consciousness or the co-conscious and the unconscious really
assume the doctrine of the subconscious. They claim that
it would be better and more precise to indicate whenever
possible the conscious or unconscious, that is, the strictly
physiological character of the observed manifestations. This,
however, is more easily said than done. We know next to
nothing of the physiological brain processes, which are mainly
hypothetical, and we do not know the limits of the subconscious
consciousness. In many cases it is not easy to determine
what the exact character of the subconscious manifestation is,
how far it is conscious, dimly conscious, how far it has gone
toward the development of an independent personality, and
how far it shades in the direction of the purely physiological.
In the absence of any exact determination, the term subconscious
indicates the character of the mental state without any definite
committal to any of the possible hypotheses.
The term " unconscious " is all the more objectionable, as
Hoffding has already pointed out, as it is essentially an
340 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
ambiguous, negative concept. The " unconscious " may mean
absence of self-consciousness, or lack of consciousness, that is,
purely physiological processes with no conscious concomitant.
He who uses the term " unconscious " must in each case indicate
in what sense he uses the term. Is the manifestation entirely
physiological, or is it conscious in the sense of consciousness
with no self-consciousness ? The two meanings are diametrically
opposed to each other. The unconscious in the sense of the
purely physiological assumes the theory of unconscious cere-
bration ; the other use of the unconscious in the sense of mere
consciousness with no self-consciousness recognizes the view
of the subconsciousness as advanced in my works.
It is claimed again that in many cases of psychopathic
maladies there is no need to have recourse to subconscious
systems. It is quite probable that the association between
the stimulus and the emotion called forth is a direct one.
The patient who is afraid of dogs has the fear called forth by
the sight of a dog. There is no need to assume that there
are here any intermediate links in the chain of association.
Even physiological links may be totally absent here. It may
be that by investigation it can be shown that this associa-
tion has a history based on some former experience. There
is no reason to assume that the experience is functioning
subconsciously, whether consciously or " unconsciously," that is,
physiologically. The dog and the fear have formed an indis-
soluble association, so that, as soon as the dog is perceived
the fear is awakened.
This, however, is rather a debatable subject, since it is
impossible to tell in the case of purely physiological links,
whether such are present or not. Thus, Hoffding says,
" Not only may conscious results come from unconscious
(subconscious) working up, but there may also be uncon-
scious intermediate links in the midst of conscious work.
Supposing the idea a to be linked with the idea b, and b
again with c, then a will finally produce c directly without
the intervention of b. The intermediate links are often so
numerous that they cannot be recovered at all or with great
difficulty. Many psychological paradoxes and sudden sugges-
tions have their explanation in this unconscious determining
of conscious ideas."
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 341
Wundt seems to maintain the same view :
" The memory-
process is especially predominant in those cases where the
element of the new impression that gave rise to the
assimilation is entirely suppressed by the other components
of the image, so that the associative relation between the
memory-idea and the impression may remain completely
unnoticed. Such cases have been spoken of as '
mediate
memories ' or '
mediate associations.' Still, just as with
'
mediate recognitions,' we are here, too, dealing with processes
that are fundamentally the same as ordinary associations.
Take, for example, the case of a person who, sitting in his
room at evening, suddenly remembers, without any apparent
reason, a landscape that he passed through many years before ;
examination shows that there happened to be in the room a
fragrant flower which he saw for the first time in the land-
scape. The difference between this and an ordinary
memory-process in which the connection of the new im-
pression with an earlier experience is clearly recognized,
obviously consisted in the fact that here the elements which recall
the idea are pushed into the obscure background of conscious-
ness. The not infrequent experience, commonly known as the
'
spontaneous rise ' of ideas, in which a memory-image suddenly
appears in our mind without any assignable cause, is in all
probability reducible in every case to such latent association."
It appears, then, that both Hoffding and Wundt acknowledge
the presence of intermediate links in what appears to be a
case of purely " mediate " or direct association.
In cases where the intermediate links are " unconscious," in
the sense of a purely physiological process, there is no criterion
to prove the presence of such intermediate physiological links,
and one may as well, from a purely psychological introspective
standpoint, deny their very existence. On the other hand,
if with Wundt, Hoffding and others we assume the presence of
intermediate psychic links, there is no way of disproving them.
It is quite probable that such intermediate links are present in
every single case. The very fact that " unconscious " systems
can be revived as memories or hallucinatory hypnoidic states
would indicate their functioning when one of their components
becomes awakened to activity.
As an objection to the presence of intermediate psychic links,
342 Boris Sidis, M.D. [part
Pavlow's experiments are brought forward to show that
associations can be formed between remote stimuli and
glandular secretions, for instance. Thus, a dog with a fistula
in the parotid gland can be made to react with secretions to
light or sound stimuli.
This objection may be easily obviated by the considera-
tion that we do not know whether there are or are
not intermediate mental links between the artificial stimuli
and the discharge of the glandular secretion. This considera-
tion is all the more cogent as the remote stimuli can only
give results, if persistently associated with food stimuli. If
such association with food stimuli is absent, and new stimuli
are associated with remote stimuli which give reactions through
their associations with food stimuli, the result is inhibition of
secretion. In other words, each new stimulus must be
directly associated with the original food stimulus.
To quote from Savadsky's work carried out in Pavlow's labora-
tory: "Wasiliev and Mishtovt were the first to investigate condi-
tions of inhibitions. At first the authors had in mind to develop
conditional reflexes, not on the basis of the unconditional reflex
(i.e. food) but on the basis of another conditional reflex (such
as a sound or light stimulus giving secretion). Their experi-
ments were as follows : from time to time they associated
with the usual conditional stimulus another stimulus which
had no relation whatever to salivary secretion, and this
combination was not accompanied by the presence of the
unconditional stimulus (food). By means of a great number
of repetitions of such a combination, it was supposed to
associate with the quality of the extraneous stimulus the
quality of bringing about salivary secretion. It turned out,
however, that such an arrangement of experimentation could
by no means transform the extraneous agent into a con-
ditional stimulus. In that way it became clear that the
conditional stimulus, contrary to the unconditional, is not
capable of communicating its property of bringing about
salivary secretion. The fact is that the associative external
stimulus, when accompanied by the unconditional stimulus
alone, becomes after a few repetitions a powerful inhibiting
agent."
This clearly shows that the conditional reflex in the
LXVI.] The Theory of the Subconscious. 343
dog can bring about salivary secretions only when associated
with the unconditional reflex. What it means is, that the
dog on seeing a light or hearing the sound expects food, and
hence the psychic stimulation of his salivary glands resulting
in secretion. Pavlow's experiments and also the experiments
carried out under his directions by his pupils clearly prove
that there is no direct association between secretion and an
external stimulus, such as light or sound, but that the secretion
is brought about by an intermediate psychic link, namely the
expectation of food. Thus we find that the work of Pavlow
and his pupils, far from showing the possibility of formation
of direct associations, really goes to substantiate the view of
the presence of intermediate mental links in cases of mediate
associations.
As a matter of fact there is no need for us to establish
hypothetical, intermediate, unconscious or physiological links.
The " unconscious " brain-processes are problematic entities and
there is no way of getting at them. What we need to discover
in cases of mediate association, and especially in cases of
psychopathic diseases, is whether the intermediate links, or the
original experience that brought about the trauma, or the state
of dissociation is present, consciously or subconsciously or co-
consciously. This is possible to test by hypnosis or by means
of the hypnoidal state. In many such cases we actually find
that the patient lives through the original experience either
consciously in a hypnoidal state, or in a hypnoidic state, thus
undergoing a mental experience which is immediately forgotten or
dissociated ; or what is more commonly the case, the patient lives
through the original experience subconsciously. But, whether
conscious or subconscious, the mental state is not " unconscious,"
but is essentially of a conscious character. In short, we deal here
either with the personal consciousness or with the subconscious
consciousness. Thus, all the facts of mental life, normal or
abnormal, substantiate the presence of a subconscious consciotisness.
344 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEWS.
Body and Mind: a History and a Defence of Animism. By William
M'Dougall, M.B. (Methuen & Co., Ltd. London, 1911. 384
pp. Price 10s. 6d. net.)
The scope and purpose of this important contribution to modern
Psychology are concisely described in its second title —a history and
a defence of Animism.
The term " Animism " as defined by Mr. M'Dougall covers a very
wide range of meaning. "The essential notion," he says, "which
forms the common foundation of all varieties of Animism, is that all,
or some, of those manifestations of life and mind which distinguish
the living man from the corpse, and from inorganic bodies, are due to
the operation within him of something which is of a nature different
from that of the body, an animating principle generally, but not
necessarily or always, conceived as an immaterial and individual being
or soul." 1
In order to make this definition still clearer, Mr. M'Dougall examines
a variety of other terms which might have seemed to serve his purpose
equally well or better, and gives his reasons for rejecting them either
as being too narrow or as otherwise open to objection. " No other
term," he considers, "indicates precisely all those theories of human
personality which have in common the notion which, as I believe,
provides the only alternative to Materialism. The word 'Spiritualism'
as used in philosophy is ambiguous, and it has been spoilt for scientific
purposes by its current usage to denote that popular belief which is
more properly called Spiritism. Nor is all Animism spiritualistic
during long ages the dominant form of it was a materialistic Dualism.
The term '
psycho-physical dualism ' accurately expresses the essential
animistic notion ; but it is cumbrous, and the word dualism is apt
1
Trefiice, p. viii.
LXVI.] Reviews. 345
to be taken to imply metaphysical Dualism, an implication I am
anxious to avoid; for Animism does not necessarily imply metaphysical
Dualism, or indeed any metaphysical or ontological doctrine, Solipsism
alone excepted. The expression '
psycho-physical interactionism '
will
not serve my purpose, because (as we see in the philosophy of
Leibnitz, and in that modification of the Cartesian system known as
Occasionalism), Animism may be combined with the denial of psycho-
physical interaction. Again, the term '
soul-theory ' does not cover
all varieties of Animism, in illustration of which statement I may
remind the reader that the late Prof. James advocated a distinctly
animistic view of human personality, which he called the '
trans-
mission theory,' but explicitly rejected the conception of the soul as
a unitary and individual being."
The very wide extension thus given to the term Animism, and
particularly the inclusion in it of what Mr. M'Dougall calls "material-
istic dualism," make it difficult to say definitely concerning some of
the earlier phases of philosophic thought whether they should be
classed as animistic or non-animistic. The difficulty is no doubt largely
due to the vagueness of the doctrines themselves. As Mr. M'Dougall
points out, "The doctrine of the Ionian philosopher was not properly
Materialism, for the distinction between matter and spirit had not
yet been clearly drawn. It is impossible to say that their universal
principles (e.g. the air of Diogenes or the fire of Heraclitus) were more
nearly allied to the spiritual or to the physical, as conceived by later
thought. Nor did the conception of the soul entertained by animistic
philosophers imply any clear distinction between the material or
physical and the spiritual or mental, such as has commonly been
maintained in later ages." Mr. M'Dougall, however, treats the Hylo-
zoism of the Ionians as non-animistic, and no doubt rightly, if regard
is had to the general tendency of their speculations. Yet it must
be remembered that their fundamental Monism did not prevent the
Ionian philosophers from regarding soul as a special kind or mode
of matter, and in this sense distinguishing it from the body ; and
that even Democritus, whose system Mr. M'Dougall describes as a
thorough-going Materialism, held that the soul-atoms were distinct
in kind from the atoms constituting the body, and were that which
gave the body life and consciousness. To that extent Democritus
might be counted as a "materialistic dualist," and come within Mr.
M'DougaH's definition of Animism. The difficulty is well illustrated
in the case of the Stoic philosophy. The Stoics held that whatever
is real is material, and that the soul is the warm breath within the
346 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
bod}'. But this did not prevent some of them at least from also
holding that the soul outlives the body.
Of Aristotle Mr. M'Dougall says that his doctrine of the soul has
more affinity with the Hylozoism of the Ionian philosophers and
the Materialism of Democritus than with the materialistic Animism
of popular thought or the spiritualistic Animism of Plato. Apparently
lie classes him among the non-Animistic thinkers. No doubt there
is much ambiguity in Aristotle's teaching concerning the soul, but
even if we interpret his doctrine of the I'oCs 7toi>7tikos in the sense
most unfavourable to the survival of the individual, a definition of
Animism which includes the "transmission theory" of William James
can hardly exclude the Aristotelian conception of the psycho-physical
relation.
In reality it is of comparatively small importance how we classify
particular thinkers of early and medieval times in relation to terms
which are more applicable to modern than to ancient thought. The
chief legacy bequeathed by Greek philosophy and by Scholasticism
was a clearly drawn distinction between matter and spirit ; and when
to this distinction was added the conception of the entire material
universe as subject to laws capable of definite mathematical expression,
modern philosophy may be said to have begun.
Chapters IV. and V. of Mr. M'Dougall's book, which gives an
account of the progress of psycho-physical speculation during the
seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, are a good example of skilful
condensation. The essential points are sufficiently brought out, while
at the same time the danger of " losing sight of the wood for the
trees " is successfully avoided.
As a specimen of terse and striking historical characterisation we
may quote the following passage from the end of the chapter on
"Animism in the Seventeenth Century"
" Descartes had taught that man is composed of soul and body
acting and reacting upon one another; Leibnitz that, though he is
compounded of soul and body, these do not influence one another
Spinoza that mind and body are equally real or unreal, because but
two aspects of one reality ; Hobbes that man consists of body alone,
the soul being a mere figment of his imagination.
"Two possibilities only remained, namely, first that the soul alone
is real, the body being fictitious or appearance only ;
secondly that
both body and soul are fictitious. And the ingenuity of the eighteenth
century proved equal to the task of propounding and maintaining
these doctrines also ; before the century passed away these two were
LXVI.] Reviews. 347
added to the list of rival doctrines by philosophers, namely Bishop
Berkeley and David Hume, whose penetration and high reputation
secured for their views a respectful hearing and a career whose end
no man can yet foresee."
The immediate developments of the Cartesian philosophy turned
on the definition of substance. Although Descartes held that in man
the spiritual substance, or soul, and the material substance, or body,
mutually interacted, his definition of substance made interaction
impossible. The doctrines of the Occasionalists, of Leibnitz, and
of Spinoza, were so many attempts to overcome the logical difficulty
without surrendering the conception of substance. It was the con-
ception itself which was made the subject of enquiry and question,
first by Locke, who held that spiritual and material substances were
alike only useful hypotheses inferred from the facts of immediate
experience ; next by Berkeley, for whom spiritual substances alone
were real, and material substance a fiction ; and finally by Hume,
who attacked the whole idea of substance, whether spiritual or
material, and declared it to be a figment of the imagination
without any counterpart in real experience.
Both these lines of speculation were in some sort united, although
with much inconsistency alike of statement and of thought, in the
philosophy of Kant ; and it has been in the main through the
medium of that philosophy that they have affected later psycho-
physical theories. It is interesting, however, to note that the
leading ideas which distinguish the two parallelistic doctrines most
in vogue to-day are to be found, in the one case, in the doctrine
of Leibnitz that material extension is only the appearance to us of
an aggregation of psychical existents, and, in the other case, in the
"double aspect" theory of Spinoza. Both the modern forms of
parallelism, moreover, accept the notion of "psychology without a
soul," of which Hume must be regarded as the originator.
In the nineteenth century, and especially in the last half of the
century, Animism suffered a rapid decline. It can hardly be doubted
that Mr. M'Dougall is right in assigning as the chief cause of this
decline " the astonishing and splendid development of the natural
sciences, based in the main upon the strictly mechanistic view of
nature." As contributing causes, but of less importance, he mentions
Kant's destructive attack on the dogmatic Metaphysic of his prede-
cessor, and the reaction produced by the attempt of his immediate
successors to convert the Kantian epistemology without more ado
into an Absolute Idealism.
84S The Rigid Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
That the whole material universe constituted a system mechani-
cally ordered was already common ground with Descartes and his
successors. Descartes, indeed, taught that in the case of man the
soul or spiritual substance interacted with the body : but this he
held to be the solitary exception to the universal sway of mechanism
in the material sphere ; all other animals were automatons. Even
this exception was swept away by Spinoza. But, as Mr. M'Dougall
observes, the conclusion that the actions of men are capable of being
fully explained in terms of mechanism was rather a corollary from
his philosophical system than a doctrine based on empirical observa-
tion. " Spinoza . . . could appeal only to men's profound ignorance
of the body and its processes ; whereas those who make the same
assumption in the present age appeal with confidence and good show
of reason to our knowledge of the body and its processes, claiming
that the knowledge which we now have amply justifies the assump-
tion, and allows us to understand in a general way the mechanics
of human conduct."
In three interesting chapters Mr M'Dougall traces the special
modern developments of physical science, of physiology, and of
biology, to which he considers the anti-animistic tendency of recent
speculation is due. Chief among them are, in physics, the trium-
phant establishment of the law of conservation of energy ; in
physiology and biology the discovery of the localisation of cerebral
functions ; the development of the doctrine of reflex action, and
the apparent continuity of chains of physical causation even in the
brain ; the seemingly unconscious performance (e.g. in trance) of
actions which are ordinarily taken to imply perception, feeling,
reasoning and volition ; the explanation of the association of ideas
by the analogy of habitual actions mechanically performed ; and the
experience, generally, of a parallelism of mental and cerebral develop-
ment, decay, affection by injuries, drugs, etc.
The influence of the Darwinian theory must also be counted
among the causes which have contributed to the decline of Animism,
by removing (in the opinion of many) any necessity for the recogni-
tion of a teleological element in the organic world. The conception
of a continuity in evolution likewise raises difficulties, whether it
be of man from animals, or of organic from inorganic nature.
This formidable array of anti-animistic considerations drawn from
empirical science is set forth by Mr. M'Dougall with commendable
frankness and candour. Nor does he shrink from stating in the
most emphatic terms the effect they have produced in the minds
LXVI.] Reviews. 349
of the majority of thinkers during the last sixty years who have
concerned themselves with the psycho-physical problem. " Modern
science and philosophy," he tells us, "have turned their backs on
Animism of every kind with constantly increasing decision." " Its
few exponents," he says in another place, have been "generally
regarded as survivors from an earlier age, actuated by some theo-
logical bias to offer a futile opposition to the conquering march of
science."
These are strong expressions, but probably they are no inaccurate
representation of the mental attitude of most of those who approach
the subject primarily from the study of physiology. The very
respectable list of names which Mr. M'Dougall gives on p. 204 of
writers whom he reckons on the side of Animism shows that there
is by no means the same degree of unanimity among philosophers.
His own book may be counted as one among several indications
that the tide of opinion is perhaps once more beginning to turn.
Having stated the principal scientific objections to Animism, and
added a brief account of current philosophical arguments against it,
Mr. M'Dougall does not proceed at once to answer them, but
interposes instead a survey and general examination of the modern
psycho-physical doctrines proposed as substitutes for Animism. Such
an arrangement of topics seems at first sight to interrupt and
confuse the argument ; and it might perhaps have been better to
have included his statement of these doctrines in the historical
sketch which occupies the earlier chapters of the book. This the
author might have done without serious inconsistency ; for though
he describes the historical part of his work as a " history of
Animism," it is in reality, down to the end of the eighteenth
century, a history of anti-animistic theories as well, and only ceases
to be so when the nineteenth century is reached.
On the other hand, when we come down to our own times, there
are undoubted advantages in a systematic rather than a historical
exposition ; and the statement of the chief objections to Animism
leads up naturally to an account of the systems which claim to
avoid those objections.
There may be also another reason for the procedure which Mr.
M'Dougall has adopted. It enables him, almost at the outset of the
discussion, to carry the war into the enemy's country ; and so diffi-
cult is the psycho-physical problem that the advantage is in general
apt to be, or to appear to be, with the assailants rather than with
the defenders of any particular doctrine. Moreover, Mr. M'Dougall
350 The Rigid Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
believes that the overthrow of Parallelism is equivalent to the estab-
lishment of Animism. "The main body of this volume," he tells us
in the preface, "is occupied with the presentation and examination
of the reasonings which have led the great majority of philosophers
and men of science to reject Animism, and of the modern attempts
to render an intelligible account of the nature of man which, in
spite of the rejection of Animism, shall escape Materialism. This
survey leads to the conclusion that these reasonings are inconclusive
and these attempts unsuccessful, and that we are therefore compelled
to choose between Animism and Materialism ; and since the logical
necessity of preferring the animistic horn of this dilemma cannot
be in doubt, my survey constitutes a defence and justification of
Animism."
In the body of the work the argument is presented somewhat
differently, though the difference is unimportant. Materialism is
curtly dismissed as obviously untenable ; its modern representative,
Epiphenomenalism, is demolished in the course of a few pages ; and
the final dilemma presented to us is that of Animism or Parallelism.
From this dilemma Mr. M'Dougall holds that no escape is possible:
"We must accept Animism if we find the difficulties involved in
Parallelism to be fatal to it."
In developing his argument, Mr. M'Dougall enumerates four principal
type-formulations of the modern psycho-physical doctrines that reject
Animism :
(1) Epiphenomenalism, which confines causality to the physical series,
and regards consciousness as the incidental accompaniment of the brain
process, produced by that process, but itself empty of all causal efficacy
whatsoever.
(2) Psycho-physical Parallelism (or, as I should prefer to call it, Dua-
listic Parallelism 1
), which holds the physical and the mental series
1
It is only as implying an ultimate metaphysical dualism that " Psycho-
physical Parallelism'' in M'Dougall's sense can be properly ranked as co-ordinate
with the doctrines which he calls " Phenomenalistic Parallelism" and "Psychical
Monism." In this form (which seems further to imply a "pre-established har-
mony" between the two series) I should doubt whether it is dogmatically
maintained by any one whose opinion is worth counting. Mr. M'Dougall
observes that it is generally held merely as a working hypothesis; but as
such it can hardly be said to carry with it any ontological implication con-
cerning the ultimate nature of reality ; and it would seem better to apply
the term Psycho-physical Parallelism not to one among a number of co-ordinate
varieties of Parallelism, but rather to the undifferentiated generic form of which
these varieties are specific developments.
LXVI.] Revieivs. 351
to be equally real, but the relation between them to be one of simple
concomitance without interaction. The law of Causation holds good
only within each series.
(3) Phenomenalistic Parallelism, which holds that mind and body
are but two aspects of one reality, whose true nature is hidden
from us. The physical and the psychical series are alike appearances :
there is no causal action between them. There is an appearance
of causal connection within each series ; but this too is, strictly
speaking, only the phenomenal manifestation of one underlying
reality.
(4) Psychical Monism. The physical series is the appearance of
the psychical series to another consciousness. Consciousness is the
only reality, and true causal efficiency is confined to the psychical
series : within the physical series the chain of causation is appear-
ance only.
If to these four formulations of anti-animistic views we add Crude
Materialism, "which asserts that consciousness is matter or the move-
ment of matter," and Solipsism, which "denies the existence of the
physical world and of other minds than my own (except as ideas of
my own)," Mr. M'Dougall holds, if I understand him rightly, that
we have a complete classification of all anti-animistic doctrines : and
as all of these save the varieties of parallelism may be more or less
summarily rejected, we are left with the alternative already indicated
of Parallelism or Animism.
Some objection may perhaps be taken to this general line of argu-
ment. To overthrow a rival doctrine does of course go some way
to establish one's own ; but such reasoning must remain inconclu-
sive unless it can be shown that the classification of the various
doctrines concerned is sound, and that it covers the entire field not
only of actual but of possible speculation on the subject. Now fhis
is a very difficult thing to prove ; and though Mr. M'Dougall devotes
a whole chapter to the defence of his "dilemma," his admission that
Berkeley's subjective Idealism, and Professor Ward's "Trans-subjec-
tivism " do in a sense " transcend " the psycho-physical problem, and
his practically complete ignoring of the Post-Kantian Idealism, can-
not fail to suggest doubts even to those who are far from accepting
these theories.
It must be remembered, too, that even if Mr. M'Dougall's reasoning-
is sound, the value of the conclusion to be drawn from it must be
measured with due regard to the very wide extension which it
necessarily leaves to the term Animism. The essential features
352 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
which all modern anti-animistic solutions of the psycho-physical pro-
blem exhibit, are, according to him, the following :
(1) Denial of all psycho-physical interaction.
(2) Insistence that all the processes of the organic world (includ-
ing all the behaviour of men and animals) are capable in
principle of being fully explained in mechanical terms.
So far as Animism is established by the rejection of anti-animistic
doctrines, Animism must be held to include any view of the psycho-
physical relation from which these features, or either of them, are
excluded. Incidentally, it may be noted, we are thus provided with
a negative definition of Animism that may profitably be compared
with the positive definition already quoted at the beginning of this
review.
Arguments for or against any solution of the psycho-physical
problem fall broadly into two classes, the first consisting of argu-
ments drawn from empirical science, the second of arguments of a
metaphysical or epistemological character.
Mr. M'Dougall is very anxious to impress upon his readers that
Animism does not involve any metaphysical doctrine save the rejection
of Solipsism, and that in this respect it has a great advantage over
Parallelism. At the end of the Preface he writes
" I wish to state emphatically that my enquiry is not conceived
as a search for metaphysical truth, but that it is rather conducted
by the methods and with the aims of all empirical science ; that is
to say, it aims at discovering the hypotheses which will enable us
best to co-ordinate the chaotic data of immediate experience by means
of a conceptual system as consistent as may be, while recognising
that such conceptions must always be subject to revision with the
progress of science. Of course if the term metaphysic be taken in
the older sense as implying an enquiry into that which is not physical,
the theme of this work is metaphysical ; but that is a usage which
is no longer accepted ;
metaphysic is now distinguished from empirical
science by its aims and methods rather than by its subject matter.
I claim, then, for the conception of soul, advocated in the last chapter
of this book, no more than that it is a hypothesis which is indis-
pensable to science at the present time."
Again, on page 192, he says:
" It is, in fact, one of the great advantages of psycho-physical
Dualism that, whereas each of the rival monistic doctrines necessarily
commits those who accept it to some particular ontological doctrine
(Materialism, Spinozistic Agnostic Monism, or Psychical Monism),
LXVI.] Reviews. 353
we are committed by Animism to no metaphysical doctrine. We
may accept it while remaining wholly on the plane of empirical
science ; and in view of the strong dislike of metaphysic expressed
by so many workers in the natural sciences, this fact should be for
them a strong recommendation of Animism. It is true that Des-
cartes' psycho-physical Dualism was made by him a metaphysical
Dualism; for he taught that matter and soul are two ultimately
different kinds of reality. But scientific Animism is under no obliga-
tion to accept Descartes' ontological dogma ; it leaves open the ulti-
mate questions, about which it is a mere piece of presumption for
any man to express a decided opinion in the present state of human
knowledge. For the real natures both of body and soul remain open
questions, the answers to which, we may hope, will be gradually
brought nearer to the truth by the labours of after-coming genera-
tions. For the present the Animist may, if he likes, suppose body
to consist of matter such as is described by physical science, or,
with Kant, he may regard it as the phenomenon of an unknowable
thing-for-itself ;
or, with Leibnitz and Lotze, as a system of real
being of like nature with the Soul ;
or, with Berkeley, as nothing
but the perpetually renewed acts of God upon our souls. In any
case his ontological view, whatever it may be, so long as it is not
solipsistic, need not affect, and is perfectly compatible with, his belief
in psycho-physical interaction."
Once more, on p. 356
" Though the acceptance of either horn of the dilemma [Parallelism
or Animism] involves the acceptance of a number of strange conse-
quences and leaves on our hands a number of questions to which we
can return no answer, Animism has this great advantage over its
rival, namely, that it remains on the plane of empirical science, and,
while leaving the metaphysical question open for independent treat-
ment, can look forward to obtaining further light on its problems
through further scientific research. It is thus a doctrine that stimu-
lates our curiosity and stirs us to further efforts, whereas Parallelism
necessarily involves the acceptance of metaphysical doctrines which
claim to embody ultimate truth, and which set rigid limits to the
possibilities of further insight into the nature of the world, and it
finds itself forced to regard certain of its problems as ultimately
inexplicable."
These are interesting passages ; and the stress laid upon the pro-
foundly metaphysical character which the Parallelistic doctrines have
assumed in the hands of those who have most carefully worked out
z
354 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
their implications, is certainly in a measure justified. At the same
time, although my own sympathies are entirely on Mr. M'Dougall's
side in the controversy hetween Animism and Parallelism, I cannot
but think that he has somewhat exaggerated the advantage which
in this matter he represents Animism as possessing in comparison
with its rival.
The term "metaphysical" is not very easy to define; but surely
every hypothesis which deals with fundamental concepts like Body
and Mind must ultimately be prepared to submit its claim to philo-
sophical and even metaphysical examination : and this is as true of
Animism as of Parallelism. Mr. M'Dougall himself practically admits
that Animism cannot be held in complete independence of meta-
physical considerations. He tells us in one place that, while (p. 355)
" the belief in the adequacy and the exclusive sway of mechanical
principles in both the inorganic and organic realms has been and
remains the principal ground of the rejection of Animism by the
modern world," yet, on the other hand, "the more enlightened of the
opponents of Animism, recognising the uncertain nature of this
ground, have rested their case mainly upon certain metaphysical
arguments that make against the acceptance of the notion of psycho-
physical interaction." A whole chapter, though a short one, of his
book is devoted mainly to a statement of these and other meta-
physical objections to Animism, and another and much longer
chapter to a refutation of them. It may be urged that in these
chapters the author is only engaged in securing a standing-ground
for a defence of Animism on Empirical lines, and that it is possible
to clear away the imaginary obstructions raised by an unsound
metaphysic without laying down any positive metaphysical doctrine.
But the negative here implies a positive. The metaphysical ques-
tions involved are those which concern the nature of causality and
substantiality, and the legitimacy of treating the soul as a sub-
stance or even as a " thins " transcendinir in some sense the
consciousness in which its essence is manifested. Let the reader
consider for a moment the main propositions in which Mr.
M'Dougall sums up the conception of soul which he would himself
commend to our acceptance. The soul, according to this view, 1
is
(1) immaterial; (2) a thing or being "that possesses, or is, the sum
of definite capacities for psychical activity and psycho-physical inter-
action ; " (3) "a unitary being or entity distinct from all others."
The metaphysical implications in these propositions and the meta-
^p. 364-366.
LXVI.] Reviews. 355
physical questions suggested by them lie on the surface ; and the
more strenuous the attempt to give precision to the Animistic theory,
the more loudly do such implications and questions clamour for
examination. There could hardly be a more striking illustration of
this than the divergence of view between Professor James and Mr.
M'Dougall (both of them Animists in Mr. M'Dougall's sense) respect-
ing the existence of the Soul. "Souls have outworn both themselves
and their welcome, that is the plain truth," says Professor James.
To which Mr. M'Dougall replies (and I think he has the best of the
argument) that, according to James's own admission, " the only alter-
natives to the acceptance of the soul-theory are either to give up
our belief in logic or to declare that life is logically irrational "
and in this dilemma or trilemma he holds it best to " retain a
modest confidence in human reason, and accept the hypothesis of the
soul
!
The claim which Mr. M'Dougall sets up on behalf of Animism,
that it can be held without metaphysical implications, seems to me
to depend very largely upon the extremely wide limits which he
gives to the definition of Animism. Animism, according to him,
includes any psycho-physical theory which is not Epiphenomenalism
or Parallelism. But it is impossible to rest in this vague and quasi-
negative view of Animism. As we proceed, the need for greater
particularity becomes apparent, though not until the last chapter do
the wide distinctions which separate the various formulations of
modern Animism stand fairly revealed. In his final chapter Mr.
M'Dougall enumerates four principal varieties of Animism : the
" animistic Actuelle-Seele " ; the " transmission-theory " of James and
Bergson : the " contentless " soul ; and the soul conceived as " a
developing system of psychical dispositions." Mr. M'Dougall's own
view is a sub-variety of the last of the four ; and in defending one
view and rejecting others the metaphysical character of much of the
reasoning is patent. The plain fact is that the moment any attempt
is made to give precision to a psycho-physical theory, metaphysical
considerations force themselves into prominence. The metaphysical
conceptions involved have been lurking there all the time in the
form of unquestioned presuppositions, and the further thinking out
of the theory brings them inevitably to the surface.
I suspect that a large number of scientific men who would describe
themselves as opponents of Animism, or even as Parallelists, feel
quite as unencumbered by metaphysical difficulties, and quite as
completely " on the plane of empirical science " as the Animist, in
356 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
Mr. M'Dougall's view, is entitled to do. No less a writer than
Wundt, for instance, treats Parallelism as "a heuristic principle or
a necessary working hypothesis for psychology," and is attacked
by Mr. M'Dougall for doing so. "The culminating absurdity of
Wundt's position," he says, "is that after arguing at great length to
show that psychology must accept psycho-physical Parallelism as a
'
heuristic principle ' empirically based, he turns round and tells us
that in considering voluntary movements of the body we must treat
them as being psychically originated, because we cannot ascertain
the nature of the physiological process which initiates them, and
that we must make use of the conception of psycho-physical inter-
action, so long as we cannot complete our account of the brain
processes." 1
I am far from wishing to defend Wundt's consistency ;
but the position he takes up is at least evidence of his determina-
tion to " remain on the plane of empirical science " in spite of his
Parallelism. And this attitude really is possible so long as Parallelism
is genuinely treated as a merely heuristic principle. Of course,
even as a heuristic principle it contains latent metaphysical implica-
tions, just as Animism does. These implications may be more
apparent and more difficult to overlook in the case of Parallelism
than in that of Animism ; but if this be so, I think the reasons
are, first, that more attempts have been made in recent years to work
out the Parallelistic hypothesis into a philosophical system, and,
secondly, that the metaphysic of the ordinary forms of Animism is
more in accordance with the unconscious metaphysic of popular
thought, and, therefore, challenges examination in a less degree.
There is, perhaps, a tendency among writers on this subject to
use metaphysical arguments much more freely in attacking an
opponent's solution of the psycho-physical problem than in establish-
ing their own. Mr. M'Dougall's examination of the Anti-animistic
(or Automaton) theories is an excellent specimen of vigorous and
acute criticism. But of the four principal formulations of Anti-
animistic views, Epiphenomenalism, Dualistic Parallelism, the double
aspect theory, and Psychical Monism, the first three are demolished
and eliminated by arguments which in the main must certainly be
regarded as metaphysical, and we practically hear little more of
them throughout the book. It is in this way that Mr. M'Dougall
arrives at his final dilemma—Psychical Monism or else Animism.
But in the end Psychical Monism itself fares no better. It has been
preferred on metaphysical grounds to every other form of Anti-
1
P. 155.
LXVI.] Reviews. 357
animistic doctrine ; but no sooner have its rivals been driven from the
field than the metaphysical batter)' is directed in turn against it.
The fundamental propositions of Psychical Monism are formulated
by Mr. M'Dougall as follows (p. 160):— "(1) Consciousness or con-
scious-process (or something of the same nature, but so very much
simpler as to require a different name, such as mind-stuff or infra-
consciousness) is the only reality, the only mode of existence or of
real being. (2) By each one of us only one tiny fragment of reality
is directly known, namely, the stream of his own consciousness
although all the rest of the universe consists of other conscious
processes, it can be apprehended by him only under the form of
material or physical phenomena. (3) The appearances to us of
other real or conscious processes under the forms of physical objects
and processes bear some constant and orderly relation to those real
processes, so that the descriptions and explanations of the universe
given by physical science are valid, though they are symbolic only;
that is to say, all the processes which constitute the universe pro-
ceed according to, or can be fully explained in terms of, the laws of
mechanical causation."
These propositions are all metaphysical, and they are met in the
chapter we are now considering by counter-arguments which are
themselves either purely metaphysical, or partly metaphysical and
partly drawn from that region of introspective psychology which is
often hard to distinguish from metaphysic, and at least cannot be
described as belonging to empirical science. It is the first of them,
however, which is specially characteristic of Psychical Monism. As
against the rejection by Psychical Monism of the notion of sub-
stance or thing and its replacement by that of activity or process,
Mr. M'Dougall insists that these notions are essential to our thought,
that they are necessary alike to physical science and to psychology,
and that the denial of existence to the soul, and the assertion that
the self consists in the stream of consciousness alone, involve the
consistent psychical monist in the strange conclusion that my self is
not my own consciousness but " the streams of consciousness of other
selves" (p. 167). The unity and individuality of consciousness as
we know it is, says Mr. M'Dougall, " a fundamental fact which
raises insuperable difficulties for Psychical Monism." The philoso-
phical expounders of the doctrine either make no attempt to explain
it, or else they fall back on a conception of a compounding, or flowing
together into a unity, of consciousnesses each of which nevertheless
continues to exist in and for itself—a conception which, it is argued,
358 The Rigid Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
not only re-admits surreptitiously the rejected notion of substance,
but is in itself logically and metaphysically untenable.
" We find then," writes Mr. M'Dougall in conclusion, " that the
fundamental assumption of Psychical Monism, namely that conscious-
ness is the reality and the only reality, and its attempt to abolish
as illegitimate the conception of any mode of being other than con-
sciousness, involve it in very great difficulties, not to say absurdities."
I agree : but holding, as he does, that each and every form of Anti-
animistic doctrine is open to " insuperable " objections from the
philosophical standpoint, and, further, that all forms of Parallelism
(but particularly Psychical Monism) 1
involve the self-contradictory
idea of "unconscious consciousness," and can only achieve the seem-
ingly impossible task of making mechanical determination the counter-
part of teleological determination by lapsing into Solipsism—holding
these views, as he does, we may be pardoned some mild surprise at
finding him affirming in a later chapter (p. 223) that "the issue
between Animism and Parallelism is one that must be settled by
the methods of empirical science, i.e. by an appeal to observation
and experiment and the weighing of the claims of rival hypotheses."
Surely in so difficult an enquiry as that into the relation of Mind
with Body there is not only room but a pressing necessity for both
philosophic and scientific methods. The two should be used to
supplement each other. And in spite of Mr. M'DougalPs anxiety to
claim for Animism the right to remain on the plane of empirical
science, this is, I venture to think, the procedure which he has
himself followed.
The author's defence of Animism on the Empirical side opens with
Chapter XVI.,2
and occupies practically the whole of the remaining
portion of the book.
First comes a very interesting general reply to the objections drawn
from Physiology and General Biology, and already set forth in
J
I understand Mr. M'Dougall's argument to be that an unconscious soul is
a legitimate and (for Animism) even perhaps necessary conception, but that
unconscious consciousness is a contradiction in terms. It is interesting to note
that Lotze, perhaps the greatest champion of Animism in recent times, leaned,
in his latest work (Metaphync, p. 534 in the translation), to the view that in
becoming unconscious the soul ceased to exist—an admission which William
James (wrongly, I think) treated as an abandonment of the "Soul-Theory."
2
The argument against Animism drawn from the so-called Law of the Conser-
vation of Energy would seem to belong naturally to this section of the work,
but Mr. M'Dougall has preferred to deal with it in the previous chapter, in
which the philosophical arguments against Animism are examined.
LXVI.] Reviews. 359
Chapters VIII. and IX. Mr. M'Dougall contends (successfully, I
think) that neither the localisation of cerebral functions, nor the
absence of any discoverable gap in the sequence of material causa-
tion which connects sense-impression with muscular reaction upon
it, nor the apparently automatic performance of highly complex
actions of which no normal memory afterwards remains, nor the
dependence of our mental life upon brain-conditions, nor the multi-
plicity of conscious individualities within a single organism, nor the
assumption of continuity of evolution from the inorganic to the
organic, nor the acceptance of Darwinian views, justifies any final
conclusion against the Animistic hypothesis. Even where the facts
are admitted an explanation consistent with Animism is always
possible.
In the succeeding chapters the argument passes from defence pure
ami simple to the "defensive-offensive." Parallelism holds (1) that
the universe in all its features is susceptible of explanation in
mechanical terms ; (2) that every psychical process has its exact
physical counterpart. Against the first of these dogmas Mr.
M'Dougall argues that, on the contrary, mechanical conceptions are
inadequate even in physiology and morphology, and that mechanism
is wholly insufficient to explain either organic evolution or animal
and human behaviour. Against the second he contends that the
unity of consciousness has no physical unity corresponding to it,
and that this can be shown to be true even if we confine our atten-
tion to sensation. Still more demonstrable is it that consciousness
of meaning, to which sensations are only the cues, as well as the
" feeling-tone " of pleasure and displeasure which attend the whole
content of consciousness, and the " coiiative processes " which are
so intimately connected with pleasure and displeasure, are purely
psychical and have no correlative analogue on the physical side.
" True " memory, again (as opposed to habit), involves meaning as
an essential element, and cannot be explained in terms of brain-
structure. Finally, an examination of the results of "Psychical
Research " leads to the conclusion that telepathy must be accepted
as a fact empirically proved ; and telepathy is wholly inconsistent
with Parallelism.
Without detracting in any way from the merits of the earlier
portion of the book, the chapters of which a brief summary has just
been given may fairly be regarded as the most important and original
part of Mr. M'Dougall's work. It is, however, impossible to do justice
360 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
to them within the narrow compass of a review, and I must content
myself by calling attention to a few points of special interest.
The centre of the psycho-physical controversy is undoubtedly to
be found in the problem of the unity of consciousness. That con-
sciousness, as we know it, is in some sense unitary, and runs in
personal streams, is admitted by both sides ; but the significance
of the fact thus admitted is very diversely regarded. For the
majority of Animists it is the chief ground for conceiving the soul
as an entity which, by whatever name it may be called, is at least
a real being, relatively independent, capable of acting and being
acted on, and not to be identified with its fleeting states.
The soul-theory is generally sought to be established by reason-
ing of a metaphysical character, of which Lotze has been in modern
times the principal exponent. Mr. M'Dougall does not disdain the
metaphysical argument. On the contrary, he quotes Lotze's presen-
tation of it at considerable length, and declares that it cannot be
refuted. But it is by appealing to the facts of cerebral physiology,
he thinks, that the argument from the unity of consciousness to
the real being of the soul can be presented in the most cogent
form. Do these facts justify us in treating either the brain as a
whole or any portion of it as the physical counterpart of that unity
of consciousness which is admitted by Parallelists themselves 1 If
not, then Parallelism stands condemned by empirical science.
The question is one that cannot be avoided ; but only in the region
of simple sensation have physiologists made any serious attempt to
answer it in the affirmative. And even in this region no affirmative
answer can be given which is compatible with observed facts. When
the effects of more than one sensory stimulus are combined in the
unity of a single consciousness, the very least that can be demanded
of Parallelism is to show reason for believing that there exists in
the brain a physical " medium of composition " in which the physical
effects of the stimuli are combined in a physical unit}7
just as the
psychical effects are combined in the unity of consciousness. But
this cannot be done. The search for a sensorium commune has proved
as futile as the search for a punctual seat of the soul. 1 " The know-
ledge we now have of the nervous system and its functions," says
Mr. M'Dougall, "enables us to assert confidently that there exists
1
As Mr. M'Dougall points out, the physiological considerations so often relied
upon for the rejection of Animism, such as the localisation of brain functions
and the failure to find a punctual seat for the soul, tell in reality less against
Animism than against Parallelism.
LXVI.] Revieivs. 361
in the brain no such physical medium of composition, and that the
processes of the several sensory nerves simultaneously excited do
not affect any common material medium to produce in it a complex
physical resultant." Nor is he content to rest this statement upon
any general principles of cerebral physiology, however well estab-
lished : on the contrary, he appeals in support of it to the very case
in which the physical compounding of simultaneous sense-stimuli has
been most confidently assumed, namely, the case of binocular vision.
When we look at any object with both eyes, both retinae and both
optic nerves are stimulated, but only one object is seen. Similarly,
if we look at a spot of light with both eyes, interposing a red glass
before one eye and a blue glass before the other, we experience a
colour-sensation neither of red nor of blue, but of purple. Where
in either' case does the compounding take place ?
Mr. M'DougaU's answer to this question is clear: "The fusion of
effects of simultaneous sensory stimuli to a unitary resultant is not
a physiological or physical fusion or composition, but a purely psychical
fusion ; the unitary resultant exists only in the psychical sphere." In
other words, the fusion is a psychical process to which no physical
process runs parallel. This conclusion he supports by a formidable
array of arguments, which cannot be reproduced here, but which
appear to constitute a strong prima facie case, and certainly deserve-
the careful attention of all students of the subject.
The difficulties created for Parallelism by the unity of conscious-
ness are of course far greater in the case of more complex sensations,
and still more so when the higher mental functions are involved.
The whole position seems to be given away by Fechner when he
writes (in a sentence quoted by Mr. M'Dougall), "The psychically
unitary and simple are resultants of a physical manifold : the physical
multiplicity gives unity or simple resultauts." For this amounts to
saying (in Parallelistic language) that psychical unity has for its
counterpart physical multiplicity. Even if an attempt is made to
render this statement a little more plausible by representing the
counterpart of psychical unity to be physical multiplicity plus material
continuity, and further to supplement this view, as Fechner does, by
his ingenious theory of the varying threshold of consciousness, we
are still entitled to insist that multiplicity cannot in any true sense
be the counterpart of unity.
Mr. M'DougaU's chapters on "Memory" and on "the Bearing of
the Results of Psychical Research on the Psycho-physical Problem,"
362 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
will be read with special interest by the members of our Society—
the latter for obvious reasons, the former because the author's
theory of memory has profoundly influenced his views on the nature
of the soul and the question of its possible survival after the death
of the body.
I will conclude this review by briefly referring to each of these
topics.
Mr. M'Dougall is among the very few psychologists of high rank
who have had the courage to declare not onhy that telepathy has
been established, but also that it cannot be explained on mechanistic
principles. When we consider that it is only three or four years
ago since even William James, in his lectures on "A Pluralistic
Universe," described the field of enquiry with which Psychical Research
is occupied as "perhaps too spook-haunted to interest an academic
audience," this bold recognition comes as a very welcome sign of the
increasing value which is being attached to the Society's work.
In Mr. M'Dougall's opinion the evidence collected by the Society,
while not sufficient to produce conviction of survival, is sufficient to
force upon us the alternative of accepting the fact of telepathic com-
munication of a kind and at a distance that puts the supposition
of mechanical transmission entirely out of court. "So long," he says,
" as we consider only the evidence of telepathy between persons at
no great distance from one another, it is possible to make the facts
appear compatible with the mechanistic assumption by uttering the
4
blessed ' word '
brain-waves.' But the strain upon the mechanistic
assumption becomes insupportable by it when we consider the fol-
lowing facts : Minute studies of automatic writings, and especially
those recently reported under the head of 'Cross-correspondence,' have
shown that such writings frequently reveal knowledge of facts which
could not have been acquired by the writer by normal means, and
could not have been telepathically communicated by any living person
in the neighbourhood of the writer. In short, the evidence is such
that the keenest adverse critics of the view which sees in these
writings the expression of the surviving personalities of deceased
persons, are driven to postulate as the only possible alternative
explanation of some of them the direct communication of complex
and subtle thoughts between persons separated by hundreds and even
thousands of miles. . . . Unless, then, we are prepared to adopt the
supposition of a senseless and motiveless conspiracy of fraud among
a number of persons who have shown themselves to be perfectly
upright and earnest in every other relation, we must recognise that
LXVI.] Reviews. 363
we stand before the dilemma—survival or telepathy of this far-reaching
kind. The acceptance of either horn of the dilemma is fatal to the
mechanistic scheme of things."
I do not think much exception will be taken to this reasoning
by those who have devoted most time and attention to the subject.
Two observations, however, may perhaps usefully be made.
First, telepathy and survival, although presented in the argument
as alternatives, do not really exclude each other. On the contrary,
to establish either is to render the other more probable : and it is
plausible to assume that if spirits exist and can communicate with
human beings, the process by which they do so is of like nature with
telepathy between embodied minds.
Secondly, I do not think the facts can be said to show that distance
is an entirely negligible factor in telepathy, though there is not a
shred of evidence that anything resembling the law of inverse squares
is applicable to it. That being the case, the admission that " the
explanation of telepathy at close quarters by the hypothesis of '
brain-
waves ' transmitted through the ether cannot be absolutely rejected,"
does in some degree weaken the case for assigning to it a purely
psychical nature ; and undoubtedly the analogy of wireless telegraphy
seems plausible to many people. It may be as well to point out,
therefore, that wireless telegraphy depends for its effectiveness entirely
on the use of symbols, whereas there is good reason to believe that
in telepathy there is in many cases a direct communication of meanings.
The analogy with wireless telegraphy would be more to the point if
it could be shown that telepathic communication always takes the
form of language, or, on the other hand, that wireless telegraphy could
directly convey a complex picture or an abstract idea.
The analogy with wireless telegraphy fails also, I believe, in another
respect of capital importance. There appears to be something in tele-
pathy which I may describe as selective action, and which cannot be
explained on mechanistic principles. By the selective action of tele-
pathy I do not mean that some individuals seem to be capable of
being acted upon telepathically, and others not, or not to any notice-
able extent. This might be paralleled in wireless telegraphy by
appropriate "tuning" of the receiving instruments. The brain, it might
be said, requires to be " tuned " to the proper pitch in order to
respond. The selective action I have in mind is something different,
and seems rather to consist in a power on the part of the agent
so to direct the telepathic communication that it reaches some par-
ticular person for whom it is intended and no other. I believe there
364 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
is evidence for selective action in this sense, but no doubt more
evidence is required before it can be considered as firmly established.
In dealing with the psycho-physics of memory, Mr. M'Dougall
follows Professor Bergson in distinguishing sharply between habit and
true memory. Habit, it is admitted, has neural association for its
basis ; but true memory cannot be identified with habit. The essential
element in true memory is meaning; and meaning, Mr. M'Dougall
holds, as we have seen, to be a purely psychical product of psychical
activity, and to be without any correlate in the brain-process. Never-
theless, even in true memory, as we know it, habit always enters as
a co-operating factor ; and accordingly, the view of mental retention
put forward by the author is "intermediate between the two extreme
views that have long been opposed to one another, the view that
it is wholly conditioned by neural structure and the view that it is
conditioned wholly in some immaterial fashion."
Mr. M'Dougall proceeds to give what he calls a "suggestion towards
a theory of memory." It is too long to be quoted verbatim here,
and not easy to summarise: indeed, I am not sure that I can fully
grasp his thought. If I understand him rightly, the theory requires
that we should conceive of the soul as having a " psychical struc-
ture " consisting in persistent "psychical dispositions," which are not
themselves meanings, bat only persistent conditions of meanings.
From this point of view the soul may be regarded as a kind of
repository of potential meanings, which may be added to by experi-
ence. But in order to be actualized, the potential meanings require
a sensory content, and a sensory content is essentially the expres-
sion of psycho-physical interaction. Consciousness, therefore, as we
know it, is impossible without the interaction of soul and body.
This interaction, however, "can be initiated either from the neural
side (in accordance with the conjunction of sense stimuli and pre-
formed habits or neural associations), when it brings meanings to
consciousness ; or from the psychical side, by meanings which demand
specific sensory complexes for the completion of ideas, and which thus
in turn, through the medium of sensation, bring neural dispositions
into play."
Mr. M'Dougall claims for his theory of memory that it is one
" which is consistent with all the empirical data, especially all those
which show the dependence of sensation and imagery upon the
integrity of the brain, and which yet relieves us of the impossible
task of conceiving a physical basis for all memory, and allows us to
LXVI.] Reviews. 365
believe that true memory is conditioned by the persistence of modifi-
cation of psychical structure or capacities."
I forbear to express any opinion on this theory here. It obviously
presents some considerable difficulties. The conception of the soul
as a being with "psychic dispositions" seems to take us straight into
metaphysics, and is not likely to pass unchallenged ; and if meanings
cannot exist in consciousness without a sensory context, it is not
easy to see how the initiation of ideas can come from the psychical
side at all. But accepting the theory as it stands, readers will
not fail to perceive its possible bearing on the question of survival,
and if they turn to the last chapter of the book they will see how
frankly the conclusions to which it seems to lead are accepted by the
author.
Mr. M'Dougall criticises the Cartesian description of the soul as a
" thinking being," on the ground that it goes beyond the evidence
at present available. "Our evidence at present allows us to say
only that the soul thinks or is conscious (realises its capacities or
potentialities) when interacting with some bodily organism; psycho-
physical interaction may be, for all we know, a necessary condition
of all consciousness. For all the thinking or consciousness of which
we have positive knowledge is of embodied minds or souls. . . .
Rather than say that the soul is a thinking being, we must then
say that it is a being capable of being stimulated to conscious
activities through the agency of the body or brain with which it
stands in relations of reciprocal influence."
So long as we confine ourselves to empirical data, and so long
as no convincing empirical evidence of survival is produced, this
criticism is justified. Indeed, it hardly goes far enough. For instead
of saying "Our evidence at present allows us to say only that the
soul is conscious when interacting with some bodily organism," we
ought rather to put it, "Our evidence at present allows us to say
only that the soul exists when interacting with a bodily organism."
For on the supposition mentioned there would clearly be no empirical
evidence for the continued existence of a disembodied soul. But if,
notwithstanding this, we assume the truth of survival as being, though
not supported by empirical data, yet not actually inconsistent with
them, what kind of continued existence would be left to the soul
by Mr. M'Dougall's theory of memory?
I am afraid the answer to this question will be profoundly unsatis-
factory to those to whom the conception of a survival of the
personality is dear. It is true that the theory bids us regard the
3C6 The Rigid Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
soul as a sum of psychical capacities which can be built up during
bodily life, and which it may be permissible to conceive as con-
tinuing to exist in their more developed form after bodily death
and this is one deerree better than the view which treats the soul
as a system of unchanging potentialities, actualised by interaction
with the body, but carrying none of its developed powers into
another state of existence, if there be such a state. But the crucial
question still remains : Is it consistent with Mr. M'Dougall's theory
to suppose that the surviving soul carries with it into the other state
of existence such memories as would enable it to be conscious of
itself as the same enduring personality notwithstanding the transi-
tion 1. If I understand him rightly, his answer would be in the
negative. This is an essential element in the popular view, and he
expressly rejects the popular view. "The popular view," he tells
us, "though it has been maintained in modern times by Lotze, a
philosopher of the first rank, cannot be reconciled with the fact
that the make up of human personality includes many habits that
are unquestionably rooted in the structure of the nervous system.
It conflicts also with all the large mass of evidence which indicates
the dependence of all the sensory content of consciousness, all
sensation and all imagery, on the integrity of the brain."
Concerning these speculations, all I would say is that we really
have no evidence to go upon that can afford any ground for definite
conclusions. As I have already pointed out, if we rest upon
empirical data only, and exclude or reject the evidence for survival
collected by the Society for Psychical Research, there is no reason
why we should assume that the soul exists at all after the death
of the body. If, on the other hand, we do assume this, then we
ought to recognise that it is very unsafe to infer the capacities or
incapacities of the disembodied soul (of which, ex hypothesi, we have
no experience) from those which belong to, or which we attribute
to, the embodied soul. For aught we know, the body may inhibit
as well as stimulate the capacities of the soul ; and in the region
of memory in particular, which would seem to be of the essence of
consciousness, a very wide field of conjecture lies open.
Mr. M'Dougall himself, I may note in conclusion, by no means
treats with contempt the endeavour of psychical researchers to obtain
empirical evidence on the question of survival. On the contrary,
he admits that " a considerable mass of evidence pointing in the
direction of survival has been accumulated," and although hitherto,
LXVI.] Revieivs. 367
in his opinion, the character of the evidence has "fallen just short"
of the perfection required to " produce conviction in the mind of
an impartial observer," he clearly contemplates the possibility that
more conclusive results may be attained in the future. Now such
results must from the nature of the case include proof that the
supposed surviving personality retains some of the memories of its
earthly life. Let us imagine for a moment that convincing evidence
of survival were to be actually obtained. It is quite certain that
in such an event all preconceptions as to the capacity for memory
in disembodied souls based upon observation of life in the body
would be swept away like cobwebs. Probably, in the new light
thus cast back upon psychological problems, Mr. M'Dougall might
have to revise his theory of memory : but we may be sure, from
the candour and openness of mind shown in every page of the work
now under review, that no man would be more willing to modify
even his most cherished views the moment the facts appeared to
require it.
Gerald W. Balfour.
Die Psychoanalyse Freuds. Verteidigung und kritische Bemerkungen.
Von Prof. Dr. E. Bleuler. (Jahrbuch fur psychoanalytische und
psychopathologische Forschungen, Band II. Franz Deuticke.
Leipzig and Vienna, 1911.)
This article, which is published as a separate pamphlet, consists
largely of a temperate and effective reply to the impassioned attacks
which have been made upon Freud and his methods of psycho-
analysis in German scientific and theological publications. These
attacks are so fierce, and in many cases so devoid of the calm
reasoning which should accompany a scientific controversy, that in
themselves they furnish a valuable illustration of the power of a
pre-existing complex to determine an attitude of mind and a high
degree of emotional feeling in subjects who believe that their con-
ceptions are based solely upon facts and logic. The same pheno-
menon is probably familiar to all those who have at any time
discussed the problems of Psychical Research with persons who are
insufficiently acquainted with its aims and methods, but who "feel
strongly " that such investigations are a waste of time.
But, besides these attacks, there are a few criticisms which are
put forward on more logical grounds. These are directed chiefly
against the therapeutic application of Freud's psychology, and, though
368 V. J. Woolley, M.D. [part
it is generally admitted that a number of neuroses have been cured
through psycho-analysis, the critics would contend that the cure
might have been as well produced by other psycho-therapeutic methods,
and especially by suggestion, to the operation of which any psycho-
analytic cure is ascribed. 1
Professor Bleuler's reply is that even if
the effects are due to suggestion, certain cases have been cured which
have not proved amenable to suggestion in any other form, and
that the discovery of a new method of suggestion is of great thera-
peutic value. He considers, however, that the process is essentially
different from and superior to suggestion directed against what he
considers to be merely symptoms. Though the beneficial effects of
facing boldly any disagreeable emotion or memory are known to all,
without analysis the most important factor may remain hidden from
consciousness and so be unknown to both patient and physician.
Finally, the suggestions of the psycho-analyst are often directly
antagonistic to the patient's own wishes instead of coinciding with
them as in the usual forms of suggestion.
In the field of psycho-therapy it is clear that there are two almost
diametrically opposed methods of treatment, and this particular
portion of Bleuler's defence may well be emphasized as shewing the
contrast between them. On the one hand is the older suggestion,
whether conveyed during hypnosis or waking or in some inter-
mediate condition. On the other is the psycho-analytic method.
The former seeks to aid the patient to dismiss altogether from his
mind the disturbing element which both schools alike recognize as
the cause of his trouble. If he succeeds in banishing it completely,
so completely that it is no longer able to affect his mental being at
all, clearly he will be cured. But according to the psycho-analyst
that is impossible. Nothing can be forgotten or put away so com-
pletely. By mere suggestion the unwelcome complex is but driven
deeper into the unconscious, where it can work perhaps more
effectively than before. Thus the psycho-analyst tries to bring it up
into the fullest consciousness so that it may be faced, and thus lose
its power to produce those psycho-physical results which he has
learnt to look upon as the expression in consciousness of a desire
which is not allowed to be present there in a recognizable form.
Here surely is the crux of the whole dispute : is it or is it not a
good thing to bring into consciousness ideas which each individual
for himself endeavours, consciously or unconsciously, to maintain
below the threshold 1 The final answer must depend on the results
1
Ct Dr. T. W. Mitchell, Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXIV., p. 68.
LXVI.] Reviews. 369
obtained by the two methods, and both claim startling successes.
Does it not seem probable that for the less serious conditions
suggestion may suffice, while there are more obstinate neuroses
which will not yield to a conservative treatment ? Metaphors are
dangerous and generally unsound, but the present writer would
suggest that if a bacterial infection is of slight virulence and is taken
early it may yield to a treatment of hot fomentations, while under
different conditions the surgeon's knife provides the only possible
cure.
The critical notes mentioned in the title of the paper are directed
chiefly against some of the generalisations put forward by Freud's
followers, and only to a very slight extent against Freud's own
conclusions. The author expresses some doubts as to the invariably
sexual basis of neuroses, and as to the analyses which have been put
forward of various historical personages, the latter on the ground
that a process which is difficult enough in a living patient becomes
unreliable when it can only rest on the scanty material of bio-
graphies. He also mistrusts the sharp delimitations which some of
the psycho-analytic school consider themselves justified in making
between various functional disorders.
The article concludes with a demonstration that in his chief con-
clusions Freud has not advanced anything which is contrary to or
subversive of the whole fabric of psychology as it has been built up
by previous investigators. On the other hand, many of his funda-
mental propositions were known long before his time. Freud has
only developed them into a somewhat unfamiliar shape and united
them into a system. As instances may be taken the transference
of psychical energy from a repressed idea to another which is allowed
to come to the surface, and the connection of the sexual instinct
with hysteria and with " Angst
"
The points raised are illustrated by numerous instances from
Professor Bleuler's own experience, both among his patients and in
himself, and the article will be very acceptable to those who wish
to read a whole-hearted defence of the psycho-analytic method, but
who are repelled by what seems to them the premature dogmatism
of the more advanced members of the Vienna school.
V. J. WOOLLEY, M.D.
370 Ghas. Lloyd Tackey, M.D. [part
Faith and Suggestion. By Edwin Ash. (Herbert & Daniel, London,
1912. Pp. 153. Price 3s. 6d. net.)
Dr. Edwin Ash gives ns in Faith anal Suggestion a full and inter-
esting account of the case of Dorothy Kerin, and he has made it
the centre from which to develop his theories on psycho-therapy.
This case, it will be remembered, created some sensation last spring
from the notices about it in the newspapers under the title of " The
Herne Hill Miracle," and Dr. Ash went down to investigate it.
He found the girl fairly well and strong after having been bed-
ridden for years and finally apparently moribund.
Eye-witnesses of the last scene gave their testimony ; the patient
herself described her experiences ; doctors and nurses who had been
in attendance over a period of years gave accounts of her various
illnesses; and, finally, Dr. Ash got hospital physicians and Rontgen-
ray specialists to examine the girl and give their reports of her
present condition.
So we have one of the most complete histories which has been
published of these puzzling cases, and the author is justified in
hoping that it will prove not only of present interest but of value
for future reference.
Briefly, the history is as follows. The girl, aged 24, was supposed
to be dying of phthisis, with kidney and other complications, and
her family and friends were collected round her bedside to witness
the end, which was momentarily expected. After lying in a semi-
comatose state for some hours she suddenly murmured " I am
listening. Who is it 1 Yes, yes
!
" Then she sat up in bed, assured
her friends she was cured and quite well, and insisted on getting
out of bed and walking into the next room. From that time she
got stronger every day, her natural functions became re-established,
and she is now quite strong and well.
She herself says she heard a voice say distinctly three times
"Dorothy!" then a light came over the bed, and behind it a
beautiful angel appeared, who said "Your sufferings are over! Get
up and walk."
We frequently hear of such cures, and it is easy to dismiss them
as cases of hysteria. Dr. Ash discusses the subject very fairly, and
points out that, even if by hysterical we mean imaginary illness,
this case would be remarkable ; but he says the testimony of an
experienced local doctor who attended her for the last two years is
that the girl was really suffering from tuberculosis, and had the
LXVI.] Reviews.
typical signs, not only subjective but objective, of that disease. It
was not, however, a case of advanced phthisis, as the lay papers
affirmed, and subsequent examination by experts show no loss of
tissue or extensive structural changes.
Dr. Ash points out that the disease was undoubtedly serious, and
that but for the intervention of a psychic agency death would
probably have occurred in a few hours. Her sudden recovery of
walking power after being bedridden for five years is sufficiently
remarkable, for one would expect great atrophy and weakness of
the muscles ; but Charcot and others give numerous instances of
sudden accessions of strength from emotional causes apart from
religious influences.
The analogy of such cases to that of Bernadotte of Lourdes is of
course obvious, and is dwelt upon by Dr. Ash. He discusses at
length the action of hypnotism and suggestion, and as he objects
to the mere classification of a disease as hysteria being considered
sufficient definition of a morbid state, so he objects to the term
suggestion alone being considered sufficient explanation of the mode
of cure. He argues that suggestion may act on the body through
the mind in several different ways and on different planes, e.g. on
a low mental plane, as when the patient is cured through appealing
to his imagination by a bread pill which he takes for a powerful
drug ;
by hypnotic suggestion, which enables the physician to act on
the subliminal consciousness ;
by appeal to a spiritual force outside
ourselves, as in the pilgrimages to Lourdes and by healers of the
Salvation Army type. Dr. Ash thinks the efficacy of the particular
method of suggestion depends upon the temperament of the patient,
and he tells us that Dorothy Kerin is a young woman of strong
religious feelings, and much given to praying for the relief of her
friends' illnesses and troubles. She was therefore accessible to the
highest and most spiritual form of influence, and he is inclined to
believe her cure was brought about by an agency or force outside
herself. In support of this view he quotes largely from Myers,
William James, Sir Oliver Lodge, and other distinguished members
of the S.P.R., as well as from the writings of Drs. McComb
and Worcester, Mr. Percy Dearmer, and other clergymen who have
taken up the subject of spiritual healing.
It appears that Dorothy Kerin was once subjected to some hypnotic
experiments, but she believed they were wrong and successfully
resisted hypnosis. Charcot has told us how he occasionally sent
hysterical patients to Lourdes, thinking they would benefit more
372 Chas. Lloyd TucJeey, M.D. [part
from religious than from hypnotic suggestion as practised at the
Salpetriere.
This history presents many features in common with the Gilling-
ham case reported in the Journal for October, 1912, and investigated
by Miss Verrall. In each case, for instance, there are the appearance
of a bright light and the suggestions of a hallucinatory voice. It
will be interesting to note the future of these girls.
Dorothy Kerin thinks she has been restored to health in order
to carry on good works, and Dr. Ash argues that her unselfish and
spiritual character justifies her being selected for cure by the Higher
Powers when so many invalids are allowed to suffer and die unaided.
Whatever view may be taken, Dr. Ash has put the subject before
the reader in a very impartial and readable form.
Chas. Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
l-xvl] The Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic. 373
THE LIVEEPOOL PSYCHO-THEEAPEUTIC CLINIC.
Since the foundation of the Psycho-Medical Society of Great
Britain at London in 1905, medical men have been, and are still
being, enrolled as members from all parts of the Kingdom, and in
no city has Psycho-Therapy made more progress, and attracted
the attention of the medical profession to a greater extent, than
in Liverpool, where quite a number have joined the Society and
formed themselves into a branch, which has received official
recognition by the parent organisation. This branch has been
meeting from time to time for discussion, and the reading of
papers bearing upon the subject. Although there is still much
prejudice and not a little ignorance to combat, the efficacy of
treatment by hypnotic suggestion in suitable cases has become so
widely known and appreciated that many physicians now send
their patients for treatment, and large numbers of the public seek
it themselves. This being the case, the need of a Clinic, where
the poorer classes can receive treatment, has become an urgent
necessity. This matter has been under the consideration of the
Liverpool branch of the Society for some time, and after much
effort among patients' friends and sympathisers, a sufficient sum
has been collected to enable us to make the venture. The ground
floor of a Nursing Home has been rented at 8 Maryland Street in
the neighbourhood of Eodney Street. It consists of three rooms
a small one which will be used as a consulting room for the
visiting physician of the day, another larger room, which will be
used as a waiting-room, and a third, still larger room, which will
be used for treating patients, three or four at a time. All these are
already furnished, and will only require the addition of a few
easy chairs, etc., some needful stationery, and other details, which
will be supplied by the Society in good time for the opening.
Patients will be expected to pay Is. for the first sitting, and
374 The Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic, [part lxvi.
3d. for each subsequent one found necessary ;
absolutely destitute
patients, who have been certified as such, will, of course, receive
free treatment ; and those able to pay more, but not enough for
private treatment, will be encouraged to do so, and all money so
received will be utilised for the support of the Clinic. A
managing committee consisting of the three medical officers and
the medical Hon. Treasurer, together with three laymen and the
lay Hon. Secretary, will be selected to supervise the affairs of the
Institution.
Thus, then, on Monday, November 11th, 1912, Liverpool will
have the honour of founding the first Clinic of this kind in Great
Britain under the direction of medical men for the treatment
of the sick poor.
A. Betts Taplin, L.R.C.P.
76 Rodney Street, Liverpool.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXVII.
July, 1913.
I.
A EEPLY TO DR. JOSEPH MAXWELL'S PAPER ON
" CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES AND THE EXPERI-
MENTAL METHOD." 1
By MRS. HENRY SIDGWICK.
Dr. Maxwell's paper, as its title indicates, is partly occupied
with criticising the general methods of those who in our
Proceedings have written about the automatic scripts of Mrs.
and Miss Verrall, Mrs. Holland, Mrs. Willett, and Mrs. Piper,
and partly with detailed comments on particular cases. In
my reply I shall concern myself chiefly with the question of
the general methods, only going into particular cases so far as
may be needed to illustrate my points. Incidentally, a reply
on general methods meets a good deal of what M. Maxwell
has to say about particular cases, because much of this depends,
I think, on misunderstanding of the general methods ; and
some further reply dealing with particular cases is given in
1
Proceedings, Part LXV., pp. 57-145.
2B
370 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
appendices to this paper by Mrs. Verrall, Miss Johnson and
Mr. Piddington. But in fact the general methods are much
more important than the particular cases. The value of
most of what has been written in the Proceedings of late
years by Mrs. Verrall, Miss Johnson, Mr. Piddington, Sir Oliver
Lodge, and to a minor extent myself, depends on these methods.
If our meaning and aim, our assumptions and what we think
is proved, can be so much misunderstood as they seem to
have been by an able and industrious critic of M. Maxwell's
eminence, it is to be feared that others also may have failed
to grasp the points, and it may well be worth while to go
over them again in the light of M. Maxwell's criticisms.
Before doing so, I should like to thank M. Maxwell for
taking so much trouble to put before us the impression the
work on cross-correspondences has made on him. It is only
when those who study the subject will express their views
that we can have the kind of discussion which may help
towards the solution of the very complicated and difficult
problems raised on any hypothesis by these automatic scripts.
We are the more indebted to him—and though I am not
going to speak of the " Latin Message," I should like to say
this also of Mrs. Hude 1
—because, not being an Englishman,
he has had the additional trouble of dealing with a language
not his own. His knowledge of English, indeed, is almost
perfect ;
still, here and there he is led into mistakes which,
I think, an Englishman would not have made. For instance,
I doubt whether an English-speaking person would have
thought the sarcasm which M. Maxwell applies on his first
page to Dr. Hodgson fair comment. Dr. Hodgson thinks Mrs.
Piper's trance personalities communicate by writing without
being conscious of the process of writing,'
2
but this is very
different from not being conscious of what they say, which is
how M. Maxwell interprets " not conscious of writing." Again,
no English-speaking person would, I think, interpret " papers
"
as newspapers ("gazettes") in the particular connexion in
which the word occurs in the incident referred to on p. 73
1
Mrs. Hude's article on this subject appeared in Proceedings, Part LXV.,
pp. 147-170.
" Whether we agree with Dr. Hodgson's view or not is another question.
I am myself disposed to think it at any rate far too sweeping.
lxvii.] A Reply to Br. Joseph Maxivell's Paper. 377
of M. Maxwell's paper (where it obviously means documents).
Nor to an Englishman would "the Lawns of Lea" (p. 99)
suggest the idea of Leah, Eachel's sister, because he would
perceive that Lea rhymes with Sea. It actually does so in
the script in question, which is partly in verse. (Oddly
enough, M. Maxwell attributes to Mrs. Verrall this association
of Lea and Leah, though without the slightest justification
that I can perceive.) Such linguistic errors as I have been
speaking of are, however, very few.
Let me, before I proceed to my reply to M. Maxwell, add
that there are interesting points in his paper. For instance,
the purely accidental coincidence which he has discovered
between certain scripts and the poems of Lamartine—though
it can only be made to fit by ignoring the reference of the
scripts to Gautier and Hugo—is striking, and might well
have figured in Miss Johnson's paper on "Chance Coincidences"
(Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 158-330). It is a useful warning,
if one were needed, against attaching too much importance to
a single coincidence, even of a striking kind.
Then again, he refers (pp. 142, 143), though with too little
detail and too little confirmation, to what appear to be
interesting telepathic incidents observed by himself. The cases
of "Clementine" and of the butterflies are full of suggestion
as to the working of telepathy, and may be usefully com-
pared with some of our experiments with percipients hypnotised
by Mr. G. A. Smith {Proceedings, Vol. VIII., pp. 536-596).
Again, certain criticisms made by M. Maxwell are just.
Probably all readers agree with him that scripts should, if
possible, be exhibited in a less scrappy manner, in a manner
showing better the connexion of different parts of a script,
than was done in Mrs. Verrall's first paper. It makes it more
difficult for the would-be critical reader, though often easier
for the more general reader, to have the script cut up into
snippets. It was natural, in an analytical description of her
script, such as Mrs. Verrall's is, to illustrate the different
points by the appropriate fragments, or the mere statement
that some topic occurred in the script at such a date, other
portions of the same script illustrating other points being
sometimes discussed in other parts of the paper. With
further experience those who have discussed the scripts have
378 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich [part
learnt that there is apt to be something confusing in this
way of treating them, and that it may tend to the obscur-
ing of interesting points, evidential and other. Accordingly,
in more recent papers, scripts have been given in a more
complete form.
The mention of Mrs. Verrall's original paper on her own
script (Proceedings, Vol. XX.) leads me from details to the
fundamental points which, as I have said, I propose
mainly to discuss in this paper. M. Maxwell's first criticism
on our methods (p. 130) is that on our plan "we must
admit the automatists' good faith " ;
" The medium's good
faith must be implicitly admitted as an element in the
^experiment " ; and that as a matter of method this is
wrong ; the need for her good faith should be eliminated.
It is of course quite true that the value of our evidence
depends very largely on the good faith of the automatists ; but
I should put the matter somewhat differently myself, and say
that the automatic writers, when the writing is not produced
in trance, are inevitably themselves investigators, usually fellow-
investigators with others, but investigators. And no scientific
observations or experiments are independent of the good
faith of the investigators. An investigator may sometimes
produce objective evidence that he is not self-deceived, but his
good faith has to be taken on trust. I believe that in orthodox-
science—biology, physics, etc.—bogus experiments have been
put forward on one or two occasions, though extremely rarely.
As a rule, however, the known character of the observers or
experimenters concerned renders deception so improbable that
the danger need hardly be taken into account ; and the
improbability is in most cases rendered enormously greater
by the fact that deception would involve collusion, as is also
of course the case with cross-correspondences. We must admit,
however, that in the orthodox sciences few important facts
are fully accepted until the experiments or observations on
which they rest have been repeated by others, and that here
psychical research is at a disadvantage in being limited so
much as it is to observation. Progress is always slow when
knowledge depends on observation of phenomena occurring
spontaneously, and neither on lines nor at times selected by
the observer ; and it is partly because in psychical research
Lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxivell's Paper. 379
we can as yet seldom repeat experiments at will that we
advance only slowly in our interpretation.
M. Maxwell tries to support his view that automatic writers
ought not to be co-investigators, by referring to some remarks
by the late Henry Sidgwick in a Presidential address delivered
in 1889. There is confusion here. Those who will take the
trouble to turn to the passage referred to (Proceedings, Vol.
V., pp. 401-2)—and may I say here that any one reading
M. Maxwell's paper should in all cases go back to the
original accounts to avoid misunderstanding—will see that
Mr. Sidgwick was speaking only of the physical phenomena
of spiritualism. His point was that if any one, one's best
friend or indeed oneself, professes, e.g., to move an object
supernormally—say raise a table without touching it —it is
necessary, before accepting the phenomenon, not only to feel
confident that there has been no conscious deception, but that
there has been no unconscious deception—no action of the
subliminal self tending to move the table unknown to the
supraliminal self. In cases like this the medium may no
doubt help the investigator, but ought to be relieved of all
responsibility as an investigator himself.
Quite apart from cryptonmesia, with which I shall deal
presently, a similar difficulty may occur in the case of automatic
writing. I think it does occur in some of Mr. Stainton
Moses' experiences; those for instance in which, he being
alone, his script by request quotes passages verbatim from
books in the room.1
In such cases very careful precautions
would be needed to make it quite certain that the automatist
had not, unknown to his normal consciousness, looked into the
book.
I should like to know how M. Maxwell would propose
to investigate automatic script, produced otherwise than in
trance, without letting the automatists share in the responsibility.
Would he keep them in solitary confinement ? Or does he,
perhaps, think that automatic script is not a proper subject
for scientific investigation at all ? But that would seem rather
arbitrary. And would he equally exclude from investigation
all introspective psychology, all analysis of subjective sensations,
1
See Proceeding*, Vol. XI., pp. 106-7, and Human Personality, Vol. II.,
pp. 591-2.
380 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
all accounts of dreams, visions, hallucinations, which from the
nature of the case must be given by the percipients themselves ?
There is one thing perhaps worth noting at this point
concerning evidence in automatic writing for supernormally
acquired knowledge—cross-correspondences and the like. It
is that, from a purely evidential point of view, it does not
matter whether the writing is automatic or not. Of course I
do not mean that the fact that it is automatic is not important.
The study of automatism is of great psychological interest, and
I think it will be admitted that in the various studies on it
that have appeared in our Proceedings, especially of recent
years, we have given to the world much material for such
psychological study. Automatism may, too, in time, not only
give us evidence for, e.g., telepathy, but give us clues to the
processes involved. A cross-correspondence, however, might be
just as good evidentially without any automatic writing at all.
For instance, if an idea came into Mrs. Verrall's head accom-
panied by an impression that Mrs. Holland had the same
idea, and she recorded this idea and this impression in
ordinary writing, and if on the same day Mrs. Holland inde-
pendently recorded the same idea, we should have prima facie
evidence for telepathy between them, though no automatic
writing had been produced at all. For this reason contem-
poraneous impressions of the automatists about the meaning
of their scripts may have evidential value. For instance, if
Mrs. Verrall records, before she knows that any cross-corre-
spondence is involved, that the " storied mount " of her script
can only be Dante's Mount of Purgatory, then this interpre-
tation must be taken as an integral part of the evidence to
be considered. It does not matter that to M. Maxwell, or
to any one else, it may seem an absurd way of describing
that mount.1
I suppose it is partly at least because of his view that
automatic writers should not be investigators of their own
writing that M. Maxwell objects (p. 58) to Mrs. Verrall's
discussion of her writing in Vol. XX. Mrs. Verrall, he says,
1
Mrs. Verrall understood by "storied mount" the mount of which Dante
told the story : "storied" in this sense being equivalent to the Latin
"fabulosua." I, like M. Maxwell, read it as "la montagne etagee,"
although in the latter sense the usual spelling would be " storeyed " mount.
The point is of course quite unimportant.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 381
could not with the utmost goodwill be impartial ; one cannot
be judge in one's own case. But what is Mrs. Verrall's case ?
What is her side and what is the other side ? In what way
do her interests come in ? What is the thesis she supports,
and disagreement with which would disappoint her? M. Maxwell
apparently assumes (p. 61) very gratuitously that she starts
with a conviction of the supernormal value of her scripts. I
believe the truth is that we have here in the background an
assumption which M. Maxwell makes about all the investigators
—one which he has not, I think, fully expressed anywhere,
unless it be a propos of Dr. Hodgson (on p. 58), because it
has not occurred to him to doubt its validity, but which
nevertheless is always in his mind, and explains criticisms
which otherwise seem scarcely intelligible. I take him to
assume that all the writers whom he criticises, with whom I
should like to associate myself and whom I may therefore for
shortness call we, have adopted and are defending the hypo-
thesis that the intelligences directing the automatic script are
in all cases, or at least in all where there is any evi-
dence in the writing of supernormally acquired knowledge,
spirits of the dead ; and further that those spirits are responsible
for the wording of the script. In other words he takes us
to assume that the scripts are verbally inspired by spirits.
Eegarding this as our view,
1
he then proceeds to argue, like
the critics described by Miss Johnson in her last report on
the Holland script {Proceedings, Vol. XXV., p. 292), that the
scripts are either produced by the influence, say, of Mr. Myers,
or they are not ; but there are passages in them unlike Mr.
Myers ; therefore Mr. Myers cannot have produced them, and
therefore our supposed contention falls to the ground.
But this would be beginning at the wrong end. The
problem does not present itself to us in this way at all ; and
after all we have written, it is disappointing that any of our
readers should imagine that it does. What we do is to start
with the undeniable fact that in automatic writing the intelli-
gence directing the writing is not the normal waking intelli-
gence of the automatist. It is an intelligence working simul-
taneously with, and to a considerable extent independently of,
1
Cf. p. 58, 2nd and 3rd paragraphs; p. 60, '2nd paragraph; p. 125, 3rd and
4th paragraphs ; p. 139, 3rd paragraph.
382 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
the normal waking intelligence. It presents in its workings
obvious resemblances to the intelligence manifested in our
dreams, and whatever other elements it may possess, it is to
a large extent, as we all agree, a dissociated phase or portion
of the automatist's own personality.
From the fact that its thoughts are recorded in writing we
have, however, permanent and stable data for studying it, absent
in the case of rapidly fading dreams. Automatic writing, in
fact, at least affords material for studying dissociated personality
if it does nothing more. And a large part of Mrs. Verrall's
analysis of her own script in Vol. XX. is a study of this kind;
and so is a great deal of Miss Johnson's account of Mrs.
Holland's script. So far the matter might have been left to
orthodox psychology, though indirectly it has, of course, an
important bearing on the problems of psychical research. The
questions with which we are more immediately concerned begin
when we find that the writing intelligence somehow appears
to have access to information to which the normal self of the
automatist has not got access. We have then first to make
up our minds whether this really is so, and secondly, if it is,
to discover (a) what light, if any, is thereby thrown on the
nature of the intelligence directing the writing ;
(b) the mode
in which the information reaches this intelligence ; and (c) the
source of the information.
The first question of course is, —Are the coincidences between
the scripts under consideration, and either other scripts or
external facts, beyond what we can reasonably attribute to
chance ? The answer which we each of us make to this
question will depend on individual judgment. I confess to
feeling no doubt whatever myself that they are too numerous,
and many of them too striking, to be attributed to chance.
M. Maxwell apparently decides otherwise, but, if I may say so,
I think he hardly gives himself a fair chance of judging,
because he so often confuses the issue. Take for instance
the case he begins with, the "sphere-spear" case (p. 59 and cf.
Procccdinr/s, Vol. XX., pp. 213-217). In America on January 28,
1902, Dr. Hodgson suggests to the Piper communicator (MyersP
at the moment) to appear to Miss Verrall with a spear in his
hand. Spear was at first misheard as " sphere," but finally
the experiment with "spear" was agreed on. On January 31,
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 383
as the result of a strong impulse to write, Mrs. Verrall pro-
duces a script in which occurs sphere in Greek and an
expression in Latin (volatile ferrum) which she translates
" spear." Miss Verrall is left out, but otherwise the coincidence
will seem to most people striking. M. Maxwell objects to it
chiefly because, in his opinion, volatile ferrum, which is an
expression of Virgil's, means " arrow," and not " spear." Mrs.
Verrall can give scholarly reasons for attributing to Virgil the
meaning "spear." But what Virgil meant is really entirely
irrelevant from the evidential point of view, for Mrs. Verrall
removed all ambiguity from her script by recording before she
heard anything about the experiment in America that in her
opinion her script meant " spear."
A rather curious indication of the way in which M. Maxwell's
estimate of coincidences differs from ours may be found on
p. 86, where, in criticising Mr. Piddington's paper on " Con-
cordant Automatisms " in Proceedings, Vol. XXII., he says that,
in order to make the most favourable case for the experimenters,
he will analyse only their best cases, and proceeds to discuss
as one of these " Celestial Halcyon Days," about which Mr.
Piddington says (Vol. XXII., p. 103) that it is one of a
number of " rather vague coincidences," and that he discusses
it " chiefly, if not entirely, on account of its association witli
the important group of phenomena ... to be dealt with in
the next section."
A large proportion of the coincidences which impress us are
rejected by M. Maxwell on the ground that they are concerned
with such common words that their occurrence in the scripts
of several automatists, even at approximately the same time,
signifies nothing. He gives on p. 86 a list of such words,
namely, Steeple, Hope, Star, Arrow, Giant and Dwarf, Laurel
wreath, Violets, Cup, Spirit and Angel, Mountains Seas Lakes
and Pavers, Music, Azure, Horizon. Another list of very
common words (mots tres communs), given on p. 101, is
Spirit, Shadow, Umbrae, East, West, Daffodils. To these he
adds a list of commonplace ones (banals,—the word banal
occurs very frequently in his paper as a criticism) ; these
are : Euripides, Orion, Hercules, Cytherea, Aphrodite, etc. The
cprestion of commonness, from the point of view that now
concerns us, is, of course, relative to the scripts. A rare word
384 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
in ordinary letter writing might be common in the scripts,
and vice versa. Some of the above words occur relatively often
and some rarely in the scripts. To aid the readers judgment
as to their commonness, Mr. Piddington generally indicates the
occasions on which they have appeared in the scripts written
during the period covered by the experiments. But unless
a word is very rare indeed in ordinary usage, and the time
coincidence is very exact, we want more than the mere
occurrence of the word in two scripts. We want it to be
ear-marked in one or both scripts as intended for a cross-
correspondence, or in some way strongly emphasized.
1
Or we
want it combined in both scripts with some other word or
words. M. Maxwell seems to ignore this ear-marking of words
altogether. Does he, I wonder, object to experiments in
thought-transference with cards or numbers, because of the
undeniable bancdiU of the ideas transferred ?
One is sometimes almost tempted to think that M. Maxwell
describes a case as banal when he does not want to take
further trouble in examining it. For instance, he disposes of
the Sesame and Lilies case in the single sentence :
" La
correspondance sur Sesame and Lilies est d'une grande banalite
"
(p. 122). I suppose he means that Sesame and Lilies is the
title of a well-known book of Euskin's. But if that is all
he has observed in the cross-correspondence in question, he
has indeed read it hastily. It is in fact, whatever interpre-
tation we put on it, a most curious case, which no student of
automatic writing can afford to neglect. The reader will
remember that in broad outline the facts we have to deal
witli (see Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., pp. 264-318) are that
automatists, quite unknown to and unconnected with Mrs.
Verrall or any of us, called by us Mr. and Miss Mac, produce
script at the end of July, 1908, containing the words "Sesame
and Lilies," and other seeming references to the topic. In
August, 1908, Mrs. and Miss Verrall's scripts produce what,
on comparing them, they take to be an attempt at a cross-
correspondence on "Sesame and Lilies." In September, 1908,
in consequence of repeated urging through the writing itself
to send to Mrs. Verrall certain of their scripts—the particular
1 See the list of cross-correspondences during the experiments of 1906-1907
hus "ear-marked" in the Journal for Jan., 1909 (Vol. XIV.) pp. 24-25.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 385
scripts meant being defined—the Macs write to her, then a
total stranger, about their experiments, and so the coinci-
dence of topic is discovered. Eeaders of the Proceedings
will remember that there are further curious details about
this cross-correspondence, and that there are other cross-
correspondences involved ; but the points I have mentioned
are enough to raise interesting questions, and to relieve the
case—as I should have thought every one must agree—from
the charge of banalite. Indeed, it seems to me that banal
is the last epithet that should be applied to it.
But I must go on to other matters. When we conclude
that the correspondence with the script or with external facts
appears to be beyond what mere chance will account for, we
have next to examine whether it can be accounted for by
knowledge unconsciously acquired from normal sources or
unconsciously remembered. Both these possibilities may for
evidential purposes be described as cryptomnesia—hidden memory
—memory available to the subliminal self, but not to the
supraliminal. It is an advantage possessed by good cross-
correspondences, whether of the simple or complex kind, that
they are, from the nature of the case, free from this particular
danger. An automatist cannot have learnt normally and
forgotten what exists only in another automatist's mind, or in
her locked-up script ; the two automatists having neither
conversed nor corresponded in the interval, if any, between
the production of the two scripts. I do not know, by the
way, what M. Maxwell means (p. 139) by saying that cross-
correspondences depend on negative facts, such as, that the
mediums have no knowledge of antecedent publications. What
antecedent publications can there be ? Nor can cryptomnesia
account for such curious coincidences as either that between
Mrs.Verrall's script and the reading of Marmontel under special
circumstances by a man who knew nothing of the script ; or
that about the bird and the chalk; because in both these
cases the events apparently described took place subsequently
to the scripts.
The possibility of cryptomnesia must, however, be allowed for
in cases like that of Abraham Florentine, to which M.
Maxwell refers with approval (p. 139). Mr. Stainton Moses
by table- tilting described with some correct details the recent
386 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick [part
death of an American named Abraham Florentine, who had
fought in the war of 1812, of whom he believed he had
never heard. It is, however, impossible to feel sure that no
obituary notice had fallen under his eye—perhaps unnoticed
even at the time by his normal consciousness; especially as in
certain other cases it seems almost certain that such obituary
notices were the source of the information given in Mr. Moses'
script.
1
Cryptomnesia is a possibility with which long experience
in Psychical Kesearch has made us familiar. We have given
crucial instances of its occurrence from the scripts under
discussion themselves (see, e.g., Proceedings, Vol. XXL, pp.
287-9). We have stated more than once in general terms
that its possibility must be allowed for even when all we
know goes against the supposition that some normal source
of information has been open to the automatists. Thus Miss
Johnson even goes so far as to say (Vol. XXL, p. 368) that
"no statement in automatic script that has ever been in
print, or is of such a nature as to be known to a good
many people, can be regarded as really good evidence of
supernormal knowledge." Mrs. Verrall says, speaking of a
particular case (Vol. XXIV, p. 267), "It may therefore be
taken as certain that no knowledge of Proceedings, Vol. XX.,
was consciously possessed by the Mac family. At the same
time it cannot be proved that at some time the Keport, or
a notice of it, may not have been within reach of one or
other of the automatists. The point is of importance in
connexion with some allusions in the Mac script, but does
not affect the value of the greater part of its contents."
Mr. Piddington takes great pains to examine and to lay
before the reader all the information he can collect as to
Mrs. Piper's possible sources of information about Lethe (Proc.,
Vol. XXIV, pp. 102-104, etc.) and so forth. We have,
moreover, to the best of my belief, never attributed evidential
importance to cases where cryptomnesia is a possible explana-
tion, without giving the reader all the information available
to enable him to judge how much it should be allowed for.
Why, then, does M. Maxwell constantly attribute to us
1
Proceedings, Vol. XL, pp. 82-85. Cf. Mrs. Thompson's "Susanna Parkes
case, Proceedings, Vol. XVIII., pp. 267-271.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 387
ignorance and neglect of cryptomnesia ? To say the truth, I
think it is extremely difficult to explain how a careful reader
comes to do so. But one thing is plain: the mistake is
connected with a fundamental misunderstanding which pervades
his paper. He apparently supposes that we regard the frequent
quotations or reminiscences of passages in the poets which
occur in the script as of supernormal origin. Now in certain
cases, as in the answers to the " Lethe " question, the literary
sources drawn on seem so surprisingly out of the automatist's
range, that it is worth while putting before the reader all
the material we can collect bearing on the question of what
literary sources of information she may have had access to.
These' cases remain remarkable, in my opinion, even if we
decide on the whole that cryptomnesia played a part in the
phenomenon. That is to say, the form of, e.g., the answer
given by Mrs. Piper to the Lethe question is very curious,
is probably instructive, and is certainly suggestive of a super-
normal element, even if we conclude, as M. Maxwell does, that
she had at some time read a translation of Ovid's Metamorphoses.
But for the most part there is no reason whatever
for attributing anything supernormal to the literary refer-
ences in the scripts, and it never occurred to us that
any one could suppose there was, till M. Maxwell sent us
his paper. The automatic scripts—especially those produced
without trance and therefore in the presence, as it were, of
the waking intelligence—are often obscure, allusive, symbolic,
and expressed by means of literary quotations. (I will deal
presently with M. Maxwell's objections to symbolism.) Unless
we can find the source of these literary quotations, and thus
their context, we may often lose a valuable aid to interpreting
the scripts—and to interpret them is important, if only with
a view to "the study of the psychological processes of auto-
matic messages," which M. Maxwell, as well as ourselves, has
so much at heart (p. 141). We have a good instance in the
interpretation of the phrase, "a knot of blue ribbon," which
seems to M. Maxwell so preposterous (p. 137). The phrase
occurs at the beginning of a script of Mrs. Verrall's. Has it
a meaning or is it pure irrelevant nonsense? From the
evidential point of view this question is entirely unimportant;
its only interest so far as we can see is from the point
388 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of view of the psychological processes of automatic writing.
The name "John" occurs very shortly afterwards in the script,
and this suggests to Mr. Piddington a probable explanation for
the knot of blue ribbon, namely, that it emerged on account
of its association with the name John in a verse with part
at least of which M. Maxwell might have been familiar had
he been brought up in an English nursery—the verse
" Oh dear, what can the matter be ?
Johnny's so long at the fair
He promised to buy me a bunch of blue ribbon
To tie up my bonny brown hair."
Notwithstanding M. Maxwell's scorn, Mr. Piddington's suggestion
will, I think, seem to most English people plausible, if not
convincing. Comparing this case with others we may suppose
the phrase, " a knot of blue ribbon," to be symbolic of the
name John, though in this particular case the symbol is
superseded by the plain writing of the name immediately
afterwards.
Some quotations of course every one recognises at once.
For instance, Crossing the Bar, of which M. Maxwell thinks
the newspaper Light may be the source in the scripts, is,
at least so far as the title of the poem is concerned, almost
as familiar to Englishmen as God save the King. But there
are other quotations less easy to recognise, for Mrs. and
Miss Verrall and Mrs. Holland are widely read in literature,
and their minds appear to be veritable storehouses of literary
phrases remembered or half remembered. If therefore the
source of a phrase is not at once obvious, what seems to
us the first course to adopt is to ask the automatist, or for
the automatist to ask herself, whether she knows where it
comes from. If she remembers it supraliminally, then the
question is settled, for there can be no reasonable doubt that
the subliminal self must be assumed to have access to supra-
liminal information.1
This plan of asking the automatist
1
Whether this is always completely true as regards all supraliminal knowledge
it is difficult to say. Our dream selves do not seem to be always fully aware of
our actual surroundings, but in this case it may be argued that the supraliminal
consciousness is in abeyance and itself also unaware of impressions it might receive
through the senses. Dr. Hodgson thought there was some evidence that Mrs.
Piper's trance personality was not always aware of recent experiences of her normal
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 389
seems simple, and why M. Maxwell should object to it I
cannot imagine. Why should we try to find out by laborious
and devious methods what we can so easily learn from the
automatist ?
But the automatist cannot by any means always tell us
where a quotation comes from. She often does not supra-
liminally know. When this is the case it has to be searched
for, and if found the next point is to ascertain whether at
some time it has or may have been in the mind or under
the eye of the automatist. So far, hardly any approximately
exact quotation has been discovered in the scripts which
there is any serious difficulty in supposing to have been at
one time or other seen by the automatist. A very curious
exception is the Latin quotation from Ovid's Fasti given by
Mrs. Holland on March 2, 1910 (see Proceedings, Vol. XXV.,
p. 246), and a few more cases of the kind would give cause
for reflection : but one swallow does not make a summer.1
It
is not, then, in the mere use of quotations that we have
hitherto found evidence of supernormal knowledge. Quotations
seem as a rule to be merely furniture of the mind which the
intelligence responsible for the script finds ready to hand.
Of course, when a phrase in the script resembles one occur-
ring in more than one author, especially if the author actually
quoted is comparatively obscure, we may sometimes ascribe an
allusion to the wrong source. One or two instances of this
have been discovered or suggested, and lead M. Maxwell to
accuse us of superficiality in our investigations. In some
cases such a mistake may lead to misinterpretation of the
script. It possibly does so as regards a subordinate point
the association with Persephone of Nightingale —in the case
referred to by M. Maxwell (on p. 136), when what is sub-
sequently found to be a quotation from Oscar Wilde had
been taken as an allusion to a verse of Tennyson's. In
consciousness. But certainly for evidential purposes it would be very unsafe
to suppose that the subliminal self had not access to all supraliminal knowledge.
1
There are of course other cases where literary sources apparently unknown
to the automatist seem to have been drawn upon. For these see Mr.
Piddington's paper in Proceedings, Part LXV. (p. 245) on "Two Tenny-
sonian Quotations " and the passages he refers to at the end of that paper.
But, except in Mrs. Holland's epiotation from Ovid, these cases relate to remini-
scences of literary passages rather than to quotations.
390 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
other cases it may be of no importance at all. For instance,
when Mrs. Piper said "Clock! Tick, Tick, Tick, Stairs"
(which is not a quotation, by the way), she may have had in
mind Longfellow's poem, The Old Clock on the Stairs; or
she may, as M. Maxwell thinks, following Professor Hyslop's
suggestion, have been alluding to the clock on the stairs at
the Tavern Club. It really does not matter which, as the
whole point is in the words she actually uses. As the
simplest theory of their source I myself prefer Longfellow's
poem ; for I think it practically certain that at school or
since Mrs. Piper has met with so well known a poem of
the famous American poet ; and it is not equally probable
that she ever saw the clock in Mr. Hodgson's club or
heard of the ceremonies connected with it. Indeed, Prof.
Hyslop regards the phrase, if it refers to the club, of which
he does not feel sure, as an indication that we have to do
with a persistent memory of Hodgson's rather than with Mrs.
Piper's mind.1
M. Maxwell, I note, prefers spiritualistic literature, especially
the newspaper Light, as a source of phrases used, to the sources
suggested by us, and refers to Light phrases which hardly seem
to require a literary source at all. For example, " seven times
seven," uttered by Mrs. Home, is a phrase too undistinctive
to be regarded as a quotation (unless it be from the multi-
plication table) ; and I do not know that her actual words,
"seven times seven and seventy- seven " occur in that com-
bination anywhere else. But if Mrs. Home was led to the
phrase by any literary reminiscence, it was probably the well-
known text in the New Testament (Matt, xviii. 22), "I say
not unto thee, until seven times : but, until seventy times seven,"
that she had in mind rather than references in Light to Mr.
Stainton Moses' seven circles of seven spirits, though she has
very likely seen these references. This is again a case where
the source is unimportant, because all that is of interest is
the emphasis on the idea seven. M. Maxwell, I may
remark, is a little rash in his assumption that all auto-
matists read Light, as indeed he is in some other assump-
1
This is perhaps more clearly seen in Prof. Hyslop's article in the Journal of
the American Society of Psychical Research (March, 1911) than in the paragraph
based on it in our Proceedings, Vol. XXV., p. 298.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Payer. 391
tions about their habits and opportunities. Probably Mrs.
Holland and Mrs. Willett never see Light, and Mrs. Piper
very rarely, if at all. Mrs. and Miss Verrall no doubt
look into it occasionally, and Mrs. Home, I should imagine,
reads it regularly. These estimates, I ought to say, are
based on my knowledge of the ladies, not on special
inquiries. If, therefore, e.g. Mrs. Holland quotes from an
English poet a passage also at some time or other quoted
in Light, it is much more likely that the source in her case
is the poet's works than that it is Light. If, again, Mrs. Piper
talks about " Pharaoh's daughter," it is much more likely that it
is because she has in her mind the Bible story of Moses saved
by Pharaoh's daughter than that she has a reminiscence of the
words as used in Light some years before (p. 120).
But I have said enough about quotations. They lead on
naturally to another characteristic of the scripts, with which
indeed they are closely connected—I mean the symbolic char-
acter of the language used, much of which depends on mean-
ings being expressed by means of quotations and allusions.
M. Maxwell objects strongly to this, but whether he thinks
the symbolism exists only in our imagination, or whether he
thinks that automatic script in which symbolic language is
used is too obscure to be worth studying, I am not quite
sure. I think, however, that a little further examination
would convince him that the symbolism is really there if he
has any doubt about it. For instance, is there any possible
doubt that Mrs. Holland's script of March 14, 1906 (Vol. XXL,
p. 320) is symbolic? That is the script where she gives a
string of numbers which, when interpreted as letters of the
alphabet expressed in their numerical order, gives the name,
Boden Noel. These numbers are followed by the words, " Not
to be taken as they stand," and by a reference to a portion
of a verse in Revelation, which when looked up is found to
be " for it is the number of a man." In this case the sym-
bolic script itself gives the clue to the symbolism, besides
telling us in the phrase, " not to be taken as they stand,"
that it is symbolic. Similarly in Mrs. Verrall's script of
February 18, 1907 (Vol. XXII. p. 82) occur the words,
" The white hill and les neiges d'antan Blanche de Lys or
some such name—but it is all only symlobic [sic]."
392 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich [part
Instances where the symbolism is unmistakable and where
the script itself says it is symbolic, or uses such expressions
as " so and so is a clue," implying that a clue is wanted to
find the meaning, might be multiplied indefinitely. There is
no doubt that the symbolism is there and that the meaning
of the scripts is constantly wrapped up in a way that prevents
its being at once obvious, and though it would often be more
convenient to have the meaning stated more plainly and would
prevent some ambiguities—and ambiguities in the case of
cross-correspondences may sometimes give a double chance
we must, if we wish to study the scripts at all, accept
them as they are. Of course, however, we must all admit
that great care should be exercised not to let our imagina-
tions run away with us, and not to assume doubtful interpre-
tations to be certain.
The question naturally arises—why this symbolism and
obscurity ? I think we shall have to wait till we know
more to answer fully, but some reasons may be suggested.
Part of the obscurity may be due to dream-like sequences
of associated ideas unregulated by a controlling intelligence
like the conversation of some chattering people who flow on
from one thing to another till you do not know what they
are talking about. This would account for the introduction of
irrelevant ideas, and it is a possibility which the script itself
takes note of. For instance, a script of Mrs. Verrall's, on
Feb. 15, 1910 (Proceedings, Vol. XXV., p. 214), cuts short
some rhyming verses with the words :
no don't say obvious nonsense—the rhyme hinders—but you now
have the general sense. I can't think why you will not just put
down the words without making up bad verses to disguise from
yourself what you are doing. Now write FOUNT no more than
that—and off you go to Fountains Abbey.1
But we cannot thus explain conundrums which are evidently
deliberate, like the one about the name Roden Noel, referred
to above. Here another explanation suggests itself, namely,
that obscurity may sometimes be necessary to prevent inhibition
by the supraliminal self. The writing intelligence is writing,
on sufferance, as it were, the normal intelligence agreeing to
!Cf. also Proe., Vol. XXII., pp. 191 and 228.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 393
stand aside for the moment. But—at any rate where there
is no trance, and to some extent, probably, where there is
the normal intelligence is there in the background all the
time. Its attention may be arrested at any moment by what
is being written, and if its interest is aroused it may interfere
either by inhibiting or by directing the script. The intelligence
directing the automatic writing may therefore find itself less
obstructed if it expresses itself so that its meaning is not
immediately obvious. It says so itself e.g., Mrs. Holland,
Feb. 23, 1905 (Vol. XXL, p. 247):
Names. Names and proofs are the very things we must withold
[sic] from you because your brain which you cannot or will not
will to a proper state of passivity—will spin its own web round
whatever is presented to you—For truth's sake we must be veiled
and ambiguous. [Then comes what is evidently a punning allusion
to the names of Gurney, Sidgwick, and Myers :] A gurnet among
the sedge which grew in the mires. [And the script goes on] We
want to withold [sic] riddles from you—your usefulness would depart.
Neither of the explanations suggested so far involves anything
supernormal. They would be equally applicable and equally
needed if the writing contained no supernormal element at all.
For though in the quotations I have given there is an
assumption that a personality outside the automatist is
concerned, we cannot of course take it at its own valuation
especially as we have evidence in automatic states of what
Prof. William James calls a " will to personate."
But now we come back to the evidence for knowledge super-
normally acquired—ideas entering from outside the automatist,
and not by the ordinary channels of sense. Here we have
a new source of obscurity and complexity, because, as we have
every reason to think, ideas conveyed telepathically are apt
to come in a fragmentary and imperfect way, and both to be
imperfectly apprehended, and to be dressed up by the percipient.
Experiments in thought-transference help us here. For instance,
when Mr. G. A. Smith tried telepathically to make the
hypnotised P. see a picture on a blank card of a choir boy
dressed in a surplice, P. said :
Edge of card's going a dark colour. Somebody dressed up in
white, eh
1
? Can see something all white; edge all black and like
394 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
a figure in the middle. There's his hands up (making a gesture
to show the attitude) like a ghost or something—you couldn't
mistake it for anything but a ghost. ... It might frighten any one.
(Proc, Vol. VIII., p. 565. Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 552.)
The same thing may happen in the case of a split personality
with ideas from outside brought in normally through the senses.
For instance, Mr. Myers on another occasion told the same
subject P. while in hypnotic trance, the story of Robinson
Crusoe finding the footprint and fearing savages
Awakened and set before the glass of water [which was being
used as a crystal], P. at once exclaimed, " Why, there's Buffalo
Bill ! he's dressed in feathers, and skins round him, almost like a
savage. He's walking about in a waste place. ... I can see some-
thing else coming from another part—it's a blackie . . . look at them
now, how they're arguing, Buffalo Bill and his black man." 1
{Proc, Vol. VIII., p. 461. Human Personality, Vol. I., p. 580.)
In this case it was not in the communication from Mr. Myers
to P.'s hypnotic consciousness that the failure took place—it
was rather between two phases of the subliminal consciousness,
or else in the transmission of the picture to the supraliminal
consciousness. We can imagine how meaningless the occurrence
of these visions would have seemed without the clue, though
with it—with the knowledge of what it was intended the
percipient should perceive—the connexion with this of what
he did perceive is perfectly obvious.
And this brings us to what may, I think, be an even more
important cause of the complexity of the scripts if we suppose
that an outside intelligence is influencing them. That outside
intelligence—let us call it the communicator—if it is actively
trying to convey a definite idea, may well have difficulty, if
it works telepathically, in getting the intelligence directing the
script either to grasp the idea or to write down the words
in which the communicator would naturally express it. The
communicator may therefore be reduced to selecting such phrases
and ideas already in the automatist's mind as will come nearest
to what it wishes to say, with the further hampering condition
that they must be phrases and ideas which the intelligence
1
Buffalo Bill was the name of the hero in a show going on in England at that
time and representing life in the Wild West.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 395
directing the writing can be induced to write down. Under
conditions such as these we must suppose that the communi-
cator will have constant difficulty in getting its message through
at all, that when it succeeds, the success will often be very partial,
and that an occasion on which it is at all adequately suc-
cessful in getting the message expressed will be something of
a red-letter day with it.
But the reader will say I am going too fast and assuming
all sorts of things about the intelligences concerned without
discussing them. Let us go back then to the questions I
raised earlier in this paper : (a) What light, if any, is thrown
by the script on the nature of the intelligence directing the
writing ; (5) what is the mode in which supernormally acquired
information reaches this intelligence ; and (c) what is the source
of this information ? These are difficult questions, and can at
present only be answered incompletely. Nor, though I believe
the writers of the papers criticised by M. Maxwell to be in
substantial agreement with me, do I wish in what I am about
to say to be held to express the opinions of any one but
myself, nor even any final opinion of my own. The whole
subject is very -
difficult, evidence is accumulating, and further
light may be thrown on our problems at any moment. And,
in fact, what we have all been trying to do in the papers
concerning automatic scripts, is to set before readers of the
Proceedings what material is available for answering these
questions without attempting to force any particular answer
upon them.
Let us begin with the question—What light is thrown by
the scripts, and especially by the supernormal elements in
them, on the nature of the intelligence directing the script ?
The reader will be prepared from what I have already said
to hear that in my view this intelligence, whether prompted
or inspired from outside or not, is a phase—a subliminal
self—of the automatist. Several reasons may be urged for
this view. One is that some scripts are almost provablv
purely subliminal. I will give a hitherto unpublished instance
—a script of Mrs. Verrall's, written on Nov. 19, 1906. She
was trying an experiment with Mr. J. A. Hill (a member of
the Society known to her by correspondence only), he being
in another place and she writing with attention directed to
396 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
him to see if anything connected with him would come. This
is the script
Wiiberforce. The lamplight shines on the wet streets, and the
turning is to the left—the house is on the right hand side —two
windows on the street.
But it seems a long time back, not the dress of to-day.
And then Jamaica seems written—and I think of a place with
black people. Apocryphal.
This had no significance for Mr. Hill, and remained
unexplained for more than five years. A few months ago
Mrs. Verrall discovered its meaning. She had occasion to
read a paper of mine on " Phantasms of the Dead," including
haunted houses, published in Vol. III. of the Proceedings.
On pp. 137-141 of this paper is a story of a haunted house
in Spanishtown, Jamaica, occupied by a Mr. Hill, who himself,
among others, saw the ghost. When she came to this story
she had no recollection of having read it before, but was at
once reminded of the above script, and I think the corre-
spondences are too close for any one to doubt the connexion.
" Wiiberforce " is an approach to Emancipation of Slaves,
"half-emancipated negroes" (p. 139) being referred to in
the story. " House " and " street " come in naturally, for the
haunting of the house is the point of the story, and the ghost
"sometimes appeared to come from the street" (pp. 140-141).
" It seems a long time back, not the dress of to-day," corre-
sponds with the statement that the haunting was traced back
from 1848 to 180 6, and believed to have existed before, and
that Mr. Hill " came to the conclusion that the ghost wore
the garb which was in use in the colony in the reign of
George the First." " Jamaica " is where the house was, and
" black people " figure largely in the story as percipients.
The only inappropriate remark is that about lamplight shining
on the wet streets. The word " apocryphal," Mrs. Verrall
suggests, may represent the opinion of the ghost story held
by her subliminal self. Though Mrs. Verrall had no conscious
recollection of the story, she is certain that she read the
article containing it a long time ago—probably in 1887, soon
after she became a member of the Society. She remembered
supraliminally the general conclusions arrived at in it, but
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 397
hardly any of the particular stories. No doubt, however, some
recollection of the story in question was retained by her sub-
liminal self and was brought out by association of ideas—the
name of Mr. Hill with whom Mrs. Verrall was experimenting,
recalling another Mr. Hill connected with Psychical Research.
The case seems to me a clear instance of purely subliminal
origin, altogether uninfluenced from outside. But if some auto-
matic scripts are purely subliminal with no external agency at
all, is it not gratuitous to suppose that in other cases which
seem to have nothing to distinguish them from the first,
except that part of the contents of the script appears to come
from some other mind, the scribe is different ? Is it not
like supposing that it is a different "I" who writes when I
write a letter out of my own head, and when some one
else suggests to me what to say ?
Another reason for believing the intelligence directing the
writing to be a subliminal self of the automatist is that there
is in my view hardly any evidence for what I may call the
general construction or machinery of the scripts, e.g., the
language in which they are written, being beyond the possible
range of the automatist's own power. Mrs. Holland does not,
for instance, write Greek, nor Mrs. Piper Latin, and so forth.
A third reason is that the style of the scripts of each auto-
matist is individual and differs from that of others. With a
little practice one can generally tell from the script itself
or at any rate form a very good guess—which automatist is
responsible for it. This would not happen, I think, if it were
not the work of some phase of the automatist's subliminal self.
If it be granted that the intelligence directing the writing
is a subliminal self of the automatist, it almost follows that
the answer to our second question is that the mode in which
supernormally acquired knowledge reaches that intelligence is
telepathic—telepathy either from other embodied human minds or
from minds not in the body. Unless indeed it be clairvoyant
but evidence for clairvoyance in the sense of the perception
otherwise than through the senses of things not in other
minds, is at present almost non-existent. Telepathy merely
means communication between mind and mind otherwise than
through the senses, and we know of course very little about
it. We do not, for instance, know whether when an idea
398 Mrs. Henry SidgvAck. [part
reaches B telepathically from A it is because A has actively
tried to impress it on B, who receives it passively ; or
whether, on the other hand, it is B who actively fetches
it out of the mind of the passive A ; or whether active
co-operation is wanted on both sides ; or even whether tele-
pathy may come about without the active co-operation of
either mind. Thought-transference experiments do not help
us much in deciding any such question, because we do not
know whether the supraliminal efforts of which we are
cognisant have or have not any effect on the phenomenon. It
may be a purely subliminal affair. This is one of the things
we must look for light on from the evidence which is accumu-
lating, noting that if we find purposive intention in the idea
telepathically conveyed we have to assume an intelligent agent.
Well then we come to the third question, and it is of
course by far the most crucial and important of all—What is
the source from which this information comes telepathically ?
In simple cross -correspondences like the "sphere-spear" case
we may suppose Mrs. Piper's and Mrs. Verrall's minds alone
to be concerned. Telepathy between them would, so far as we
know, sufficiently account for what occurred, though it may not
be the true explanation. But when we come to complex cross-
correspondences, simple telepathy will not serve — at least /
think not. M. Maxwell thinks it will ; he thinks Mr. Pigou
has clearly shown that even cross-correspondences of the " mosaic
type "
—the complex kind, that is—may be due to fragmentary
telepathic thought-transference (p. 139). He does not tell us
whether he has read Mr. Balfour's reply to Mr. Pigou (Proc.
Vol. XXV., pp. 38-56), and, if so, how he would meet it. To
me the reply seems conclusive, and until it is met we must,
in my opinion, assume that a purposive element in the dis-
tribution among different automatists of the fragments of a
complex cross-correspondence does show the operation of intelli-
gence, and cannot be due to the mere accidental fragmentari-
ness of telepathically conveyed ideas. A purposive element
may be shown either by the selection and distribution of the
fragments, or by statements in the script showing that there
is intention, or by both. I do not propose to go over all
this much discussed ground aoain. What we have each to
decide for ourselves is whether in the cross-correspondences of
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 399
which we know, there is evidence of purposive design in the
distribution of the parts. If we think there is, the next point
is to discover whose design it is. Is it that of the subliminal
self of one or more of the automatists ? This hypothesis
should be strained to the utmost, but if any one will honestly
try to apply it in all cases, he will, I think, find it very
difficult.
But if it is not the subliminal selves of the automatists that
work the cross-correspondences, what hypothesis remains except
that they are the work of external intelligences ? This is a
very far-reaching hypothesis, and one which requires much
evidence very carefully scrutinised to establish it.
1
Further,
if we have to do with external intelligences, we must ask
what external intelligences they are. Are they, what they
claim to be, our former fellow-workers in psychical research,
Gurney, Sidgwick, and Myers ? It must be admitted in favour
of this that the idea of proving external agency by giving
evidence of purposive design is an ingenious one, and one
which it is natural to suppose might occur to these former
investigators, anxious to prove survival, and well aware of
the difficulties of doing so, and of the need of new methods.
Moreover, the claim of identity is to some considerable extent
supported—even after full allowance for the share in the
script of the automatist's own mind—by the characteristic
nature of some communications, and by the greater apparent
appropriateness to the supposed communicators than to the
automatists of certain ideas and arrangements of ideas e.g. in
the answers to the Lethe question. But more evidence is
wanted before we form a definite conclusion.
I hope, therefore, that readers of the Proceedings are not
getting tired of cross-correspondences. Regarded merely as
proof of telepathy, their importance can hardly be overrated,
and much more may ultimately be proved by them. As, by
degrees, more publishable evidence comes in, or fresh light
is thrown on what we have already, we shall have to trouble
1 1 should like here to refer the reader who is not already familiar with it
to the very interesting final section of Miss Johnson's "Third Report on Mrs.
Holland's Script" (Proceedings, Vol. XXV., pp. 282-293). It covers more
fully some of the ground gone over in the later paragraphs of the present
paper.
400 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [paet
members of the Society with it, hoping that as members of
a scientific society they will give it dispassionate consideration
in the light of experience already accumnlated. The investiga-
tion is difficult ; it is comparatively new ; it is not likely
that those engaged in it, however careful, will avoid all errors
of method or interpretation. We therefore greatly desire from
readers of the Proceedings co-operation and criticism, in con-
sidering both evidence already published and any new
evidence that may be brought forward.
In the meanwhile I should like to conclude by saying that
though we are not yet justified in feeling any certainty, I
myself think the evidence is pointing towards the conclusion
that our former fellow-workers are still working with us.
lxvk.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 401
APPENDIX L
By Mrs. A. W. VERRALL.
I do not propose to reply seriatim or in detail to the criticism
in Proceedings, Part LXV., by M. Joseph Maxwell on my
report upon my own automatic writing (Vol. XX.). To
do so could serve no useful purpose. It would weary the
reader to be taken again over twice-trod ground, and since
in M. Maxwell's opinion no medium should estimate the value
of her own phenomena, he can take no interest in any con-
clusions of mine. But some points in his article call for more
detailed treatment than they could receive in Mrs. Sidgwick's
foregoing paper. Where M. Maxwell's inferences from the
recorded facts differ from mine, readers must judge for
themselves whether either of us, and if so which, is right.
M. Maxwell has reminded them that I am not an impartial
judge, and for my part I would refer them for the facts to my
first-hand and full report, and not to his abbreviated summary.
I confine my observations to the two first and the two last
of the incidents commented on by M. Maxwell. There is no
special reason for this selection ; in every case M. Maxwell's
methods will be found to be the same.
I.
The first case with which he deals (p. 59) is the supposed
correspondence between Mrs. Piper's script and mine in
January, 1902, the "sphere-spear" incident. To what Mrs.
Sidgwick has said above (p. 382) I add the following observa-
tions :
(1) I myself pointed out (Vol. XX., p. 215) that the
«
402 Mrs. A. W. Verratt. [part
commentators were not agreed as to what precise implement
is described as a " flying weapon " or " flying iron "
(2) My contemporary interpretation—or misinterpretation, if
M. Maxwell prefers—was based upon the view that (a) the
words of the script indicated that in the phrase volatile ferrum
—a Virgilian phrase ferrum had been substituted for tclum ;
that (b) volatile telum, in a familiar passage of Lucretius (I.
970), is translated by Munro, "winged javelin";
1
(c) that
in Virgil, JEn., VIII., 694 (a passage referred to but not
cpioted by M. Maxwell), the volatile ferrum, the " flying iron,"
whatever it may be—and of the commentators one may say
quot homines tot sententiae—is not a sagitta ;
(3) I did not claim that "Panopticon" meant "to, vue" or
that aui'Seyiuu was an extant Greek word ;
(4) It is true, and I drew attention to the fact, that there
was for me an anterior subliminal association between the
words " Panopticon " and " sphere," but it is not true that
the script in which these words first occurred (March 14,
1901, quoted in Vol. XX., p. 342) also contained three crosses;
the first piece of script written on that day terminated with
the letter x repeated three times. This letter has doubtless
been mistaken by M. Maxwell for a cross, but there is no
confusion possible between the small x in the original script
and the transverse or St. Andrew's Cross. As to the words
" Panopticon sphaerae," to my earlier statements I add the
following
(a) The word " Panopticon " was used by Bentham to
describe the circular Penitentiary which he was anxious
to induce the Government of his day to adopt.'2
This
use had probably been known to me, but, if so, I had
forgotten it till, after the issue of my report, I was
reminded of it by a correspondent. The shape of
Eentham's Panopticon may account for the original con-
junction in the script of Panopticon and sphere, and
subliminal memory may have conduced to its recurrence
1
My note of Feb. 7, 1902, refers to the two passages, Virg., JSn., VIII.,
694, and Lucretius, I., 970, and Munro's translation of the Lucretian volatile
by the picturesque "winged" is reflected in my use of the phrase "the
winged iron," in the second paragraph on p. 215 of Vol. XX.
2
See Prof. Sidgwick's Miscellaneous Essays, p. 145.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 403
on January 31, 1902, but does not account for its
combination on that occasion with other phrases or
symbols (volatile ferricm and Rector's Greek cross) which
appear to make a cross-correspondence with Mrs. Piper's
trance-writing
(b) I wrote in 1906 (Vol. XX., p. 216) that "it is
perhaps worth noting that the suggestion of a sphere as
the object to be shown came not from Dr. Hodgson, but
from the '
control.' " I now add, what I then intentionally
omitted, that the " control," or rather the " communicator,"
for whom Eector was ostensibly acting as amanuensis,
was MyerSp, and that the letter which I was holding in
my left hand (Vol. XX., p. 342)—one of several
experiments tried in the early days of the script—when,
on March 14, 1901, the script contained the words,
" Panopticon sphaerae," was a letter from Mr. Myers.
The anterior emergence in my script of the phrase thus
seems to me to strengthen rather than to weaken the
evidence for supernormal connexion between the later
script and Mrs. Piper's trance-writing in January, 1902.
(5) I am disposed to assent to M. Maxwell's ingenious
suggestion that phonetic association between eSlSws and Dido
is, at least in part, responsible for the actual phrasing of my
script. The point is one of psychological interest, in so far
as it throws light on the mental process of an automatist,
and may be compared with Mr. Piddington's note on " a knot
of blue ribbon " as likely to be associated in the automatist's
mind with "John" (Vol. XXII., p. 182). But to explain
the mental process of one automatist does not account for
coincidences in the ideas expressed, in their several ways, by
both.
(6) So again M. Maxwell's objection that my script is in
Latin and that RectorP knows no Latin goes to prove, if proof
were wanted, that EectorP is not the writer of my script, but
does not help to decide whether the connexion between the
ideas represented in Mrs. Piper's script and mine, and
expressed in languages familiar respectively to each of us, is
closer than would be produced by accident.
404 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
II.
In the next case discussed, M. Maxwell (p. 60) thinks that
my interpretations are coloured by my conviction of the super-
normal character and value of my script, which leads me into
mistranslations, unconscious emphasis of points of agreement
with Mrs. Forbes, and omission of points of difference. In
particular, he complains that the words, " a statement was
made in my script about fir trees planted in a garden," are
not a fair representation of the actual words of the script,
" conifera arbos in horto iam insita," because conifera arbos
does not mean fir-trees (sapins), but a coniferous or cone-
bearing tree (un arbre conifere). That is so, but neither were
the trees in Mrs. Forbes's garden fir-trees, " des sapins," if that
word is used in a specific sense. I do not know, nor does
Mrs. Forbes, what the exact species is of the trees grown
from seed sent to her by her son. They are, however,
conifers. M. Maxwell writes as though " des sapins " {fir-
trees) were a specific and not a generic botanical term. What
is the case with sapin I cannot say, but in English the
expression " fir-trees " certainly covers several species (Scotch,
Spruce, Silver, etc.). So also does the term " conifer," and
no English reader would, I think, feel M. Maxwell's objection
to the use of the word " fir-tree " to translate conifera arbos.
Nor does the fact that there are four or five of them in
Mrs. Forbes's garden make the use in the script of the
singular conifera arbos an inaccuracy. The English equivalents
for conifera arbos are more than one ; the words may mean
" a fir-tree," " the fir-tree," or " fir-trees " ; what they do not
mean is " one fir-tree," How, for instance, would M. Maxwell
translate the singular nouns in Pliny's list of mountain-loving
trees :
1
monies cmant cedrus, larix, tccla, et caetcrae, et quibus
rcsina gignitur ? In English we should write indifferently :
" cedars, larches, etc., are mountain-lovers," or " the cedar, etc.,
is a mountain-lover."
M. Maxwell may be right in interpreting as a cross what I
1
Pliny, N.H., XVI., 30. Singular and plural are combined in Pliny's lists
with complete indifference :
" Non temere in montibus visae sunt prunus,
Punicae, oleastri, iuglans, morus, sambuei."
lxvii.] A Reply to Br. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 405
took for a sword, and, if he is, the allusion to Talbot Forbes
is less definite than I had supposed. There are, however,
other representations in the script of a similar object, which
on the first occasion of its appearance (Aug. 6, 1901) is
labelled a " sword." The modern sword is no doubt not cross-
hilted, but the script may here as elsewhere prefer symbolism
to realism.1
M. Maxwell points out that the greater part of my script
of August 28, 1901, is inapplicable to Talbot Forbes, and sees
no " continuity de conscience " between my script and that of
Mrs. Forbes. I have never claimed for any individual portion
of my script that it proceeded as a whole from some single
source, and was uninfluenced by my own subliminal or supra-
liminal knowledge or association of ideas. In this case I
called the attention of the reader to a certain reciprocity in
the scripts produced by Mrs. Forbes and myself on August 28,
1901 ; the contents of her script, considered in connexion
with the conifers and the suspended bugle of mine, suggest
that some other than accidental connexion exists between
our automatic phenomena. This question cannot be decided
by the examination of one in the long series of similar
incidents related in my paper. Readers who wish to form a
judgement on the point must, I fear, read the whole sixty-eight
incidents (Vol. XX., Chap. XL).
It is true, as M. Maxwell points out, that my translation
of " omina sibimet ostendit " does not give the reflexive sense
of sibimet ; a closer rendering would be " gives a portent
to itself." In neither case do the words appear applicable
to the facts. I placed no reliance on them, and did not
mention them in my comment on the incident. I draw atten-
tion to this point because from M. Maxwell's correction, followed
as it is by an encomium on my Latin scholarship and a complaint
X
I do not understand what M. Maxwell means by saying that "the word
Jir-tree is unmistakably associated with a cross in the scripts of Aug. 25
and 26, 1902." The actual word fir-tree occurs in neither script. On Aug. 25,
1902 (quoted in Vol. XX., p. 355), occur the words "Forest and firs—and a
moss grown tree trunk" apparently "in a German speaking country," and
this script is signed with an attempt at the word Cross and a drawing of a
Latiu cross. The script of Aug. 26, 1902 (which is briefly referred to, p. 77,
but not quoted) contains the word Cross, but has nothing in it suggesting a
tree of any kind.
406 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
of my errors in translation, the reader would be led to believe
that this mistake of mine was an illustration of his point
and that my loose translation helped to establish my " case."
I pass from the first two cases selected for comment by
M. Maxwell to the last two, the "Daily Mail ghost" and
" Marmontel."
III.
The "Daily Mail Ghost" is treated by M. Maxwell (p. 71)
with more respect than usual, perhaps because he has himself
observed cases of the same type. He does not define the
type otherwise than by comparison with another case in my
report (Vol. XX., p. 324). If, however,—a point on which judge-
ment may be reserved —reliance is to be placed on the state-
ment of the writer in the Daily Mail (Vol. XX., p. 329), the
cases differ in one important respect, namely, that one can
and the other cannot be accounted for by telepathy with the
newspaper writer. The Daily Mail writer and his friend, when
they planned their investigation in the haunted room, did not
anticipate that the marks, which they hoped to obtain upon
their scattered chalk, would represent the footprints of a bird,
and the bird is one of the identifying points in the script.
In the other case, as the journalist's account was apparently
imaginary, there is no external subsequent event corresponding
with anything in the script.
It is true, and was stated by me, that calx is ambiguous,
meaning as it does both " heel " and " chalk." But its meaning-
seems to be defined by the context, for " chalk " is more
suited than is a " heel " to " stick to the feet." M. Maxwell
further objects that the bird of the script is a " caricature."
I fail to see why this is an objection. However ill drawn,
it is a bird.
IV.
The last case considered by M. Maxwell—the Marmontel
incident—specially illustrates in his view the method employed
in my report, and to the question of the method used here
as well as in other recent publications of the Society he attaches,
so he tells us (p. 71), great importance. Of no less import-
ance is the method employed by our critics, and M. Maxwell's
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 407
examination of this incident may serve as an illustration of
the method which he employs. On that method I offer the
following comments
(1) M. Maxwell counts the details in the script and classifies
them as five correct, eight incorrect, and one doubtful. He
makes no distinction among these details, treating them as
though they were all equally important. It is true that he
subsequently applies to two of those classed as correct the
epithet "banal." But if reading in bed ("correct") is banal.
is not the substitution of two chairs for a sofa ("incorrect")
also banal ? Triviality or non-triviality is a matter of opinion,
but in an analysis by enumeration, which suggests that the
items are of equal importance, the question of triviality, if
introduced at all, should be indiscriminately applied through-
out.
(2) A classified list of this sort presented to the reader
should be complete. M. Maxwell omits an item which, had
it not been omitted, must have been classed as " correct,"
namely that the reading was done with " only a candle's light."
This detail, though trivial, appears to me distinctive : it is
not common nowadays—not even, I should think, in La Ville
Lumibre—to read by candle light.
(3) The precision of coincidence between the words of the
script and the passage which Mr. Marsh read on February 21,
is not brought out in M. Maxwell's abbreviated version of
the facts. He says that the volume which Mr. Marsh was
reading contained the story of the discovery of a panel, etc.
1
As a fact, Mr. Marsh read " with only a candle's light " the
very chapter in which Marmontel tells that story among other
recollections of Passy.
The inferences to be drawn from the considerations put for-
ward by me in this case, as in others, are, as I have said,
matters of opinion, and I shall not discuss them here. But I
hope that if the reader has any desire to know what my infer-
ences are, he will take them first-hand from me and not
second-hand from M. Maxwell. In his necessarily condensed
account M. Maxwell has left out most, if not all, of my
frequent remarks directing the reader's attention to the obscu-
rities, the ambiguities, and the errors which are present even
l "Dans le volume il etait question de la decouverte, etc."
2D
408 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
in the best cases. Eeaders of M. Maxwell's description of
my report as " not an analysis but a piece of special pleading
"
(p. 58) will be surprised to find for how large a part of the
script I make no claim to the possession of evidential value.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 409
APPENDIX II.
By ALICE JOHNSON.
Reference has been made above by Mrs. Sidgwick to the con-
fusion inherent in Dr. Maxwell's discussion between matters
which in the nature of the case must depend on the auto-
matist's good faith and those for which objective evidence is
obtainable.
Whether or not the writing is produced without the volun-
tary and conscious participation of the supraliminal self, and
whether or not the facts stated in it are consciously known
to the writer, are matters belonging to the former category.
In regard to them we might conceivably find evidence of
fraud through statements made at different times being incon-
sistent with one another ; but we could never find evidence of
genuineness ; that must always be a matter' of opinion based
on general considerations.
Now, Mrs. Holland—to whom in particular I refer, because
most of my own reports have been on her script—has in a
great many instances told me that facts mentioned or alluded
to in her script were known to her ;
while, during a long
and intimate acquaintance with her and her script, I have
never found any inconsistencies in the information she
has given Tire about it. For these reasons, I personally
accept whatever she tells me as to her conscious knowledge
or recollection, e.g. her statement that she had not inter-
preted the script in which she gave the name " Eoden Noel
by means of numbers and the reference to a text. Of this
statement Dr. Maxwell remarks (p. 75): " Cela est bien in-
vraisemblable." The insinuation seems to me uncalled for.
Mrs. Holland, even before I knew her, had been well aware
410 Alice Johnson. [part
of the large subjective element in her script, and she knew
that the question in this case was of psychological interest
only. She had answered many similar questions, sometimes
in the affirmative and sometimes in the negative.
The incident was given in my first Eeport as an illustra-
tion of her subliminal ingenuity ; for it is very important
that we should know the extent to which subliminal ingenuity
may go and how far it may account for the complexities of
the cross-correspondences and various features in them that
suggest a supernormal origin. Dr. Maxwell thinks that the
publication of such incidents suggests that we are not familiar
with recent researches into the psychology of the subconscious.
Our view is that individual instances may often be more
instructive than general dissertations on this subject—which
dissertations ai-e not infrequently based on the study of
morbid cases only.
It is curious to see how Dr. Maxwell's preconceptions lead
him to distort the simplest incidents ; an instance is to be
found on p. 136 of his paper:
Mrs. Holland's script had given a description of Mr. Eoden
Noel's personal appearance which agreed with a portrait pre-
fixed to his Collected Poems and also with my own recollection
of the one occasion on which I saw him. Miss Noel later
sent me various notes in confirmation of small details in
Mrs. Holland's script, but added that she thought the
description of him not very accurate, for " his hair was very
thin latterly." I printed her notes, partly to confirm and
partly to correct my earlier statements, though, as I implied,
there was nothing incompatible in my recollection of his hair
being decidedly thick when I saw him some years before his
death and Miss Noel's statement that it was very thin latterly.
Dr. Maxwell's " unconscious tendency to adapt the facts to
[his] opinions " (if I may apply to him a phrase which he
uses of us) suggests to him that this only shows that I had
more faith in my recollection than in Miss Noel's
More serious misrepresentations arise from his habit of
generalising from single instances. Thus, on p. 82, he remarks:
" Mines. Verrall et Holland etaient en correspondance." The
reader would infer from this that at least several letters had
passed between them, from which they might have learnt of
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 411
each other's affairs. As a matter of fact, each had written
one letter and one only to the other, and these letters are
given in my first Keport on Mrs. Holland (Vol. XXL, pp.
328-329). There is nothing changed or omitted except that
in Mrs. Holland's letter (which is before me as I write)
some passages are left out which refer merely to the exchange
of rings between the automatists, for the purpose of the
experiments described.
Dr. Maxwell disposes of the "Ave Roma immortalis " cross-
correspondence by asserting (p. 79) that it is a mere coincidence,
since Mr. Myers died at Rome. This is one of several cases
in which—no doubt unintentionally—he writes as if he had
discovered some flaw in the evidence which we had not
noticed. I had, however, pointed out in my Keport that the
mention of Eome in Mrs. Holland's script probably led her
to refer to the (well-known) fact of Mr. Myers's death there.
But this had happened more than five years before, and
therefore seems hardly sufficient to account for allusions to
Rome occurring in both Mrs. Holland's and Mrs. Verrall's
scripts within five days of one another.
Dr. Maxwell adds :
" on trouve de nombreuses references
a Rome dans les textes publies de Mine. Holland." I do not
know what he means by "nombreuses"; but as a fact, the
words " Roma," " Rome," or " Roman " occur in only 6 out of
218 scripts by Mrs. Holland, namely, all those produced by
her from July 1903 to the end of 1908, and only 3 of
these 6 scripts have been published up to the present time.
There are further in the 218 scripts 7 references to places
in Rome, of which only one (relating to the Janiculum) has
been published.
Dr. Maxwell minimises the significance of the cross-corre-
spondence by ignoring the historical circumstances and intention
of the picture to which Mrs. Verrall's scripts were supposed
by us to refer. Since he wrote his criticism, I have discovered
certain clues to a number of hitherto obscure points in the
scripts, which show that almost every phrase has a definite
and coherent meaning, adding to the force of the whole case.
To explain this would take too long here, but I propose to
include an account of it in a paper which I am preparing
for publication.
412 Alice Johnson. [part
Another statement, correct in itself, but misleading in its
context, is the following : In trying to explain away the cross-
correspondence "Not in the Electra," Dr. Maxwell says (p. 85):
" Les textes de Mine. Verrall contiennent souvent des cita-
tions grecques." They do, but this was not known to Mrs.
Holland, as none of them had then been published. Mrs.
Holland had at that time seen copies of only eight of
Mrs. Verrail's scripts ; these were all in English, except one,
which contained two sentences of Latin. The first time that
any Greek had appeared in any of the scripts written by
Mrs. Verrall for purposes of experiment with Mrs. Holland
was on Feb. 28, 1906; and it was on that day that Mrs.
Holland's script contained (among other evidential statements)
the phrase, " No, not in the Electra—M. will know better,"
which was appropriate to the Greek in Mrs. Verrall's script.
Again, Dr. Maxwell says (p. 77): "Pourquoi insister con-
stamment sur l'impossibilite ou est le sensitif d'avoir normale-
ment connaissance des faits indiques par lui . . . comme dans
la correspondance Eoden Noel ?
" My statement on this case
is {Proc. Vol. XXL, p. 820): "It will be seen that in neither
of the scripts does a single statement occur that is lyroixibly
unknown to the writers," and it will be seen that this is just
the opposite of what Dr. Maxwell attributes to me.
The possibility of Mrs. Holland's having seen any published
book is fully admitted in my reports, but it is surprising to see
what evidence Dr. Maxwell thinks conclusive on this question.
Evidence of her having read any given book may be fur-
nished by finding coincidences between her scripts and the
book, in the same way that evidence for telepathy between her
and Mrs. Verrall is furnished by coincidences between their
scripts. But in both cases, of course, the coincidences must be
a good deal beyond what can be attributed to chance before
any deduction can be drawn from them.
The following are two examples of Dr. Maxwell's arguments :
(1) He tries to prove that Mrs. Holland had read an article by
me on "Coincidences" in the Proceedings, Vol. XIV., pp. 158 ct
seq. This article (I regret to say) extends to the length of
173 pp. It contains more than 300 names of persons (not
including persons who are designated by initials only) and a
good many of these names occur more than once. Dr. Maxwell
lxvil] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 413
does not find that a single one of these names appears in Mrs.
Holland's script ; but he finds two on one page, Brett and
Shuttleworth, which, put together, have, I admit, a strong resem-
blance to one name, Brittle-worth, in Mrs. Holland's script. He
also observes that Mrs. Holland particularly noticed the name
Dr. Hermann Lorberg, Professor of Physics, in a newspaper (seen
by her on March 8, 1906), whereas my paper (published in
1899) contains the name G. Lorberg, cutler. On the strength
of these coincidences, Dr. Maxwell remarks (p. 76): "Mme.
Holland, dans la mesure ou les preuves humaines out quelque
valeur, a certainement parcouru [Particle] de Mile. Johnson . . .
ou en a hi des comptes-rendus et l'a oublie." (To the best
of my belief, no comptes-rendus of this article have ever been
published.) He adds later another coincidence. In the same
article, the letter K is used, in a mathematical diagram, to
denote the greatest deviation from the average in a long
series. Mrs. Holland also uses the letter K in her script,
followed by a number and a Christian name
(2) For evidence that Mrs. Holland had read a certain article
in Light: Her script of Feb. 6, 1906, contained these words:
"This scribe . . . this scribe—Medium is not the best word in
this connection." In Light of Oct. 17, 1896, there is an
article on " Automatic Writing," by a writer signing himself
Scriba. This article criticises the S.P.E. use of the word
"automatic," and proposes instead the word " allomatic." The
word " medium " does not occur at all in the article. Mrs.
Holland, on the other hand, uses the words " scribe " and
" medium," and does not use either of the words " automatic
or " allomatic." Now the latter is a very unusual word ; it
is one not likely to be used by persons of education, and in
all probability this is its sole appearance in print. If, there-
fore, it had occurred in Mrs. Holland's script, the fact might
well be held to point to her having read Light. As things
are, the script seems to point rather to her having, in common
with most English people, read the Bible, in which the word
scribe occurs epiite often.
The whole point of the incident, however, which Dr. Maxwell
seems to have overlooked, lies in the fact that Mrs. Holland
used a common word in a very uncommon sense, within less
than a month of Mr. Piddington's having, unknown to her,
414 Alice Johnson. [part
used it in a similar very uncommon sense, and dwelt on the
desirability of our adopting that sense of it in our reports.
Similarly, as mentioned above, in a script referring to Dr.
Hodgson Mrs. Holland used "K 57" followed by the Christian
name of an intimate friend of his, which emphasised the con-
nection with him ; and it was found that he had used K
followed by numerals, apparently as reference marks to his
private papers (see Proc. Vol. XXI., p. 307).
It seems to me that in both these cases Mrs. Holland's scripts
coincide far more closely with the events with which I con-
nected them than with the sources to which Dr. Maxwell
attributes them.
In some other cases, I venture to think that Dr. Maxwell is
not quite familiar enough with English words and traditions to
appreciate the point of the cross-correspondences. Thus in his
analysis (p. 80) of " Eheu fugaces," there are several misappre-
hensions. He demurs to my saying that Mrs. Verrall's script
repeated several times the idea of flight. But the English
word flight includes all the senses in which I used it. It
means running away, or fleeing, and also the Hying of birds,
etc., or any swift motion ; and it is also applied to the flight, or
swift passage, of time. It is in fact equivalent to the Latin
fuga (adj. fugax), which covers the same meanings. In saying
that one passage in the script " seems an imaginary description
of an elopement," I was referring to elopements to Gretna
Green, as they used to occur in the days when marriages could
be more easily effected in Scotland than in England, as described,
e.g., in the entertaining " Adventure of the liunaway Couple " in
E. L. Stevenson's St. Ives :
" I was at the same time approaching
a place of some fame in Britain—Gretna Green. Over those
same leagues of road . . . how many pairs of lovers had gone
bowling northwards to the music of sixteen scampering horse-
shoes ;
and how many irate persons, parents, uncles, guardians,
evicted rivals, had come tearing after."
Whether the episode of the script is an elopement or not,
it is a flight in one sense of the word, i.e. a rapid motion. And
the phrase " Eheu fugaces " (with which, of course, I assumed
Mrs. Holland to be familiar), refers to another kind of flight
the rapid motion of time.
Lxvu.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper. 415
APPENDIX III.
By J. G. PIDDINGTON.
Mrs. Sidgwick's reply in general terms to M. Maxwell is so
conclusive that I feel it would be a work of supererogation
were I to attempt a detailed answer to most or even to
many of the criticisms that he has directed against me. I
shall, therefore, refer to only one case which seems to me a
typical sample of M. Maxwell's method of dealing with our
presentment of the evidence.
In my second and third papers on the Horace Ode Question
(Proc. Vol. XXIV., pp. 150-169, and Vol. XXVI., pp. 174-220)
I took the words " glebis adscripta " and " ascripta glebae " in
Mrs. Verrall's scripts of March 12 and April 27, 1901, to
represent the word eirupovpos, and to involve a reference to a
passage in the Odyssey (XL 489-491) where alone this word
occurs.
M. Maxwell (Vol. XXVI., pp. 114-115) thinks we ought not
to accept adscriptus glebae as what he once calls a " translation
"
and once a " paraphrase " of €7rdpovpo<;. He says :
[Le mot grec eVa'povpos] est place dans la bouche dAchille,
qui aimerait mieux etre paysan travaillant pour un modique
salaire chez un homme pauvre, que de regner sur les ombres. Or
le commentateur applique une phrase latine employee pour definir
un etat social du moyen age, a un etat social anterieur de vingt-
cinq siecles, dans lequel le serf inscrit a la glebe n'existait pas,
au moins a ma connaissance. II n'y avait pas de registres fonciers
et les droits immobiliers s'etablissaient par teruoignage (voy. par
exemple la loi de Gortyne 1, 2, 14, 17, 18). L'idee d' "adscriptus"
n'est pas impliquee dans €irapovpo>; que les dictionnaires traduisent
par rusiicus. L'esclavage d'ailleurs, au temps d'Ulysse, n'etait pas
416 J. G. Piddington. [part
compatible avec le salaire dont parle Achille. Si je ne me trompe,
le commentateur dont Mme Verrall accepte la paraphrase commet
une erreur juridique et etymologique. M. Myers n'aurait pas
com mis cette derniere, car il connaissait bien la langue grecque.
Now that sounds very learned : but as a criticism of our
interpretation of " ascripta glebae " in Mrs. Verrall's scrip't it
is entirely beside the mark. So far as that interpretation is
concerned, it is quite immaterial whether " adscriptus glebae
is or is not a correct rendering or paraphrase of eirapovpos.
From our point of view the only thing to be considered is
this : —Is adscript m glebae a rendering of eirapovpo? so familiar
to English scholars that an autoniatist like Mrs. Verrall (who
is an English classical scholar) might light on it in the process
of groping after the passage in the Eleventh Book of the
Odyssey ?
That this rendering is extremely likely to be so familiar is
hardly open to question. In England 19 Greek scholars out
of 20, perhaps 99 out of 100, use the Greck-Englisli Lexicon
of Liddell and Scott. This Lexicon (which Mrs. Verrall uses)
s.v. e7rdpoupo? has the following :
en-dpovpos, ov, (apovpa) attached to the soil as a serf, ascriptus
glebae
and then quotes Odyssey, XL 489. It does not give the alter-
native meaning " above ground," but " attached to the soil " only.
Next, Dr. Merry, whose annotated edition of the Odyssey is
largely used in England, and has been used by Mrs. Verrall,
says :
" eirdpovpog, lit. '
on the soil,' used of a serf, who is
adscriptus glebae."
Lastly, Butcher and Lang, whose prose-translation of the
Odyssey is the most popular one in England, while themselves
preferring the rendering " on ground," append the following
footnote to their rendering of Od. XL 489-491 :
iirdpovpos seems to mean 'upon the earth,' ' above ground,' as
opposed to the dead who are below, rather than '
bound to the
soil,' in which sense most commentators take it.
1
In view of these facts I maintain that our interpretation
of " ascripta glebae " as a reference to eirapovpos and its context
1
The italics are mine.
lxvii.] A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper.
is both legitimate and probable ; and I cannot help suspecting
that M. Maxwell would never have demurred to it had I
expressed the opinion in my paper that the appearance of
" ascripta glebae " in Mrs. Verrall's script " sexplique par une
association onirique." I suspect, too, that M. Maxwell would
find " great support in that comfortable word Mesopotamia"
But M. Maxwell is not content to expose the " erreur juri-
dique et etymologique " of those who accept adscriptus glebae
as a paraphrase of eirdpovpo?, but goes further still and expresses
the opinion that Frederic Myers was too good a Greek scholar
to have made the same mistake. It is clear that M. Maxwell
in expressing this opinion assumes that I have treated, or at
least that I regard, the occurrence of " ascripta glebae " in Mrs.
Verrall's script as a case of syllabic inspiration on the part of
Frederic Myers. How he acquired this erroneous notion I do
not know, for nothing I have written on the subject affords
any warrant for it. My own conception of the phenomenon
was, and is, that the surviving personality of Myers was think-
ing of the passage in the Odyssey in which the word t-n-upovpos
occurs, and seeking to impress the idea contained in it on
Mrs. Yerrall's mind by hook or by crook. But I did not, and
do not, suggest that Myers was responsible for the actual phrase
" ascripta glebae." He may have been, for all I know, but all
that I have assumed is that behind the script was Myers
thinking of the Odyssey passage and endeavouring to transmit
a reference to it in some way or other. The form in which
the script actually gave expression to Myers's thought may have
been (I don't say, was) entirely determined by the automatist's
own associations of ideas ; and so far as my interpretation of
the script and the arguments I found on that interpretation
are concerned, it is quite immaterial how the form was deter-
mined, provided that the idea did obtain expression in some
form or other.
But even if I had suggested that " ascripta glebae " and
" glebis adscripta " were the very words of Myers, then, though
so gratuitous a conjecture would have been open to many objec-
tions, I do not think it would have been open to the objection
raised by M. Maxwell : viz. that Myers was too good a scholar
to have accepted adscriptus glebae as a paraphrase of e-wdpoupo?.
Myers was a fine scholar, but he was not a pedant or a
418 J. G. Pidclington. [part
German commentator. In fact he had quite a lot of imagina-
tion. I take the first book of Myers's that comes to my hand,
his Essays Classical, open it at random, turn a couple of pages
and pitch upon Myers's version of Aen. VI. 719-721 (p. 172):
" O father, must I deem that souls can pray
Hence to turn backward to the worldly day 1
Change for that weight of flesh these forms more fair,
For that sun's sheen this paradisal air 1
" Paradisal air"! A word significant of a Christian conception
used to denote a Pagan conception ! Why, this is every bit
as bad as any " erreur juridique et etymologique." Nor can we
plead in Myers's defence that he was driven to write " paradisal
instead of " Elysian " by the exigencies of metre, for lie commits
the same unpardonable blunder in prose (see Essays Classical,
p. 141).
As regards M. Maxwell's criticism generally, it seems to me
that much of it would have been valuable, had we really said
the things that he represents us as having said ; and that
much of it may prove effective, because few people take the
trouble to verify references.
lxvii.] Andrew Lang and Psychical Research, 419
II.
ANDREW LANG AND PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
By the REV. M. A. BAYFIELD.
" Who loves not knowledge 1 Who shall rail
Against her beauty 1 May she mix
With men, and prosper ! Who shall fix
Her pillars 1 Let her work prevail !
"
In Memoriam.
" Of making many books there is no end," wrote a dispirited
man more than two thousand years ago, adding that " much
study is a weariness of the flesh
"
—perhaps an indiscreet
remark to make to the young man whom he was addressing.
If any have since repeated the first words with positive
delight, Andrew Lang must be one of them ; for a man does
not write over threescore volumes, big and little, unless he
enjoys the doing of it, and such is Mr. Lang's remarkable
literary output. But not only did he write many books ; his
ingenious and versatile spirit found interest in an extraordinary
variety of subjects, and it would be difficult to name a writer
whose flying pen has ranged over a wider field. Anthropology,
mythology, psychology, ghosts and the ghostly, literature ancient
and modern (even How to fail in Literature !), history, bio-
graphy, charming poetry—works on all these he gave us, with
something on angling and golf, all sorts of charming stories,
and fairy-tales in a series which apparently would only end
when no new colour could be found in which to bind another
volume. One unacquainted with his books might perhaps expect
to find them, from their number and variety, superficial ; but
a brief examination would show the opposite to be the truth ;
420 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
all his serious work, all that was not of the spontaneous exuber-
ance of his natural genius, bears abundant evidence of solid
study, and one may judge that much of it will be of lasting
value. Indeed, his insatiability as a reader would seem to be
partly the key to his productiveness as a writer. He may
have found, and no doubt did, that " much study is a weari-
ness of the flesh," but for him at least it was no less an
invigoration of the spirit ; each new acquisition of knowledge
was an inspiration,—he had climbed a fresh " peak in Darien."
It is beyond the scope of the present article to attempt
any general review of Mr. Lang's works, which would indeed
require a volume ; but one feature of his style is so all-per-
vading and characteristic that it demands at least a passing-
mention. I mean that buoyant and piquant liveliness which
gives his work its unique flavour. He was never dull ; and
if ever he felt inclined to dulness, one may be sure he laid
down his pen, with a smile at the humorousness of expecting
to interest a reader in what is not interesting. He brought
to everything he handled an elastic freshness of thought and
fancy which is delightfully stimulating, and with which he
would, I believe, have made a treatise on drains attrac-
tive. The diction is of course that of a scholar, choice and
polished ; the thoughts are presented with instinctive grace-
fulness ; and much even of his most serious work (too much,
as some unappreciative critics have thought) is strewn with
epigrams, sudden turns of humour, and sallies of delicious wit.
In this kind he was an unrivalled master. Who but he
would have enforced a deprecation of the employment of paid
mediums by declaring that " even the most honourable amateur
must make to her commercial sister this sad confession :
"Said Fanny, tho' tears it may cost,
I think we must part, my dear Sue,
For your character's totally lost,
And I've not sufficient for two."
This prevailing gaiety of manner was not a symptom of inability
to feel seriously about serious things; to suppose this would
be to mistake him,—a thing which, as Mr. J. M. Barrie recently
said, the sober Sassenach has sometimes done. The spiritual
in man, the evolution and limits of his psychical equipment,
lxvil] Andrew Lang and Psychical Research. 421
and all the importunate puzzle of human life, are no trivial
problems, and no man who did not feel deeply about them
would devote to such subjects, as Mr. Lang did, a life-long
study ; but profoundly serious as was his interest, he could not
as a rule speak or write on them for long without something-
stirring his irrepressible sense of humour. There was indeed
a vein of (Scottish ?) whimsicality running through his nature
but it was not levity, it was not base metal, —only just a
streak of silver making a foil to the gold. The habitual light-
ness of a man's literary touch is not to be taken as a criterion
of the whole nature. Should we have known one side of
Tom Hood if he had not given us One more Unfortunate and
The Song of the Shirt ? And after all, as was asked long
ago, ridentem dicerc veruni quid vetat ?—why should not truth
wear a smile ?
Mr. Lang, who was President of our Society for 1911,
became a member only some seven years ago ; but his
interest in the Society's work is of long standing. A paper
by him on the Cock Lane Ghost was read at one of our
meetings in 1894, and from that date he made frequent and
valuable contributions to the Journal and Proceedings. One of
the earliest of these, Queen Mary's Diamonds (Journal, Vol. VII., p.
116), tells a story which strongly piques one's curiosity, and
which would be, as he says, a convincing case of " retrocogni-
tion," if only it were just a little better ! Earlier still,
Custom and Myth, published in 1884, contains a chapter on
the Divining Eod. In those benighted days he regarded the
rod as a mildly mischievous instrument of superstition, but
Professor Barrett's laborious investigations converted him to a
whole-hearted belief in the dowser's faculty fact, and
a serviceable fact" (Presidentied Address, 1911). The article
on Psychical Kesearch in the Pncyclojxtedia Pritannica (1902)
was contributed by him, and is a well-considered r4sum6 of
the results achieved up to that date.
The general result (he writes) is a normal explanation, not yet
complete, of the phenomena hitherto attributed to witch-craft, in-
spiration, possession, and so forth. Probably the devils, saints,
angels, and spirits who have communicated with witches, living saints,
demoniacs, and visionaries are mere hallucinatory reflections from
the subconscious self, endowed with its stores of latent memories
422 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
and strangely acute percipient faculties. . . . But it would not be
candid to say that the explanation is complete or nearly complete.
The nature of the hypnotic trance itself remains matter of dispute.
The knowledge automatically revealed can by no means always be
accounted for, either by latent memory or by the sharpening of
the normal powers of perception, while the limits of telepathy (if
it be accepted) are vaguely conjectured. Even the simple results
of "crystal-gazing" are often very perplexing. . . . When the visions
are not mere fancy pictures, but correctly represent remote persons
and events, unknown to the gazer, and perhaps unknown to all
present, but later (in the case of the events) verified, the explana-
tion is rather to seek.
It is not, I think, an unfair inference from some of his
later utterances, that he found the exclusion of an external
agency from some of the phenomena increasingly difficult.
The Making of Religion, Magic and Religion, Cock Lane and
Common Sense, and The Book of Dreams and Ghosts are all
stores of material interesting and valuable to students in
psychical research. All these volumes have, I believe, been
noticed in our Proceedings ; but there is yet another, of no
less interest and value in this connexion, which I find has
not been reviewed in the Society's publications, and of this
something may appropriately be said here. I refer to The
Maid of France. This work was published in 1908, but the
subject had interested Mr. Lang for many years before. Vol.
XL of Proceedings (1895) contains an article on The Voices
of Jeanne d'Arc which shows a thorough acquaintance with
the materials for her history, and from which it appears that
he had then formed the opinion on it which thirteen years
of further study only served to confirm.
It would be impossible for Jeanne, as it was for Socrates, to
regard these experiences as other than objective and caused by
external influences. Thus I should have no hesitation about con-
sidering her experiences mere constitutional externalisations of her
ideas. But the evidence showing that the contents of the messages
received by her were such as she could not have learned in any
normal way is so strong, that I am compelled to believe in some
abnormal extension of faculty, corresponding to her native and un-
paralleled genius. To a certain extent, she was admitted within
the arcana and sanctuary of the universe.
LXVII.] Andrew Lang and Psychical Research,. 423
" Come to the Salpetriere," said a man of science to an Abbe,
"and I will show you twenty Jeannes d'Arc." "Has one of them
given us back Alsace and Lorraine?" said the Abbe.
There is the crux.
The Maid of France is in form historical, tracing the whole
of Jeanne's too brief life, from the happy childhood days at
Domremy to her shameful martyrdom, but of course the
whole revolves around her extraordinary psychic powers. It
is a book not to be read, and I venture to think, from the
tenderness with which the Maid's story is touched, not written,
without inclination to tears ; the severe reserve of the narrative,
even in the closing scenes, betrays an emotion that needed to
be kept in check. Of all his works it is perhaps the only one
throughout the writing of which the author felt not even a pass-
ing impulse to be gay. The hideous tragedy of the end seems
to have cast its shadow forward over every page, and not once
is the gravity of the recital broken even by a smile. It is
plain to see that he gave his heart to the task, all his skill in
arrangement and presentation, and an enormous amount of loving
labour : every previous writer on the subject was studied, every
available document examined. The result might have been pre-
dicted : the book is so absorbing that one is loth to put it down
till it is finished.
Of the simple purity of Jeanne's character, her absolute
sanity and sincerity, and the genuineness of her Voices and
visions, Mr. Lang has, as we have already seen, no least
doubt
Here we may cast a backward glance of wonder at the many-
faceted character of the Maid. The most notable features are her
perfect faith in her mission and in her revelations, and her constant
tenacity of purpose. Rebuffs and ridicule could not shake her for
a moment, though her normal common sense was in perfect agreement
with the general opinion. An ignorant girl, who could not ride or
fight, her mission, if deprived of its inspiration, was ridiculous.
Nobody knew it better than she ; but often she met her heavenly
visitors, courteous, encouraging, consoling. She wept when they
departed, she kissed the ground where they had stood ; she desired
that they should take her with them. She was sane, yet she had
these ineffable experiences. In them, and in her faith in them, was
her strength (p. 105).
2 E
424 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
I now proceed to extract some evidences of her extraordinary
psychical powers.
The history shows that she had vue a distance. While wait-
ing at Vaucouleurs, she said to Baudricourt, whom she had
been imploring to send her to the Dauphin, and who had sum-
moned her to his presence, " In God's name, you are too slow
in sending me : for this clay, near Orleans, a great disaster has
befallen the gentle Dauphin, and worse fortune he will have
unless you send me to him." This was on February 12, 1429,
the day of the English victory in the " Battle of the Herrings
"
at Bouvray, near Orleans, from which she was distant some six
days' journey.
As to the famous mystic sword of the Maid, we really know no
more than she told her judges in 1431. "While I was at Tours
or Chinon I sent to seek for a sword in the church of St. Catherine
of Fierbois, behind the altar; and presently it was found all rusty."
Asked how she knew that the sword was there, she said " It was
a rusty sword in the earth, with five crosses on it, and I knew of
it through my Voices. I had never seen the man who went to
look for it. I wrote to the churchmen of Fierbois, and asked them
to let me have it, and they sent it. . . . When it was found, the
clergy rubbed it, and the rust readily fell off" (p. 108).
Of her prophetic power also there seems to be no room for
doubt : the evidence is indisputable.
Jeanne . . . was advancing towards the castle, when (as her con-
fessor, Pasquerel, declares that she herself informed him) she was
insulted and sworn at by a man on horseback. She answered, "In
God's name, do you swear, and you so near your death'?" Within
the hour the man fell into the water (the moat 1) and was drowned.
The story is alluded to by a contemporary Italian letter-writer
(p. 86).
And again
As, when at Vaucouleurs, she had "longed, as a woman with
child longs for her delivery," to go to Chinon, so now she prayed
and wept, desiring sorely to succour the people of Orleans. " You
hold so many and such long councils," she said to the Dauphin later.
Her heart was on fire to be at work, not to waste that " one
year and little more " during which she was to endure, as she kept
lxvil] Andrew Lang and Psychical Research. 425
telling the Dauphin. It is d'Alencon who vouches for this sad and
absolutely accurate repeated prophecy. Jeanne must have made it
from the first, for in a letter dated "Bruges, May 10, 1429," the
writer remarks, "It is said that the maid is to achieve two more
great feats" (in addition to the relief of Orleans), "and then to
die." We must think of her as always foreknowing, and always
disregarding, her swiftly approaching end (p. 91).
Next we have a prophecy of her wounding at Orleans,
recorded before the event
At this time, at least before April 22 [1429], when the fact was
recorded in a letter by de Rotselaer, a Flemish diplomatist at
Lyons, Jeanne told the King that she would be wounded at Orleans
by an arrow or cross-bow bolt, but not mortally. The prediction
was fulfilled ; it is more singular that it was recorded in writing a
fortnight before the event (p. 109).
She prophesied her capture :
And now her Voices abandoned her : not that they were silent,
but they gave no warlike counsel. She told her judges the heart-
breaking story. It was in Easter week (April 17-23 [1430]), and it
seems to have been in a moment of triumph, that, " as I was
on the ramparts of Melun, St. Catherine and St. Margaret warned
me that I should be captured before Midsummer day ; that so it
must needs be : nor must I be afraid and astounded ; but take all
things well, for God would help me. So they spoke, almost every
day. And I prayed that when I was taken I might die in that
hour, without wretchedness of long captivity ; but the Voices said
that so it must be. Often I asked the hour, which they told me
not; had I known the hour, I would not have gone into battle."
Her allotted year, she knew, was almost ended, but the prophecy
of the Voices came with the shock of certainty, —the Voices that
spoke not of instant death, but a myriad times worse, of capture.
Would not the bravest man, with the prospect of the death by fire
in case of his capture, would not Ney or Skobeleff, Wallace or
Gordon, have blenched 1 But the Maid rode on, first in the charge,
last in the retreat. There is no other such tale in history. She
was the bravest of the brave (p. 228).
Two other prophecies will be found on pp. 265 and 272 ;
and I should have liked to recall the story of her knowledge
of the Dauphin's secret, but must forbear. The extracts already
426 Rev. M. A. Bayfield, [part
given will suffice to show with what a sympathetic touch the
author has handled one of the most piteous tales in all
history.
As is well known, Mr. Lang preferred to study the field of
psychical phenomena, with one exception, from the historical
and anthropological point of view, rather than as an experi-
menter. The exception was crystal-gazing ;
although no " scryer
"
himself, he assisted at a very large numher of experiments, and
it is through him that we have some of our most valuable
evidence on the subject. But while in his own chief work in
these matters he took the wider range, he was an untiring advo-
cate of research into the phenomena themselves, and for their
own sake. He held that certain beliefs and practices found
all over the world in all ages probably rest on some undis-
covered basis of psychic truth and fact ; he refused to take
them as the mere outcome of savage man's playful fancy and
fraudulent proclivities, or to accept the " survival and revival
theory as a sufficient account of modern instances. He main-
tained—and in this he was at one with the founders of our
Society—that since there is so much smoke, there must be
some fire ; and he never wearied of pouring his genial mockery
on the " scientific " temper which protests it can see no smoke
and that there is nothing to investigate. The slip-shod reason-
ing and language of his opponents, and their frequent inability
to see the real issue, made them an easy prey to his acute
dialectic ; and he came at last to hold so cheap the logic and
verbal currency of scientific obscurantism, with its ever- recurring
" presumably " this and " doubtless " that, that he calls this
" doubtless " " the '
doubtless '
of science," which merely marks
what the writer "prefers to think"! I quote from Magic and
Bdvjion his impression of the scientific method in connexion
with the subjects of which he treats
In the long run magic and religion are to die out, perhaps, and
science is to have the whole field for herself.
This may be a glorious though a remote prospect. But surely it
is above all things needful that our science should be scientific.
She must not blink facts, merely because they do not fit into her
scheme or hypothesis of the nature of things, or of religion. She
really must give as much prominence to the evidence which contra-
dicts as to that which supports her theory in each instance. Not
lxvii.] Anclreiv Lang and Psychical Research. 427
only must she not shut her eyes to this evidence, but she must
diligently search for it, must seek for what Bacon calls instantiae
contradictoriae, since, if these exist, the theory which ignores them is
useless. If she advances a hypothesis, it must not be contrary to
the whole mass of human experience. . . . Again science must not
pile one unverified hypothesis upon another unverified hypothesis
till her edifice rivals the Tower of Babel. She must not make a
conjecture on p. 35, and on p. 210 treat the conjecture as a fact. . . .
It seems hardly necessary, but it is not superfluous, to add that in
her castle of hypotheses, one must not contradict, and therefore
destroy, another.
This kind of reasoning, with its inferring of inferences from other
inferences, themselves inferred from conjectures as to the existence
of facts of which no proof is adduced, must be called superstitious
rather than scientific. The results may be interesting, but they are
the reverse of science (p. 4).
It would indeed seem to be no easy matter to
"hold the eel of science by the tail,"
if I may change Mr. Lang's metaphor and slightly alter the
application of Pope's. Yet to one scientific eel after another
did he address himself, with well-sanded hands. In con-
troversy, which he dearly loved, as every man loves what he
can engage in with success, he was always a courteous fighter,
but he was a dangerous one to meet. If the enemy had weak places
in his harness, let him beware, for not one would escape a
thrust from this practised fencing-master of debate, who knew
every trick of the game. In Cock Lane and Common Sense
many pages are devoted to the logical vagaries of the famous
"Dr. Carpenter, C.B, M.D., LL.D., F.E.S., F.G.S., V.P.L.S.,
Corresponding Member of the Institute of France, tout ce quit,
y a de plus official, dc plus cUcore'," who more than once in the
" seventies " charged at the windmill of psychical phenomena
(and other windmills) with more zeal than discretion. Here
is a specimen of Andrew Lang in his lighter manner
In three pages Dr. Carpenter has shown that " early scientific
training " in physiology and pathology does not necessarily enable
its professor to state a case fully. Nor does it prompt him to discrimi-
nate between rumours coming, a hundred and fifty years after the
428 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
date of the alleged occurrences, from a remote, credulous, and
unscientific age [the reference is to the alleged levitation of Simon
Magus] : and the statements of witnesses all living, all honourable,
and, in one case, of " high scientific attainments."
It is this solemn belief in his own infallibility as a judge of
evidence, combined with his almost inevitable ignorance of what
evidence is, that makes Dr. Carpenter such an amusing contro-
versialist. ... In matters wholly marvellous, like Home's flight in
the air, the evidence of three living and honourable men need not,
of course, convince us of the fact. But this evidence is in itself a
fact to be considered—" Why do these three gentlemen tell this
tale 1
" we ask ; but Dr. Carpenter jmts the evidence on the level
of patristic tattle many centuries old, written down, on no authority,
long after the event. Yet the worthy doctor calmly talks about
" want of scientific culture preventing people from appreciating the
force of scientific reasoning," and that after giving such examples of
" scientific reasoning " as we have examined. It is in this way that
Science makes herself disliked. (Ibid., p. 327.)
After reading all, or nearly all, that Mr. Lang has written
about levitation, poltergeistry, and telekinesis in general, I con-
fess to feeling a quite masculine curiosity as to whether he
was himself finally convinced by the evidence he had so labori-
ously collected. He confessed to us in his Presidential Address
that he was "not certain this kind of thing never occurs";
which sounds as though he were giving that little coup de
poucc against inclination which he wisely recommended to us
all, and that, in his heart of hearts, he believed " this kind of
thing " does occur. Miss Johnson has shown (Proceedings,
Vol. XXI, pp. 490-496) that there are serious gaps in the
evidence for D. D. Home's levitation, but the evidence for the
phenomena as a whole is irritatingly strong, despite its varia-
tions in quality; it seems to leave one in the mental con-
dition of Tom Hood's Footman on Mount Blank, who said
of the chamois, " its Springs in the middle of Winter I believe
as incredible."
Equally characteristic and equally good in the controversial
line is The Nineteenth Century and Mr. Myers {Proceedings, Vol.
XVIII., p. 62). This was an answer to two essays on Human
Personality, the one by Mr. Frederic Harrison and the other
by Mr. W. H. Mallock, published in The Nineteenth Century
lxvii.] Andreiv Lang and Psychical Research. 429
and After. The essay by the former called for no serious
reply, and its " pomptious " frivolity (if I may borrow a word
from the English vocabulary of a foreign acquaintance), is dis-
missed with little more than the following
The essay of Mr. Harrison was a sportive apologue. Free, as he
is, from degrading superstition, Mr. Harrison playfully informed
the town that, after "dipping into" Mr. Myers's book for about
ninety minutes, he dreamed that he died, after an apoplectic seizure.
Absit omen! Mr. Harrison must be cautious as to what he reads,
avoiding what he disagrees with.
The essay by " one of our most eminent scientific men,
theologians, and investigators of Mrs. Gallup, Mr W. H.
Mallock "
(to quote Mr. Lang's description), was a quite
grotesque misrepresentation, based on an almost incredible mis-
conception, of Myers's theory of the subliminal consciousness.
The exposure is formal and complete, and adds one more to
the many demonstrations the Society has had to give of the
inaccuracy which seizes the " scientific " like a cramp when
they wander out of their depth. The concluding paragraph is
delicious
For the rest, I am not defending Mr. Myers's hypotheses—-that
of " possession " I reject—I am only anxious that they should be
understood before they are rejected. In history it is well to quote
the exact words of a document : in science it appears to be enough
to write that " Mr. Myers says " this or that, in the terms of the
scientist himself, and without references to the text of the author.
Daily experience proves that profitable criticisms cannot be produced
in this way.' I need hardly add that, though I think Mr. Mallock
misunderstood, I am sure he never dreamed of misrepresenting Mr.
Myers.
How delicate is the coup de grace in the transparent sincerity
of the last sentence ! Not dishonest, but what ? One is
reminded of the "soft answer" in Punch: He. "Wot d' yer mean,
keepin' me waitin' 'ere arf an hour, standin' about like a
fool?" She. "I carn't 'elp 'ow you stand, 'Enery." Mr.
Lang's essay was offered to the editor of the magazine, but,
for reasons not disclosed to us, was rejected ! On which
Mr. Lang remarks, " The S.P.E. will observe that the labour
430 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
of half the lifetime of a learned and industrious man
appears to be less worthy of discussion than the cypher of
Mrs. Gallup."
One needs not to have known Andrew Lang to realise
what a genial, tender, and richly-gifted spirit has passed away
from among us, for few men's writings are stamped so un-
mistakably with the marks of their personality. Nor will he
be missed only by those who knew him. All lovers of grace-
ful literature and the many children whom his stories
delighted, and for whom he wrote because he loved them,
have lost a friend whom they would fain have kept. Our
own smaller circle, bound together by the interest of a
common study, has lost an inspiriting fellow- worker and a
valuable champion. By books, essays, and short papers, and
by articles contributed to the daily journals, he not only in-
creased our store of knowledge with the fruits of his own
labour, but also did much to commend our undertaking to
the public at large. And in doing all this he was, like the
Society itself (as I believe), inevitably doing yet more, assist-
ing to spread the light of a great and priceless faith
"Contemplate all this work of Time,
The giant labouring in his youth;
Nor dream of human love and truth,
As dying Nature's earth and lime ;
But trust that those we call the dead
Are breathers of an ampler day
For ever nobler ends."
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 431
III.
A STUDY OF DEEAMS.
By DR. FREDERIK VAN EEDEN.
I think it will be hardly necessary in this company 1
to refer
explicitly to the difficulties of treating my present subject.
The most important is the subtle and highly spiritual order
of the phenomena. Their investigation leads us to the boundary
of what is called exact Science, and brings us into the dangerous
vicinity of metaphysical speculative systems and religious beliefs.
It is well-nigh impossible to discuss these ultimate psychical
phenomena without touching on different primary scientific or
philosophical dogmas, and in no branch of science, I think, is
the inadequacy and confusion of our only instrument of orderly
thought—language—more painfully brought before our mind.
All this, I believe, tends to justify my conviction, that for
the exploration of this mysterious world of dreams we want
not only the purely scientific, but also the poetical function.
In this field the pioneers have to be either poetical men of
science or scientific poets ; since it ' is the poet—at least when
we attach to this word its highest and deepest meaning—whose
natural passion it is to explore the ultimate regions of the human
soul and whose constant occupation is to create new spiritual
values and give them accurate expression.
Since 1896 I have studied my own dreams, writing down the
most interesting in my diary. In 1898 I began to keep a
separate account for a particular kind of dream which seemed
to me the most important, and I have continued it up to this
1
This paper was read at a meeting of the Society on April 22, 1913.
432 Dr. Frederilc van Eeden. [part
day. Altogether I collected about 500 dreams, of which 352
are of the particular kind just mentioned. This material may
form the basis of what I hope may become a scientific structure
of some value, if leisure aud strength to build it up carefully
do not fail me.
In the meantime, with a pardonable anxiety lest the ideas
should not find expression in time, I condensed them into a
work of art—a novel called The Bride of Breams, published
a few years ago in Holland and Germany, and an English
edition of which will shortly be issued in ISTew York. The
fictitious form enabled me to deal freely with delicate
matters, and had also the advantage that it expressed rather
unusual ideas in a less aggressive way—esoterically, so to
speak. Yet I want to express these ideas also in a form that
will appeal more directly to the scientific mind, and I know I
cannot find a better audience for this purpose than the members
of the S.P.R., who are accustomed to treat investigations and
ideas of an unusual sort in a broad-minded and yet critical spirit.
It may be said that the poet is sometimes carried away by his
fancy ; on the other hand, the purely scientific mind is sometimes
handicapped by a tendency to disbelieve, and I do not see why
the poet, enamoured of truth and reality as he is, should be less
severely critical than the man of science.
I may take it then to be clearly understood that this paper
is only a preliminary sketch, a short announcement of a greater
work, which I hope to be able to complete in later years.
I will as much as possible avoid speculation, and limit myself
to facts ;
yet these facts, as I have observed them, bring me
in a general way to the firm conviction that the theories on
dream-life, as brought forward up to to-day, within my know-
ledge, are unable to account for all the phenomena.
Selecting among the most prominent and most up-to-date
authors, I may mention Prof. Sigmund Freud, who is now
considered by many as the highest authority on dreams, and
whose key to the mysteries of dream-life may be formulated
in these words
The Dream is the symbolically expressed wish or desire of
the subconscious part of a human being, and generally of an
erotic character. This view has been amply criticised, among
others by Mr. Havelock Ellis in his recent book, The World of
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 433
Dreams, which I regard as one of the best handbooks of
recent years.
Havelock Ellis, fully acknowledging the boldness and in-
genuity of Freud's theory, endorses the comment of many of
Freud's critics, that this key, however fitting in many cases,
does not open all doors, and still leaves many mysteries.
According to Havelock Ellis the principal characteristic of
the dream is psychical dissociation, and all dreams may be
accounted for by the natural and unceasing tendency of the
human mind to reason and to explain, even in a condition of
dissociation. He supposes that the brain in sleep continues to
receive impressions from different internal organs, from the
involuntary muscles, from the beating heart and the breathing-
lungs, and in its dissociated state tries to bring some reasonable
order into these sensations by inventing all sorts of curious, and
more or less absurd, facts, which it regards as real and as
accounting for the confused impressions it perceives.
My objection to this theory, in spite of the author's inge-
nious and plausible defence of it, is the same as his objection
to the theory of Ereud. It does not by any means cover all
the facts. I would even go so far as to say that it holds
good in only a few exceptional cases. I hope to make it clear
to you that it is utterly inadequate to account in particular
for those cases which I recorded as being the most important
and interesting.
I wish to mention here the name of a great Englishwoman,
who died last year, and whom I consider one of the deepest
thinkers of our age.
Victoria Lady Welby is the mother of that new branch of
science, now officially acknowledged by the Britannica Encyclo-
paedia under the name of Signifies, corresponding to Breal's
term Semantics. Her contention was that at the bottom of
all our disputes, and even of all our misery, is the careless
and inadequate use of language. According to my own ex-
perience, this want of " signifies
"
—Lady Welby's new science
is felt in every discussion, and I rarely begin a lecture with-
out a warning about it.
In the present case we find a good illustration of Lady
Welby's contention. Havelock Ellis, in his explanation of
dream-phenomena, says, quoting Vaschide and Pieron, that "the
434 Dr. Freclerik van Eeclen. [part
internal sensations develop at the expense of the peripheral
sensations. That indeed seems to be the secret of the immense
emotional turmoil of our dreams."
Now it seems to me that the word internal, by the authors
just mentioned and by many others, is used in a deceptive way,
without recognition of its shifting value, its signitical quality.
It stands for the contrary of peripheral, yet when the word is
used its significance imperceptibly becomes metaphorical.
In opposition to sensations derived from the skin, the visceral
sensations might lie called internal. But from the psychical
point of view, any bodily sensation, whether it be from the skin,
from the heart, or from the kidneys, is external in a metaphorical
sense.
For students of natural science, brought up in the nineteenth
century, this confusion is very difficult to avoid. The ruling
opinion of that time looked upon the physical body as the whole
of a human being. A human being, it was thought, consisted
entirely of things that could be perceived in three-dimensional
space. The simple fact, now beginning to be dimly realised
by men of science, that psychical facts are non-spatial, and
therefore cannot be expressed otherwise than by metaphor, was
utterly disregarded.
For instance, Maury, for long the great authority on dreams,
speaks repeatedly of " impressions internes, intercerebrales," as
continuing during dream-life, while the outer impressions, that
is, the peripheral, are benumbed.
Now dreams are purely psychical phenomena. They have,
of course, connections and associations with the physical body.
Yet their most characteristic feature is that they are non-spatial,
that is to say, inner in a metaphorical sense. Havelock Ellis
agrees that even the visceral sensations are not perceived as
such, but are transformed into symbols, i.e. into purely psychical
phenomena.
According to my experience, not only the peripheral but also
the interned sensations, in so far as they are spatial, are inhibited
in dream-life. Not only are the senses of hearing, smelling,
seeing, tasting, touching, etc., cut off from the mind of the
sleeper, but also the more vague and ill-defined bodily sensa-
tions,—muscle-sensations, visceral sensations, sensations of bodily
well-being or of pain or discomfort.
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 435
In a word, the physical body, though it continues to live and
to act in certain ways, does not convey its sensations directly
to the mind in complete sleep and dream. All immediate con-
nection between the mind, with its non-spatial facts, and the
body, with its facts that can be expressed in spatial terms, stops
during sleep and dream.
I would even go so far as to draw the line at this point
between dream and waking life. So long as a bodily sensation,
be it internal or peripheral, is perceived, there is not yet com-
plete sleep or dream, and any abnormal perception that occurs
must be called a waking hallucination. When sleep and dream
set in, all direct bodily rapport is cut off. This is its
essential and characteristic feature.
Let me now give you an attempt at classification of the
different forms of dreams, which I myself personally experi-
enced and observed during a period of sixteen years. I have
been able to distinguish nine different kinds of dreams, each
of which presents a well-defined type. There are of course
intermediate forms and combinations, but the separate types can
still be recognised in their intermingling.
In this scheme I wish to draw attention to the type
indicated by the letter (H), which I call initial dreams. This
kind of dream is very rare ; I know of only half-a-dozen
instances occurring to myself, and have found no clear indica-
tion of them in other authors. Yet it is very characteristic
and easily distinguishable. It occurs only in the very beginning
of sleep, when the body is in a normal healthy condition, but
very tired. Then the transition from waking to sleep takes
place with hardly a moment of what is generally called
unconsciousness, but what I would prefer to call discontinuity
of memory. It is not what Maury calls a hypnagogic halluci-
nation, which phenomenon I know well from my own experience,
but which I do not consider to belong to the world of dreams.
In hypnagogic hallucinations we have visions, but we have full
bodily perception. In the initial dream type (H), I see and
feel as in any other dream. I have a nearly complete recol-
lection of day-life, I know that I am asleep and where I am
sleeping, but all perceptions of the physical body, inner and
outer, visceral or peripheral, are entirely absent. Usually I
have the sensation of floating or flying, and I observe with
436 Br. FrederiJc van Eeden. [part
CLASSIFICATION OF
General
Character.
Time of
•
Occurrence.
Condition of
Body.
A. Ordinary
dreams.
Indifferent or
varying.
Probably all
the time of
sleep.
Normal.
B. Very vivid
dreams.
Unpleasant. Any time of
sleep.
Nervously
disturbed.
C. Symbolic or
mocking
dreams.
Unpleasant, de-
moniacal,
mostly erotic
or obscene.
Idem.
Sometimes
disturbed.
D. General dream-
sensations.
Indifferent or
varying, not
1 1 tipioaoctill U.
Middle of night,
deep sleep.
Slightly
nervously
disturbed.
E. Lucid dreams.
Highly pleasant,
generally
UUclLJIlg Ui
flying.
Always
between 5
and 8 a.m.
Excellent.
F. Demon-
dreams.
Not unpleasant,
though
demoniacal.
Generally after
or before E.
Good.
G. Wrong waking
up (phan-
tasm).
Demoniacal.
Near waking
up.
Good.
H. Initial dreams. Pleasant.
Immediately
after going
to sleep.
Very tired.
I. Pathological
dreams.
(Fever, poi-
son, indiges-
tion.)
Generally
unpleasant.
Any time of
sleep.
Bad.
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams.
DREAMS.
437
Recollection
of Day-life in
Dream.
Recollection
of Dream after
Waking up.
Frequency. Effect.
Defective, gener-
ally wrong.
Generally faint.
Very frequent,
probably in all
sleep.
Indifferent.
Very defective,
or entirely
wrong.
Clear. Rather rare.
Mostly unplea-
sant, some-
times premoni-
tory.
Defective. Not very clear.
Unpleasant, with
shame.
Not clear. Rather clear. Rare.
Varying,
premonitory.
Nearly complete. Clear. Rather frequent.
Very beneficial,
sometimes
premonitory.
Not quite com-
plete.
Clear. Rather frequent.
Beneficial,
refreshing.
Fairly complete. Very clear. Rare. Indifferent.
Fairly complete. Clear. Very rare. Indifferent.
Entirely wrong. Confused.
In abnormal
condition,
nearly always.
Indifferent or
unpleasant.
438 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
perfect clearness that the feeling of fatigue, the discomfort of
bodily overstrain, has vanished. I feel fresh and vigorous ; I
can move and float in all directions ;
yet I know that my
body is at the same time dead tired and fast asleep.
One experience of this remarkable form of dream seems to
me sufficient for the careful observer to undo all current
theories. I know quite well, by my own experience, that
certain bodily conditions and sensory sensations have influence
on dreams. I can give instances of dreams in which sounds
from the waking world, the ticking of a clock, the noise of
wind, or my own difficult breathing, or snoring, have pene-
trated into the dream-world and caused some dream-fancy.
In one dream, when near waking up, I found myself sitting
in company with others, and I heard the sound of snoring.
I looked round at the other people, asking, " Who is it that
snores ?
" and then, on waking up, I found that I myself was
the only culprit.
But I consider that cases in which the sounds or impressions
of day-life—bodily sensations—penetrate into the dream-life, are
exceptional, whereas nearly all scientific observers of dreams up
to the present day start from the supposition that these bodily
sensations account for all dreams. And I think you will
agree that the direction in which the observer is looking
must make a great difference in the outcome of any investi-
gation.
Most students of dream-life begin with the supposition that
dreams are more or less abnormal phenomena caused by some
abnormal condition of the body, and their experiments are
mostly directed towards trying to provoke dreams by artificial
bodily conditions.
As the outcome of careful observations, I maintain my
conviction that the bodily conditions of the sleeper have, as a
rule, no influence on the character of dreams, with the exception
of a few rare and abnormal cases, near the moment of waking
up, or in those dreams which I have classified as pathological,
under letter (I), in which fever, indigestion, or some poison,
plays a role, and which form a small minority. For myself
as the observer, I may state that I have been in good health
all the time of observation. I had no important complaints of
any nervous or visceral kind. My sleep and digestion both
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 439
are usually good. Yet I have had the most terrible nightmares,
while my body was as fresh and healthy as usual, and I have
had delicious peaceful dreams on board ship in a heavy storm,
or in a sleeping-car on the railway.
In April, 1906, I was suffering from violent tooth-ache. I
was in Italy and did not wish to go to a foreign dentist.
I succeeded, however, in falling asleep, and entered at once on a
dream of type (F), which I call demon-dreams. I had a perfect
recollection of my waking life ; I knew that I was sleeping and
that my tooth was still aching. Yet 1 did not feel it. I
realised that I was in the demoniacal sphere, which I recognise
by the weird uncanny effect produced by apparently harmless
objects, which are seen very sharply and vividly. I could
shut my eyes, as it seemed to me, and when I opened
them again, the same objects—a tea-pot, a clothes-brush, a
triangle, and so on—were still there, and still uncanny and
threatening. Then came what I shall have to call demon-
personalities, who do not seem human, and yet seem to act
and speak like independent beings. Usually I am able to
drive them away by a voluntary act, e.g. by shouting and
threatening. But this time I felt powerless, and I debated
in my dream whether the tooth-ache could be the cause of
this weakness. Then I asked one of the demons what was
the reason of my unusual weakness. He answered :
" Probably
the heat," and at this answer I considered whether I had
left the radiator of the hotel-room open. But soon I under-
stood that the answer was a senseless mockery, irony or
stupidity. And I slept the whole night without feeling any
pain. Next morning the pain was felt again and I had the
tooth extracted.
Now it must be clear that the theory which explains the
fancies of dreams by an attempt of the mind to reconstruct
a false reality in order to account for subconscious sensations,
will never do in such cases. For my mind was perfectly
aware of the state of things ; it knew about the tooth-ache,
it knew that I was sleeping in a hotel-room with a radiator.
Yet I felt no bodily sensation at all, not even such a penetrating
one as a violent tooth-ache.
I wish, therefore, to define the true dream as that state
wherein bodily sensations, be they visceral, interned or peripheral,
440 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
cannot penetrate to the mind directly, but only in the psychical,
non-spatial form of a symbol or an image.
I purposely avoid as much as possible the words " con-
sciousness " and " unconsciousness." They may be convenient
in colloquial language, but I am not able to attach any clear
meaning to them. I have no idea what " unconsciousness,"
as a substantive, may stand for. And I found that I could
do with the words memory and recollection and the word
personality or person, in the primitive sense of persona (a
mask, i.e. the mask worn by players). I do not think it
accurate to call the body of a sleeper or a narcotised man
unconscious. During my career as a psycho-therapeutist, having
by suggestion produced sleep in many people, I learnt that the
human body may act like a self-conscious person, without any
participation of the recollecting mind. We know nowadays
that a splitting-up of human personality is possible, not only
into two. but into three or more. During my sittings with
Mrs. Thompson 1
we observed that after a trance, in which
Mrs. Thompson had been speaking as " Nelly," or as some other
control, she herself remembered dreams, which had nothing
whatever to do with the things of which she had been
speaking to us. Her being could then be said to have been
divided into three entities,—the body in trance, apparently
asleep ; the " control," who spoke through her mouth ; and
Mrs. Thompson, who was dreaming in cprite different spheres.
All these persons or personalities were of course " conscious
in some way, as everything is probably conscious. The
cpaestion is, where do the threads of recollection run that
enable us to identify the persons.
I know that Mr. Havelock Ellis and many other authors will
not accept my definition, because they deny the possibility
of complete recollection and free volition in a dream. They
would say that what I call a dream is no dream, but a sort
of trance, or hallucination, or ecstasy. The observations of the
Marquis d'Herve, which were very much like mine, as related
in Ins book, Les Reves et les rnoyens de les diriger, were discarded
in the same way. These dreams could not be dreams, said
Maury.
Now this is simply a question of nomenclature. I can only
^ee Proceedings, Vol. XVII., pp. 75-115.
lxvii.] A Study of Dreams. 441
say that I made my observations during normal deep and
healthy sleep, and that in 352 cases I had a full recollec-
tion of my day-life, and could act voluntarily, though I was
so fast asleep that no bodily sensations penetrated into my
perception. If anybody refuses to call that state of mind
a dream, he may suggest some other name. For my part,
it was just this form of dream, which I call " lucid dreams
(see E in the table), which aroused my keenest interest and
which I noted down most carefully.
I cmite agree with Mr. Havelock Ellis, that during sleep the
psychical functions enter into a condition of dissociation. My
contention, however, is that it is not dissociation, but, on the
contrary, reintegration, after the dissociation of sleep, that is the
essential feature of dreams. The dream is a, more or less complete
reintegration of the psyche, a reintegration in a different sphere,
in a psychical, non-spatial mode of existence. This reintegration
may go so far as to effect full recollection of day-life, reflection,
and voluntary action on reflection.
I will now make a short survey of the nine modes of
dreaming, as indicated in my Table, giving an instance of each
of them, and will then give further details of the more im-
portant and interesting types.
Type (A) is the usual well-known type to which the large
majority of dreams conform ;
probably it is the only kind that
occurs to many people. It is not particularly pleasant or un-
pleasant, though it may vary according to its contents. It may
occur in any moment of sleep, in daytime or in the night,
and it does not need any bodily disturbance to produce it. Most
people, however healthy, dream ; and if they say they do not,
it must be uncertain whether there is really an absence of
dreams or only a lack of remembrance of them. The same
doubt may be applied to the view that there is a perfectly
dreamless sleep. According to my view the attempts of the
psyche at reintegration begin almost immediately after sleep has
set in and continue during the whole time of sleeping. When
aroused by an alarum -clock at different hours of the night,
unexpectedly, I was always able to remember some fragments
of a dream. I admit, however, that this is no absolute proof,
because it is possible that the dream was inserted, so to speak,
into the space of time between the bodily sensation caused by
442 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
the alarum, and the transmission of this sensation to the dream-
ing mind. This space of time may be rather considerable. It
may be compared to the space of time required by an " absent-
minded " person before he realises the import of a question
put to him ; it may be not only seconds but even minutes
before he hears the question psychically, though he heard it
bodily quite distinctly, and remembers it in full. This space
of time is still longer at the moment of awakening, and in my
opinion accounts very easily for the often reported and apparently
miraculous phenomenon of a sleeper being awakened by a sound
that fits in exactly with the end of a long dream. The classic
instance of this is Maury's dream, in which a piece of the
bed-cornice fell on his neck when he was dreaming that he
was lying on a scaffold-block to be beheaded. Most likely the
bodily shock came first ; the sleeper's mind was then called,
but could not be reached directly; the bodily sensation had
first to be translated, so to speak, psychically, into the form
of a story, finishing with his waking up.
These dreams of type (A) show dissociation, with very imper-
fect reintegration, and, as several authors have pointed out, they
have in many respects a close likeness to insanity. The true
conditions of day-life are not remembered ; false remembrance
paramnesia—is very common in them ;
they are absurd and
confused, and leave very faint traces after waking up.
Type (B) differs from (A) principally in its vividness and the
strong impression it makes, which lasts sometimes for hours and
days after waking up, with a painfully clear remembrance of
every detail. These dreams are generally considered to be the
effect of some abnormal bodily condition. Yet I think they
must undoubtedly be distinguished from the pathological dreams.
I have had them during perfectly normal bodily conditions. I
do not mean to say, however, that some nervous disturbance,
some psychical unrest, or some unknown influence from the
waking world, may not have been present. It may have
been, but it escaped my observation in most cases. Dreams
of type (B) are generally extremely absurd, or untrue, though
explicit and well remembered. The mind is entirely dissociated,
and reintegration is very defective. A fine instance of this
sort of dream is described by Dostojefski in Crime and Punish-
ment, when Raskolnikoff sleeps before he commits the murder.
LXVII.J A Study of Dreams. 443
Curiously enough I had a dream of the same type the night
after reading that book. In that dream I had committed a
murder myself—a dream-feeling well known to dream-students.
I thought it remarkable because the psychical cause of it was
clear in this case and my bodily condition was entirely normal.
As a rule I find dreams of this kind unpleasant, because
of their absurdity, their insane character, and the strong lasting
impression they make. Happily they are rare, at least with
me. Sometimes they leave a strong conviction that they "mean
something," that they have a premonitory, a prophetic character,
and when we read of instances of prophetic dreams we find
generally that they belong to the type (B). In my case I often
found that they really could " mean " nothing ;
sometimes, how-
ever, I was not so certain. It depends in what direction we
are looking for causes. One night, when I was on a lecturing
tour, I was the guest of a family in a provincial town, and slept
in what I supposed to be the guest-room. I had a night full
of the most horrid dreams, one long confused nightmare, with
a strong sentiment that it " meant something." Yet I felt in
perfect health, cheerful and comfortable. I could not refrain
from saying next morning at the breakfast table what an un-
pleasant night I had had. Then the family told me I had slept
in the room of a daughter who was now in a sanatorium with
a severe nervous disease, and who used to call that room her
" den of torture."
Another dream of the most awful description occurred to me
in Berlin in 1906. In a dark night, dead tired and forlorn,
I was plodding through an endless black, stinking marsh ;
being
old, poor, miserable, full of remorse, all night long. Yet I was
in perfect health, and even in a hopeful and cheerful state of
mind. The impression was so strong that I packed my trunk
next morning and escaped from my hosts without explanation.
I could not help thinking that the room must be haunted by
the remembrance of some dreadful crime. I could never verify
this suspicion. A month later I received tidings of my only
brother in the East Indies—that he died that very night in
very painful circumstances. Whether there was any connection
between this and my dream I will not decide.
It will be remarked that such vivid dreams are some-
times of a very pleasant character, filling whole days with
.444 Dr. Frederik van Eeclen. [part
an indescribable joy. This is true, but, according to my
experience, my vividly pleasant dreams are now always of
another and higher type. As a child I had these delicious
dreams of the type (B). Now they have changed their char-
acter altogether and are of type (E).
In type (C), the symbolic or mocking dreams, the charac-
teristic element is one which I call demoniacal. I am afraid
this word will arouse some murmurs of disapproval, or at
least some smiles or sneers. Yet I think I can successfully
defend the use of the term. I will readily concede at once
that the real existence of beings whom we may call " demons
: '
is problematic. But the real existence of the interstellar aether
is also problematic, and yet men of science find the conception
very useful and convenient.
I hope to satisfy even the most sceptical of my audience
by defining the expression " demoniacal " thus
/ call demoniacal those phenomena which piroducc on us the
impression of being invented or arranged by intelligent beings of
a very low moral order.
To me it seems that the great majority of dreams reported
by Freud and his adherents, and used for the building up of
his elaborate theory, belong to type (C).
It may indeed be called a bold deed to introduce the
symbolism of dreams into the scientific world. This is Freud's
great achievement.
But now let us consider what the word " symbol " implies.
A symbol is an image or an imaginary event, standing for a
real object or event whereto it has some distant resemblance.
Now the invention of a symbol can only be an act of thought,
—the work of some intelligence. Symbols cannot invent them-
selves ;
they must be thought out. And the question arises
who performs this intelligent act ; who thinks out the symbol ?
The answer given by the Freud school is : the subconscious.
But here we have one of those words which come in " wo die
Begriffe fehlen." To me the word " subconscious," indicating
a thinking entity, is just as mysterious, just as unscientific,
just as " occult " as the word " demon." In my view it is
accurate to say only that in our dreams we see images and
experience events, for which our own mind,—our " person " as
we remember it,—cannot be held responsible, and which must
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 445
therefore come from some unknown source. About the general
character of these sources, however, we may form some judgment
and I feel justified in calling them in the dreams of type (C)
" demoniacal,"—that is of a low moral order.
It is in class (C) also, that the erotic element, or rather
the obscene element, plays such an important part. And it is
no wonder that some adherents of Freud's school, studying
only this kind of dream, come to the conclusion that all dreams
have a sexual origin.
Mocking dreams can be very amusing, as many instances in
dream-literature show. The day before my fiftieth anniversary
I was made the victim of a funny dream-joke. There was to
be a pageant in my honour, and the town was all full of flags.
When the pageant came, it consisted first of a cow, then a
horse, then a gentleman on foot, who fired blank shots from
a revolver, then a carriage with four gentlemen, and, to wind
up with, an old, rickety, wobbling automobile that advanced
very slowly.
1
Type (D), which I call general dream-sensations, is very
remarkable but not easy to describe. It is not an ordinary
dream ; there is no vision, no image, no event, not even a
word or a name. But during a long time of deep sleep, the
mind is continually occupied with one person, one place, one
remarkable event, or even one abstract thought. At least that
is the recollection on waking up. One night I was constantly
occupied by the personality of an American gentleman, in whom
[ am not particularly interested. I did not see him, nor hear
his name, but on waking up I felt as if he had been there
the whole night. In another instance it was a rather deep
thought, occupying me in the deepest sleep, with a clear recol-
lection of it after waking up. The question was : Why can a
period of our life be felt as very sad, and yet be sweet and
beautiful in remembrance ? And the answer was : Because a
human being knows only a very small part of what he is.
Question and answer never left me ;
yet my sleep was very
deep and unbroken. These dream-sensations are not unpleasant
and not absurd, so long as the body is in good health.
They often have an elevating or consoling effect. In patho-
1
Professor Freud will see here a fine instance of a subconscious wish, expressed
by inversion.
446 Br. Frederik van Eeden. [part
logical dreams, however, type (I), they may be extremely strange
and harassing. The sleeper may have a feeling as if he were
a square or a circle, or other sensations of an utterly inde-
scribable character.
Class (E), the type of dreams which I called " lucid dreams,"
seems to me the most interesting and worthy of the most
careful observation and study. Of this type I experienced and
wrote down 852 cases in the period between January 20, 1898,
and December 26, 1912.
In these dreams the reintegration of the psychic functions is
so complete that the sleeper remembers day-life and his own
condition, reaches a state of perfect awareness, and is able
to direct his attention, and to attempt different acts of free
volition. Yet the sleep, as I am able confidently to state, is
undisturbed, deep and refreshing. I obtained my first glimpse
of this lucidity during sleep in June, 1897, in the following
way. I dreamt that I was floating through a landscape with
bare trees, knowing that it was April, and I remarked that
the perspective of the branches and twigs changed quite
naturally. Then I made the reflection, during sleep, that my
fancy would never be able to invent or to make an image as
intricate as the perspective movement of little twigs seen in
floating by.
Many years later, in 1907, I found a passage in a work
by Prof. Ernst Mach, Analyse der Fmpfindungen, p. 164, in
which the same observation is made with a little difference.
Like me, Mach came to the conclusion that he was dreaming,
but it was because he saw the movement of the twigs to be
defective, while I had wondered at the naturalness which my
fancy could never invent. Professor Mach has not pursued
his observations in this direction, probably because he did not
believe in their importance. I made up my mind to look out
carefully for another opportunity. I prepared myself for
careful observation, hoping to prolong and to intensify the
lucidity.
In January, 1898, I was able to repeat the observation.
In the night of January 19-20, I dreamt that I was lying
in the garden before the windows of my study, and saw the
eyes of my dog through the glass pane. I was lying on my
chest and observing the dog very keenly. At the same time,
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 447
however, I knew with perfect certainty that I was dreaming
and lying on my back in my bed. And then I resolved to
wake up slowly and carefully and observe how my sensation
of lying on my chest would change into the sensation of lying
on my back. And so I did, slowly and deliberately, and the
transition—which I have since undergone many times—is most
wonderful. It is like the feeling of slipping from one body
into another, and there is distinctly a double recollection of
the two bodies. I remembered what I felt in my dream,
lying on my chest ; but returning into the day-life, I remem-
bered also that my physical body had been quietly lying on
its back all the while. This observation of a double memory
I have had many times since. It is so indubitable that it
leads almost unavoidably to the conception of a dream-body.
Mr. Havelock Ellis says with something of a sneer that
some people " who dabble in the occult " speak of an astral
body. Yet if he had had only one of these experiences, he
would feel that we can escape neither the dabbling nor the
dream-body. In a lucid dream the sensation of having a
body,—having eyes, hands, a mouth that speaks, and so on,
is perfectly distinct ;
yet I know at the same time that the
physical body is sleeping and has quite a different position.
In waking up the two sensations blend together, so to speak,
and I remember as clearly the action of the dream-body as
the restfulness of the physical body.
In February, 1899, I had a lucid dream, in which I made
the following experiment. I drew with my finger, moistened
by saliva, a wet cross on the palm of my left hand, with the
intention of seeing whether it would be still there after waking
up. Then I dreamt that I woke up and felt the wet cross
on my left hand by applying the palm to my cheek. And
then a long time afterwards I woke up really and knew at
once that the hand of my physical body had been lying in a
closed position undisturbed on my chest all the while.
The sensation of the voice during a lucid dream is most
marvellous, and after many repetitions still a source of amaze-
ment. I use my voice as loudly as I can, and though I
know quite well that my physical body is lying in profound
sleep, I can hardly believe that this loud voice is inaudible in
the waking world. Yet, though I have sung, shouted, and
448 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
spoken loudly in hundreds of dreams, my wife has never heard
my voice, and in several cases was able to assure me that I
had slept quite peacefully.
I cannot in this paper give even a short and superficial
account of the many interesting details of these dreams. I
must reserve that for my larger work. And I fear that only
a repeated personal acquaintance with the facts can convince
one of their significance. I will relate a few more instances
in order to give some idea of their character.
On Sept. 9, 1904, I dreamt that 1 stood at a table before
a window. On the table were different objects. I was per-
fectly well aware that I was dreaming and I considered what
sorts of experiments I could make. I began by trying to break
glass, by beating it with a stone. I put a small tablet of
glass on two stones and struck it with another stone. Yet it
would not break. Then I took a tine claret-glass from the
table and struck it with my fist, with all my might, at the
same time reflecting how daimerous it would be to do this in
waking life ;
yet the glass remained whole. But lo ! when I
looked at it again after some time, it was broken.
1
It broke all right, but a little too late, like an actor who
misses his cue. This gave me a very curious impression of
being in a fake-world, cleverly imitated, but with small failures.
I took the broken glass and threw it out of the window, in
order to observe whether I could hear the tinkling. I heard
the noise all right and I even saw two dogs run away from
it quite naturally. I thought what a good imitation this
comedy-world was. Then I saw a decanter with claret and
tasted it, and noted with perfect clearness of mind: "Well, we
can also have voluntary impressions of taste in this dream-
world ;
this has quite the taste of wine."
There is a saying by the German poet, Novalis, that when
we dream that we dream, we are near waking up. This view,
shared as it is by the majority of observers, I must decidedly
reject. Lucid dreams occur in deep sleep and do not as a
rule end in waking up, unless I wish it and do it by an act
of volition. I prefer, however, in most cases to continue
dreaming as long as possible, and then the lucidity vanishes
1
This corresponds with Mach's observation about the perspective of the
twigs.
Lxvir.] A Study of Dreams. 449
and gives place to other forms of dream, and—what seems
remarkable—the form that follows is often the " demon-dream,"
type (F) of which I will speak presently.
Then it often happens that I dream that I wake up and
tell my lucid dream to some other person. This latter is then
a dream of the common form (A). From this dream I wake
up in the real waking world, very much amazed at the curious
wanderings of my mind. The impression is as if I had been
rising through spheres of different depths, of which the lucid
dream was the deepest.
I may state that without exception all my lucid dreams
occurred in the hours between five and eight in the morning.
The particular significance of these hours for our dreams has
often been brought forward,—among others by Dante, Purg.
IX., where he speaks of the hour when the swallows begin
to warble and our mind is least clogged by the material body.
Lucid dreams are also symbolic,—yet in quite a different
way. I never remarked anything sexual or erotic in them.
Their symbolism takes the form of beautiful landscapes,
different luminous phenomena, sunlight, clouds, and especially
a deep blue sky. In a perfect instance of the lucid dream I
float through immensely wide landscapes, with a clear blue,
sunny sky, and a feeling of deep bliss and gratitude, which I
feel impelled to express by eloquent words of thankfulness and
piety. Sometimes these words seem to me a little rhetorical,
but I cannot help it, as it is very difficult in dreams to con-
trol emotional impulses. Sometimes I conceive of what appears
as a symbol, warning, consoling, approving. A cloud gathers
or the light brightens. Only once could I see the disc of the
sun.
Flying or floating may be observed in all forms of dreams,
except perhaps class (D); yet it is generally an indication that
lucid dreams are coming.
When I have been flying in my dreams for two or three
nights, then I know that a lucid dream is at hand. And the
lucid dream itself is often initiated and accompanied all the
time by the sensation of flying. Sometimes I feel myself
floating swiftly through wide spaces ; once I flew backwards,
and once, dreaming that I was inside a cathedral, I flew
upwards, with the immense building and all in it, at great
450 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
speed. I cannot believe that the rhythm of our breath has
anything to do with this sensation, as Havelock Ellis supposes,
because it is generally continuous and very swift.
Difficult, spasmodic floating belongs to dreaming of a lower
class, and this may depend on morbid conditions of the body
but it may also be symbolic of some moral difficulty or distress.
On Christmas-day, 1911, I bad the following dream. It
began with flying and floating. I felt wonderfully light and
strong. I saw immense and beautiful prospects,—first a town,
then country-landscapes, fantastic and brightly coloured. Then
I saw my brother sitting—the same who died in 1906—and
I went up to him saying :
" Now we are dreaming, both of
us." He answered :
" No, I am not
!
" And then I remem-
bered that he was dead. We had a long conversation about
the conditions of existence after death, and I inquired especially
after the aware-ness, the clear, bright insight. But that he
could not answer ; he seemed to lack it.
Then the lucid dream was interrupted by a common dream
of type (A) in which I saw a lady standing on a bridge, who
told me she had heard me talk in my sleep. And I supposed
that my voice had been audible during the lucid dream.
Then a second period of lucidity followed in which I saw
Prof, van't Hoff, the famous Dutch chemist, whom I had
known as a student, standing in a sort of college-room, sur-
rounded by a number of learned people. I went up to him,
knowing very well that he was dead, and continued my inquiry
about our condition after death. It was a long, quiet con-
versation, in which I was perfectly aware of the situation.
I asked first why we, lacking our organs of sense, could
arrive at any certainty that the person to whom we were
talking was really that person and not a subjective illusion.
Then van't Hoff said :
" Just as in common life ;
by a general
impression."
" Yet," I said, " in common life there is stability of observa-
tion and there is consolidation by repeated observation."
" Here also," said van't Hoff, " And the sensation of
certainty is the same." Then I had indeed a very strong
feeling of certitude that it was really van't Hoff with whom
I talked and no subjective illusion. Then I began to inquire
again about the clearness, the lucidity, the stability of this life
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 451
of shades, and then T got the same hesitating, dubious, unsatis-
factory answer as from my brother. The whole atmosphere
of the dream was happy, bright, elevated, and the persons
around van't Hoff seemed sympathetic, though I did not know
them.
"It will be some time probably before I join you," I said.
But I took myself then for younger than I was.
After that I had several common dreams of type (A), and
I awoke quite refreshed, knowing my voice had not been
audible in the waking world.
In May, 1903, I dreamed that I was in a little provincial
Dutch town and at once encountered my brother-in-law, who
had died some time before. I was absolutely sure that it
was he, and I knew that he was dead. He told me that
he had much intercourse with my " controller," as he expressed
it,—my guiding spirit. I was glad, and our conversation was
very cordial, more intimate than ever in common life. He
told me that a financial catastrophe was impending for me.
Somebody was going to rob me of a sum of 10,000 guilders.
I said that I understood him, though after waking up I was
utterly puzzled by it and could make nothing of it. My
brother-in-law said that my guiding spirit had told it to him.
I told the story to somebody else in my dream. Then I
asked my brother-in-law to tell me more of the after-life,
and just as he was going to answer me I woke up,—as if
somebody cut off the communication. I was not then as much
used to prolonging my dreams as I am now.
I wish to point out that this was the only prediction
I ever received in a lucid dream in such an impressive way.
And it came only too true, with this difference, that the sum
I lost was twenty times greater. At the time of the dream
there seemed not to be the slightest probability of such a
catastrophe. I was not even in possession of the money I
lost afterwards. Yet it was just the time when the first
events took place—the railway strikes of 1903—that led up
to my financial ruin.
Perhaps some of my audience will remember that I men-
tioned in a paper read to the S.P.E. on April 19, 1901, my
dream experiment with " Nelly," the control of Mrs. Thompson.1
Being able to act voluntarily in my dreams, I had made up
452 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
my mind to call people while dreaming. And I had succeeded
sometimes in seeing my call answered and a figure appear,
corresponding to the person whom I had called. I had
arranged with Mr. Piddington that he should independently
of me make notes during his sittings with Mrs. Thompson, and
inform me of it when my name was mentioned. In January,
1900, my call was twice answered, as I learnt by a letter
from London, telling me that the " control " had heard it.
And once when I called " Elsie " instead of " Nelly," as I
thought by mistake, —the name " Elsie " being without meaning
for me, this mistake was heard and explained by Nelly. Later
experiments with Mrs. Thompson had no success. The next
year, however, I came into contact, through the introduction of
W. T. Stead, with a very interesting medium, who, though
quite ignorant of psychical matters, had suddenly obtained com-
munications through automatic script from a son who had
died not long before as a boy of ten years, and whom she
had loved passionately.
This boy, whose name was Gordon, I called several times
in my dreams, and I saw him and described him to his
mother, and I was able to explain to her several particulars
which puzzled her very much. For instance, he told her that
he took part in her own suppers ; which did not at all corre-
spond to her idea of the after-life. To me he appeared on
a bicycle, and when his mother asked him about that he
answered :
" Oh yes, I have got a byke now." To me, know-
ing how the mind may experience all sorts of subjective
sensations and illusions, this was not so improbable as to her.
Of course I was constantly seeking for what psychical
researchers call " evidence," objective evidence. Therefore I
asked the boy in my dream on August 13, 1901, for a pass-
word. He complied with my wish and pronounced a word
that I understood as " Sin-ga-poor." I supposed he meant the
Asiatic town. His mother, however, got the explanation of
the word through automatic writing, a little later, though I
cannot tell exactly at what date, but certainly after she was
informed of my dream. The boy told his mother that he
had said to me, " Pick-a-boo," which was the word used by
him and his friends when they were hiding. This word and
1
See Proceedings, Vol. XVII., pp. H'2-115.
Lxvir.] A Study of Dreams. 453
its use were utterly unknown to me, and I think the corre-
spondence of the two words is remarkable. Yet I admit that
we want more evidence, and several other experiments, e.g. with
Frederic Myers and with W. T. Stead, were not successful.
Mr. Stead himself once gave me a little ring, telling me to
call the owner of it, whose name he gave me. I did so in
dream and saw the person and got a message which I
wrote to Stead. As I never received any answer I suppose
it was a failure.
1
I have called and seen several deceased persons in lucid
dreams. I called and saw Myers very shortly after his death,
but it was not convincing and the atmosphere was a little
dismal. He seemed disappointed and sad. In July, 1908, I
called and saw him again, very distinctly and certainly this
time. I asked him to tell Piddington that he had seen me.
He tried to give me a pass-word, but he could not, as if he
were too weak. I have successfully called my father and
different deceased friends and relations. William Stead I
have so far called in vain. Twice I saw, without having
called for him, a deceased man, for whom hitherto I had had
very little sympathy : King Leopold of Belgium. He seemed
to take great interest in me and my work, which seems to
me still very improbable.
I hope it will be clearly understood that I do not at all
presume to pronounce with any certainty as to the genuine
character of these apparitions. I myself felt certainty in my
dream ;
yet I cannot expect others to accept it on my word,
and doubt conies to myself often enough.
This sensation of certainty that it is the real person is
indescribable and of course not communicable. Once I saw
the face of my father, exactly as I had known him, and yet
I knew it was a deceit by a demon. I had not for one
moment the feeling that it was the real person. He asked
me :
" Am I not exactly like myself ?
" and I had to confess
that the likeness was perfect ;
yet I denied positively that
it was my father. This was a demon-dream of type (F).
In two cases, when I was calling a deceased friend in vain,
I saw the apparition of a postman coming,—a letter-carrier,
1
Recent information seems to show that it was not a failure. I hope to give
more particulars of this case later.
454 Dr. FrederiJc van Eeden. [part
who walked round me. As this occurred twice in different
years, it might have some symbolic meaning, though I cannot
make out what.
Now, whether these apparitions are genuine or not, I think
I am scientifically justified in making experiments as if they
were so, accepting it for the moment as a working hypothesis.
Only hundreds of observations will bring an approach to
certainty.
Just as there was deceit in the apparition of my father,
so there may be deceit in the lucid dream itself. In March,
1912, I had a very complicated dream, in which I dreamt
that Theodore Koosevelt was dead, then that I woke up and
told the dream, saying :
" I was not sure in my dream whether
he was really dead or still alive ; now I know that he is
really dead ; but I was so struck by the news that I lost
my memory." And then came a false lucidity in which I
said :
" Now I know that I dream and where I am." But
this was all wrong ; 1 had no idea of my real condition, and
only slowly, after waking up, I realised that it was all
nonsense.
Tins sort of mockery I call demoniacal. And there is a
connection, which I observed so frecpiently that it must have
some significance,—namely, that a lucid dream is immediately
followed by a demon-dream, of type (F).
I hope you allow me, if only for convenience' sake, to
speak as if these intelligences of a low moral order exist.
Let me call it also a working hypothesis. Then I wish to
point out to you the difference between the symbolic or
mocking dreams, of type (C), and the demon-dreams of type
(F).
In type (C) the sleeper is teased or puzzled or harassed
by various more or less weird, uncanny, obscene, lugubrious or
diabolical inventions. He has to walk in slaughter-houses
or among corpses ; he finds everything besmeared with blood
or excrement ; he is drawn into obscene, erotic or horrible
scenes, in which he even takes an active part. His moral
condition is utterly depraved ; lie is a murderer, an adulterer,
etc. ; in a word, nothing is too low or too horrible for such
dreams.
After waking up the effect is, of course, unpleasant ; he
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 455
is more or less ashamed and shocked ; he tries to shake off
the memory as soon as possible.
Now in type (F)—the demon-dreams—which are always
very near, before or after, the lucid dreams, type (K)—
undergo similar attacks ; but I see the forms, the figures, the
personalities of strange non-human beings, who are doing it.
One night, for instance, I saw such a being, going before me
and soiling everything he touched, such as door-handles and chairs.
These beings are always obscene and lascivious, and try to
draw me into their acts and doings. They have no sex
and appear alternately as a man, or a woman. Their
aspect is very various and variable, changing every moment,
taking all the fantastic forms that the old painters of
the Middle Ages tried to reproduce, but with a certain
weird plasticity and variability, that no painting can express.
I will describe one instance of these dreams (March 30,
1907, in Berlin), following immediately after a lucid dream.
The lucidity had not been very intense, and I had some
doubts about my real condition. Then all at once I was in the
middle of demons. Never before had I seen them so distinct,
so impertinent, so aggressive. One was slippery, shining, limp
and cold;
like a living corpse. Another changed its face
repeatedly and made the most incredible grimaces. One flew
underneath me shouting an obscenity with a curious slang-
word. I defended myself energetically, but principally with
invectives, which I felt to be a weakness. I saw the words
written.
The circle of demons was close to me and grinning; like a
mob of brutal street-boys. I was not afraid, however, and
said :
" Even if you conquer me, if God wills it I do not
fear." Then they all cried together like a rabble, and one
said :
" Let God then speak first
!
" Then I thundered with
all my might :
" He hak spoken long since
!
" And then I
pointed at one of them, saying :
" You I know for a long
time !
" and then pointing to another :
" And you !
"
Then I awoke at once, and I believe I made some audible
sound in waking up in the middle of my apostrophe.
And then—this will astonish you most—after this dispute I
felt thoroughly refreshed, cheered up and entirely serene and calm.
This is the principal difference from type (C), that in
2g
456 J)r. Frederik van Eeden. [part
type (F), when I sec the demons and fight them, the effect
is thoroughly pleasing, refreshing and uplifting.
I may take it for granted that the majority of psychologists,
reading the description of such a vivid dream, would feel
absolutely sure that there was something the matter with my
body,—some indigestion, some oppression or the like. As a
matter of fact my physical health was perfect, my doubts
were only moral, and the effect of this nightmare, which had
none of the real anguish of a nightmare, was pleasant, beneficial
and refreshing.
This is the principal point in these demon-dreams,—that,
whether these beings have a real existence or whether they
are only creations of my fancy, to see them and to fight
them takes away all their terror, all the uncanniness, the
weirdness, of their tricks and pranks.
I have not yet spoken about type (G), which I call " wrong
waking up," occurring always near awakening. Of this sort
of dream I found an excellent instance described by Mach, in
his Analyse eler Empfindungen, p. 130. He calls it " Phan-
tasma." We have the sensation of waking up in our ordinary
sleeping-room and then we begin to realise that there is
something uncanny around us ; we see inexplicable movements
or hear strange noises, and then we know that we are still
asleep. In my first experience of this dream I was rather
afraid and wanted nervously to wake up really. 1 think this
is the case with most people who have it. They become
frightened and nervous, and at last wake up with palpitations,
a sweating; brow and so on.
To me now these wrong-waking-up-dreains have lost their
terror. I consider them as demon-pranks, and they amuse me;
they do not tell on my nerves any more.
In July, 1906, sleeping at Langen Schwalbach, a deep sleep
after a laborious day, I had two or three dreams of the type
(G). I seemed to wake up and heard a big luggage-box being
Mown along the landing, with a tremendous bumping. Then I
realised that I had awakened in the demon-sphere. The second
time I saw that my sleeping-room had three windows, though
I knew there were only two. Wishing to make sure, I woke
up for a moment voluntarily and realised that my room had two
windows and that stillness had reigned in the house all night.
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 457
After that I had a succession of lucid dreams, very beautiful.
At the end of them, while I was still singing loudly, I was
suddenly surrounded by many demons, who joined in my
singing, like a mob of vicious semi-savage creatures. Then I
felt that I was losing my self-control. I began to act more
and more extravagantly, to throw my bedclothes and my
pillows about, and so on. I drew myself up and saw one
demon who had a less vicious look than the others and he
looked as if he were saying " You are going wrong." " Yes,"
I said, " but what shall I do ?
" Then he said, " Give them
the whip, on their naked backs." And I thought of Dante's
shades, who also feared the whip. I at once made—created—
whip of leathern strings, with leaden balls at the end. And
I threatened them with it and also struck at them a few
times. Then suddenly all grew perfectly quiet around me,
and I saw the creatures sneaking away with hypocritical faces,
as if they knew nothing about it at all.
I had many more adventures that night, lucid and common
dreams, and I awoke fresh and cheerful, better in spirits than
I had been for a long time.
This wrong-waking-up, type (G), is not to be confused with
the dreams related on p. 449, in which I dreamt that I
woke after a lucid dream and told that dream to some listener.
Those dreams were of the common sort (A). There was nothing
uncanny about them. Dreams of Class (Gr) are undoubtedly
demoniacal, uncanny, and very vivid and bright, with a sort
of ominous sharpness and clearness, a strong diabolical light.
Moreover the mind of the sleeper is aware that it is a dream,
and a bad one, and he struggles to wake up. As I said just
now, however, the terror ends as soon as the demons are
seen—as soon as the sleeper realises that he must be the
dupe of intelligences of a low moral order. I am prepared
to hear myself accused of superstition, of reviving the dark
errors of the Middle Ages. Well, I only try to tell the facts
as clearly as possible and I cannot do it without using these
terms and ideas. If anybody will replace them by others, I
am open to any suggestion. Only I would maintain that it
is not my mind that is responsible for all the horrors and
errors of dream-life. To say that nobody is responsible for
them will not do, for there is absolute evidence in them of
458 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
some thought and intention, however depraved and low. A trick,
a deceit, a symbol, cannot be without some sort of thought
and intention. To put it all down to " unconsciousness " is
very convenient ; but then I say that it is just as scientific
to use the names Beelzebub, or Belial. I, for one, do not
believe in " unconsciousness "
any more than in Santa Claus.
Finally, I must say a few words about class (I), what I call
pathological dreams. I know that psychologists of a certain
class will call all dreams more or less pathological, and those
that I have described most emphatically so. And I should
not wonder, knowing some of their ways of argumentation, if
they were to bring forward those very dreams as evidence
that my health is by no means so good as I maintain it
to be.
I can only say that I believe, on the contrary, that this
dream-life has saved me from loss of nervous or mental
equilibrium in periods of terrible strain. Those who know
what I have "one through often wonder that I did not
become a neurasthenic. I ascribe my freshness after severe
labour and difficulties to a great extent to the relaxing and
refreshing effect of these lucid dreams. As to true pathological
dreams under the influence of fever, indigestion, morphia, or
other drugs, I have very little experience. I remember, how-
ever, quite well that they show a strongly demoniacal
character. They may be similar to several other forms
described in my Table, except type (E). But all of them
are more confused, weird, vivid and vicious.
The remark may be made that in introducing intelligent
beings of a low order to explain these phenomena, an element
of arbitrariness is brought in, which excludes the possibility
of finding a scientific order. It is, for instance, convenient
to ascribe all the phenomena of insanity and of pathological
dreams to demons, who make use of the weakness of the
body to play their tricks. This is, in fact, the opinion of
no less a man than Alfred Hussel Wallace, as he freely 'con-
fessed to me in a personal conversation.
I do not think, however, that even this idea, taken as a
working hypothesis, will prevent us from trying to find a
scientific order even in these apparently demoniacal tricks
the fact, for instance, that certain drugs bring about halluci-
lxvii.] A Study of Dreams. 459
nations of a well-defined kind ; that cocaine produces delicious
expectations and pleasant dreams, and alcohol causes visions
of small white animals. This suggests that there must he
some order behind it, which is not purely arbitrary.
We are here, however, on the borders of a realm of
mystery where we have to advance very carefully. To deny
may be just as dangerous and misleading as to accept.
I should like to close this all too brief and imperfect sketch
with a few reflections—a few philosophical remarks.
When we see certain objects, say the blue sky, we have
learned to explain this phenomenon by an infinitely complicated
process. To bring about this simple fact, the perception of a
blue sky, we require not less than trillions of vibrations of
the most subtle kind, coming from the sun, and striking an
instrument so wonderfully elaborate and fine as our retinas and
the optic nerves.
And now, during sleep, the same phenomenon is repeated,
exactly repeated. When I see the blue sky in a lucid dream,
I see it as clearly, as brightly, as consciously as I now see this
paper. Pray, what is the difference ? Are these trillions of
vibrations and the wonderful machinery of the retinas not
wanted ? How is this second image then created ?
Psychologists speak of " hallucinations," of " cliche-souvenirs,"
of " imaginary objects," and so on. But these are all empty
words. We have two phenomena exactly alike. For one we
accept causes endlessly subtle, elaborate and complicated. For
the other we simply use a word :
" Hallucination." The retina
is not functioning, the light does not penetrate to it ;
yet
the phenomenon is repeated in a perfectly complete manner.
Who performs this miracle ? It seems to me a mockery
of our physical science. After years of painful study the
laws of light and colour, and the mechanics of the nervous
system were discovered to account for the phenomenon : the
sight of a blue sky. And yet there it is again without aether-
vibrations, without ocular action ; there it is, perfect, vivid,
clear, well-observed. Unstable, you will say, and vanishing.
But so are all phenomena. Only the order of changing is
different ; the momentary fact is the same. I will not here
attempt to deduce any conclusion from this ; I simply wish to
point out what so many men of science seem to forget. We
460 Dr. Frederik van Eeden. [part
hear Freud's triumphant assertion that all dream-life is now
explained. Mach says :
" Die Sonderbarkeiten des Traums
lassen sich alle darauf zuruckfiihren, dass manche Empfindungen
und Vorstellungen gar nicht, andere zu schwer und zu spat ins
Bewusstsein treten."
You hear it ;
all mystery is now explained by these few
empty words. Did you ever see such things as " sensations
or "representations" "walking into consciousness" as if they were
tourists and " consciousness " a hotel ? These are all words,
words, words,—bare verbiage ; no concrete reality can be
attached to such an explanation. It is against this scientific
arrogance that I utter a warning. No theory has as yet
explained all about dreams ; no ! not even more than the
tiniest part. We have not yet crossed the threshold of that
world, which for us is still " occult."
And yet we desire to know. We are thinking beings ; we
are proud of doing nothing without forethought. We wish to
look before us. And what is the only absolute certainty before
us ? Bodily death ;
complete material destruction. And if I
had to believe that this meant destruction of my mind ; if
to-morrow should mean annihilation of myself,—that is, every-
thing of which I have knowledge ;
—well, what would to-morrow
be for me ? Why should I, as a reasonable being, toil and
work and suffer any longer ? It would be absurd, a foolish-
ness !
The twentieth century has begun with many an enlighten-
ment, " auf klarung " in all directions. Men of science have
been severely reminded that they had been creating illusions
instead of following truth ; that they had been indulging in
verbiage and rhetoric, where they were pretending to build up
eternal systems.
The ideas of a clever thinker like Bergson are not so very
wonderful in themselves ; but the way he expresses them and
the fact that he is gaining wide authority is remarkable and
wonderful. He reminded psychologists that memory could not
be matter, and that the brain could not be a store-house of
"cliche-souvenirs." Psychologists could not contradict this; they
know the fact now ; but do they grasp its significance ?
If memory is not brain, then brain can be destroyed without
destroying memory. If psychical facts and not material facts are
LXVII.] A Study of Dreams. 4-61
the primary facts, then the psyche is more persistent than matter.
And if matter is indestructible, then mind and memory are
still more so. That is to say, my memory and yours,—not
somebody else's memory. /, myself, must persist. But how ?
I have a rational certainty of immortality ; I know that I,
my own self, my memory, is indestructible ; but the tremendous
question is, what am I to expect ? How will it be ?
No existing religion can give a satisfactory answer, no
philosophy even. For I know, as a psychologist, that there
is no religion that has not been the dupe of illusions, and no
philosophy that has not been the dupe of language, and of want
of significal insight.
We want facts, certitude, investigation along lines of experi-
ence, of real concrete things. No premature theories, no verbal
structures, no amount of scholarly learning without deep insight
will satisfy us.
And once more it must be repeated that facts are not the
less concrete and real because they are purely psychical facts,
and cannot yet be made to fit into any existing orderly system.
462 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on May 28th, 1913.
By Professor HENRI BERGSON.
Mesdambs, Messieurs,
Laissez-moi d'abord vous dire combien je vous suis
reconnaissant du grand honneur que vous m'avez fait en
m'appelant a la presidence de votre Societe. Get honneur, j'ai
conscience de n'avoir rien fait pour le m^riter. Je ne connais
que par des lectures les phenomenes dont la Societe s'occupe
je n'ai rien vu, rien observe moi-meme. Comment alors avez-
vous pu venir me prendre, pour me faire succeder aux grands
savants, aux penseurs eminents qui ont occupe tour a tour le
fauteuil presidentiel et dont la plupart etaient, en menie temps
que des homines auxquels leur science et leur talent avaient
valu une notoriete universelle, des esprits particulierement pr6-
occupes de l'etude de ces phenomenes mysterieux ? Si j'osais
plaisanter sur un pareil sujet, je dirais qu'il y a eu ici un
effet de telepathie ou de clairvoyance, que vous avez senti
de loin l'interet que je prenais a vos recherches, et que vous
m'avez apergu, k travers les quatre cents kilometres qui nous
separaient, lisant attentivement vos comptes-rendus, suivant vos
travaux avec une ardente curiosite. Ce que vous avez depense
d'ingeniosite, de penetration, de patience, de tenacite, a l'ex-
ploration de la terra incognita, des phenomenes psychiques me
parait en effet admirable. Mais, plus encore que cette ingeniosite
et plus que cette penetration, plus que l'inlassable perseverance
avec laquelle vous avez poursuivi votre route, j'admire le
courage qu'il vous a fallu pendant les premieres annees surtout,
lxvii.] Presidential Address. 463
pour hitter contre les preventions d'une bonne partie du
monde savant et pour braver la raillerie, qui fait peur aux
plus intrepides. C'est pourquoi je suis Her — plus tier que
je ne saurais le dire — d'avoir ete elu president de la Societe
de recherche psychique. J'ai lu quelque part l'histoire d'un
officier subalterne que les hasards de la bataille, la disparition
de ses chefs tues ou blesses, avaient appele a rhonneur de
commander le regiment : toute sa vie il
y pensa, toute sa vie
il en parla, et du souvenir de ces quelques heures son existence
entiere restait impregnee. Je suis cet officier subalterne, et
toujours je me feliciterai de la chance inattendue qui m'aura
mis — non pas pour quelques heures, mais pour quelques mois
— a la tete d'un regiment de braves.
D'ou viennent les preventions qu'on a eues pendant long-
temps, et que quelques-uns conservent encore, k legard des
etudes psychiques ? Comment expliquer que des savants, qui
trouvent tout naturel qu'on poursuive sous leur direction des
travaux de laboratoire en apparence insignifiants, qui pensent,
non sans raison, qu'il n'y a rien d'insignifiant pour la science,
temoignent une telle repugnance pour des recherches conune les
vdtres, hesitent meme a y voir des recherches scientifiques ?
C'est le point dont je voudrais dire un mot d'abord. Loin de
moi la pensee de critiquer leur critique pour le plaisir de faire
de la critique a mon tour. J'estime que le temps consacre a
la refutation, en philosophie, est generalement du temps perdu.
De tant d'attaques dirigees par taut de penseurs les uns contre
les autres, que reste-t-il ? rien, ou peu de chose. Ce qui
compte et ce qui demeure, c'est ce qu'on a apporte de verite
positive : 1'affirmation vraie se substitue d'elle-meme a l'idee
fausse et se trouve etre, sans qu'on ait pris la peine de
refuter personne, la meilleure des refutations. Mais il s'agit de
bien autre chose ici que de refuter ou de critiquer. Je voudrais
montrer que derriere les preventions des uns, les railleries
des autres, il y a, invisible et presente, une certaine metaphysique
inconsciente d'elle-meme, — inconsciente et par consequent incon-
sistante, inconsciente et par consequent incapable de se remodeler
sans cesse, conime doit le faire une philosophie digne de ce nom,
sur l'observation et l'experience, — que d'ailleurs cette metaphy-
sique est naturelle, qu'elle tient a un pli contracte depuis long-
temps par l'esprit humain, et que des lors nous avons tout
464 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
interet a aller la chercher derriere les critiques on les railleries
qui la cachent, afin de nous mettre en garde contre elle : nous
eviterons ainsi quelle agisse sur nous a notre tour et quelle
dresse sur notre route des obstacles artiliciels. Mais, avant
d'aborder cette question, qui concerne Fobjet meme de vos
etudes, je voudrais dire un mot de la methode que vous suivez,
methode dont je comprends tres bien qu'elle deroute un certain
nombre de savants.
Eien n'est plus desagreable au savant de profession que de
voir appliquer a une science de meme ordre que la sienne
une methode reservee d'ordinaire a des objets tout differents.
II tient a ses procedes comme l'ouvrier a ses outils : c'est
William James, je crois, qui a defini la difference entre le
professionuel et 1'amateur en disant que celui-ci s'interesse
surtout au resultat obtenu, et celui-la a la maniere dont on
1'obtient. Or, les' phenomenes dont vous vous occupez sont
incontestablement du meme genre que ceux qui font l'objet
de la science naturelle, tandis que la methode que vous
suivez, et que vous etes obliges de suivre, n'a souvent aucun
rapport avec celle des sciences de la nature.
Je dis que ce sont des faits du meme genre. J'entends par
la qu'ils manifestent surement des lois, et qu'ils sont sus-
ceptibles, eux aussi, de se repeter indefiniment dans le temps
et dans l'espace. Ce ne sont pas des faits comme ceux
dont s'occupe l'historien, par exemple. L'histoire, elle, ne se
recommence pas; la bataille d'Austerlitz s'est livree une fois,
et ne se livrera jamais plus. Les memes conditions historiques
ne pouvant se reproduire, le meme fait historique ne saurait
se repeter ; et comme une loi exprime necessairement qua
certaines causes, toujours les memes, correspondra un effet
toujours le meme aussi, l'histoire proprement dite ne porte pas
sur des lois, mais sur des faits particuliers et sur les circon-
stances, non moins particulieres, oil ils se sont accomplis.
L'unique question, ici, est de savoir si levenement a bien eu
lieu a tel moment determine du temps, en tel point determine
de l'espace, et comment il s'est produit. Au contraire, une
hallucination veridique, — l'apparition, par exemple, d'un homme
qui meurt h un parent ou a un ami qui peut etre separe
de lui par des centaines de kilometres, — est un fait qui, s'il
est reel, est sans doute la manifestation d'une loi analogue
LXVII.] Presiden tia I Address. 465
aux lois physiques, chimiques, biologiques. Je suppose, un
instant, que ce phenomene soit dii a une influence exercee,
a travers l'espace, par la conscience de l'une des deux
personnes sur la conscience de l'autre ;
je suppose, en
d'autres termes, que deux consciences humaines puissent com-
muniquer ensemble sans interme'diaire visible et qu'il y ait,
comme vous dites, " telepathie." Si la telepathie est un fait
reel, c'est un fait susceptible de se repeter indefiniment. Je
vais plus loin : si la telepathie est un fait reel, il est fort
possible quelle opere a chaque instant et chez tout le raonde,
mais avec trop peu d'intensite pour se faire remarquer, ou en
presence d'obstacles qui neutralisent l'effet au moment meme
ou il va se manifester. Nous produisons de l'electricite a
tout moment, l'atmosphere est constamment electrisee, nous
circulons parmi des courants magnetiques ; et pourtant des
millions d'hommes ont vecu pendant des milliers d'annees
sans soupconner l'existence de l'electricite. II pourrait en etre
de meme de la telepathie. Mais peu importe. Un point est
en tous cas incontestable, c'est que, si la telepathie est reelle,
elle est naturelle, et que, le jour ou nous en connaitrions les
conditions, il ne nous serait pas plus necessaire, pour obtenir
un effet telepathique, d'attendre une hallucination vraie, que
nous n'avons besoin aujourd'hui, quand nous voulons voir l'etin-
celle electrique, d'attendre que le ciel veuille bien nous en
donner le spectacle pendant une scene d'orage.
Voila done un phenomene qui semblerait, en raison de sa
nature, devoir etre etudie a la maniere du fait physique,
chimique, ou biologique. Mais pas du tout : vous etes
obliges de l'aborder avec une methode toute differente, qui
tient le milieu entre celle de l'historien et celle du juge
d'instruction. L'hallucination veridique remoute-t-elle au passe ?
vous etudiez les documents, vous les critiquez, vous ecrivez
une page d'histoire. Le fait est-il d'hier ? vous procedez a
une espece d'enquete judiciaire ; vous vous mettez en rapport
avec les temoins, vous les eonfrontez entre eux et vous con-
trolez la valeur de leur temoignage. Pour ma part, quand
je repasse dans ma memoire les resultats de l'admirable enquete
poursuivie continuellement par vous pendant plus de trente
ar.s, quand je pense a toutes les precautions que vous avez
prises pour eviter l'erreur, quand je vois comment, dans la
466 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
plupart cles cas que vous avez retenus, le recit de l'halluci-
nation avait etc fait a une ou plusieurs personnes, souvent
meme note par ecrit, avant que l'hallucination eiit etc
reconnue veridique, quand je tiens corapte du nombre enorrne
des faits et surtout de leur ressemblance entre eux, de leur
air de famille, de la concordance de tant de temoignages
independants les uns des autres, tous examines, controles,
soumis a la critique, —je suis porte a croire a la telepathie
de meme que je crois, par exemple, a la defaite de l'ln-
vincible Armada. Ce n'est pas la certitude mathematique
que me donne la demonstration du theoreme de Pythagore ; ce
n'est pas la certitude physique ou je suis de la verite de
la loi de la chute des corps ; e'est du moins toute la certitude
qu'on obtient en matiere historique ou judiciaire.
Mais voila justement ce qui deconcerte un assez grand nombre
d'esprits. Us trouvent etrange qu'on ait a traiter historique-
ment ou judiciairement des faits qui, s'ils sont reels, obeissent
surement a des lois et devraient alors, semble-t-il, se preter
aux methodes d'observation et d'experimentation usitees dans
les sciences de la nature. Dressez le fait a se produire dans
un laboratoire, on l'accueillera volontiers; jusque-la, on le tiendra
pour suspect. De ce que la " recherche psychique " ne peut
pas, pour le moment, proceder comme la physique et la cbimie,
on conclut qu'elle n'est pas scientifique ; et comme le " fait
psychique " n'a pas encore pris cette forme simple et abstraite
qui ouvre a un fait l'acces du laboratoire, volontiers on le
declarerait irrcel. Tel est, je crois, le raisonnement " subcon-
scient " d'un certain nombre de savants.
Je retrouve le meme sentiment, le meme dedain du concret,
au fond des objections qu'on eleve contre telle ou telle de
vos conclusions. Je n'en citerai qu'un exemple. 11 y a
quelque temps, dans une reunion mondaine a laquelle j'assis-
tais, la conversation tomba sur les phenomenes dont votre
Societe s'occupe, et plus particulierement sur les faits de
telepathie. Un de nos grands medecins etait la, qui est aussi
un de nos grands savants. Apres avoir ecoute attentivement
pendant quelques minutes, il prit la parole, et s'exprima a
peu pres en ces termes :
" Tout ce que vous dites la m'interesse
beaucoup, mais je vous demande de reflechir avant de tirer
une conclusion. Je connais, moi aussi, un fait extraordinaire.
LXVII.] Presidential Address. 467
Et ce fait, j'en garantis l'authenticite, car il m'a ete raconte
par une dame fort intelligente, dont la parole m'inspire une
confiance absolue. Le mari de cette dame etait ofticier. II
fut tue au cours d'un engagement. Or, au moment raeme
on le mari tombait, la femme eut la vision de la scene, vision
precise, de tous points conforme k la realite. Vous conclurez
peut-etre de la, comme cette dame, qu'il y avait eu clairvoyance
ou telepathie ? ... Vous n'oublierez qu'une chose : c'est qu'il
est arrive bien des fois qu'une femme revat que son mari etait
mort ou mourant, alors qu'il se portait fort bien. On remarque
les cas ou la vision tombe juste, on ne tient pas compte des
autres. Si Ton faisait le releve, on verrait que la coincidence
est l'oeuvre du simple hasard."
La conversation devia dans je ne sais plus quelle direction
il ne pouvait d'ailleurs etre question d'entamer une discussion
serieuse ; ce n'etait ni le lieu ni le moment. Mais, en sortant
de table, une tres jeune fille, qui avait bien ecoute, vint me
dire :
" II me semble que le docteur X . . . raisonnait mal tout-
a-l'heure. Je ne vois pas ou est le vice de son raisonnement
mais il doit y avoir un vice." Eh oui, il y avait un vice
C'est la petite jeune fille qui avait raison, et c'est le grand
savant qui avait tort. II fermait les yeux k ce que le phenomene
avait de concret. II raisonnait ainsi :
" Quand on reve qu'un
parent est mort ou mourant, ou c'est vrai ou c'est faux, ou
la personne meurt effectivement ou elle ne meurt pas. Et
par consequent, si le reve tombe juste, il faudrait, pour etre
sur qu'il n'y a pas la un effet du hasard, avoir compare le
nombre des cas ou Ton s'est trouve dans le vrai au nombre
des cas ou Ton a ete dans le faux." II ne voyait pas que
la force apparente de son argumentation tenait ;i ce qu'il
avait remplace la description de la scene concrete et vivante,
— de l'officier tombant k un moment determine, en un lieu
determine, avec tels ou tels soldats autour de lui, — par
cette formule abstraite et morte :
" La dame, en revant, etait
dans le vrai, et non pas dans le faux." Ah, si nous acceptons
cette transposition dans l'abstrait, il faudra en effet que nous
comparions in abstracto le nombre des cas vrais au nombre
des cas faux ; et nous trouverons peut-etre qu'il y en a plus
de faux que de vrais, et notre docteur aura eu raison. Mais
cette abstraction consiste a negliger ce qu'il y a d'essentiel —
468 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
le tableau apercu par la dame, et qui se trouve etre identique
a une scene tres eloignee d'elle. Concevez-vous qu'un peintre,
dessinant sur sa toile un coin de bataille, et se fiant pour
cela a sa fantaisie, puisse etre si bien servi par le hasard qu'il
se trouve avoir fait le portrait de soldats reels, reellement
presents ce jour-la a une bataille on ils prenaient les
attitudes que le peintre leur prete ? Evidemment non. La
supputation des probabilities, a laquelle on fait appel ici, nous
montrerait que c'est impossible, parce qu'une scene on des
personnes determinees prennent des attitudes determiners est
chose unique en son genre, parce qu'un visage humain, meme
isole\ est deja unique en son genre, et que par consequent chaque
personnage — k plus forte raison la scene qui les reunit — est
decomposable en une infinite de details independants les uns
des autres : de sorte qu'il faudrait un nombre de coincidences
infini pour que le hasard fit de la scene de fantaisie la repro-
duction exacte d'une scene reelle: en d'autres termes, il est
mathematiquement impossible qu'un tableau sorti de l'imagina-
tion du peintre dessine exactement un coin de bataille tel
qu'il est. Or, la dame qui avait la vision d'un coin de bataille
etait dans la situation de ce peintre ; son imagination executait
un tableau. Si le tableau etait la reproduction d'une scene
reelle, il fallait, de toute necessite, quelle fut en communication
avec cette scene ou avec une conscience qui en avait la per-
ception. Je n'ai que faire de la comparaison du nombre des
" cas vrais " a celui des " cas faux " ; la statistique n'a rien h
voir ici ; le cas unique qu'on me presente me sufht, du moment
que je le retiens avec ce qu'il a de concret. C'est pourquoi,
si c'eut etc le moment de discuter avec le docteur, je lui aurais
dit : "Je ne sais si le recit qu'on vous a fait etait ridele
j'ignore si la dame dont vous parlez a eu la vision exacte de
la scene qui se deroulait loin d'elle ; mais si ce point m'&tait
demontre, si je pouvais seulement etre sur que la physionomie
d'un soldat inconnu d'elle, present a la scene, lui est apparue
telle quelle etait en realite, — eh bien alors, quand meme il me
serait prouve qu'il y a eu des milliers de visions fausses et
quand meme il n'y aurait jamais eu d'autre hallucination veri-
dique que celle-ci, je tiendrais pour rigoureusement et defini-
tivement etablie l'existence de la telepathie ou d'une cause,
quelle quelle soit, pouvant nous faire percevoir des objets et
lxvit.] Presidential Address. 469
des evenements situes hors de la portee normale de nos
sens."
Mais en voila assez sur ce point. J'arrive a la cause profonde
qui a retarde jusqu'ici le progres de la " recherche psychique
"
en dirigeant exclusivement d'un autre cote l'activite des savants.
J'ai entendu des personnes interessees a. vos travaux setonner
que la science moderne ait si longtemps neglige les faits dont
vous vous occupez, alors qu'elle devrait, en vertu de son carac-
tere experimental, s'interesser a des recherches qui pourront
susciter plus tard une foule d'experiences nouvelles. Mais il
faudrait s'entendre sur ce qu'on appelle le caractere experi-
mental de la science moderne. Que la science moderne ait cr6e
la methode experimentale, c'est certain; mais cela ne veut pas
dire qu'elle ait elargi le champ d'experiences qui existait avant
elle. Bien an contraire, elle l'a souvent retreci ; et c'est la,
d'ailleurs, ce qui a fait sa force. Quand nous lisons les ecrits des
anciens, nous sommes frappes de voir combien ils avaient observe
et meme experiments. Mais ils observaient au hasard, dans
n'importe quelle direction. En quoi consista la creation de la
" methode experimentale " ? Simplement k prendre des proced£s
d'observation et d'experimentation qui existaient deja, et, plutot
que de les appliquer dans toutes les directions possibles, a
les faire converger sur un seul point, la mesvre,-— la mesure
de telle on telle grandeur variable dont on soupconnait qu'elle
pouvait etre fonction de telles ou telles autres grandeurs variables,
egalement k mesurer. La " loi," au sens moderne du mot, est
justement l'expression d'une relation constante entre des gran-
deurs qui varient. La science moderne est done fille des mathe -
matiques ; elle est nee le jour ou l'algebre eut acquis assez de
force et de souplesse pour pouvoir enlacer la realite, la prendre
dans le filet de ses calculs. D'abord parurent l'astronomie et la
mecanique, sous la forme essentiellement mathematique que les
modernes leur ont donnee. Puis se developpa la physique,
une physique egalement mathematique. La physique suscita la
chimie, elle aussi fondee sur des mesures, sur des comparaisons
de poids et de volumes. Apres la chimie vint la biologie, qui,
sans doute, n'a pas encore pris la forme mathematique et n'est
pas pres de la prendre, mais qui n'en cherche pas moins, par
l'interm^diaire de la physiologie, a ramener les lois de la vie k
celles de la chimie et de la physique, e'est-a-dire, indirectement,
470 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
de la mecanique. De sorte qu'en definitive notre science tend
toujours a la forme mathematique conime a un ideal : elle
vise essentiellenient h mesurer, et la on le calcul n'est pas
encore applicable, la ou elle doit se borner k une description
ou a une analyse de son objet, elle s'arrange pour n'envisager
de cet objet que le cote capable de devenir un jour accessible
a la mesure.
Or, il est de l'essence des choses de l'esprit de ne pas se
preter a la mesure. Le premier mouvement de la science
moderne devait done etre de chercher si Ton ne pourrait pas
substituer aux phenomenes de l'esprit des phenomenes qui en
fussent les equivalents et qui seraient, eux, mesurables. De
fait, nous voyons que la conscience est liee, d'une maniere ou
d'une autre, a un cerveau. On s'empara done du cerveau,
on s'attacba au fait cerebral, — dont on ne connait certes pas
la nature, mais dont on sait qu'il doit pouvoir se resoudre
finalement en mouvements de molecules et d'atomes, e'est-a-
dire en faits relevant de la mecanique, — et Ton convint de
consieb'rer le cerebral conime l'equivalent du mental. Toute
notre science de l'esprit, toute notre rnetaphysique, depuis le
xvne
siecle jusqua nos jours, est penetree de l'idee de
cette equivalence. On parle indifferemment de la pensee ou
du cerveau, soit qu'on fasse du mental un simple " epiphe-
nomene " du cerebral, conime le veut le materialisme, soit
qu'on mette le mental et le cerebral sur la meme ligne en les
considerant comme deux traductions, en langues differentes,
du meme original. Bref, l'hypothese d'un paralUlisme rigoureux
entre le cerebral et le mental parait eminemment scientifique.
D'instinct, la philosophic et la science tendent a ecarter ce
qui contredirait cette hypothese ou ce qui serait mal com-
patible avec elle. Et tel parait etre, a premiere vue, le cas
des faits qui relevent de la " recherche psychique," — ou tout
au moins le cas de bon nonibre d'entre eux.
Eh bien, le moment est venu de considerer de pres cette
hypothese, et de voir ce quelle vaut. Je n'insisterai pas sur
les difficultes, sur les absurdites theoriques qu'elle souleve.
J'ai montre ailleurs que, prise a la lettre, elle est contradictoire
avec elle-meme. J'ajoute que, primd facie, il est contraire
a toute vraisemblance que la nature se donne le luxe de
repeter purement et simplement en langage de conscience ce
LXVII.] Presidential Address. 471
que l'ecorce cerebrale accoraplit sous forme de mouvemeut
atomique ou moleculaire. Une conscience qui ne serait qu'un
duplicatum, qui n'interviendrait pas activement, aurait sans
doute disparu depuis longtemps de l'univers, a supposer qu'elle
se fut jamais produite : ne voyons-nons pas que nos actions
tendent a devenir inconscientes an fur et a mesure que
l'habitude les rend machinales ? Mais je ne veux pas in-
sister sur ces considerations theoriques. Ce que je pretends,
c'est que les faits, eonsultes sans parti pris, ne confirment ni
raerae ne suggerent l'hypothese du parallelisme.
Pour une seule fonction de la pensee, en effet, l'experience
a pu faire croire qu'elle etait localisee en un certain point du
cerveau : je veux parler de la memoire, et plus particuliere-
ment de la memoire des mots. Ni pour le jugement, ni pour
le raisonnement, ni pour aucune autre faculte de la pensee
propreuient dite nous n'avons la moindre raison de supposer
qu'elle soit attachee k tels ou tels processus cerebraux deter-
mines. Au contraire, les maladies de la memoire des mots —
ou, comme on dit, les apbasies — correspondent a des lesions
determinees de certaines circonvolutions cerebrales : de sorte
qu'on a pu considerer la memoire comme localisee dans le
cerveau, et les souvenirs visuels, auditifs, moteurs des mots
comme deposes a l'interieur de l'ecorce, — veritables cliches pho-
tographiques qui conserveraient d'anciennes impressions lumi-
neuses, veritables disques phonographiques qui enregistreraient
des vibrations sonores. En somme, si Ton examine de pres
tous les faits allegues en faveur d'une exacte correspondance et
d'une espece d'adh&rence de la vie mentale a la vie cerebrale
(je laisse de cote, cela va sans dire, les sensations et les mouve-
ments, car le cerveau est certainement un organe sensori
moteur), on voit que ces faits se reduisent aux phenoinenes
de memoire, et que c'est la localisation des aphasies, et cette
localisation seule, qui semble apporter a la doctrine paralleliste
un commencement de preuve experimentale.
Or, une etude plus approfondie des diverses aphasies mon-
trerait precisement, a mon avis, l'impossibilite de considerer
les souvenirs comme des cliches ou des phonogrammes deposes
dans le cerveau, l'impossibilite d'admettre que ce soit reelle-
ment dans le cerveau que les souvenirs se conservent. Je ne
puis entrer ici dans les details de la critique que j'ai faite
2h
472 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
autrefois de l'interpretation courante des aphasies, critique qui
a pu paraitre paradoxale a l'epoque ou une certaine conception
de l'aphasie etait acceptee comme un dogme, mais a laquelle
l'anatomie pathologique elle-meme est venue, dans ces dernieres
annees, apporter son concours (je fais allusion aux travaux du
professeur Pierre Marie et de ses eleves). Je me bornerai
done a vous rappeler mes conclusions. Ce qui me parait se
degager de l'etude attentive des faits, e'est que les lesions ctke-
brales caracteristiques des diverses aphasies n'atteignent pas les
souvenirs eux-memes, et que par consequent il n'y a pas, emmaga-
sines en tels ou tels points de lecoree cerebrale, des souvenirs
que la maladie detruirait. Ces lesions rendent, en reality,
impossible ou difficile revocation des souvenirs ; elles portent
sur le mecanisme du rappel, et sur ce mecanisme seulement.
Plus precisement, le role du cerveau est ici de faire que l'esprit,
quand il a besoin de tel ou tel souvenir, puisse obtenir du corps
une certaine attitude ou certains mouvements naissants, qui
presentent au souvenir cherche un cadre approprie. Si le cadre
est la, le souvenir viendra, de lui-nieme, s'y inserer. L'organe
cerebral prepare le cadre, il ne fournit pas le souvenir. Voila,
a moD sens, ce que montre une £tude attentive des maladies
de la metnoire des mots, et ce que fait d'ailleurs pressentir
l'analyse psychologique de la memoire en general.
Mais, si nous examinons maintenant les autres fonctions de
la pensee, l'hypothese que les faits nous suggerent le plus
naturellement n'est pas du tout celle d'un paralledisme rigoureux
entre la vie mentale et la vie c6r6brale. Bien au contrake,
dans le travail de la pensee en general, comme dans l'opera-
tion de la memoire, le cerveau nous apparart comme charge
d'imprimer au corps les mouvements et les attitudes qui
joumt ce que l'esprit pense ou ce que les circonstances l'invitent
a penser. C'est ce que j'ai expriine ailleurs en disant que le
cerveau est un " organe de pantomime." Et c'est pourquoi,
comme je l'ai dit ailleurs aussi, " celui qui pourrait regarder a
l'interieur d'un cerveau en pleine activite, suivre le va-et-
vient des atomes et interpreter tout ce qu'ils font, celui-la
saurait sans doute quelque chose de ce qui se passe dans l'esprit,
mais il n'en saurait que pen de chose. II en connaitrait tout
juste ce qui est exprimable en gestes, attitudes et mouvements
du corps, ce que l'etat dame contient d'action en voie d'accom-
LXVII.] Presidential Address. 473
plissement, ou simplement naissante : le reste lui echapperait.
II serait, vis-a-vis des pensees et des sentiments qui se deroulent
a l'interieur de la conscience, dans la situation du spectateur
qui voit distinctement tout ce que les acteurs font sur la scene,
mais n'entend pas un mot ce qu'ils disent." Ou bien encore
il serait dans l'etat d'une personne qui ne connaitrait, d'une
symphonie, que les mouvements du baton du chef d'orehestre
qui la dirige. Les phenomenes cerebraux sont en effet a la vie
mentale ce que les gestes du chef d'orehestre sont a la sym-
phonie : ils en dessinent les articulations motrices, ils ne font
pas autre chose. On ne trouverait done rien des operations
de l'esprit proprement dit a l'interieur du cerveau. Le cerveau,
en dehors de ses fonctions sensorielles, n'a d'autre role que de
mimer la vie mentale.
Je reconnais d'ailleurs que cette mimique est d'une impor-
tance capitale. C'est par elle que nous nous inserons dans la
renlite, que nous nous y adaptons, que nous repondons aux
sollicitations des circonstances par des actions approprie'es. Si
la conscience n'est pas une fonction du cerveau, du moins le
cerveau maintient-il la conscience fixee sur le monde ou nous
vivons ; c'est l'organe de l'attention a la vie. Aussi une modifi-
cation cer^brale meme legere, une d'intoxication passagere par
l'alcool ou l'opium par exemple, — a plus forte raison une in-
toxication durable comme celles qui causent sans doute le plus
souvent l'alienation, — peuvent-elles entrainer une perturbation
complete de la vie mentale. Ce n'est pas que l'esprit soit
atteint alors direetement. II ne faut pas croire, comme on le
fait souvent, que le poison soit alle chercher dans l'ecorce cere-
brale tel ou tel mecanisme qui serait l'aspect materiel du
raisonnement, qu'il ait derange ce mecanisme et epie ce soit
pour cela que le malade divague. Mais l'effet de la lesion est
de fausser l'engrenage et de faire que la pensee ne s'insere plus
exactement dans les choses. Un fou, atteint du delire de la
persecution, pourra encore raisonner tres logiquement : mais il
raisonne a cote de la realite', en dehors de la realite, comme
nous raisonnons en reve. Orienter notre pensee vers Taction,
l'amener ;i preparer l'acte que les circonstances reclament, voila
ce pour quoi notre cerveau est fait.
Mais par la il canalise, et par la aussi il limite, la vie de
l'esprit. II nous empeche de jeter les yeux k droite et h
474 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
gauche et meme, autant que possible, en arriere ; il veut que
nous regardions droit devant nous, dans la direction ou nous
avons a marcher. N'est-ce pas deja visible dans l'operation
de la memoire, dont nous parlions tout-ad'heure ? Bien des
faits semblent indiquer que le passe se conserve jusque dans
ses moindres details et qu'il n'y a pas d'oubli reel. Vous
vous rappelez ce qu'on raconte des noyes et des pendus qui,
revenus ;\ la vie, declarent avoir en, en quelques secondes,
la vision panoramique de la totalite de leur vie passee. Je
pourrais citer d'autres exemples, car l'asphyxie n'est pour rien
dans le phenomene, quoi qu'on en ait dit. Un alpiniste
glissant an fond d'un precipice, un soldat autour duquel s'abat
tout a coup une grele de balles, auront parfois la meme vision.
La verite est que notre passe tout entier est la, continuelle-
ment, et que nous n'aurions qu'a nous retourner pour l'aper-
cevoir ;
seulement, nous ne pouvons ni ne devons nous retourner.
Nous ne le devons pas, parce que notre destination est de
vivre, d'agir, et que la vie et Taction regardent en avant.
Nous ne le pouvons pas, parce que le mecanisme cerebral a
precisement pour role ici de nous masquer le passe, de n'en
laisser transparaitre, a chaque instant, que ce qui pent eclairer
la situation pr6sente et favoriser notre action : c'est meme en
obscurcissant la totalite de nos souvenirs — sauf celui qui
nous interesse et que notre corps esquisse deja par sa
mimique —qu'il rappelh ce souvenir utile. Maintenant,
que l'attention a, la vie vienne h faibler un instant, —je
ne parle pas de l'attention volontaire, de celle qui depend
de l'individu, mais d'une attention qui s'impose a l'homme
normal et qu'on pourrait appeler "l'attention de l'espece," —
alors l'esprit, dont le regard dtait maintenu de force en avant,
se detend et par la meme se retourne en arriere ; la totalite
de son passe lui apparait. La vision panoramique du passe
est done due a un brusque cUsintdrcssemmt de la vie, produit dans
certains cas par la menace d'une mort subite. Et e'etait k
maintenir l'attention fixee sur la vie, a retrecir utilement le
champ de la vision mentale, qu'etait occupe jusque-la le cerveau
en tant qu'organe de memoire.
Mais ce que je dis de la memoire serai t aussi vrai de
la perception. Je ne puis entrer ici dans le ddta.il d'une
demonstration que j'ai faite autrefois : qu'il me suffise de
LXVIT.] Presidential Address. 475
rappeler que tout devient obscur, et ineme incomprehensible,
si Ton eonsidere les centres cerebraux eomme des organes
capables de transformer en etats conscients des ebranle-
ments materiels, que tout s'eclaircit au contraire si Ton voit
simplement dans ces centres (et dans les dispositifs sensoriels
auxquels ils sont lies) des instruments de selection charges de
choisir, dans le champ immense de nos perceptions virtuelles,
celles qui devront s'actualiser. Leibniz disait que chaque mo-
nade, et par consequent, a fortiori, chacune de ces monades
qu'il appelle des esprits, porte en elle la representation con-
sciente ou inconsciente de la totalite des choses. Je n'irais
pas aussi loin ; mais j'estime (pie nous percevons virtuellement
beaucoup plus de choses que nous n'en percevons actuellement,
et qu'ici encore le role de notre corps est d'ecarter du champ
de notre conscience tout ce qui ne nous serait d'aucun interet
pratique, tout ce qui ne se prete pas a notre action. Les
organes des sens, les nerfs sensitifs, les centres cerebraux cana-
lisent done les influences du dehors, et marquent ainsi les
diverses directions ou notre propre influence pourra s'exercer.
Mais, par la, ils retrecissent le champ de notre vision du pre-
sent, de meme que les mecanismes cerebraux de la memoire
limitent notre vision du passe. Or, de meme (pie certains
souvenirs inutiles, ou souvenirs " de reve," arrivent a se glisser
dans le champ de la conscience, profitant d'un moment
d'inattention k la vie, ne pourrait-il pas y avoir, autour
de notre perception normale, une frange de perceptions le
plus souvent inconscientes, mais toutes pretes a entrer
dans la conscience, et s'y introduisant en effet dans certains
cas exceptionnels ou chez certains sujets predisposes ? S'il y
a des perceptions de ce genre, elles ne relevent pas seulement
de la psyehologie proprement dite ; elles sont de celles sur
lesquelles la " recherche psychique " pourrait et devrait s'exercer.
N'oublions pas, d'ailleurs, que l'espace est ce qui cree les
divisions nettes, les distinctions precises. Nos corps sont ex-
terieurs les uns aux autres dans l'espace ; et nos consciences,
en tant qu'attachees a ces corps, sont exterieures les unes aux
autres aussi. Mais si elles ne tiennent au corps que par
une partie d'elles-memes, on pent conjecturer que, pour le
reste, elles ne sont pas aussi nettement separees. Loin de
moi la pensee de considerer la personnalite comme une simple
476 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
apparence, ou comme une realite ephemere, ou comme une
dependance de l'activite cerebrale ! Mais il est fort possible
qu'entre les diverses personnalites s'accomplissent sans cesse des
(•changes eomparables aux phenomenes d'endosmose. Si cette
endosniose exi.ste, on peut prevoir que la nature aura pris toutes
ses precautions pour en neutraliser l'effet, et que certains
mecanismes devront etre specialement charges de rejeter dans
l'inconscient les representations ainsi provoquees, car elles
seraient fort embarrassantes dans la vie de tous les jours. Telle
ou telle de ces representations pourrait cependant, ici encore,
passer en contrebande, surtout quand les mecanismes inhibitifs
fonctionnent mal ; et sur elles encore s'exercerait la " recherche
psychique."
Plus nous nous accoutumerons a cette idee d'une conscience
qui deborde l'organisme, plus nous trouverons naturelle et
vraisemblable l'hypothese de la survivance de lame au corps.
Certes, si le mental etait rigoureusement caique sur le cerebral,
s'il n'y avait rien de plus dans une conscience humaine que
ce qu'il serait possible de lire dans son cerveau, nous pour-
rions admettre que la conscience suit les destinees du corps
et meurt avec lui. Mais si les faits, etudies sans parti pris,
nous amenent au contraire a considerer la vie mentale comme
beaucoup plus vaste que la vie cerebrale, le survivance devient
si probable que l'obligation de la preuve incombera a celui qui
la nie, bien plutot qu'a celui qui 1'afBrme ;
car, ainsi que je
le disais ailleurs, " l'unique raison que nous puissions avoir de
croire a une extinction de la conscience apres la mort est que
nous voyons le corps se desorganiser, et cette raison n'a plus
de valour si rindependance au moins partielle de la conscience
a l'e'gard du corps est, elle aussi, un fait d'experience."
Telles sont, brievement resumees, les conclusions auxquelles
me conduit un examen impartial des faits connus. C'est dire
que je considere comme tres vaste, et meme comme indefmi,
le champ ouvert a la recherche psychique. Cette nouvelle
science aura vite fait de rattraper le temps perdu. Les
mathematiques remontent a l'antiquite grecque ; la physique
a deja trois ou quatre cents ans d'existence ; la chimie date
du xvnie
siecle ; la biologie est presque aussi vieille ; mais
la psychologic date d'hier, et la "recherche psychique" en
est a pen pros contemporaine. Faut-il regretter ce retard ?
LXVII.] Presidential Address. 477
Je me suis demande quelquefois ce qui se serait passe si
la science moderne, au lieu de partir des mathematiques pour
s'orienter dans la direction de la mecanique, de l'astronomie, de
la physique et de la chimie, au lieu de faire converger toutes
ses forces sur l'etude de la matiere, avait debute par la
consideration de l'esprit, — si Kepler, Galilee, Newton, par
exemple, avaient ete. des psychologues. Nous aurions certaine-
nient eu une psychologie dont nous ne pouvons nous faire
aucune idee aujourd'hui, pas plus qu'on n'eut pu, avant Galilee,
imaginer ce que serait notre physique : cette psychologie eut pro-
bableinent ete a notre psychologie actuelle ce (pie notre physique
est a celle d'Aristote. Etrangere a toute idee mecanistique,
ne concevant meme pas la possibility d'une pareille explication,
la science eut recherche alors, au lieu de les ecarter a priori,
des faits comme ceux que vous etudiez : peut-etre meme la
" recherche psychique " eut-elle figure parmi ses principales
preoccupations. Une fois decouvertes les lois les plus generales
de l'activite spirituelle (comme le furent, en fait, les lois fonda-
mentales de la mecanique), on aurait passe de l'esprit propre-
ment dit a la vie : la biologie se serait constitute, mais une
biologie vitaliste, toute differente de la notre, qui serait allee
chercher, derriere les formes sensibles des etres vivants, la force
interieure, invisible, dont elles sont les manifestations. Sur cette
force nous n'avons aucune prise aujourd'hui, justement parce
que notre science de l'esprit est encore dans l'enfance ; et c'est
pourquoi les savants n'ont pas tort quand ils reprochent au
vitalisme d'etre une doctrine sterile : il est sterile aujourd'hui,
il ne le sera peut-etre pas toujours, et il ne l'eut pas ete,
probablement, si la science moderne, k l'origine, avait pris les
choses par un autre bout. En meme temps que cette biologie
vitaliste aurait surgi une medecine qui eut remedie directement
aux insuffisances de la force vitale, qui eut vise la cause et non
pas les effets, le centre au lieu de la peripheric : la thera-
peutique par suggestion eut pu prendre des formes et des pro-
portions dont il nous est impossible de nous faire la moindre
idee. Ainsi se serait fondee, ainsi se serait developpee la
science de l'activite spirituelle. Mais lorsque, suivant de haut
en bas les manifestations de l'esprit, traversant la vie et la
matiere vivante, elle fut arrivee, de degre en degre, a la
matiere inerte, la science se serait arretee brusquement, surprise
478 Professor Henri Bergson. [part
et desorientee. Elle aurait essaye d'appliquer a ce nouvel
objet ses methodes habituelles, et elle n'aurait eu aucune
prise sur lui, pas plus que les procedes de calcul et de mesure
n'ont de prise aujourd'hui sur les choses de l'esprit. O'est la
matiere, et non plus l'esprit, qui eut ete le royaume du
mystere. Je suppose alors que dans 1111 pays inconnu,—en
Amerique par exemple, mais dans une Amerique non encore
decouverte par l'Europe,—se fut developpee une science identique
a notre science actuelle, avec toutes ses applications meca-
niques. II aurait pu arriver de temps en temps a des pecheurs,
s'aventurant au large de cotes d'lrlande on de Bretagne, d'aper-
cevoir au loin, a l'horizon, un navire americain filant a toute
vitesse contre le vent, — ce que nous appelons un bateau
a vapeur. lis seraient venus raconter ce qu'ils avaient vu.
Les aurait-on crus ? Probablement non. On se serait d'autant
plus mefie d'eux qu'on eut ete plus savant, plus penetre d'une
science qui, par ses tendances purement psychologiques, aurait
ete orientee en sens inverse de la physique et de la inecanique.
Et il aurait fallu alors que se constituat une societe comme la
votre, — mais cette fois une Societe de recherche physique,—
laquelle eut fait comparaitre devant elle les temoins, controle
et critique leurs recits, etabli l'authenticite des " apparitions
de bateaux a vapeur. Toutefois, ne disposant pour le moment
que de cette methode historique on critique, elle n'aurait pas
pu vaincre le scepticisme de ceux qui l'auraient mise en
demeure — puisqu'elle croyait a l'existence de ces bateaux
miraculeux — d'en construire un et de le faire marcher.
Voila ce que je m'amuse quelquefois a rever. Mais quand je
fais ce reve, bien vite je l'interromps et jo me dis : Non! il
n'etait ni possible ni desirable que l'esprit humain suivit cette
marche. Cela n'etait pas possible, parce que, a l'aube des temps
modernes, la science mathematique existait deja, et qu'il fallait
necessairement commencer par tirer d'elle tout ce qu'elle pouvait
donner pour la connaissance du monde ou nous vivons : on ne
lache pas le proie pour ce qui n'est peut-etre qu'une ombre. Mais,
a supposer que c'eut etc possible, il n'etait pas desirable, pour
la science psychologique elle-meme. que l'esprit humain s'appli-
quat d'abord k elle. Car, sans doute, si l'on eut depense de ce
cote la somme de travail, de talent et de genie qui a ete
consacree aux sciences de la matiere, la connaissance de l'esprit
l.XVIT.] Presidential Address. 479
eut pu etre poussee tres loin ;
mais quelque chose lui eut
toujours nianque, qui est d'un prix inestimable et sans quoi
tout le reste perd beaucoup de sa valeur : la precision, la
rigueur, le souci de la preuve, l'habitude de distingue r entre
ce qui est simplement possible ou probable et ce qui est certain.
Ne croyez pas que ce soient la des qualites naturelles k l'intelli-
gence. L'humanite s'est passee d'elles pendant fort longtemps ;
et elles n'auraient peut-etre jamais paru dans le monde s'il ne
s'etait rencontre jadis, en un coin de la Grece, un petit peuple
auquel I'd pen pres ne suffisait pas, et qui inventa la precision.
Les mathematiques — cette creation du genie grec — furent-elles
ici l'effet ou la cause ? je ne sais ; mais incontestablement c'est
par les mathematiques que le besoin de la preuve s'est propage
d'intelligence k intelligence, prenant d'autant plus de place dans
l'esprit humain que la science mathematique, par l'intermediaire
de la mecanique, embrassait un plus grand nombre de pheno-
menes de la matiere. L'habitude d'apporter k l'etude de la
realite concrete les memes exigences de precision, de rigueur,
de certitude, qui sont caracteristiques de l'esprit mathematique,
est done une habitude que nous devons aux sciences de la matiere,
et que nous n'aurions jamais eue sans elles. C'est pourquoi une
science qui se fut appliquee tout de suite aux choses de l'esprit
serait probablement restee incertaine et A'ague, si loin qu'elle
se fut avancee : elle n'aurait peut-etre jamais distingue entre
ce qui est simplement plausible et ce qui doit etre accepte
definitivement. Mais aujourd'hui que, grace aux sciences de la
matiere, nous savons faire cette distinction et possedons toutes
les qualites d'esprit qu'elle implique, nous pouvons nous aven-
turer sans crainte dans le domaine a peine explore des realites
psychologiques. Avancons-y avec une hardiesse prudente,
debarrassons-nous de la mauvaise metaphysique qui gene nos
mouvements, et la science de l'esprit pourra donner des
resultats' qui depasseront toutes nos esperances.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1882-84.
Professor Balfour Stewart,
F.R.S., 1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1888-92.
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., F.R.S., --- - 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894-95.
Sir William Crookes, F U.S., - 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers, - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., - - 1901-03.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - 1905.
The Bight Hon. G. W. Balfour,- 1906-07.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - - 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - - - - 1910.
Andrew Lang, 1911.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., .... 1912.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOE 1913.
president.
Professor Henri Bergson.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.K.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., D.Sc.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D,
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
V. J. Woolley, M.D.
M. B. Wright, M.D.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
HON. TREASURER.
H. Arthur Smith, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 27 Grange Road, Cambridge.
The Hon. Everard Feilding, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
RESEARCH OFFICER AND EDITOR.
Miss Alice Johnson, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
SECRETARY AND SUB-EDITOR.
Miss I. Newton, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
ASSISTANT RESEARCH OFFICER.
Miss H. de G. Verrall, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
HON. SECRETARY OF THE MEDICAL SECTION.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
HON. SECRETARY FOR RUSSIA.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, 5 Panteleiinonovskaia, St. Petersburg.
AGENT FOR AMERICA.
The W. B. Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
482 Members and Associates. [part
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
July, 1913.
President—Professor Henri Bergson.
Vice-Presidents.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P.,F.R.S.,4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter, D.D., 6 The Little Cloisters,
Westminster, London, S.W.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., The University, Birmingham.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., 27 Grange Road, Cam-
bridge.
Honorary Members.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 6 De Vesci Terrace, Kingstown,
Co. Dublin.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de
Physique Generale, 12 rue Cuvier, Paris.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Holm Leigh, West Road,
Cambridge.
Alfred Russel Wallace, O.M., F.R.S., Broadstone, Wimborne, Dorset.
LXVIL] Members and Associates. 483
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Printemps, Le Cannet (Alpes Mari-
times), France.
Professor Bernlieim, Hopital Civil, Nancy, France.
Professor H. P. Bowditcb, M.D., Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex, 6 Rue du Bellay, Paris.
Dr. Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
Professor Dr. Freud, ix., Berggasse 19, Vienna.
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Mrs. William James, 95 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass, U.S.A.
Professor Pierre Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, VIP, Paris.
Dr. Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Th. Ribot, Office of the Revue P/rilosopJiiqite, Paris.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., The Rectory, Hertingfordbury, Hertford.
Edmunds, Miss L., Wood River Junction, R.I., U.S.A.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., St. James's Vicarage, Walthamstow, London, N.E.
Grubb, Edward, 3 George Street, Croydon, Surrey.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., The Rowans, Balsall Common, nr.
Coventry.
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., Wista, Silesia.
Reed, Miss E. M., 2 Gledhow Gardens, S. Kensington, London, W,
Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIVe
Arrt., Paris,
van Eeden, Frederik, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
484 Members and Associates. [part
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names of Members.
Abbott, E. J. W., 15 Mortlake Road, Kew Gardens, Surrey.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena, 46 Burton Court, London, S.W.
Adair, Desmond, Sandhurst, Farnham, Surrey.
Adamowska, Madame S., 11 Charming Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Adams, Mrs., 4 Brookside, Cambridge.
Adamson, Rev. H., P.O. Box 241, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Adderley, Hon. and Rev. James, St. Gabriel's Lodge, Birmingham.
Agelasto, Michael A., Box 485, Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allan, Percy, M.D., Crogdene, Croham Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Allen, B. M., 14 Gainsborough Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Allen, George B., Free Chase, Warninglid, Sussex.
Allen, Professor H. J., The Presidency College, Madras, India.
Allen, William, M.B., 4 Newton Terrace, Charing Cross, Glasgow.
Alston, Mrs. Rowland, Turvey Abbey, Turvey, Beds.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Major A. T., R.F.A., 55a Dilkusha, U.P., India.
Anderson, F., Medical Director, U.S. Naval Examining Board,
Navy Yard, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Anderson, Rev. Francis M., 5 Marlborough Road, Exeter, Devon.
Anderson, Miss Ruth, 14 Coleherne Court, Earl's Court, London,
S.W.
*Antrobus, Miss Lily, 69 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Archer, Basil, Highfield, The Chase, Coulsden, Surrey.
Armitstead, G. H.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
Askew, Claude, Botches, Wivelsfield Green, Sussex.
Askew, Mrs. Claude, Botches, Wivelsfield Green, Sussex.
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, Vaynol, Bangor, N. Wales.
*Astley, H. D., Benham-Valence, Newbury, Berks.
Astley, Miss, Cowrie Haven, Poundstock, nr. Bude, N. Cornwall.
*Astor, William Waldorf, Cliveden, near Maidenhead.
Atkinson, Mrs., 224 Hereford Street, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
LXV1I.] Members and Associates. 485
*Auden, Harold A., 13 Broughton Drive, Grassendale, Liverpool.
* Austen, Harold W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London, W.
*Austin, C. G., I.C.S., 40 Central Hill, Upper Norwood, London,
S.E.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Highground, Waterford Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
*Baggally, Wortley W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baikie, W. S., Southend, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
*Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
Bailey, W. G., M.D., 712 Broadway, Camden, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Baker, Alfred L., Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S.A.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 161 Westbourne Grove, London, W.
Baker, Miss Mabel, St. John's Schools, Eton, Windsor.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W.
•Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., M.P., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W.
Balfour, F. C. C, 32 Addison Road, Kensington, London, W.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Bandon, The Countess of, Castle Bernard, Bandon, Co. Cork, Ire-
land.
Bannester, Miss E. S., Alexandra College, Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex.
Barclay, Rev. Charles W., The Vicarage, Hertford Heath, Hertford.
*Barclay, Edwyn, 10 Vicarage Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., 3942 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., c/o Miss Thomson, 2 Culford Mansions, Cadogan
Gardens, London, S.W.
Barlow, Miss Jane, D.Litt., The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
*Barlow, Rev. J. W., The Cottage, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
Bax-nes, Rev. Walter W., 92 Warwick Gardens, Kensington,
London, W.
Barnett, Burgess, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London, E.C.
Barritt, E. H., J. P., Warrior House, 26 Beaconsfield Avenue,
Colchester.
Barrows, Miss, Hampton School, Malvern P.O., Jamaica, B.W.I.
Barrows, CM., 560 West 180th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Barrs, Mrs., Marshlands, Laurel Road, Gottenham Park,
Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Baruch, Edgar, Rooms 805-6 Wright & Callender Building, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
486 Members and Associates. [part
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., Bilaspur, Central Provinces, India.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring, Herts.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1524 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Baynes, W. E.G., Assiut, Upper Egypt.
Bean, Rev. Edwin, The School House, Brentwood, Essex.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
*Beaumont, Miss Annette, 32 St. George's Court, Gloucester Road,
London, S.W.
Beaumont-Klein, Leopold de, D.Sc, 6 Gloucester Terrace, Regent's
Park, London, N.W.
Beaumont-Klein, The Hon. Mrs. de, 6 Gloucester Terrace,
Regent's Park, London, N.W.
*Bedford, Adeline Duchess of, Chenies, Rickmansworth.
Beeching, Miss Nelly, The Priory, Tonbridge.
*Behrens, Captain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
Belaribi, Mrs., Bartlands, Holt Heath, Worcestershire.
*Bell, Miss A. E., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Bell, Miss Alison II., Exmoor, Quickley Lane, Chorley Wood,
Herts.
Bennett, Ernest N., The Bath Club, 34 Dover Street, London, W.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., Pedder Road, Cumballa Hill, Bombay,
India.
*Benson, Mrs., Tremans, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College,
Cambridge.
Benton, Dr. J. R., 114 E. 39th Street, Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
*Berens, Rev. Randolph, 14 Prince's Gardens, London, S.W.
*Berens, Mrs. Richard, Marlings Hall, Chislehurst.
Bergen, Axel von, Abbey Road, Darlington, Durham.
Berrington, Rev. Leslie G., 29 Beauchamp Avenue, Leamington
Spa, Warwickshire.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Best, Robert, 146 Hamstead Road, Handsworth, Birmingham.
Bethell, Mrs., 23 Shooters Hill Road, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W.
Bevan, Rev. W. O., Kalutara, Ceylon.
*Beveridge, Erskine, LL.D., St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Beverley, Mrs., Nascot Lodge, Watford, Herts.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 487
Biach, Dr. Rudolf, Mayerhofgasse 20, Vienna IV., Austria.
Bicknell, Clarence, Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Richmond, Surrey.
Birley, Miss Florence H., Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London, S.E.
Blackburn, E. M., Little Thakeham, Pulborough, Sussex.
Blacklock, Miss C, 101 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Blackman, J. F., R.N.
Blane, Miss Edith H., 18 Ashley Mansions, London, S.W.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
*Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, Westminster, London, S.W.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Bloxsome, C. H., L.R.C.P., The Croft House, Fairford, Glou-
cestershire.
Bodley, Mrs., 41 Gloucester Place, Portman Sqiiare, London, W.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. J. M. Robertson & Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Boothroyd, A. E., Warley, Meadway, Hampstead Garden Suburb,
London, N.W.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 10 Lawrence Street, Cheyne. Walk,
London, S.W.
Both-Hendriksen, Miss Louise, 226 Madison Street, Brooklyn,
N.Y., U.S.A.
Boulding, R. H. S., Sunnymead, 15 Turney Rd., Dulwich, London, S.E.
Bouwens, B. G., Amesbury, Wilts.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., rue Maze, St. Martin's, Guernsey.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Bowditch, C. P., Ill Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
Bowley, Miss S. M., 29 Croftdown Road, Highgate Road, London, N.W.
Box, Alfred Marshall, Woodlands, 14 Magrath Avenue, Cambridge.
Boys, Major R. H. H., D.S.O., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W.
Bozzano, E., Salita Emanuele Cavallo, N. 92, Genoa.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., 178 Bedford Hill, Balham,
London, S.W.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 9 Edwardes Square, Kensington,
London, W.
2 I
488 Members and Associates. [part
Bradley, F. EL, Merton College, Oxford.
Brain, Ernest, 7 St. George's Square, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Bramly, Mrs. Jennings, Castel di Poggio, Fiesole, Italy.
*Bramwell, J. Milne, M.B., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.G.
Bray, F. E., 17 The Boltons, London, S.W.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W.
Briantchaninoff, Alexandre N., 11 Grand Mouetuaia, St. Peters-
burg, Russia.
Bristowe, The LEon. Mr. Justice, Supreme Court, Pretoria, South
Africa.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
Brooke, Miss Emma F.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, Lady, Colebrooke, Brookeborough,Co. Fermanagh, Ireland.
*Brookes-Smitk, Mrs., The Lodge, Hurst Green, Sussex.
*Brown, B. G., 46 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Brown, Haydn, L.R.C.P., The Bishams, Caterham Valley, Surrey.
Brown, Mrs. IT. F., 18 Curzon Park, Chester.
Brown, Miss May, 62 Carlisle Mansions, Westminster, London, S.W.
Brown, Mrs. Robert, Tankerville, Boscombe, Hants.
Browne, Professor Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cam-
bridge.
Browne, J. Stark, Hillcrest, Castlebar Hill, Ealing, London, W.
Brownrigg, Lady, The Grange, Welwyn, Herts.
Bruce, James, Craik, Sask., Canada.
Brunwin, A. D., M.D., Haverings, Rayne, Braintree, Essex.
Brush, W. Franklin, 500 5th Avenue, New York City, U.S.A.
Bryan, C. A. Douglas, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Spa House, Humber-
stone Road, Leicester.
Bryce, Miss Kathleen, 15 Campden Hill Squa.re, London, W.
Bryson, Archibald, Nenthorne, Ayr, N.B.
*Bubb, Henry, J. P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
Buchanan, A. G., F.R.C.S., 75 Warwick Square, London, S.W.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winni-
peg, Canada.
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
LXVIT.] Members and Associates. 489
*Bullough, Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Bullough, Mrs. Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burghard, Mrs., 86 Harley Street, London, W.
Burnham, Mrs., Staindrop Lodge, Chapeltown, Sheffield.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Bury, Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
*Bushell, Rev. W. D., Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Butcher, W. Deane, M.R.C.S., Holyrood, Cleveland Road, Ealing,
London, W.
*Butler, Mrs.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Syon House, East Budleigh, Devon.
Butt, Lady, 9 Albeit Hall Mansions, Kensington Gore, London, S.W.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., The Bungalow, West Kirby, Cheshire.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Cady, Rev. Frank T., Port Alleghany, Pa., U.S.A.
^Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Colintraive, Argyllshire.
Campbell, Mrs., Arduaine, Lochgilphead, N.B.
Campbell, Major N. D. H., 7th Dragoon Guards, Trimulgherry,
Deccan, India.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., King's Weigh House Parsonage, Thomas
Street, Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Campbell-Lang, Miss, c/o Professor Brunton, LL.B., 180 Hope
Street, Glasgow.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road, London, E.
Capron, Mrs. Cynthia J., 316 Lincoln Avenue, Freeport, 111.,
U.S.A.
Carey, Mrs. A. A., 50 Fayerweather Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Carnahan, C. T., 951 Logan Avenue, Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
x
"Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13 Berkeley Square, London, W.
Carpenter, Mrs., Withleigh, 19 Shoot-up-Hill, Brondesbury,
London, N.W.
Carr, H. Wildon, D.Litt., More's Garden, Cheyne Walk, London, S.W.
Carr, Lucien, 163 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Carrington, Hereward, 504 West 111th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Case, Miss A. J., 35 Elm Bank Mansions, Barnes, London, S.W.
490 Members and Associates. [part
Cassatt, Miss Mary, 10 Rue de Marignan, Paris.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
*Cave, Charles, J. P., Ditcham Park, Petersfield, Hants.
Cayley, Hugh S., Room 221, Loo Building, Vancouver, B.C.,
Canada.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Alford House, Alford, Somerset.
^"Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New
Zealand.
Chance, Clinton F., 12 Arthur Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W.
Chatterjee, A. K., Deputy Magistrate and Collector, P.O. Comilla,
District Tippura, India.
Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc, Heathfield Cottage, Crowcombe, nr.
Taunton, Somerset.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 126 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Chichkine, Mademoiselle A. de, Lyceum Club, 128 Piccadilly,
London, W.
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H., 12 Portman Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Childers, Miss F. I., Cranbourne Grange, Sutton Scotney,
Hants.
Chitty, Hubert, M.B., F.R.C.S., etc., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton,
Bristol.
Chubb, Mrs. C. A., Longforgan, The Ridgway, Wimbledon, Lon-
don, S.W.
Clapham, Mrs. H. H., c/o Mrs. Babbit, 512 South J. Street,
Tacoma, Wash., U.S.A.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
Clapp, James, Cromwell Lodge, Feltham, Middlesex.
*Clark, Rev. F. H. H,., 7 Wyndham Place, Bryanston Square,
London, W.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, Trobridge House, Crediton, Devon.
Clarkson, Mrs. St. John, Belcombe Farm House, Bradford-on-
Avon
*Clavering, Miss, New County Club, 21 Hanover Square, London, W.
Clive, Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., 1359 Columbia Road, Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
Clover, Martin, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Bay House, Veryan, Gram-
pound Road, Cornwall.
lxvil] Members and Associates. 491
Coates, C. J., The Thornton Woollen Mill Co., St. Petersburg.
Coates, Mrs., 4 Duke's Avenue, Muswell Hill, London, N.W.
Cochrane, Miss Jessie, 34a Via Porta Pinciana, Rome.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., The Rectory, Swinfoid, Co. Mayo,
Ireland.
Coe, Miss M. A., 96 Chestnut Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Coghill, Colonel Kendal, C.B., Castle Townshend, nr. Skibbereen,
Co. Cork, Ireland.
*Coit, Stanton, Ph.D., 30 Hyde Park Gate, London, S.W.
*Cole, Arthur, 36 Baldry Gardens, Streatham, London, S.W.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., 44 High Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Connor, Rev. David, The Knowe Manse, Bewcastle, East Cumber-
land.
*Constable, F. C, Wick Court, near Bristol.
Conway, Lady, Allington Castle, Maidstone, Kent.
Cook, Mrs. Frank H., Barnett Hill, Wonersh, Guildford, Surrey.
Cooke, Miss Mabel, Dana Hall School, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Miss Louisa E., Ripponhurst, Epping, Essex.
Cooper, Mrs. P. H., 283 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
Cony, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, Campden Hill, London, W.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, Groenhove,
The Hague.
Costelloe, Miss Karin, 3f Morpeth Terrace, Victoria Street,
London, S.W.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W.
*Cotterell, Mrs., Claremont, Walsall, Staffs.
Cotterell, Miss Alice, 1g Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Coupland, W. C, D.Sc, 33 Pembroke Crescent, Hove, Brighton.
Courtauld, George, Junr., The Waver, Wethersfield, Braintree,
Essex.
Courtauld, R. M., M.B., Halesowen, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Cowan, W. H., The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield, Sussex.
Oowell, Miss Marion A., 3 Brudenell Terrace, Aldeburgh, Suffolk.
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Coxe, The Hon. Mr. Justice Henry R. H., c/o Messrs. Grindlay
& Co., 54 Parliament Street, London, S.W.
492 Members and Associates. [part
Coxon, Mrs. George S., Craigleith, Cheltenham.
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
Craige, Wm. C, 409 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Crane, Rev. W. M., Ph.D., Richmond, Berkshire County, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Craufurd, Commander Quentin C. A., R.N., H.M.S. St. George,
Home Fleet.
Crawford, W. C, 1 Lockharton Gardens, Colinton Road, Edinburgh.
Critchley, W. A. Paget, 15 Parkside, Albert Gate, London, S.W.
Crook, A. H., Queen's College, Hong Kong.
"
x
"Crookes, Lady, 7 Kensington Park Gardens, London, W.
*Crooks, Miss Marianne, Achintorlie, Norwood, South Australia.
Crouch, H. N., AdditionalJudicial Commissioner of Sind, Karachi, '
Sind, India.
Cunard, Cyril G., The Manor House, Notgrove, Gloucestershire.
Cunningham, Colonel D. D., F.R.S., Tormount, Torquay, Devon.
Currie , Mrs
Curtis, Atherton, 17 rue Notre Dame des Champs, Paris, France.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 10 Barton Street, Westminster, Lon-
don, S.W.
Curwen, Mrs., Horncop, Heversham, Milnthorpe, Westmoreland.
Dakin, W. R., M.D., F.R.C.P., 8 Grosvenor Street, London, W.
Dale, Alan, Wright Avenue, Bayside, Long Island, New York,
U.S.A.
Dale, J. Gilbert, 31 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Dallas, Miss IT. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
*Dalton, J. H. C, M.D., The Plot, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Damant, Mrs. H. C, Lammas, Cowes, Isle of Wight.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
Danzas, Mile. Julia, 26 Moika, St. Petersburg.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
Darton, Hugh, Beninghoe, Hertford.
Davies, Benjamin, Wilford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middle-
sex.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., c/o Miss E. M. Reynolds, 44 Egerton Crescent,
London, S.W.
""'Davies, Valentine Clements, 59a Grove Road, Eastbourne.
*Davis, Charles, 29 Gloucester Place, Portman Square, London, W.
Davis, Mrs., 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Davis, Thomas Henry, Trelinda, St. Merryn, Padstow.
Davison, Miss Annie, Albemarle Club, 37 Dover Street, London, W.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 493
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington Hall, Skipton.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. H., Newton House, Belmont, Hereford.
Day, Miss Mabel K., Gershom, Reigate, Surrey.
*Dayton, Mrs. Elizabeth, Box 258, South Kaukauna, Wisconsin,
U.S.A.
Dearmer, Rev. Percy, St. Mary's Vicarage, Primrose Hill, London,
N.W.
Delap, Alfred D., Rosslare Harbour, Kilrane, Wexford.
De Lissa, Mrs. F., Bittacy House, Mill Hill, London, N.W.
Demming, Benj. W., 1518 State Street, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
*Despard, Mrs., 2 Currie Street, Nine Elms, London. S.W.
Deverell, Francis, 7 Glendower Place, South Kensington, London,
S.W.
Devitt, Mrs. J. A., Oskaloosa, Iowa, U.S.A.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, Scotland.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Vice-Consulate, Kertch, Crimea, Russia.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W., and
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, R.A., 3 Greville Place, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W.
Dill, J. F. Gordon, M.B., 6 Brunswick Place, Brighton.
*Dixon, Edward T., The Hard, Hythe, Southampton.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow, W.
Doan, Professor F. C, 911 Grove Street, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
*Dodge, Miss Mary H., Warwick House, St. James's, London, S.W.
Dodge, Miss Theodora, Chipping Campden, Gloucestershire.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W.
Dorr, George B., 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Dougall, Miss Lily, Cutts End, Cumnor, nr. Oxford.
Douglas, Mrs., 4 Campden House Road, Kensington, London, W.
Douglas, Mrs. Charles, Auchlochan, Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., Tuxedo Park, Orange County, New
York, U.S.A.
*Douglas-Pennant, Hon. Violet, 9 Cromwell Place, London, S.W.
494 Members and Associates. [part
Dowson, Mrs. W. E., Felixstowe, The Park, Nottingham.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex.
Drake, Mrs. A. J., 24 Bennington Street, Newton, Mass., U.S.A.
Drew, Professor Eric, St. John's College, Agra, India.
Drew, Ringrose C, Seremban, Negri Sembelan, Federated Malay
States.
Drewry, Mrs. George, c/o S. Hicks, J. P., Rostherne, Upper
Colwyn Bay, N. Wales.
Duane, Russell.
Duggin, Mrs. Chas., 25 East 38th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Dulley, Rev. B., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E.
*Duncan, Harold, 43 Fetter Lane, London, E.C.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., Yetholme, Liverpool Road, Birkdale, Southport.
*Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
Dyce, Capt. Cecil, 69 Linden Gardens, Bayswater, London, W.
Dyson, Rev. W. H., Edgerton, 1a Weld Road, Birkdale, Southport.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., Heathercliffe, Frodsham, Cheshire.
*Edge, Selwyn Francis, 14 New Burlington Street, Regent Street,
London, W.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.C.
*Edwardes, Mrs. Dyer, 5 Hyde Park Gate, Kensington, London, W.
Elcho, Lady, 62 Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
*Elder, Frederick, 2 Leinster Place, London, W.
Eldred, Fleet-Paymaster E. H., R.N., c/o Capital and Counties
Bank, Ltd., Southsea, Hants.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E.
Elliot, Gilbert C, Hull Place, Deal, Kent.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, Kasr el Nuzha, Cairo, Egypt.
Elliott, Captain W. R., Sherbrooke, Quebec.
Ellis, Herbert, 120 Regent Road, Leicester.
Emmerson, Robert, M.D., Calle Llave 423, Chihuahua, Chih.,
Mexico.
Emmet, Rev. C. W., West Hendred Vicarage, Steventon, Berks.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A.
*Eno, J. C, Wood Hall, Dulwich, London, S.E.
Entee, Professor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhaunagar, India.
Evans, Frank Gwynne, The Tower House, Woodchester, Stroud.
lxvii.] Members and Associates. 495
Evans, W. A., The Brackley, Stoneygate Avenue, Leicester.
*Fabbri, Alessandro, 11 East 62nd Str., New York City, U.S.A.
*Fabbri, Ernesto G., 11 East 62nd Str., New York City, U.S.A.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Farrington, Ernest A., M.D., Haddonfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Ferenczi, Dr. Sandor, VII, Erzsebet-Korut 54, Budapest, Hungary.
Field, Allan B., P.O. Box 274, East Liberty Station, Pittsburg,
Pa., U.S.A.
Fillmer, Horatio R., 52 Ship Street, Brighton.
Fisk, Rev. George, Tsingchowfu, Shantung, China.
Flake, Mrs. Albert, 611 Fifth Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
*Fleetwood-Hesketh, C. H., Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham,
Rutlandshire.
Fliigel, J. C, Cravenhurst, Reigate, Surrey.
Foote, Geo. W., 34 Bull Street, Newport, R.I., U.S.A.
Ford, Miss Emily S., 44 Glebe Place, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Ford, Mrs. Hugh, St. Regulus, St. Andrews, Scotland.
Forman, Colonel R. H., A.M.S., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 White-
hall Place, London, S.W.
Forrester, Mrs., Tullibody House, Cambus, by Stirling, N.B.
Fortescue, Miss Frances, 19 Worsley Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W.
*Foster, Rev. J. Edgar, Lindsey Vicarage, Ipswich.
Fotheringham, W. B., 24 Teville Road, Worthing.
*Fox, Mrs., Fawe Park, Keswick, Cumberland.
Francis, Arthur, P.O. Mazwood, Victoria, Vancouver Island,
Canada.
*Francis, Mrs. Francis, Palace House, Beaulieu, Hants.
Frankland, F. W., 4 Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square, Lon-
don, W.C.
Frankland, Mrs. F. W., 4 Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square,
London, W.C.
Franks, Mrs., 51 Dacre Hill, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Belgrave Mansions, Grosvenor
Gardens, London, S.W.
Freeman, Rev. H. B., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent, Staffs.
*Frith, Mrs., Swynnerton Rectory, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Frost, Miss Annie, Carnelloe Cottage, Zennor, nr. St. Ives, Corn-
wall.
496 Members and Associates. [taut
Frostick, J. A., Christchurcli, New Zealand.
Fry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Gabb, F. B., The Willows, Abergavenny, Wales.
Gaff, T. T., 1520 20th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., The Rectory, Norton-in-Hales, Market Drayton.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 23 Crafts Avenue, Northampton,
Mass., U.S.A.
Gardner, Harold E., 9 Cook Street, Liverpool.
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
*Gayer, Gustav A., Ph.D., 131 West 63rd Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Gearn, Dr. G. C, Carnegie Apartments, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Gellert, J. W., c/o Box 396, G.P.O., Adelaide, S. Australia.
*George, Mrs., Cottage-on-the-Links, Hindhead, Haslemere, Surrey
*George, H. Trevelyan, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 33 Ampthill Square,
London, N.W.
Ghose, Babu Moti Lai, Ananda Chatterjee's Lane, Calcutta, India.
Gibbes, C. S., Mojaiskaia oolitsa, No. 1, St. Petersburg.
Gibson, Miss Winifred, 25 Bennett Park, Blackheath, London,
S.E.
Giddings, Miss H. M., 810-11 New England Building, Cleveland,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Gloyde, H. L., Two Rivers, Washington, U.S.A.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, 16 Wilton Street, Grosvenor Place,
London, S.W.
Goldstein, Dr. phil. J., Rossdorferstrasse 81, Darmstadt, Germany.
Golejewski, Lieut. -Colonel N., The Russian Embassy, Washing-
ton, U.S.A.
Golejewski, Madame, The Russian Embassy, Washington, U.S.A.
Gomme, J. F., 196 Oxford Street, London, W.
Gooch, G. P., South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W.
Goodall, Charles Henry, Lucknow Avenue, Nottingham.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., Lambourne Rectory, Romford, Essex.
Gordon, Mrs. J. L. R., c/o Messrs. King, King & Co., Bombay,
India.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., Sandcroft, Uj^per Bridge Road, Redliill,
Surrey.
Gover, J. M., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London, W.C.
Gower, John H., Mus. Doc. (Oxon.), 1600 Clarkson Street,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
lxvil] Members and Associates. 497
*Grafflin, Mrs. W. H., Filston Manor, Glencoe, Baltimore County,
Md., U.S.A.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
Granger, Professor Frank, D.Litt., University College, Notting-
ham.
*Grant-Suttie, H. F., Royal Horse Artillery, Rawal Pindi, India.
Graveson, Miss C, Goldsmiths' College, New Cross, London, S.E.
Gray, Rev. Arthur Romeyn, Church Missions House, 281 Fourth
Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Gray, Mrs. John C, 176 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Hogarth House, Bushey, Herts.
Greene, Mrs. Bertram, 382 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Greene, J. G., 34 Stiles Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Greet, Mrs., Caens Wood, Weybridge, Surrey.
Greeves, Rev. F. B., Cudworth Vicarage, Barnsley, Yorkshire.
*Grenfell, Mrs., c/o Dr. Hunt, Queen's College, Oxford.
Grew, Mrs. Joseph Clark, Rauchstr. 27, Berlin, Germany.
*Grey, R. C, Oaklands, West Wellow, Romsey, Hants.
Gribble, Miss F. M., 32 Chester Terrace, Regent's Park, London,
N.W.
Griffith, Mrs. R. W., Sherborne House, Portishead, Somerset.
*Grignon, Miss A. E., 4 Melrose Avenue, Cricklewood, London, N.W.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. R. C, Morrisburne House, Woking, Surrey.
Grottendieck, W. G., Schenk Straat 150, The Hague.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
*Gurbaxani, Professor H. M., D.J. Sind College, Karachi, Sind,
India.
*Guttwoch, Charles, 7 Kingswood Avenue, Queen's Park, London,
N.W.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W.
Hackett, James T. , Widows' Fund Building, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Haemmerle, Madame, Merdo, Arendal, Norway.
Halkett, Miss Katherine E.
*Hall, Mrs. Basil, 31 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
*Hall, J. P., Gorse Bank, Werneth, Oldham.
Hall, R. D., 29 Dryden Street, Westcott Street, Hull.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
Hallett, Henry Hiram, Bridge House, Taunton.
498 Members and Associates. [part
*Halsey, Mrs., 18 Mount Street, Grosvenor Square, London, W.
*Hamar-Nemespann, La Baronne de, Hoke Warte 50, Vienna XIX,
Austria.
*Hambro, Mrs. Eric, 70 Prince's Gate, London, S.W.
Hamilton, James, Heversham School, Milnthorpe, Westmoreland.
Hamilton, J. J., 80 Woodland Rise, Muswell Hill, London, N.
Hamilton, W. Bernard.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
Handcock, Dr. Charles L., J. P., Hornsby, New South Wales,
Australia.
Hankow, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Hankow, China.
Hansard, Mrs., 24 Chelsea Gardens, London, S.W.
Hanson, H. P., Box 39, R.F.D. Route No. 5, Harlan, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hanson, Mrs., Pleasaunce Cottage, Dormans Park, Surrey.
Hardeman, Miss Frances E., c/o G. T. Hardeman, Esq., 1 Prince's
Park Terrace, Liverpool.
Hardie, Miss Mabel, M.B., Candello, 577 Finchley Road, London, N.W.
Harding, Miss A. K., c/o Nevett & Co., 21 Park Road, Crouch
End, London, N.
*Harding, Wyndham, 19 Bishopsgate, London, E.C.
Hare, Cyril Lockhart, Abbotsholme, Dunstable, Bedfordshire.
Hargreaves, Miss, 115 Clarence Gate Gardens, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Harkness, Miss Mary D., Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario, Canada.
Harradine, Leslie, Pepsal End, nr. Luton, Bedfordshire.
Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 31 Boulevard
Haussmann, Paris, France.
*Harris, Mrs. H. Percy, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W.
*Harris, Hon. J., East India United Service Club, 16 St. James's
Square, London, S.W.
Harrison, Rev. Arthur S., 28 Eastgate, Stafford.
Harrison, Miss Jane E., Newnham College, Cambridge.
*Hart, Colonel H. H., R.E., c/o Messrs. King, King & Co.,
Bombay, India.
Hart, Lieut.-General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O.,
Head-Quarters House, Pretoria, South Africa.
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont, U.S.A.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, Milton P.O., Mass., U.S.A.
Hartshorne, Charles H., 35 Warren Place, Montclair, N.J.,
U.S.A.
lxvil] Members and Associates. 499
Haslehurst, E. W., 72 Burnt Ash Hill, Lee, London, S.E.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancaster.
Hauxhurst, Mrs. W., c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 31
Boulevard Haussmann, Paris, France.
Hawarden, The Viscountess, 18 Chelsea Court, London, S.W.
Hawkins, E. F., Villa des Troenes, Livry (S. et O.), France.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., West Thurrock Vicarage, Grays, Essex.
Head, Miss Alice L., 26 Leinster Square, London, W.
Heard, G. H., Cheniston, Highfield Liane, Southampton.
Heath, George H., 277 Brockley Road, London, S.E.
Heaton, Guy, 51 West Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
*Helmsley, Viscount, Nawton Tower, Nawton, Yorks.
Henderson, J. J., Mill Cottage, Bonhard, Perth.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street,
London, W.
Henly, Mrs. Albert W., Gwydyr House, Bromley, Kent.
Henning, Mrs., 4 Upper Bedford Place, Russell Square, London,
W.C.
Henrici, Jacob, 6126 Penn. Avenue, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenham.
Herbert-Smith, Miss Evelyn E., Raymead, Park Road, Watford,
Herts.
Herschel, Colonel John, F.R.S., Royal Engineers, Slough, Bucks.
Heymans, Prof. G., Ubbo-Emmiussingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
Higbee, Colonel George H., Burlington, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hildyard, F. W., 77a Lexham Gardens, London, S.W.
Hill, J. Arthur, Wensley Bank, Thornton, Bradford.
Hill, Mrs. John Howard, 272 State Street, Portland, Maine, U.S.A.
*Hillard, Miss Mary R., Westover School, Middlebury, Conn., U.S.A.
Himes, Prof. Charles F., 170 W. Louther Street, Carlisle, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Hinkle, Beatrice M., M.D., 110 Madison Ave., New York City,
U.S.A.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.C.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London, W.
*Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, Springdale, Uppingham.
Hodding, Miss, 2 The Avenue, Bedford Park, London, W.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, 8 Northmoor Road, Oxford.
*Hogg, Sir Frederick Russell, Oriental Club, Hanover Square,
London, W.
500 Members and Associates. [part
*Hogg, Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W.
Holding, Sam, Columbia, Tenn., U.S.A.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Hollins, Mrs., 24 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., 3 Maid's Causeway, Cambridge.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Holms, Mrs. Douglas, The Moorings, Woodhall Spa, Lines.
*Holt, Henry, 34 West 33rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Homan, C. H., 24 Oscarsgade, Christiania, Norway.
*Home, Mrs. Robert, b/78 Portsdown Road, Maida Vale, London, W.
Hoppin, J. C, 310 Sears Building, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Horn, W. J., Woldingham, Surrey.
Horridge, Miss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southport.
Horton, W. Claude, F.R.C.S., M.B., 18 First Avenue, Hove, Sussex.
*Hoskins, Edmond J., M.D., Hammam Chambers, 76 Jermyn
Street, London, S.W.
Houston, James, 1 Hereford Mansions, Hereford Road, Bayswater,
London, W.
Howard, Miss Marian, Dobroyd, Westgate Avenue, Bolton, Lanes.
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
Howe, Mrs. M. A. De Wolfe, 26 Brimmer Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Hubbell, G. G., 3849 Floral Avenue, Norwood, Ohio, U.S.A.
Hude, Mrs. Anna, Ph.D., Anker Heegaards Cade 1, Copenhagen.
Hudson, Morris, Aldersey Croft, Guildford.
Hughes, Major H. M., St. Elmo, Victoria Road, Worthing, Sussex.
*Hull, Mrs. Carrie G., 112 Academy Street, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., The Pines, Tivoli, Cheltenham.
Humphreys, T. H. A., Survey Dept., Giza (Mudiria), Egypt.
*Hunt, Mrs. Warwick, 12 Lansdowne Road, Holland Park, London,
W.
Huntingford, Miss, Beverley Hall, South Cliff, Bournemouth.
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Herts.
Hutchison, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Woodhead & Co., 44 Charing Cross,
London, S.W.
Hutton, E. Charles F., 5 Church Street, Cape Town, South Africa.
*Hyslop, Professor J. H., 519 West 149th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 501
Ibbotson, Miss Ruth, 8 Trafalgar Square, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Imamura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Uni-
versity, Kioto, Japan.
Ingalls, Mrs. Joseph A., Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingham, Percy B., Merchant Taylors' School, London, E.C.
Ingram, Miss M. I., The Priory, Wimbledon Common, London, S.W.
Innes, Miss H. K., Raemoir, Banchory, Scotland.
Ionides, A. C, Junr., 34 Porchester Terrace, London, W.
Ireland, Gordon, 32 Nassau Str., New York City, U.S.A.
*Izod, C. H., 7 Malwood Road, Balham Hill, Loudon, S.W.
Jacks, L. P., 28 Holywell, Oxford.
Jackson, Mrs., 44 Park Street, Calcutta, India.
Jackson, Miss Emily G. A., 40 Hillersdon Avenue, Barnes,
London, S.W.
James, Mrs., The Elms, Selly Oak, Birmingham.
* Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Jaye, William R., Springwood Lodge, Oakfield Road, Clapton,
London, N.E.
Jeakes, Rev. Prebendary, 4 Cornwall Terrace, Regent's Park,
London, N.W.
Jenkinson, W. E., Higkthorn, King Cross Road, Halifax.
Johnson, Miss Alice, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Johnson, Charles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnston, R. F., Weihaiwei, China.
* Jones, Miss Constance, Girton College, Cambridge.
Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., Cranmer Hall, Fakenham, Norfolk.
Jones, Miss Lilian I., 120 Maida Vale, London, W.
Josling, Lieut. -Colonel C. L., Junior United Service Club, London,
S.W.
*Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Judd, Mrs. Sylvestre Dwight, 164 Summer Street, Maiden, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Karrer, Enoch, P.O. Box 345, Johns Hopkins University, Balti-
more, Md., U.S.A.
Keene, The Most Rev. J. B., D.D., Bishop of Meath, Navan,
Co. Meath.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, The Hut, Holmwood, Dorking.
*Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kenneth, H., Lindley, Bycullah Park, Enfield, Middlesex.
502 Members and Associates. [part
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Ker, Miss, 1 Windsor Terrace, Glasgow, W.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
Ketkar, N. G., Amraoti, Berar, India.
*Kevill-Davies, Captain George, Cavalry Barracks, Abbassia, Cairo,
Egypt.
*King, H. F. Locke, J. P., Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
~
x
"Kingscote, Mrs., 4 Southwick Crescent, London, W.
Kirkwood, J. H. M., Poste Restante, Nairobi, British E. Africa.
*Kittel, T. B., Vane House, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Klinckowstroem, Count Carl, Elisabethstrasse 40, Munich.
Knight, Charles N., 36 Kensington Park Road, London, W.
Knoller, Richard, 1 Riemerstrasse 8, Vienna.
Kothen, Baron Axel von, 27 Mikealsgaten, Helsingfors, Finland.
Krebs, Rev. Stanley L., Swarthmore, Pa., U.S.A.
Lach-Szyrma, Rev. W. S., Barkingside Vicarage, Ilford, Essex.
*Laflin, Mrs. Louis E., Ellslloyd, Lake Forest, 111., U.S.A.
Lafone, A. W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R. M., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, 77 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
Lambert, Miss Ada R., c/o Miss Lambert, Ivy Cottage, Newick,
Sussex.
Lane-Poole, Professor Stanley, Litt.D., Donganstown Castle,
Wicklow, Ireland.
Larken, E. P., Les Garennes, Wimereux, Pas de Calais, France.
Latham, Miss Edith, 3 Avenue Bugeaud, Paris.
Latshaw, Allen, 3414 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Leadam, Isaac S., 21 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss Ellen, 6 Airlie Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W.
Leaf, Mrs., The Green, Marlborough, Wilts.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 SussexPlace, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Leaf, Mrs. Walter, 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. II., Cazenovia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett, 1 Park Row, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Lee, Mrs. Henry Thomas, 1143 West 29th Street, Los Angeles,
Cal., U.S.A.
*Lees, Robert James, Craigmoi-e, Ufracombe.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 503
*Legg, W. A., 18 The Avenue, Brondesbury, London, N.W.
Leggatt, Edward O. Every, St. John's, St. Andrews, Scotland.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
Leigh, W. Austen, Hartfield, Roehampton, London, S.W.
Lenon, J. W., Kiamara Estate, Nairobi, British East Africa.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W.
Leonard, Thomas, 223 W. School Lane, Germantown, Phila-
delphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., The Hill, Lower Bourne, Farnham, Surrey.
Lewis, David J., House of Representatives U.S., Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Lewis, Francis B., Box 5, Maraisburg, Transvaal, South Africa.
Librarian, Public Library of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, etc., Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Cambridge Public Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, City Library Association, Springfield, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Colorado Springs, Colo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washing-
ton, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
•2 k
504 Members and Associates. [part
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs.
Truslove & Hanson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W.
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
-Librarian, Omaha Public Library and Museum, 19 and Harvey
Streets, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.
Librarian, Somerville Public Library, Somerville, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 19 Tavistock Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian, Bibliotheque Victor Cousin, L'Universite de Paris.
Librarian, University of Minnesota Library, Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Librarian;
Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams's Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C.
Librarian, Free Public Library, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
Livingstone, Rev. W. 0., 355 Greenwood Avenue, Kankakee, 111., U.S.A.
*Llewellin, Mrs. W., Upton House, nr. Poole, Dorset.
Lloyd, Brig. -General Francis.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
Lloyd, Rev. John, The Elms, Forest Avenue, Fond-du-Lac, Wis-
consin, U.S.A.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Farm, Sparkbrook, Birmingham.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Loewenstein, Amtsrichter Dr., Heimhuderstrasse 32, Hamburg,
Germany.
Lomax, Arthur, Heilbron, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Lombardi, C, 2231 Le Conte Avenue, Berkeley, Cai., U.S.A., and
c/o The Dallas News, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 505
Long, T. K., 4823 Kimbark Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Low, Miss Ursula, 22 Roland Gardens, London, S.W.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Greenbill, Sutton-Veny, Wiltshire.
Luke, James, Box No. 183, G.P.O., Calcutta.
Lyall, Sir Charles James, 82 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W.
*Lyall, Edward, Barton, R.S.O., Darlington.
Lyell, D., 407 Lake of the Woods Building, St. John Street,
Montreal, Canada.
*Lyon, Miss C. C, Salt Haven, French Creek, nr. Nanaimo,
British Columbia.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Lieut. -Colonel F., Neemuch, Central India.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W.
Macdonald, Mrs., Dun Erin, Chalfont St. Peter, Bucks.
MacGregor, Arthur C, 8 Longford Terrace, Monkstovvn, Co. Dublin.
Mackintosh, R. D., M.B., The Bungalow, Mortlake, Surrey.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W.
Macnaughtan, Miss, 1 Norfolk Street, Park Lane, London, W.
MacVeagh, Lincoln, 52 Plympton Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Madocks, Major H. J., 1a Ovington Square, London, S.W.
Mahler, Mrs. John, Bronygarth, Oswestry, Salop.
Mainwaring, Mrs., II Wilton Crescent, London, S.W.
Mallet, Miss A. V., Anlaby House, 25 Highbury New Park,
London, N.
Mallet, Sir Louis, 182 Ebury Street, London, S.W.
Mander, Charles A., The Mount, Wolverhampton, Staffs.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
Mandeville, Mrs. James I., 1546 South 6th Street, Terre Haute,
Indiana, U.S.A.
Mangin, Marcel, 102 Rue Erlanger, Paris.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Temple Ewell Vicarage, Dover.
Manners-Smith, J. A., Coniston, Haslemere, Surrey.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Hammerstene, Bagdad, Tasmania.
*Mansfield, Mrs. Richard, The Grange, New London, Conn., U.S.A.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., Arolla, Warren Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Marks, Mrs. Claude, 15 Hanover Square, London, W.
Members and Associates. [part
Marsh, Edward H., 3 Gray's Inn Place, London, W.C.
Marshall, Mrs. Fred, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Marshall, William Cecil, Tweenways, Hindhead, Haslemere.
Marston, Charles, J. P., Afcot, Compton, nr. Wolverhampton.
*Marston, Commander G. M., R.N., Park Lodge, Albert Gate,
Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Marten, Rev. G. H., Tatsfield Rectory, Westerham, Kent.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury.
Martin, Thomas Beecham, Wanstead College, South Woodford,
London, N.E.
Martineau, Alfred Edward.
Martinengo-Cesaresco, Countess, Palazzo Martinengo, Sal6, Lago
di Garda, Italy.
-"Mason, Frank, 7 Stanley Crescent, London, W.
Mason, Miss M. H., 5 Vincent Square Mansions, Westminster,
London, S.W.
Massey, Hon. Mary, 80 Royal Hospital Road, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Matesdorf, Miss Sybil, 83 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
'"Mather, Rev. Herbert, 13 Grosvenor Road, East Grinstead, Sussex.
*Mathews, Mrs., 15 Stanley Gardens, London, W.
Mattiesen, Emil, Ph.D., c/o Frau Hide, Zippendorf, nr. Schwerin,
Mecklenburg, Germany.
Mavrogordato, John N., 52 Queen's Gate Gardens, London, S.W.
Maxim, Sir Hiram S., Sandhurst Lodge, 382 High Road,
Streatham, London, S.W.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 6 Rue Villaret-de-Joyeuse, Paris.
-Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., 21 Portland Place, London, W.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W.
M'Alpine, Robert, Balclutha, Greenock, N.B.
M'Clellan, Mrs. Clara D., Briarcliff Manor, New York City, U.S.A.
M'Clure, Henry, M.D., 30 Portland Court, Portland Place,
London, W.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich;
and 11 Eton Avenue, Hampstead, London, N.W.
M'Connel, Mrs., Matlaske Hall, Norwich ; and 11 Eton Avenue,
Hampstead, London, N.W.
* M'Dougall, Isaac S., The Orchard, off Arthog Road, Hale, Cheshire.
M'Dougall, William, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B., Woodsend, Foxcombe
Hill, nr. Oxford.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 507
M'Keever, Buell, 3900 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Mead, G. R. S., 16 Selwood Place, Onslow Gardens, London, S.W.
Meek, Maximilian de, 5 Rue Debrousse, Paris.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 3 Batlivala Villa, Sleater
Road, Bombay, India.
Meissner, Mrs. de, c/o Union of London and Smith's Bank, 2 Prince's
Street, London, E.G.
Mellone, Rev. Sydney Herbert, D.Sc, 10 Hartington Gardens,
Edinburgh.
Menendez-Mena, Rodolfo, LL.D., D.Sc, Apartado 24, Merida,
Yucatan, Mexico.
Merwin, Miss Mary F., 668 Hancock Street, Brooklyn, NY., U.S.A.
Metcalfe, Mrs. G. R., The Aberdeen, St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S.A.
Meyer, Rev. F. B., Regent's Park Chapel, Park Square East,
London, N.W.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
Milburn, Rev. R. Gordon, Bishop's College, Calcutta, India.
--Mildmay, The Hon. Mrs. St. John, 121 Mount Street, London, W.
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
*Millard, Mrs. Almira B., 2505 Farnam Str., Omaha, Neb., U.S.A.
Millard, Charles Killick, M.D., D.Sc, Gilroes, Leicester.
*Miller, Prof. Dickinson S., Columbia University, New York, U.S.A.
-Miller, Miss Elizabeth L., Greenriver, Bonchester Bridge, Hawick,
N.B.
Milne, A. M. Lees, Ribbesford House, Bewdley, Worcestershire.
*Mirlees, W. J., 11 Cranmer Road, Cambridge.
Mistri, Jeejeebhoy P., Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute,
Hornby Road, Bombay, India.
Mitchell, Sidney J., c/o D. Mitchell & Co., Box 77, G.P.O., New-
castle, N.S.W., Australia.
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
Moggridge, Miss Edith, Stanfield House, High Street, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
*Money-Coutts, Francis Burdett.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, Co.
Limerick.
Montgomery, Mrs. W. H., Byways, Exmouth, Devon.
Moor, Lady, 89 Linden Gardens, Kensington, London, W., and
Ladbroke, Chine Crescent, West Cliff, Bournemouth.
508 Members and Associates. [part
Moore, Professor Franklin, M.D., 114 West Commerce Street,
Bridgeton, N.J., U.S.A.
Moore, Major H. G. A., East Yorkshire Regiment, Fulford
Barracks, York.
*Moore, Admiral W. Usborne, 8 Western Parade, Southsea.
Morison, Mrs. Miller, 4 Randolph Cliff, Edinburgh ; and Morison
House, Hetland, Ruthwell, N.B.
Morley, Edwin W., Andover, Ashtobula County, Ohio, U.S.A.
Morris, Mrs., Iiorsley Hall, Eccleshall, Staffs.
Morton, Mrs. F. N., 73 West La Crosse Avenue, Lansdowne, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., 2 Rampart Row,
Bombay.
*Mosscockle, Mrs., 26 Hertford Street, Mayfair, London, W.
Moultrie, Miss A. J. C.
Mukerjea, Dr. M. M., Uttarpara, Calcutta, India.
Miiller, Fraulein A., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London, S.E.
Munro, Hector, M.B., 27 Lower Seymour Street, London, W.
Murgoci, Prof. George, Str. Transylvania 13, Bucarest, Roumania.
''Murray, Donald, Mildmay Park Works, Mildraay Avenue, London, N.
-'Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., 82 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Murton, Miss Josephine, The Firs, Charing, Kent.
Myers, Professor Charles S., M.D., Galewood Tower, Great Shel-
ford, Cambs.
x Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
*Myers, L. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
Myers, W. Wykeham, M.B., H.B.M.'s Consular Agency, Pagoda
Anchorage, China.
Nash, Joseph, The White House, Somerleyton, Lowestoft.
*Neale, Edward, c/o Mr. Herbert Bishop, 29 Ludgate Hill, London, E.C.
Neild, Miss Maria, 27 Brompton Square, London, S.W.
Neustadter, Louis W., 4G1 Mission Street, San Francisco, Cal., U.S.A.
*Newcastle, The Duke of, Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
*Newmann, Oscar P., 84 Newman Street, London, W.
Newton, Miss I., 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Newton, Heber, Oamaru, New Zealand.
Newton, Rev. R. Heber, D.D., 183 East Putnam Avenue, Green-
wich, Conn., U.S.A.
*Nicoll, Mrs. DeLancey, 23 East 39th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Nicolls, Brig. -General E. G., United Service Club, Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 509
Nicolson, Right Hon. Sir Arthur, Bart., G.C.B., etc., Foreign
Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
*Nisbet, E. T., 13 Beverley Terrace, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
*Niven, Mrs. Graham, The Golden Farm, Cirencester, Gloucester-
shire.
Noel, Miss Frances, 40 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Noel-Cox, H. L., M.D., F.R.A.S., 11 Clifton Hill, Clifton, Bristol.
*Norris, Professor Richard, M.D., F.R.S.E., The Laboratory,
Yardley Fields, Yardley, Birmingham.
Northcote, Rev. H., 17 Rue Simoneau, Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
Nutter, Miss H. G., Beechcroft, The Avenue, Cambridge.
Oates, R. Crosbie, The Chalet, Park West, Heswall, Cheshire.
*Odell, L. E., Casa Central Florida 864, Buenos Aires, Argentine
Republic.
Odell, S. W., 202 Boston Building, Pasadena, Cal., U.S.A.
Ogilvie, Mrs. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, 11 Hill Street, Edinburgh.
Ogle, Captain N., 67th Punjabis, Quetta, Baluchistan, India.
Oldham, G. F., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Rostrevor, Langton Green,
Tunbridge Wells.
^Olivier, Sir Sydney, K.C.M.G., Board of Agriculture and
Fisheries, 4 Whitehall Place, London, S.W.
Oman, Professor Charles W. C, Frewin Hall, Oxford.
Onslow, Lady, Chevin Bank, Duffield, Derbyshire.
*Onslow, Hon. H., Clandon Park, Guildford.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Street, Hamp-
stead, London, N.W.
Overton, Mrs. Winfield S., 340 East 31st Street, Brooklyn, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Pack Beresford, Denis R., Fenagh House, Bagenalstown, Co.
Carlow.
Pagan, Miss C, Marston Lodge, Harrow.
Paget, Sir Arthur, 9 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London, E.C.
Paley, Mrs., Ampton Hall, Bury St. Edmunds.
Parke, Roderick J., 179 Cottingham Street, Toronto, Canada.
Parker, Sir Gilbert, D.C.L., M.P., 20 Carlton House Terrace,
London, S.W.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
Parkin, Mrs., The Mount, Sheffield.
*Parsons, A. J., Sycamore Farm, Clifton, York.
Parsons, N. M., 22 Barkston Gardens, London, S.W.
510 Members and Associates. [part
Pask, A. F., College House, Brunswick Street, Manchester.
Pass, Harry de, 7e Grove End Road, London, N.W.
Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., 3 Church Gate Street, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., 3 Devonshire Terrace, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Payne, Ernest, 10 Wellington Court, Knightsbridge, London, S.W.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Hesslewood, Hessle, Yorks.
Peckham, Orville, First National Bank, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Penha, Paul de la.
Pennington, Mrs. Henry, Beaumont, Camberley, Surrey.
Penny, W. R., Office of the Chief Railway Storekeeper, Cape
Town, South Africa.
Percival, Mrs., 1 Chesham Street, Belgrave Square, London, S.W.
*Perdicaris, Ion, The Manor House, Chislehurst, Kent.
*Perez, Dr. Jorge, Puerto de Orotava, Teneriffe, Canary Isles.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/oDr. Perkins, 57 Harley Street, London, W.
*Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, The Count, 5 Panteleimonovskaia, St.
Petersburg.
Perowne, Miss Edith, 11 Harvey Road, Cambridge.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Superintendent's House, Guy's
Hospital, London, S.E.
Perry, T. S., c/o Perier et Cie, 59 rue de Province, Paris.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., c/o Perier et Cie, 59 rue de Province, Paris.
Philijose, Miss Margaret Gouverneur, 142 West 71st Street, New
York City, U.S.A.
"-Phillimore, Mrs., Battler's Green, Letchmore Heath, Watford,
Herts
Pickering, J. W., D.Sc, Sundridge, Russell Hill, Purley, Surrey.
*Piddington, J. G., Holy Well, Hook Heath, Woking, Surrey.
*Piercy, Major B. IT., Marchwiel Hall, Wrexham; and Villa Piercy,
Sardinia.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treryn, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
Pinchot, Gifford, 1615 R.I. Avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, Wandsworth
Common, London, S.W.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
*Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 511
Plowden, Mrs., Strachur Park, Loch Fyne Side, Argyllshire.
Plurner-Willson, Mrs. W., 20 Laurence Road, Hove, Brighton.
Pogson Smith, Mrs. E., Bourkes, Blackhall Rd., Oxford.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B., 14 West Halkin Street, London, S.W.
Pontifex, Dudley, 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London, S.E.
Pooley, Mrs. Thomas E., Fernhill, Victoria, B.C., Canada.
*Pope, Miss Theodate, Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
Popoff, General James, Sosnitza, Gov. Tchernigov, Russia.
Porter, Miss Agatha, M.D., 18 Kensington Park Road, Notting
Hill, London, W.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Post, Mrs. Wm, St. Lucie, Fla. ; and Buckhannon, W. Va,, U.S.A.
*Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W.
Pou, Hon. E. W., House of Representatives, Washington, D.C.,
U.S.A.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J. P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Powles, Lewis Charles, The Highlands, Rye, Sussex.
*Pring, C. H., 278 Old Kent Road, London, S.E.
Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hall, Stocksfield-on-Tyne.
Putnam, Miss Irene, Bennington, Vt., U.S.A.
Pye, W. A., Priest Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Pym, Mrs. Guy, 35 Cranley Gardens, South Kensington, London,
S.W.
Pym, Leslie Ruthven, Alnwick, Northumberland.
Quackenbos, John D., M.D., 331 West 28th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S. A.
Rae, James, Villa Laurel, San Jacopo, Livorno, Italy.
Raggett, Mrs., 70 Maida Vale, London, W.
Raikes, E. B., Drayton Old Lodge, Norwich.
Raikes, Mrs., Beomonds, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Raj, Des, Kasur, Dist. Lahore, Punjab, India.
Ramsden, Miss, Bulstrode, Gerrard's Cross, Bucks.
Ransom, Francis, Chilterns, Hitchin, Herts.
Ransom, H. B., 28 Belsize Park Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Raper, R. W., Trinity College, Oxford.
*Rashdall, Rev. Hastings, New College, Oxford.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton.
512 Members and Associates. [part
Reacle, Herbert V., 32 Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington,
London, W.
*Reckett, Miss Juliet E., 20 Dulwich Wood Park, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E.
Redgrove, H. Stanley, 191 Camden Road, London, N.W.
Regina Madre, S. M. La, Palazzo Margherita, Rome.
*Reinkardt, C. E., M.D., 29 Onslow Square, London, S.W.
Remacle, Georges, 22 Rue de l'Athenee, Arlon, Belgium.
Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
Rice, Mrs. David Hall, 2 Wellington Terrace, Brookline, Mass..
U.S.A.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew,
Surrey.
*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Dalekam Gardens, London, N.W.
Ridley, The Viscountess, 10 Carlton House Terrace, London,
S.W.
Ritchie, Thomas, J. P., Overstrand Lodge, Cromer, Norfolk.
Ritter, Miss, 7 Park Place, St. James's, London, S.W.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W.
-Robbins, Miss A. M., Room 138, State House, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Robbins, Rufus M., Titusville, Brevard County, Florida, U.S.A.
Roberts, Mrs. Hugh, 53 F.O. Quarters, Europa, Gibraltar.
*Roberts, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Roberts, R. Nevill, 29 Finchley Roacl, London, N.W.
Roberts, W. M., Bar Harbor, Maine, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W.
Robinson, George R., 31 James Street, Liverpool.
Robinson, Nelson L., 381 Central Park West, New York City,
U.S.A.
Robotham, C. E., 12 Clapham Mansions, Clapham Common,
London, S.W.
Rogers, Edmund J. A., M.D., CM., 222 West Colfax Avenue,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Henleaze Park, Westbury-on-Trym,
Gloucestershire.
Rolleston, Mrs., Ballyhenry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow, Ireland.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 513
Rolleston, T. W., Ifield, 16 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W.
*Romanes, N. H., Christ Chinch, Oxford.
Rose, Mrs. Guy, The Judson, 53 South Washington Square, New
York City, U.S.A.
Rosenberger, James, Sellersville, Bucks Co., Pa., U.S.A.
*Rothschild, Mrs. Leopold de, 5 Hamilton Place, London, W.
*Riicker, Sir A. W., F.R.S., 19 Gledhow Gardens, London, S.W.
Rundle, Miss M. G., Varese, Burghley Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W.
Ryan, Mrs., The New York Sun, 1 Arundel Street, Strand,
London, W.C.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Damory Cottage, Walton-on-the-Hill,
Surrey.
Sabine, Mrs. G., Llanteens Lodge, Llanvihangel Crucorney,
Abergavenny, Wales.
Sadgrove, W. Arthur, Clonarel, Foxley Lane, Purley, Surrey.
St. Davids, The Lady, 3 Richmond Terrace, Whitehall, London, S.W.
St. Hill, Mrs., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
Samaldas, Hon. Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
Sampson, Colonel Dudley, Buxshalls, Lindfield, Hayward's Heath.
Sanderson, W. R., Via Nomentana 58, Rome,
Saunders, Miss E. R., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Saunders, W. E., Riovista, Torresdale, Pa., U.S.A.
*Savage, Rev. M. J., D.D., 1867 Crawford Road, Cleveland, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 66 Harley Street, London, W.
Sayer, Miss Ettie, M.B., 35 Upper Brook Street, London, W.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., Ringmore House, Quarry Road, Hastings.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schmidt, Julius, 582 Woolwich Road, Charlton, London, S.E.
Schofield, Mrs., 1 Phillimore Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Schreiner, Miss Julia, 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W.
Schuster, Miss, Cottenham House, Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Scott, Rev. D. D., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New Zealand.
*Scott, Captain G. B., S.W. Militia, Wana, Waziristan, India.
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.
Scott, W. Sibbald, M.B., The Lymes, Ellesmere, Salop.
*Scott-Gatty, Sir Alfred S., K.C.V.O., F.S.A., Garter King of
Arms, Wendover Lodge, Welwyn, Herts.
Scripps, Thomas Cecil, 13 Woronzow Road, London, N.W.
514 Members and Associates. [Part
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., 120 E. 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Senathi Raja, E. S. W., LL.B., The Grange, Tiivandrum, India.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet Sir E. H., O.M., G.C.B.,
G.C.V.O., Queen Anne's Mansions, St. James's Park, London,
S.W.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., Tallahassee, Florida, U.S.A.
Shaddick, W. Harris, Lynclhurst, 99 Montague Road, Leytonstone,
London, N.E.
Shakespear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W.
*Shaw, Mrs. Bernard, 10 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, London, W.C.
*Shaw, Rev. Sir Charles J. Monson, Bart., The Rectory, Wrotham,
Kent.
Shaw, Mrs. W. N., 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W.
Sheets, J. C, 7 Glenwood Apartments, College Hill Station,
Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Sheldon, A. F., Rockefeller, 111., U.S.A.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
"Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston
Square, London, W.
Shuttleworth, Miss C. J., 10 Cottesmore Gardens, Kensington,
London, W. »
*Sidgwick, Arthur, LL.D., 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25 Collingham Road, London, S.W.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. H., 27 Grange Road, Cambridge.
Sidgwick, Miss Rose, 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Siegel, Mrs. Henry, 51 Avenue de Malakoff, XVI6
, Paris.
Silver, Mrs., 24 Victoria Square, London, S.W.
Simmonds, Miss C. E., 33 Clarence Gate Gardens, Baker Street,
London, N.W.
Simpson, Commander H. V., R.N., Kylintra, Portrude Park,
Weybridge, Surrey.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
Sivudu, R. Venkata, The College, Guntur, Madras Presidency,
India.
Skipwith, Mrs., 1 Culford Gardens, Sloane Square, London, S.W.
Skipwith, Mrs., 13 Montagu Square, London, W.
Sloggett, Surgeon-General A. T., C.M.G., C.B., Closeburn, Simla,
E., India.
Small, Mrs. William, Hotel Gwalia, Upper Woburn Place, Lon-
don, W.C.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 51
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
*Smith, Rev. Ernest F., 153 Banbury Road, Oxford.
Smith, Ernest S., Les Algues, Saint- Jean-de-Luz, France.
Smith, Ernest T., 2 Lausanne Road, Hornsey, London, N.
Smith, G. Albert, Sunville, Cromwell Road, Hove, Brighton.
Smith, George M., Custom House, Lowestoft.
*Smith, Henry Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W
Smith, Sir H. Babington, C.B., 121 St. James's Court, Bucking-
ham Gate, London, S.W.
Smith, R. F. Ruthven, 81 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
*Smith, Mrs. Ruthven, 81 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Hebden Bridge Vicarage, Yorkshire.
*Smith, Mrs. W. Easton, 132 Grove Street, Waterbury, Conn.,
U.S.A.
Smith, Wm. Hawley, 2039 Knoxville Avenue, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Smith, William P., Crestline, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
Snyder, Irving T., Willow Grange, Littleton, Colorado, U.S.A.
Sparrow, G. W. S., Albrighton Hall, near Shrewsbury.
*Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spens, William, King's College, Cambridge.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., 148 North 18th Street,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Stapleton, Mrs., 11 Sloane Terrace Mansions, London, S.W.
*Stapley, Sir Richard, 33 Bloomsbury Square, London, W.C.
Statkowski, Miss Tamara.
Stawell, Miss F. M., 33 Ladbroke Square, Notting Hill Gate,
London, W.
Steedman, J. G. W., M.D., 5394 Waterman Avenue, St. Louis,
Mo., U.S.A.
*Steel, Mrs., Talgarth Hall, Machynlleth, Montgomeryshire.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W.
Stephenson, Guy, 41 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W.
Stevenson, Mrs., c/o A. Wyatt, 25 Park Place, Cheltenham.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Artillery Mansions, 75 Victoria Street,
London, S.W.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Herbert L., 38 Elmwood Avenue, Belfast.
Stoehr, Miss, Downend, Hindhead, Surrey.
Stokes, Dr. Henry N., 1443 Q. Street, N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
516 Members and Associates. [part
*Stokes, J. N. P., 118 East 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strackan, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
Strackey, Charles, Colonial Office, Downing Street, London, S.W.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,
Strand, London, W.C.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Strauss, E. A., M.P., 49 Grosvenor Square, London, W.
Strode, Miss E. L. C, 7 Stafford Terrace, Kensington, London, W.
Strong, Rev. Charles, D.D., 67 Avoca Street, S.Y., Melbourne,
Australia.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Stuart, Mrs.
Stubbs, Arthur, 82 Murdoch Road, Handsworth, Birmingham.
""Sturdy, Edward T., Norburton, Burton Bradstock, Bridport,
Dorset.
Sturge, Miss M. Carta, Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
Suffern, Ernest S., 149 Broadway, New York, U.S.A.
Sulman, H. L., 31 The Avenue, Brondesbury Park, London, N.W.
Swainson, Miss F. J., Stonecross, Kendal.
Swainson, Miss M., 7e Oxford & Cambridge Mansions, London, W.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., 153 Mill Creek Rd., Ardmore,
Pa., U.S.A.
Sweetland, Mrs. Gifford, 1646 O'Farrell Street, San Francisco,
Calif., U.S.A.
Szentirmay de Darvasto, B. M. J. de, Consulate for Austria-
Hungary, Yokohama, Japan.
Tait, Mrs., 10 Ellerdale Road, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Lismullen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
Surrey
Taplin, A. Betts, L.R.C.P., Norwood, Ivanhoe Road, Sefton Park,
Liverpool.
Taylor, Mrs., 33 Roland Gardens, London, S.W.
Taylor, Mrs. C. C, Wood Cottage, Cronk's Hill, Reigate, Surrey.
Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 7e Oxford and Cambridge Mansions,
London, W.
-Taylor, H. Dennis, Stancliffe, Mount Villas, York.
Taylor, Z. S., M.D., 53 West 126th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Tebb, Mrs., Rede Hall, nr. Burstow, by Horley, Surrey.
Temple, Reginald W.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 517
Tennent, Mrs., 39 Rutland Park Mansions, Willesden Green, Lon-
don, N.W.
Thomas, Rev. CD., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt.
Thomas, J. W., Overdale, Shortlands, Kent.
-"Thomas, Seymour P., 211 Cliveden Avenue, Germantown, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Thompson, Edwin, 25 Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
Thompson, Matthew William, Salters Hall, Sudbury, Suffolk.
Thompson, Mrs. Rosalie, 90 Newman Street, London, W.
Thompson, Theodore, M.D., F.R.C.P., 94 Portland Place, Lon-
don, W.
Thomson, Edward J., Western Club, Glasgow.
Thomson, Mrs. Leslie, 1 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W.
Thorburn, Rev. T. J., D.D., LL.D., The Bungalow, St. Helen's
Down, Hastings.
Thornhill, Miss H., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W.
Thornley, Rev. Alfred, Hughenden, Coppice Road, Nottingham.
Thornley, Miss F. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Thornton, W. M., D.Sc, Durham College of Science, Newcastle-
on-Tyne.
Thorp, Richard, Colenso Hill, Napier, New Zealand.
Thurn and Taxis, H.I.H. The Princess Alexander of, Lautschin,
Nimburg, Bohemia, Austria.
Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid de, Queensberry House, Richmond.
Trench, Mrs. C. Chenevix, Broomfielcl, Camberley, Surrey.
Trotter, Mrs., Standerwick Court, Frome, Somersetshire.
Truell, Robert Holt Stuart, West Mount, Dover College, Dover.
Tschistiakoff, P. A., Arbate (maison Tolstoy), Moscow, Russia.
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 47 Upper Brook Street, Grosvenor
Square, London, W.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill, Haslemere, Surrey.
Turner, Herbert B., 29 Raymond Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Tyler, Professor C. M., The Oaks, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Tyrone, The O'Neill de, 59 rua das Flores, Lisbon, Portugal.
Tyrrell, G. N., The Lodge, Alderminster, Stratford-on-Avon.
Ulman, Mrs. Jacob A., Brooklandville, Baltimore County, Md.,
U.S.A.
Unwin, Mrs., Hogarth House, Bushey, Herts.
518 Members and Associates. [part
Urquiola, Manuel de, Calle de Genova 12, Madrid.
Van Deren, H. S., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Van Hamel, Professor J. A., 612 Keizersgracht, Amsterdam.
Van Nievelt, Carl, Adolfsallee 51", Wiesbaden, Germany.
*Van Norden, Rev. Charles, D.D., LL.D., East Auburn, Placer
Co., Cal., U.S.A.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam.
* Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
*Verrall, Mrs. A. W., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss H. de G., 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge.
Verrall, Miss M. E., The Lydd, West Hoathly, Sussex.
Vincent, W. James, M.B., Wadsley Asylum, Sheffield.
Von der Heydt, Baron, 48 Green Street, Park Lane, London, W.
Vyvyan, Mrs. T. C, Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
Wakeley, Mrs. Charles, 6218 Ingleside Avenue, Chicago, 111.,
U.S.A.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W.
Walker, Mrs., 28 St. Andrew's Mansions, Dorset Street, London, W.
*Walker, P. L. E., 7th Hussars, Bangalore, South India.
*Walker-Munro, L., R.N., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Wallace, Abraham, M.D., 39 Harley Street, London, W.
Walsh, A. Digby, Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, Lon-
don, S.W.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Aughnacloy, Killiney, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Warndorfer, A., Giinselsdorf, Port Schonau a.d. Triesting, Lower
Austria.
Warner, Miss E., 42 Albany Villas, Hove, Sussex.
Warren, Mrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W.
^Warwick, Countess of, Warwick Castle, Warwick.
Wastell, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Waterhouse, Miss, Glenalua House, Killiney, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Waterhouse, Miss E., Glenalua House, Killiney, Co. Dublin,
Ireland.
Watson, Charles G., Frostburg, Maryland, U.S.A.
Watson, H. B. Marriott, Shere, Guildford, Surrey.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 39 Eccleston Square, London, S.W.
Webber, Mrs. Felix, The Croft, Shillingstone, Dorset.
LXVII.] Members and Associates. 519
"-Weinberg, Harry J., North Road, The Park, Nottingham.
* Wells, E. P., The Limes, 94 Larkhall Rise, Clapham, London,
S.W.
West, Arthur B., 100 Franklin Street, Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
Western, F. J., Cambridge Mission, Delhi, India.
*Westlake, Ernest, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
Westropp, A. S. A., East India United Service Club, 16 St.
James's Square, London, S.W.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 80 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W.
*Whetham, W. C. D., F.R.S., Upwater Lodge, Cambridge.
Whinyates, Miss Amy O., 15 Sloane Gardens, Sloane Square,
London, S.W.
Whipple, L. E., 10 East 66th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Whishaw, R. W., North West House, Duntrune Terrace, Broughty
Ferry, N.B.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
White, Dr. Gordon, 610| Church St., Nashville, Term., U.S.A.
*Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge.
Whitehead, Rev. John, 57 Dana Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Whiting, J. Markby, Ashford House, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W.
Whitmore, Mrs., 28 Milner St., Cadogan Square, London, S.W.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D., 287 Fourth Avenue, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Whittemore, Mrs. Julia S., Naugatuck, Conn., U.S.A.
*Whittingham, F. S., Rodborough Rectory, nr. Stroud, Gloucester-
shire.
*Wiener, Captain Clarence, Ewell Castle, Surrey.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
Wight, Edward, M.R.C.S., 9 Regency Square, Brighton.
Wilkins, Mrs., 8 Rostrevor Terrace, Rathgar, nr. Dublin.
*Wilkins, C. F., Allahabad, U.P., India.
Wilkinson, Sidney, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 4 Hamilton Square,
Bix-kenhead
Willett, Mrs., St. Andrew's Lodge, Seaford, Sussex.
Williams, A. C. Redshawe, 4 Church Road, West Drayton, Yiew-
sley, Middlesex.
Williams, Mrs. Glynne, 7 Berkeley House, Hay Hill, London, W.
Williams, Harry L., 541 Wood Street, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Williams, J. E., Plumb Opera House, Streator, 111., U.S.A.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lome Rd., Oxton, Cheshire,
520 Members and Associates. [part
Williamson, Mrs., The Copse, Brook, Godalming, Surrey.
Willis, Mrs., c/o Mrs. Barbar, New Street, Killarney, Co. Kerry,
Ireland.
Willis, Grant B., 1103 West Aultoman Avenue, Canton, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Wilson, Rev. Alexander, The Manse, Ythanwells, Insch, Aberdeen-
shire.
Wilson, Mrs. Arthur, 150 Whitehall Court, London, S.W.
Wilson, Charles J., Derlamogue, Ailesbury Park, Dublin.
Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, c/o Major C. Stuart Wilson, R.E., Royal
Engineer Office, York.
Wilson, Miss E. M., c/o H. A. Higgins, Ythan, Woodland Grove,
Weybridge, Surrey.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J., 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Wilson, Miss M. A., c/o H. A. Higgins, Ythan, Woodland Grove,
Weybridge, Surrey.
Wingate, D. C.
*Wingfield, H. E., M.D., 44 Welbeck Street, London, W.
Winslow, Mrs. Forbes, 57 Devonshire Street, Portland Place,
London, W.
Wise, Miss A. Stewart, 16 West Kensington Gardens, London, W.
Witherby, Arthur George, Newtown Grange, Newbury, Berks.
*Wolf, Francisco Eugene de, P.O. Box 269, Bristol, Rhode Island,
U.S.A.
*Wood, R. H., c/o Messrs. Smith, Wood & Co., 3 and 4 Lime Street
Square, London, E.C.
Woodhams, Miss M. F., Twyford, Lynwood Road, Redhill, Surrey.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.
*Woods, Miss Alice, 3 North Mansions, Burton Road, Kilburn,
London, N.W.
Woods, Mrs., The Master's House, Temple, London, E.C.
*Wooldridge, H. B., 168 Marylebone Road, London, N.W.
Woollett, Lieut.-Colonel W. Charles, F.S.A., 4 The Ridges, Farn-
boro', Hants.
Woolley, V. J., M.D., 15 Lower Camden, Chislehurst, Kent.
Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, Romden Place, Smarden, Kent.
Wrangell, Baron Cyrille, 9 Schpalernaia, St. Petersburg.
Wriford, Mrs., 21 Bullingham Mansions, Kensington, London, W.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W.
Wyllys, Miss R., 18 Louisburg Square, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
lxvil] Members and Associates. 521
Wyndham, Mrs., 201 West 54th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Wyndham-Quin, The Lady Emily, 12 William Street, Lowndes
Square, London, S.W.
Yandell, Miss Maud, c/o Brown, Shipley & Co., 123 Pall Mall,
London, S.W.
Yaroschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
Yeats, W. B., 18 Woburn Buildings, Tavistock Square, London,
W.C.
Yih, Z. L., 18 Highbury New Park, London, N.
Young, G. P.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W.
Yssel de Schepper, Mr. Justice, Eendrachtstraat 27b, Rotterdam.
Zagury, Leon, 12 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, London, W.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XXVI
(PARTS LXV-LXVII)
I913.
A.
" Abercromby, Blanche," Case of, reference to - - - 1 39
Abt Vogler. See Browning, Hope and Star, and The Horace Ode
Question.
Achilles (Horace Ode Question), references to
114-115, 177, 178, 218, 221, 415
Aeneid (Book I.), Incidents 109, 110
,,
(Book VI.), Cross-correspondence - - 123
„ (Book VIII.), Script references to - - 32-33
Agamemnon Incident, reference to - - - 109
Ajax and Ulysses Incident, reference to - 109, 113
Alternations of Personality. See Dr. T. W. Mitchell, and Personality.
Anehises (Sibyl Incident), reference to - 113,205
Androsace, reference to - - 114 (foot-note)
Animism, Bodif and Mind, A History and Deft-nee <>/, by W. M'Dougall,
Review of - - 344-367
Aphasia, Professor Bergson 011 - - - 471
Archdale, Mrs., Cross-correspondences with, reference to - 67
" Archy tas " Ode. See Horace Ode Question.
Aristophanes Apology. See Browning, and Euripides.
Arnold, Matthew, Requiescat, Script references to - - 46-48
[parts lxv.-lxvil] Index to Vol. XXVI. 523
Arrow, Cross-correspondence, references to - - - -25, 96, 103, 383
Ash, Dr. Edwin, Faith and Suggestion, by, Review of - - - 370
Automatic Writings
See Cross-correspondences, "Mrs. Forbes," Mrs. Frith, "Mrs.
Holland," Mrs. Home, "Mac" Script, Dr. J. Maxwell,
Mrs. and Miss Verrall, and "Mrs. Willett."
Automatism, and the Subconscious, Dr. Boris Sidis on - - 326
Automatisms, A Month's Record of, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall 24
avros ovpavos aKv/j.wu Incident, Balfour, the Rt. Hon. G. W., on
223-24, 238, 239
„ „ Reply to, by J. G. Fiddington - 233-44
„ Maxwell, Dr. J., on - ... 87-91, 140
„ Two Tennjjsonian Quotations in Mrs. Verrall's
Scripts, relating to, by J. G. Piddington 245-50
Ave Roma Immortalis, Cross-correspondence, Dr. J. Maxwell on 77-80, 84, 95
„ ,, „ Reply to, by Miss Alice Johnson - - 411
Azure and Horizon, Cross-correspondence, references to
89, 163 (foot-note), 383
B.
B, Mme, Case of. See Leonie.
B. C. A., Case of, Dr. T. W. Mitchell on - - 273-74, 276, 282
Balfour, F. M. (Communicator), reference to - 70 (foot-note)
Balfour, The Rt. Hon. G. W.—
,, ,, The Horace Ode Question, Some Observations on
Mr. Piddington's Unsuspected A nswer to - 221
i! ,) ,, „ Reply to, by J. G. Piddington - 231
„ „ On the Latin Message Experiment - - - 148
„ ,, On the Metaphysical Aspects of Animism 351-59
,, Reply to Prof. Pigou on Cross-correspondences,
reference to ----- - 398
Review of Body and Mind, a History and
Defence of Animism, by W. M'Dougall - 344
Ballard, Edith, Case of, reference to ------ -
372
Barlow, Rev. J., On delusions, reference to - - - - - - 3.5
" Barnes, Mary," Case of, reference to - - - - - - _
267
Bayfield, Rev. M. A.—
„ Andrew Lang and Psychical Research, by 419-430
„ On the Latin Message Experiment - 147;
143
„ Table Tilting Experiments with Miss Verrall - 34-39, 44, 53-56
"Beauchamp, the Misses," Dr. T. W. Mitchell on the Case of
267-75, 277, 284
Benson, Archbishop, Script references to Cross and Ring of - - 63-65
Bergson, Professor Henri, Philosophy of, references to 278, 283, 355, 364, 461
„ „ Presidential Address, 191 3 - - - 462
Berkeley, Philosophy of, references to -
347;
351
524 Index to Vol. XXVI. [PARTS
Bernadetfce, Case of, reference to - - - 371
Bernheim, Dr., Hypnotic results obtained by, reference to - - 313
Binetj Dr. A., Les Alterations de la Personnalite, reference to 265 (foot-note)
Blake, W., Script reference to a Drawing by ----- 32
Bleuler, Prof. Dr. E., Die Fsychanalyse Freuds, by, Review of, - - 367
Blue Flower, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - 115
Bonaventura and the Dominicans Incident ----- 29, 31, 44
Booz Endormi (Victor Hugo), Cross-correspondence - - 32-44, 51, 53-56
Bostock, Dr., Case of, reference to------ - 4
Bourne, Ansel, Case of, reference to - - 263-64
Brain, the, as an organ of attention to Life, Professor Bergson on - 473
Breuer, Dr. J., reference to - - - - - 314
Brittleworth Incident, references to - - -
76, 413
Browning, Script references to Aristophanes' Apology - 95, 112
,, „ ,,
Evelyn Hope - - 104, 152-55
La Saisiaz - 105, 162, 163, 166
„ ,, ,, Fippa Fusses ----- 105
„ „ Rabbi Ben Ezra - - - 105
,, ,, ,, Ring and the Book - - 104
Browning, Hope and Star, Cross-correspondence
„ „ „ Mrs. Hude on - 147-70
„ „ „ Dr. J. Maxwell on 101-108, 140, 383
„ „ „ J. G. Piddington on - - 171-73
Butcher and Lang, Translation of the Odyssey, reference to- - 416
C
Carpenter, Dr., Theory of Unconscious Cerebration, references to
323, 325, 427-28
Carpenter, Bishop W. Boyd, Presidential Address, 1912 - 2
Cartesian Philosophy, references to - 326, 327, 347, 365
Cave of Sleep (Lethe Incident), reference to - - 113
Celestial Halcyon Days, Cross-correspondence
„ „ Dr. Maxwell on - - 86-94, 111 (foot-note)
„ „ Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick - 383
Ceyx, Story of (Lethe Incident), reference to - - 111 (foot-note)
Chance-coincidence, and Telepathic Hallucinations, M. Vaschide on 254-55
See also Cross-correspondences.
Charcot, Dr., reference to - - - 371
Child, C. M., Case recorded by - - 321
Claviger. See St. Peter.
" Clementine," Case of, recorded by Dr. J. Maxwell 142-143, 377
Cock Lane and Common Sense, by Andrew Lang - - 421-22, 427-28
Coniet Incident, the ----- - 48-52
Comte, reference to - - - - - • 330
Comus Incident, the, reference to - - 109
lxv.-lxvii.] Index to Vol. XXVI. 525
Consciousness, Theories of. See The Works of Professor S. Freud, W.
M'Dougall, Dr. T. W. Mitchell, and Dr. Boris Sidis. See also
Maxwell, Dr. J. ;
Personality ; and Subliminal Consciousness.
Constable, F. C, Fuchsia Experiment with, reference to - - 68-70
Corneille, Le CiJ, reference to - - - - 39 (foot-note)
Council and Officers for 1913 -------- 480
Cross-correspondence, Experiments in 24, 57-144, 145, 147, 171, 174,
/ 221, 231, 245, 362, 366, 375, 401, 409, 415
,, Chance-coincidence and 59, 61-63, 79, 80, 85, 130,
225-30, 232, 382-85, 412
,, Cryptomuesia as a Factor in
70, 74-85, 87-94, 108-115, 132-134,
145-146, 379, 385-87, 395-7, 410
,, Good Faith of the Autornatists in, on the
130-32, 138-39, 362, 378-379
,, Identity of the Intelligence, on the
59, 82-85, 108-15, 135, 139, 141, 147-170,
174-220, 225-30, 248-50, 362-63, 381, 399, 415-41S
,, Knowledge of the Subject-matter on the part of
the Anton. atists or Sitters
25 (foot-note), 27, 28, 39 (foot-note), 50,
55, 56, 58, 61, 74-80, 84, 95, 107-116,
122-130, 132-35, 141, 224, 226-30, 240,
248-50, 378, 380-82? 385-91, 409, 411, 412
11 Maxwell, Dr. J., on- 57-144
11 is
General Criticism of Methods 130
» 5)
Eeplies to, by
J> >!
Editorial Note - 145
11 11 ii
Miss Alice Johnson - 409
11 11 j» J. G. Piddihgton - - 415
11 11 ii
Mrs. H. Sidgwick -
375
11 11 ii Mrs. A. W. Verrall - 401
„ Phrases and Symbols indicating
25, 49, 59, 60, 89, 96, 103, 166-68
„ Selection as a Factor in - - - - 363, 399
,, Symbolic Interpretation, how far allowable
137-138, 380, 388, 391-92
,, Telepathy, Incidents suggestive of
24-56, 139-144, 148, 377, 393-40C
„ ,, Source of, on the question of the 58, 397-99
,, Third Intelligence, Special Indications of
174-220, 363, 398-99
Crossing the Bar, Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on - - 87, 88, 90,
„ Mrs. H. Sidgwick's reply to - - - - 388
Cryptomuesia. See Cross-correspondence.
Crystal Vision, Andrew Lang on ------ 422, 426
52U Index to Vol, XXVI. [parts
Cup, Cross-correspondence, John, Item in, reference to - 137-38, 388, 403
Custom and Myth, by Andrew Lang, reference to - 421
Cyclops, Centaurs, etc., allusions to - - - - 113
D
Daffodils, Cross- correspondence, reference to - 100, 383
Dante, Script references to, in earlier scripts, Dr. Maxwell on
91, 93-100, 116-20, 140, 380
,, ,, Paradiso {Dream, Dawn and Diana, Cross-correspondence)
28-30
,,
Purgatorio, quotation from - - - 13 (foot-note)
Dawn. See Dream, Dawn and Diana, Cross-correspondence.
Dead, Phantasms of the, in Dreams - - 450-54
Dearmer, Rev. Percy, D.D., reference to - - 371
Dejerine, on " Word-Blindness," reference to - - 293
Demeter and Persephone, Script reference to - - 136, 389
Descartes, references to -
326, 346, 348
D'Herve, Marquis, Les Reves et les moyens de les dinger, reference to - 440
Diana, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - 96
See also Dream, Dawn and Diana, Cross-correspondeuce.
Dill's /toman Society from Nero to Marcus Aurelius, reference to - 248, 249
Disinterested or unconscious Deception in Psychical Research, on
131-32, 138-39, 362, 378-79
" Doctor." See Trance Personalities (Mrs. Piper).
Documentary Evidence, Contemporary, Extant - - 431, 432
Dominicans (Golden Legend), Script references to - 25 (foot-note), 28-30
Door ( = Dorr) and Key and Lethe-Dorr, Cross-corres]3ondence, Dr.
Maxwell on - - - 122-125
Dorr, G. B., Sittings with Mrs. Piper, references to
108-115, 177-78, 221, 224, 233
Dostojefski, Crime and Punishment, by, reference to - - 442
Dowsing, Phenomena of, reference to - 19, 421
Dream, Dawn and Diana, Cross-correspondence - 24-44, 53, 54
Dreams and Ghosts, Book of, by Andrew Lang, reference to - 422
Dreams, Extensions of Subliminal Faculty in 304, 435, 438, 446, 449-50
Freud's Theory of - - 317, 318, 432, 444-5, 460
of Flying - - 435-38, 446, 449-50
,,
Memory, Revivals of, in - 321
„ Dr. F. van Eeden on - 431-461
Drugs, Hallucinations caused by - 459
Dubois, Professor, reference to - 7
E
Editorial Note on Dr. Maxwell's Correxpondances Croise'es - 145
Eheu Fugaces, Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on 80, 81, 84, 98
„ „ „ Miss Alice Johnson's reply to - 414
LXV.-LXVII.] Index to Vol. XXVI. 527
Electra, "Not in the Electra," Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on 84, 85
>) „ Miss Alice Johnson's reply to - - 412
Ellis, Havelock, on the Phenomena of Dreams - -432-434, 441, 447, 450
Encyclopaedia Britannica (1902) —
Psychical Research, by Andrew Lang, reference to 421
Euripides, Cross-correspondence - - - -95,101,383
F
F. V., Hypnotic Experiments with, reference to - - 320, 322
Faith and Suggestion, by Dr. E. Ash, Review of - - - - - 370
Ftilth, Hope, Charity Incident, reference to -
48, 53
Fawcett, Cross-correspondence, reference to 84
Fechner, references to- - - - - - - . 22, 279 280
Fiske, reference to ---------- [0
Flavicomata Incident, reference to - - - - - - - 125
Florentine, Abraham, Case of, reference to - - - - - 139,385
" Forbes, Mrs.," Cross-correspondences with, references to
24-44, 53-56, 60, 61, 64, 404-6
» „ The "Talbot" Control Incident, Dr. Maxwell on
60, 61, 64
>> „ „ Reply to, by Mrs. Verrall - - - 404-6
„ Dream, Dawn and Diana, Cross-correspondence, connexion with
24-44, 53-56
" Forbes, Talbot/' Control - -
37,60,61,64,404-6
French Poems (Hugo-Gautier-Montenaeken), Cross-correspondence,
references to - 35; 36, 125-30, 377
Dr. Maxwell on - - - 125-130
» „ Mrs. Sidgwick's reply to - - 377
Freud, Professor S.
Dreams, Theory of - - 317, 318, 432, 444 45, 460
„ ^1 Note on the Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis, by - - - 312
„ Psycho-Analysis and Hysteria, Theory of
302, 308, 310-312, 334-36, 367-69
» „ Criticism of, by Dr. Boris Sidis - - 334-36
» Defence of, by Dr. E. Bleuler - - - 367-69
Frith, Mrs., The Sevens Cross-correspondence, reference to - -
118
G
Gautier, Theophile. See French Poems.
Genius, Bishop Boyd Carpenter on 15-17,20
Geryon, Script references to - - - - - - - 95, 96, 383
Giant and Dwarf, Cross-correspondence, references to - - 86, 90, 383
Gilchrist's Life of Blake, reference to ----- .
32
Gillingharu Case, The. See Edith Ballard.
" Gleam," J. G. Piddington on New Evidence concerning the
Horace Ode Question ------- 182-191
528 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts
Goldsmith, Script reference to The Deserted Village - 26
Gurney -Control, the, through " Mrs. Forbes," reference to - 61
H
Haggi Babba. See Door ( = Dorr) and Lethe-Dorr, Cross-correspondence.
Hajji Babba of Ispahan, by J. Morier, reference to - - 123
Hallam, Arthur, Script references to - 90
Hallucinations, Census of, references to - - 252, 253, 254 (foot-note), 255
Olfactory - - - 253, 254
„ Subjective - - - 3, 4, 370, 372
„ Visceral - - 253-54 (foot-notes)
Hanna, Rev. T. C, Case of, references to - 266, 284
Hare, Augustus, Venice, by, references to - 192-194
Harold, Item in a Cross-correspondence, reference to - - 100,130
Harrison, Frederic, Essay on Human Personality, reference to - 428-29
Hartmann, Psychology of, reference to - - 334
"Haunting Bird," Prediction concerning, Dr. Maxwell on 71
„ „ Reply to, by Mrs. A. W. Verrall 406
Head, Henry, M.D., The Goulstonian Lectures for 1901, reference to
253-4 (foot-note)
Henry was not Mistaken, Cross-correspondence, reference to - 84
Herbart, Theory of Consciousness, reference to - 335-336
Hercules Furens, references to - - 95, 96, 101, 112
"Heme Hill Miracle." See the Case of Dorothy Kerin.
Hill, Dr. Alexander, on Pre-natal Growth, reference to - 18
Hill, J. A., Experiment with Mrs. Verrall, a Case of Subliminal
Memory - - - 395-97
Hobbes, Philosophy of, reference to - 346
Hodgson, R., Experiments with Mrs. Piper, reference to - 57, 58, 73
,, „ Dr. Maxwell's Criticism of the Experimental
Methods of - - - 57-58
„ „ „ Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick
376, 388 (foot-note)
Hodgson-Control, through "Mrs. Holland" - - 75-77
Mrs. Piper - 109, 150, 390
„ Dr. Maxwell on Cryptographic and Symbolic
Messages from - - 75-77, 390
,, ,,
Reply to, by Miss Alice Johnson - 413, 414
Hotfding, Theory of Consciousness, reference to - - 338, 339, 340, 341
"Holland, Mrs.," Automatic Script of—
74-130, 140, 142, 146, 375, 382,388-91, 409-14
,, ,,
Cross-correspondences
(with the Mac Script) - - 122, 384-85
( „ Mrs. Piper) - - - 85-130
( „ Mrs. and Miss Verrall) - - 74-85
LXV.-LXVII.] Index to Vol. XXVI. 529
"Holland, Mrs.,'1
Automatic Script of
•
, „ Automatist's Knowledge of Facts and Allusions in
her Script 74-80, 84, 95, 100, 386-91, 409, 411, 412
„ Dr. Maxwell's Criticism of - - 74-130, 140-142, 146
,, „ Replies to, by
Miss Alice Johnson - - 409-14
Mrs. H. Sidgwick - - 375, 388-391
,, „ The Sesame and Lilies Cross-correspondence 122, 384-85
,, ,, The Sevens Cross-correspondence - - - 118
Home, D. D., Alleged Mediumship of, reference to - - - 428
Home, Mrs. R., The Set-ens Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on 119, 121
„ Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick 390
Homer, Iliad, Script references to ------- 92-94
„ Odyssey, connection with the Horace Ode Question, J. G.
Piddington on ------ - 188, 245-248
Hope, Star, and Browning, Cross-correspondence. See Browning, Hope
and Star.
Horace, Script reference to ------- - 31
Horace Ode Question - - 114-15, 124, 165, 174, 221, 231, 415-18
„ A Hitherto Unsuspected Answer to the, by J. G. Piddington 174
„ „ Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour, Some Observations on
the fore-going Paper, hy - - - 221
„ ,, Reply to, by J. G. Piddington 231
Mrs. Hudeon - ------ 165
„ „ Note on, by J. G. Piddington- - 172, 173
Dr. Maxwell on the Two First Stages of 114-15,124
„ „ Reply to, by J. G. Piddington - 415-18
Horizon. See Azure and Horizon.
Hude, Mrs. Anna, on The Latin Message Experiment - 147, 376
„ „ Note on, by J. G. Piddington - 171
Hugo, Victor, La Le'gende des Siecles {Booz Endorrni), Script references to
32, 33, 36-42, 53-56
„ „ See also French Poems, Cross-correspondence.
Hume, Philosophy of, reference to ------ - 331,347
Huxley, Theory of Consciousness, reference to 327
Hypnagogic Illusions, on -------- 435
Hypnotism, Phenomena of
„ Amnesia - 297-300,304,307-11
„ Automatisms 322-23, 328
„ Hypnoidal State, the - - - 341, 343, 368-69
„ Memory, Conditions of - - 260, 263, 266, 304, 320-22, 343
„ Revivals of- 260, 263, 266, 320-22, 343
Personality in the light of Suggestion 269-74, 277, 278, 280, 282-4
„ Dramatic Character of 268-73, 277, 283-4, 303-4, 310
Post-Hypnotic Suggestion - 269, 276, 313, 314
„ Resistance, Power of, in the Subject
297-99, 301-04, 310, 311, 316, 371-2
530 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts
Hypnotism, Phenomena of
Telepathy - 393-94
„ Therapeutic Aspects of - - 296-311, 373
,, See also Psycho-Analysis, and Suggestion.
Hyslop, Professor J. H., Experiments with Mrs. Piper (Hodgson-
Control), reference to - - 139, 390 (foot-note)
Hysteria, Dissociations of Consciousness, and phenomena of
132-35, 258-59, 261-62, 265-75, 277-285, 286-311
„ Multiple Personality, and, A Study in (Amelia G. P.), by Dr.
T.W.Mitchell ------- 286-311
,, Predictions by the patient as to the course of the illness - 295-6
Psycho-Analysis, Treatment by 302-304, 308-311, 312-318, 367-69
„ Somnambulism, Spontaneous ----- 258-60
See also Hypnotism, and Personality, Problems of.
I.
Icarus and Anchises (Sibyl Incident), reference to 113, 205
Illusions and Lapses of Memory. See Memory.
Immortality. See Horace Ode Question, and Myers, F. W. H, Script
references to poems.
" Imperator." See Trance Personalities.
In valle reducta, Script reference to - - 123
Isles of the Blest, Script references to - - - 180
J.
James, Prof. W., Philosophy of, references to
9, 16, 319, 324, 336, 355, 358 (foot-note), 362
Janet, Dr. Jules, Case recorded by - 282
Janet, Professor Pierre, The Major Symptoms of Hysteria, Cases re-
corded in ----- 258,259,261-2,265,269,308,314
Janiculum, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - - 115, 411
Janus, Script references to - - 95,112,113
Janus and Saturn (Lethe Incident), reference to - 113
Joan of Arc, Rev. M. A. Bayfield on The Maid of France, by Andrew
Lang ----------- 422-26
Johnson, Miss Alice, Horace Ode Question, on the Connexion between
the " Archytas " Ode and the Ode to Nature
208, 209
„ Dr. Maxwell's Criticism of Cross-correspondences
and the Experimental Methods of 74-85,
116-121, 146, 376, 381-82, 399 (foot-note)
„ ,, Sevens, Cross-correspondence - - 116-121
„ Reply to, by - - 409
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, references to - 271,273
LXV.-LXVII.] Index to Vol. XXVI. 531
K.
K. Cryptograph. See Hodgson-Control.
Kant, Philosophy of, reference to - - 347, 351
Keats, Script references to - - - 124, 125
Kerin, Dorothy, the Case of, Dr. E. Ash's Report on - - 370
„ Analogies between, and the Case of Edith Ballard - 372
Kingsley, C, Script reference to poem by - - - - 25 (foot-note)
Kipling, Rudyard, Script reference to poem by - - 42 (foot-note)
Lamartine, Chance-coincidence between, and the French Poems Cross-
- 128-29, 377
correspondence - -- -- -- -
Lang, Andrew
„ Memorial Article on, by the Eev. M. A. Bayfield
,, Book of Dreams and Ghosts, by, reference to
,, Cock Lane and Common Sense „
„ Custom and Myth „
,, Encyclopaedia Britannica, Article on Psychical Reseai*'
„ Jeanne D'Arc, The Voices of, by, reference to
„ „ The Maid of France „
„ Magic and Religion ,,
„ Making of Religion „
,, The Nineteenth Century and Mr. Myers
„ Presidential Address (S.P.R.), 1911
„ Queen Mary's Diamonds „
Latin Message Experiment, Mrs. A. Hude on the
,, „ Note on, by J. G. Piddington
„ Dr. Maxwell on -
„ „ Reply to, by J. G. Piddington
Laurel Wreath, Cross-correspondence, references to
Leibnitz, Philosophy of, reference to - - -
Lelut, L. F., Le De'mon de Socrate, reference to -
Leonie (Mme. B.), Case of, Dr. T. W. Mitchell on
Lethe Incident, Dr. Maxwell on -
„ Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick
Liebig, Prof., on the power of the Will over the Body, reference to
Light, Dr. Maxwell on, as a possible Source of some Script phrases and
references in the Cross-correspondences - 57, 82, 83, 87, 92,
95, 101, 103, 113, 118 (foot-notes), 120, 121, 123
,, „ Replies to, by Mrs. Sidgwick, and Miss Alice Johnson
388, 390-91, 413
Light in the West, Cross-correspondence, references to - - 95-101, 112, 383
Literary and Classical Allusions in Automatic Scripts, Dr. Maxwell on 108-1 15
See also the Horace Ode Question, the Latin Message, the
" Mae " Scripts, and the Scripts of " Mrs. Holland," Mrs.
Piper, and Mrs. and Miss Verrall.
- 419
422
421-22, 427-28
- 421
;h - - 421
- 422
423-426
422, 426
- 422
427-29
421, 428
- 421
- 147
- 171
in 1-108
415
125-26, 129, 383
346, 347
249 (foot-note)
269, 270, 285
98, 99, 110-114
377, 386-7 399
4
532 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts
Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic ------- 373
Lodge, Sir Oliver
Dr. Maxwell's cr iticism of the Experimental Methods (in the
"Willett" Script) of - - - - 122-25,131,142
„ „ Mrs. H. Sidgwick on - 376
Longfellow, Old Clock on the Stairs, Script references to - - 116, 390
Lorberg, Dr. Hermann, references to chance-coincidence in Script
concerning - 76, 413
Lotze, Philosophy of, references to - - 358 (foot-note), 360, 366
Lourdes " Miracles," reference to - 371
Lucie, Case of, reference to - 269
M.
" Mac " Script, The—
Cross-correspondences (with Mrs. " Holland," Mrs. Piper, and
Mrs. and Miss Verrall)
36 (foot-note), 122, 125, 126, 384-86
Dr. Maxwell on - - - - 121,122,125-126
Reply to, by Mrs. Sidgwick - 384-386
Mach, Prof. Ernst, Analyse der Empfmdungen, references to
446, 448 (foot-note), 456, 460
Magic and Religion, by Andrew Lang, reference to - - 422, 426
Maiman, reference to - ... 326 (foot-note)
Making of Religion, by Andrew Lang, reference to - - 422
Mallock, W. H., Essay on Human Personality by F. W. H. M}r
ers,
reference to - - 428-29
Marie, Dr. Pierre, Works of, reference to - - - 472
" Marmontel " Prediction, the, Dr. Maxwell on - - 71-74
Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick - 385
„ by Mrs. A. W. Verrall - 406-8
Marsh, Mr. See " Marmontel " Prediction.
Maudsley, Dr., Psycho-physiological theories of - - 323, 324
Maury, on Dreams and Hypnagogic hallucinations, reference to
434-35, 440, 442
Maximus of Tyre, Dissertationes of, and the aMs ovpavds dicifuov Incident,
J. G. Piddington on - 246-50
Maxwell, J., M.D., Cases recorded by 142-43
,,
Cbrrespondances Croise'es et la Mc'thode E.rperimevtale, by - 57
„ ,, Editorial Note on - - - 145
,, ,, General Criticism - - 58-130
„ Experiments of
Miss Alice Johnson - 74-84
J. G. Piddington - 85-130
Mrs. A. W. Verrall - 58-74
lxv.-lxvil] Index to Vol. XXVI. 533
Maxwell, J., M.D., Cases recorded by
„ Cross-correspondence, Chance-coincidence and
59, 61-63, 79, 80, 86, 130
,, ,, „ Scope afforded by familiar
Words and Names
86, 101, 115, 125, 383
,, ,, Consciousness, Crepuscnlary States of - 131-137
,, ,, Cryptomnesia
70, 74-85, 87-94, 108, 115, 132-34, 145, 146
Telepathy and - 139-144
„ „ Methods, General Criticism of - 130-144
,, „ „ Cryptomnesin, on - - - 132-34
,, ,, „ Good Faith of the Automatists, on
the - 130-32, 138-39
,, ,, ,,
Negative Character of the Evidence
for Identity
83-85, 113-115, 135, 139, 140-41
,, „ ,, Symbolic Interpretations, on 137-138
,, „ Replies to, by
Miss Alice Johnson - 409
J. G. Piddington - - 415
Mrs. H. Sidgwiek 375
Mrs. A. W. Verrall 401
,, Les Phe'nomenes Psi/ cinques, by, reference to - 145
M'Dougall, W., F.R.S., M.B.—
,,
Body and Mind: a History and a Defence of Animism,
by, Review of ------- - 344
„ On the Personality of "Sally Beanchamp" - 277
" Meditation " Incident {French Poems Cross-correspondence) - 126-130
Medusa's Head, Script reference to - - 113
Meetings of the Society, General \
Members and Associates, Honorary, Corresponding, and Ordinary,
List of 1 ...... 4si
Memory, Professor Bergson on ------- - 474
„ Cryptomnesia, Question of, in Cross-correspondence Experi-
ments. See Cross-correspondences.
„ Dr. J. Maxwell on - 133-135
„ Normal lapses of i33)
134
„ Revivals of. See Dreams, and Hypnotism.
See also Hypnotism ; and Personality, Alternating and
Multiple.
Memory and Matter, Professor Bergson on - 278, 283, 355, 364
„ W. M'Dougall on - - - 364-66
„ Dr. Boris Sidis on - - 329-331
See also T. W. Mitchell on Multiple Personality.
Merry, Dr., Notes on the Odyssey, reference to - - 416
534 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts
Mesnetj Case recorded by, reference to ----- - 259
Methods of the Society for Psychical Research, Professor Bergson on
the ------------ 464
Mill, J. S., Philosophy of, reference to - - - 337
Mitchell, Dr. Weir, Case recorded by, reference to 266, 267
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., A Stud?/ in Hysteria and Midtiple Personality
(Amelia G. P.) - 286-311
Clinical History of the Case - 286-311
„ Hypnotic Suggestion, Treatment by 297-308,311
„ „ Amnesia - - 297, 301, 303-6
Resistance of the Subject to 299-304, 311
,, Interaction of the Physical and Mental Symptoms
297-300, 303, 307, 31
,, Multiple Personalities, the development of 306-311
., „ Dramatic Characteristics of 306-7, 309-11
Psycho-Analysis ----- 308-311
,, Review of Dr. Morton Prince's Psychological Prin-
ciples and Field of Psychotherapy, reference
to - 18 (foot-note)
„ Some Types of Multiple Personality, by - - 257
,, „ Diagrams illustrating - 284-85
,, „ Alternations and Temporary fugues
257-267
Multiple - 266-275
,, ,,
Theory of the Co-consciousness of 275-85
Mons Albanus, Script references to - - - 25, 33, 391
Montenaeken, Leon de. See French Poems.
Morier, J., Adventures of Hajjt' Babba of Ispahan, reference to - - 123
Moses, W. Stainton, Dr. Maxwell on
57, 82-83 (foot-note), 87 (foot-note), 120-21, 139-141
„ Mrs. H. Sidgwick on - 379, 385-86, 390
Mosso, Prof., on Fatigue, reference to 7 (foot-note)
Miinsterberg, Prof. Hugo, Script reference to - 76
,, Theory of Passive Consciousness, reference to - 331
Music, Notes of, Cross-correspondence, reference to - 84, 383
Myers, F. W. H, The Daemon of Socrates, on, reference to - 249, 250
Lang, Andrew, on the Work of - - 428-29
„ Script References to and Reminiscences of the Writings of
„ „ Classical Essays - - 249
„ ,,
Fragments of Prose and Poetry
88, 176 (foot-note), 178, 206, 227, 229-30
„ „ Human Personality
88, 92-95, 157, 160-62, 169, 233-44
„ S.P.R. Presidential Address 240-41
„ Renewal of Youth - 212
lxv.-lxvil] Index to Vol. XXVI.
Myers, F. W. H., Script References to and Reminiscences of the Writing of
„ „ Special Poems, Immortality
176, 178, 200, 201, 206, 207, 208,
210, 218, 221-22, 225-230
„ „ „ Ode to Nature
176, 200, 201, 206, 207-210, 219
,, ,, „ Spring Morning at Sea
178-186, 187-189, 206, 207,
210, 218, 222, 225-230, 243
„ „ Venice
189-207, 210-211, 212-219,
222-23, 240, 263
„ Sealed Envelope (posthumous) left by, references to
58, 70, 121
„ Theory of the Subliminal Consciousness, references to
14, 58, 267, 269 (foot-note), 282, 286, 429
Myers-Control, the, Communications through " Mrs. Holland " - - 86-101
„ „ „ Mrs. Piper 86-115,135,
147-70,172-73,174-77,
200, 202,207, 208, 219-230
„ „ „ Mrs. Verrall 32,53,56,
69,83, 84,174,177-230,
231-44, 245-50, 415-18
Mrs. Willett - -122-25
„ Comparison of, through different Automatists - 113-115
Dr. Maxwell on the Identity of - - 83, 86-115, 122-125
„ Reply to, by J. G. Piddington - - -415-18
„ „ Mrs. H. Sidgwick - - 381, 399
N.
N., Madame, Case recorded of - 253
Nature, reference to Daniel's Comet in ... 50, 51
Nature, Ode to. See Horace Ode Question ; and Myers, F. W. H., Script
references to Poems.
Neptune and Trident, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - 110,113
Newton, Philosophy of, reference to - - .... 337
Nicolai, Dr., Case of, reference to - - - - - 3, 4
Nightingale, Cross-correspondence, leference to - - - 124, 136, 389
Nineteenth Century and Mr. Myers, by Andrew Lang, reference to - 428-29
Noel, Roden, Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on - 75, 77, 82, 84, 136
„ Reply to, by Miss Alice Johnson - - 409, 410, 412
„ „ by Mrs. Sidgwick - ... 391, 392
O.
Officers and Council for 1913 ----- - 480
Olympus Incident, reference to - 113
2M
536 Index to Vol, XXVI. [parts
Omar Khayyam. See Door ( =Dorr) and Key, Cross-correspondence.
" One-Horse-Dawn " Experiment. See Verrall, Dr. A. W.
Orion (Horace Ode Question), references to - - 96, 98, 101, 383
Ovid, Script references to
Fasti ------- - Hi, 112, 389
-Metamorphoses - - - - - 110, 387
P.
P., Experiments in Hypnotic Telepathy with, reference to - 393, 394
P., Amelia G., A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality, by Dr.
T. W. Mitchell - 270, 286-311
Paley's Argument for Design, reference to ----- 9
Panopticon, Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on - - - - 59, 60
„ Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgvvick- - - 382-3
by Mrs. A. W. Verrall - 401-3
Parallelism, Mr. M'Dougall on the Doctrine of - - - - 350-54, 359
Pavlow, Laboratory7
Experiments of, reference to 342, 343
Pelham, George, Control (Mrs. Piper) - 103, 106, 155-59, 161 (foot-note)
" Pearl," Horace Ode Question, List of references in Mrs. VerralPs
Script ------------ 213
Persephone, references to ------- - 136, 389
Personality, Problems of, General references 9-23, 74, 131-134, 257-85,
286-311, 312-18, 319-43, 344-67, 367-69, 370-72, 393, 440
Alternations of - 260-266, 283-84
„ „ Diagram Illustrating - - - - - 284
,, Amnesia. See below, Memory.
Automatisms - - - - 258-60, 286-90, 297-300, 306
„ Fugues ------ - - 260-63
Memory, Conditions of - 259-60, 263, 266-285, 290-96,
301-311, 312-318, 319-343, 359, 361-62, 364-67
Multiple - . . - 266-285, 303-311
„ „ Gradations leading up to 258-66
„ „ Theory of Co-consciousness - - - 268-85
„ „ „ Diagrams illustrating - 285
„ Secondary, Mental and Moral Characteristics of
260, 268-278, 281-85
See also Trance Personalities.
„ Somnambulism, Spontaneous ------258-60
See also the Cases of Mme. B. (Leonie), B. C. A.,
" Mary Barnes," The " Misses Beauchamp,"
Ansel Bourne, Rev. T. C. Hanna, Lucie, Amelia
G. P., Marcelline B., Mary Reynolds, Eou, and
Fulida X., and the Phenomena of Hypnotism,
Hysteria, and Self-suggestion.
Pharaoh's Daughter, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - 120,391
LXV.-LXVII.] Index to Vol. XXVI. 537
Phrases and Symbols indicating Cross-correspondence
25, 49, 59, 60, 89, 96, 103, 166-68
Physical and Psychical Phenomena, Dr. Maxwell on the difficulty of
investigating - 138-39
Physical Scientists, attitude towards Psychical Eesearch 5-7, 344, 348-52, 359
Piddington, J. G., Concordant Automatisms, by, references to
85-130, 147-70, 171-73
„ The Series with G. B. Dorr, 1908, reference to
108-115, 177-78, 22], 224, 233
,, Horace Ode Question, A Hitherto unsuspected Answer to the 174, 231
,, „ ,, Discussion of the New Evidence - - 182-186
Plates illustrating - 200-201
See also Myers, F. W. H., Script refer-
ences to Poems.
„ „ „ Balfour, Rt. Hon. G. W., Some Observations
on the Foregoing Paper - - 221
„ „ „ Reply to, by - 231
„ „ „ Maxwell, Dr. J., Criticism of - 114-115
„ Reply to, by - -415-18
,, „ ,, Note on Mrs. Hude's Paper on the Latin
Message Experiment - - 171
,, „ ,, Dr. Maxwell's Criticism of Cross-correspond-
ence and the Experimental
Methods of 85-130
Eeply to, by, - - 415-418
„ „ Miss Alice Johnson - - - 414
„ Mrs. H. Sidgwick - - - 383-84
,, „ ,, Tivo Tennysonian Quotations in Mrs. VerraU's
Script - - - - 245, 389 (foot-note)
Pigou, Professor A. C, references to his Criticism of Cross-correspon-
dences - - - - -
67, 139, 398
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of 85-130, 132, 134-5, 139, 140, 147-70,
171-3, 176-78, 200-203, 233-243, 375-76,
382, 386-88, 390-91, 401-403, 415-18
„ Dr. J. Maxwell on, and replies to
85-130, 132, 134-5, 139, 140, 375-76, 382,
386-88, 390-91, 401-3, 415-18
„ Cross-correspondences (with " Mrs. Holland ") - -85-130
,, „ (with Mrs. and Miss Verrall)
25, 48, 52, 53, 85-130, 147-70, 171-3,
176-78, 200-203, 233-44, 375, 382-
83, 386-88, 390-91, 401-403, 415-18
„ (with Mrs. Willett) - -122-25
„ The Sevens Cross-correspondence - - - 116,390
Pitre, Ecmnesia, by, reference to - - 135
Plotinns, references to - - 88, 90, 93, 94, 140, 233, 239, 342-43
2M2
538 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts
Podmore, Frank, Criticism of the Latin Message Experiment, refer-
ences to -------- - 147, 148, 153
Poison Bottle Incident, the, reference to - - - - - -115
Pomona, Script reference to - - - 113
Posilipo, Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on - - - - - 81, 84
Predictions, J. G. Piddington on, reference to - - - 137, 138
See also Self-suggestion.
Premonitions, Dreams ----- - 437, 443-44, 451-52
Presidential Address (1912), by Bishoja W. Boyd Carpenter - - 2
(1913), by Henri Bergson - - - 462
Prince, Dr. Morton, Cases recorded by, references to
B. C. A. -------- 273-276, 282-83
The " Misses Beauchamp " - 267-75,277,283-84
Prophecies of Jeanne D'Arc - - 424-25
Psalm cxxvii, Script reference to - - - ' - - 25 (foot-note)
Pseudo-Hallucinations, Phenomena of - - 252, 253
Psychanalyse Freuds, Die, by Dr. E. Bleuler, review of - - 367
Psychical Research, Andrew Lang and, by the Rev. M. A. Bayfield - 419
„ Dr. Boyd Carpenter on ----- 2-23
„ Mr. M'Dougall on the results of - 361-62
See also Dr. Maxwell on Correspondances Croise'es.
Psycho-Analysis
,, Prof. S. Freud's methods of, on
302, 308, 310-311, 312, 335-39, 367-369
,, „ A Note on the Unconscious in, by - - - - - 312
„ Dr. E. Bleuler on - - 367
Psychology, Professor Bergson on - 477
Psychometry, Experiments in, reference to - 142, 143
Psychomotor States. See Somnambulism, Spontaneous.
Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic at Liverpool - - - - -373
Q.
Queen Marifs Diamond.s, by Andrew Lang, reference to - - - 421
R,
R., Marcelline, Case of, reference to - 265
Rector. See Trance Personalities (Mrs. Piper).
Requiescat, Cross-correspondence, references to - - 46-48, 51, 53
Revelation of St. John the Divine and The Horace Ode Question
184-85, 187-89, 193, 194 (foot-note), 211, 214, 222, 241-43
Reviews ------ 251, 344, 367, 370, 373
Reynolds, Mary, Case of, reference to- - - 266-67
Riviere, Mrs., Table-Tilting Experiments with Miss Verrall - - 44-53
" Rou," Case of, reference to - - - 261,262
Royce, Professor, reference to - 332
Ruskin, references to works by - - 194 (foot-notes)
lxv.-lxvil] Index to Vol. XXVI. 539
s.
St. Dominic. See Dominican's Incident.
St. John, See Revelation of, and Horace Ode Question.
St. Paxil, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - - 91, 92, 94
St. Peter, Item in Cross-correspondence, reference to - - 95, 96, 111, 112
Sand, George, Lettres aVun Voyageur, Comparison of passages with Mrs.
Verrall's Script and F. W. H. Myers's Venice - - 191-194
Savonarola, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - - 115
Scott, Sir W., Lay of the Last Minstrel, Script reference to - - - 128
Scribe Incident, Dr. Maxwell on - - - - 76,125
,, Reply to, by Miss Alice Johnson - - - 413
Selection, as a Factor in Cross-correspondences - 363, 399
Self-suggestion, Predictions probably fulfilled through - 294-96
Selwyn Text Incident, reference to ------- 84
Servia, Alleged Prediction of Assassination of the King of, Script refer-
ence to - 137
Sesame and Lilies, Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on - - 122
„ Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick - - - 384
Sevens, Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on - - 116-121
,,
Reply to, by Mrs. H. Sidgwick - - 390
Shakespeare, Script references to
„ Antony and Cleopatra - - - 184,189,213-14
„ Merchant of Venice - - 190, 213
Shelley, Script references to
„ Adonais ... . - - - 124
,, Sensitive Plant - - - - - 125
Sibyl Incident, reference to - 113, 125
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
„ Experiments with Mrs. Piper, reference to 116-68, 175-76, 234
„ Reply to Dr. J. Maxwell's Criticism of Experimental Methods
in Cross-correspondences ----- 375-400
„ Discussion of General Methods - - - 375-400
„ „ of Particular Cases - 375-391
„ „ the Symbolic Character as evidence of a
Third Intelligence - - - 391-94, 398-400
„ Review of Les Hallucinations Telepathiqzies, by N. Vaschide 251
Sidgwick, Professor H, on Canons of Evidence in Psychical Re-
search, reference to - - - - - - - - 131, 379
Sidgwick-Control, The, (through Mrs. Yerrall), references to
53, 56, 70-71 (foot-notes), 399
Sidis, Dr. Boris, Case recorded by, reference to - - - - - 266
„ Multiple Personality, on Consciousness and - 332
„ The Theory of the Subconscious, by - 319-343
„ „ Automatism and 326
„ „ Passive Consciousness and - - - - 331
„ „ Unconscious Cerebration and - ... 319
„ „ „ Ideas and - - 334
540 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts
Skeat, Prof. W., on Malay Magic, reference to - - 77 (foot-note)
Smith, G. A., Experiments in Telepathic Hypnotism, reference to
377, 393-94
Society for Psychical Research, the Experimental Methods of, in
regard to Cross-correspondence, Dr. Maxwell on - - - - 57-144
,, Replies to, by Miss A. Johnson, J. G. Piddingtou, Mrs. H.
Sidgwick, and Mrs. A. W. Verrall - 375-418
Socrates, Script references to------ - 92, 93, 94
„ F. W. H. Myers on the Daemon of, reference to - - - 249
Somnambulism, Spontaneous, Cases of recurrent - 258-63
See also Personality, Alternations, and Multiple.
Spanish Town (Jamaica), Haunted House at, connection between, and a
Script of Mrs. Verrall -------- 396-97
Spear and Sphere. See Panopticon.
Spinoza, Philosophy of, reference to ------ - 348
Spirit and Angel, Cross-correspondence, references to - -
86, 95, 105, 383
Spring Morning. See The Horace Ode Question ; and Myers, F. W. H.,
Script references to Poems.
Star. See Browning, Hope and Star.
Steam Laundry. See Water Rights Incident.
Stevenson, R. L., Script reference to St. Ives ----- 414
Sub- Conscious, The Theory of the, by Dr. Boris Sidis - - - 319
See also S. Freud, W. M'Dougall, and T. W. Mitchell.
Subliminal Consciousness, Bishop Boyd Carpenter on - 13-23
„ Dr. Maxwell on- - - - 130-138
„ F. W. H. Myers on
14, 267, 269 (foot-notes), 282, 286
See also Cross-correspondences.
Subliminal Self, Dr. Boris Sidis' defiuition of - - 326, 343
F. W. H. Myers on - - - 14
Suggestion, Faith and, by Dr. E. Ash - - - - - 370
„ Hypnotic, and Psycho-Analysis, on the difference between 368
Survival, Human, on the question of
Balfour, the Rt. Hon. G. W. 364-67
M'Dougall, W. - - 364-67
Van Eeden, Dr. F. - 460-61
•See also Cross-correspondences.
Swedenborg, Script references to - - - 91-94
Symposium Incident, reference to - - - 121, 229
Syringa Incident, Dr. Maxwell on - - - 73
T.
Taplin, A. Betts, L.R.C.P., The Liverpool Psycho- Therapeutic Clinic, by 373
Tavern Club Motto, reference to 116, 139, 390
Telekinesis, Alleged, Levitations of Mediums (D. D. Home) - - 428
Tele'pathiques, Les Hallucinations, by N. Vaschide, Review of - - 251
LXV.-LXVII.] Index to Vol. XXVI. 541
Telepathy, Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour on - 362-64
„ Professor Bergson on ------- 465
W. M'Dougall on - - - 359-64
,, Dr. Maxwell on. See Cross-correspondences.
„ Wireless Telegraphy, on the analogy of - - - 363
Telepathy, Experimental, Dreams 452-53
,, ,, Veridical Statements in Automatic Scripts - - 24-56
Telepathy, Spontaneous, Hallucinations - - - - - 251
Tennyson, Script references to
,, Demeter and Persephone ------ 136, 389
„ In Memoriam 88, 90, 91, 233, 242, 243, 245-50
„ Lucretius ....... 237, 245-50
„ Maud - - - - 26 (foot-note), 97, 98
„ Morte D'Arthur - 182, ] 88, 222-23, 337-38, 242, 245-50
„ Tears, Idle Tears - 30, 31
„ Two Tennysonian Quotations in Mrs. Verrall's Script,
J. G. Piddington on - - - 245, 389 (foot-note)
Thanatos, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - - - - 105
Thompson, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of, reference to - - 440, 452
Time, Subliminal Consciousness of, question of, in Dreams - - 441-42
Trance Phenomena of Mrs. Piper
85-130, 132, 134-5, 139, 140, 147, 171, 176-78,
200-203, 233-43, 375-76, 382, 386-88, 390-91,
401-403, 415
„ Automatist's Knowledge of Subject-Matter
90, 91, 100, 107, 116, 132-35, 236, 390, 391
„ Conditions of Consciousness during - 57, 58, 132, 135, 140, 376
„ Reviving the Literary Memories of Trance-Personalities
108-115
Trance-Personalities (of W. S. Moses) - 103 (foot-note)
„ „ (of Mrs. Piper)
„ „ „ Doctor - - 140
„ „ „ Imperator - - - 140
„ „ „ Mentor - - 140
„ „ „ Prudens - - 103 (foot-note), 140
„ „ Rector 59-60, 89, 103 (foot-note), 140,
150, 157, 161 (foot-note), 164
166 (foot-note), 168, 170 (foot-
note), 212, 236, 239, 403
„ „ (of Mrs. Thompson)
Nelly - 440, 452-53
„ Dr. T. W. Mitchell on the relation of, to Multiple
Personality - 274-75
Triangle within a Circle, Cross-correspondence, reference to - 89, 103
Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., Review of Faith and Suggestion, by
Dr. E. Ash - 370
542 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts
V.
Ulysses. See Ajax and Ulysses.
Unconscious Cerebration, Theory of, references to - - 323, 325, 326
Unconscious, A Note on the, in Psycho- Analysis, by Prof. S. Freud 312-318
Van Eeden, Dr. F.—
„ A Study of Dreams - - - - 431-461
„ „ Argument for the Psychical and Non-
Physical Basis of 433-35, 438-41, 458-61
,, ,, Classification, and Description of Types
of - .... -435-58
,, „ Experimental .... 440, 452-53
„ ,,
Reintegration, and Dissociation, in - 441
Vaschide, N., Les Hallucinations Tele'pathiques by, Review of - - 251
„ and Pieron, on Dreams, reference to - - - - 433-34
Venice. See Horace Ode Question ; and Myers, F. W. H., Script
references to Poems.
Verrall, Dr. A. W., Telepathic Experiments of {The One- Horse-Dawn),
Dr. J. Maxwell on - .... 61-68
Verrall, Miss H. de G.—
,, Cross-correspondences (with Mac Script)
36 (foot-note), 125-130, 384
( „ Mrs. Piper)
58, 59, 85, 117, 118, 167, 180, 375, 382
„ „ ( „ Mrs. Verrall)
24-44,85,117,118,167,180,375,382,384
,, „ Automatist's Knowledge of Sub-
ject-Matter of the Script 39
(foot-note),43, 44,55, 56,1 25-30, 386-391
,, The Sevens Cross-correspondence - - 117,118
,, Table-Tilting Experiments —
with the Rev. M. A. Bayfield - - 34-39
„ „ with Mrs. Riviere - - 44-46
Verrall, Mrs. A. W.—
Automatic Scripts of 24-56, 58-74, 85-100, 136, 145,
174-220, 221, 231, 245, 375, 377,
378, 380-87, 391-98, 401-8
„ „ A Month's Record of Automatisms - - 24-56
„ ,, „ Summary and Analysis - 51-56
„ Cross-correspondences (with "Mrs. Forbes")
60, 61, 69, 70, 121, 401-6
( „ " Mrs. Holland ") - 74, 101, 380
„ „ ( ,, the Mac Script) 36 (foot-note),
122, 125-130, 384-85
LXV.-LXVII.] Index to Vol. XXVI. 543
Verrall, Mrs. A. W.—
„ Cross-correspondences (with Mrs. Piper) 25, 48, 52, 53,
59, 85-130, 1-17-70, 171-73,
174-178, 200-203, 375-76,
382-83, 390-91, 401-403,
415-418
„ „ ( „ Miss Verrall)
24-44, 85, 117, 118, 167, 180,
375, 382, 384
( „ "Mrs. Willett") - - 122-23
„ „ Automatist's Knowledge of Subject-
Matter of the Script 25 (foot-note),
27, 28, 38, 44, 50, 55, 56, 70-71
(foot-note), 61, 100, 125-30, 196-97,
227-30, 240, 248-50, 385-91
,, ,, The Sevens Cross-correspondence 116, 118
„ Horace Ode Question, a Hitherto Unsuspected Answer
to, in the Scripts of, J. G. Piddington on 178-220, 231
Et. Hon. G. W. Balfour on - - - - 221
„ Dr. Maxwell's Criticism of Cross-correspondences and of
the Experimental Methods of 58-74, 138, 142
„ „ Reply to, by - 401-408
The " Haunting Bird " (Daily Mail) Case - 406
„ „ "Marmontel" Incident - - - - 406
,, ,,
Panopticon ------- 401
„ „ Talbot-Forbes Case- - - - - 404
,, Two Tennysonian Quotations in the Script of, J. G.
Piddington on - - - - - 245
Volatile ferrum. See Panopticon.
W.
Ward, Professor, Philosophy of, references to - - -
11, 12, 351
Waters of Babylon, Script references to - - - 125
Water Eights Incident, The - - 44-46
Welby, Victoria, Lady, on the science of Signifies, reference to - - 433
Wellington College Incident, reference to - - 63, 64
Wilde, Oscar, Theocritus, Script references to, - - 136, 389
"Willett, Mrs.," Cross-correspondences (with "Mrs. Forbes," "Mrs.
Holland," Mac Script, and Mrs. and Miss
Verrall) - - 122-125, 391
,, Boor { — Dorr) and Key, Cross-correspondence, Dr.
Maxwell on 122-125
Wittinann, Blanche, Case of, reference to - - - 282
Woolley, V. J., M.D., Review of Die Psychanalyse Freuds, by Dr. E.
Bleuler - - - - 367
544 Index to Vol. XXVI. [parts lxv.-lxvil]
Wordsworth, Script references to - - 25 (foot-note)
„ Stanzas suggested by Peele Castle 186-88, 190, 212, 241, 243
(Horace Ode Question)
,, / wandered lonely as a Cloud - - - 100
Wordsworth Country, Script references to - - - - 98, 99, 100
Wundt, Theory of the Unconscious, references to 334, 341, 356
X.
X, Fislida, Case of, references to - - 265, 266, 281, 282, 285-
y.
Yellow, Cross-correspondence, reference to - - - - - 115
Z.
Ziehen, Professor, on Unconscious Cerebration, reference to - 320, 323-24
PROCEEDINGS^ 0F THE
PENNA. S1A1E LIBRARY,
NOT TO it TAKtN FROM
Society for Psychical^^^r&h.
Part LXVII. Vol. XK.Yl.-Jv.ly, 1913. Price 3s. net.
CONTENTS.
I. A Reply to Dr. Joseph Maxwell's Paper on "Cross-Correspondences
and the Experimental Method." By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, .
Appendix I. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, ....
,, H; By Alice Johnson, . . .• .
,, III. By J. G. Piddington, . . . .
II. Andrew Lang and Psychical Research. By the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, .
'
. . ...
III. A Study of Dreams. By Dr. Frederik van Eedes,
IV. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri Bergson,
Officers and Council for 1913,
List of Members and Associates, ......
Index to Vol. XXVI., . . . ...
375
401
409
415
419^
431
462
481
482
522
The. responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
printed for the society by
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON: FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street.
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1913.
PRESIDENT.
Professor Henri Bergson.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd
Carpenter, D.D.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
The Rev. A. T. Fryer.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Professor Giltrrt Murray, LL.D.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O. M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Sm*sh.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
V. J. Woolley, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - •
- - - - 1882-1884
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., ----- 1885-1887.
Professor Henky Sidgwick, , 1888-1892.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - 1893.
Professor William James, ------- 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., ------ 1896-1899
Frederic W. H. Myers, - - - - - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., ----- - 1901-1903.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., - 1904
Professor Charles Richet, ------ 1905.
The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, - - - 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - ' - - - - 1908-1909
H. Arthur Smith, -------- 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., -------- 1911.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of the Society. Continued.
Part LXV. —September, 1912. Price 5s. net.
General Meetings, . . ... . . - 1
L Presidential Address. By the Eight Rev. Bishop W. Boyd
Carpenter, D.D., ....... 2
II. A Month's Record of Automatisms. By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, . 24
III. Correspondances Croisees. - By Joseph Maxwell, M.D., . . 57
Editorial Nbte, . . . . . . . . 145
IV. The Latin Message Experiment. By Mrs. Anna Hude, .'
. 147
Note on Mrs. Hude's Paper. By J. G. Piddington, . . 171
V. A Hitherto Unsuspgctfed Answer to the Horace Ode Question. By
J. G. Piddington, . . .
•
. . 174
Some Observations on Mr. Piddington's Paper. By the Right
Hon. G. W. Balfour, . . . . . .221
A Reply to Mr. Balfour's Observations. By J. G. Piddington, . 231
VI. Two Tennysonian Quotations in Mrs. Verrall's Scripts. By J. G.
Piddington, ....... 245
Supplement: Review:
N. Vaschide's "Les Hallucinations Telepathiques." By Mrs.
Henry Sidgwick, ... . . . . 251
Part LXVI. —November, 1912. Price 3s. net.
I. Some Types of Multiple Personality. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., 257
II. A Study in Hysteria and Multiple Personality, with Report of a
Case. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D., . . . .286
III. A Note on the Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis. By Professor
Sigm. Freud, M.D., LL.D. (Vienna), . . . .312
IV. The Theory of the Subconscious. By Boris Sidis, M.A., Ph.D., M.D., 319
Supplement : Reviews
Mr. M'Dougall's "Body and Mind, a History and a Defence
of Animism." By the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, . 344
Prof. Dr. E. Bleuler's "Die Psychanalyse Freuds." By
V. J. Woolley, M.D., . . .. . . . 367
Dr. Edwin Ash's "Faith and Suggestion." By C. Lloyd
Tuckey, M.D., . . . . . .370
The Liverpool Psycho-Therapeutic Clinic. By A. Betts Tap-
lin, L.R.C.P., 373
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXVI. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co. , 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
Vol. I. (Parts i.-iv.) pp. 336. 5s.
„ II. ( „ v.-vn. ) pp. 340. 5s.
„ III. ( ,, vin. -ix.) pp. 500. 5s.
,, IV. ( „ x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
„ V. ( ,, xh.-xiv. ) pp. 606. 5s.
,, VI. ( ,, xv. -xvii.) pp. 707. 5s.
„ VII. ( ,, xviii. -xx.) pp. 442. 4s.
,, VIIL ( ,, xxi. -xxiii.) pp. 647. 5s.
,, IX.( ,, xxiv.-xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
X. (Part xxvi. ) pp. 466. 4s.
,, XI. (Pts.xxvn.-xxix.)pp. 637. 5s.
,, XII. (. „ xxx.-xxxi.)pp. 391. 4s.
,, XIII. ( ,, xxxii. -xxxiii.) pp. 653. 6s.
„ XIV. (Pts.xxxiv.-xxxv.) pp. 436. 5s.
Vol. XV. (Pts. xxxvi.-XL.)pp. 522. 6s.
„ XVI. (Part XLi.)pp. 650. 6s.
,, XVII. (Parts XLii.-XLV.)pp. 468.
6s. 3d.
,, XVIII. ( ,, xlvi.-xlix. )pp. 548. 7s.
„ XIX. (,, L.-Lii.)pp. 508. 6s. 6d.
„ XX. (Part liii. ) pp. 444. 6s.
,, XXI. (Pts. liv.-lvi.) pp. 584. 6s.
„ XXII. (Part lvii.) pp. 445. 6s.
„ XXIII. (Pts.Lvm.-Lix.)pp. 602. 7s.
'
,, XXIV. ( ,, lx.-lxi.) pp. 758. 7s.
,, XXV. ( ,, Lxn.-LXiv.)pp. 540. 6s.
,, XXVI. ( ,, Lxv.-Lxvn.)pp. 544. 6s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Privatf. Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
Proceeding's of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LXII.-LXVI.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LXIL—March, 1911. Price 2s. net. pagk
I. Commemorative Address : William James and Frank Podmore. By
H. Arthur Smith, ...... 1
II. Frank Podmore and Psychical Research. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 5
III. In Memory of William James. By W. M'Dqugall, . . . 11
IV. William James as Philosopher. By Professor J. H. Moiruead, . 30
V. Professor Pigou on Cross-Correspondences. By the Right Hon.
Gerald W. Balfour, . . . . .38
VI. Report on a Further Series of Sittings with Eusapia Palladino at
Naples: By the Hon. Everard Feilding, W. Marriott, and
Count Pkrovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, with Comments by
'
Alice Johnson and W. W. Baggally, . . . .57
Supplement : Reviews :
Mr. F. Podmore's "The Newer Spiritualism." By the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, ........ 70
Open Letter to Dr. Stanley Hall. From Andrew Lang, . . 90
Dr. Tanner's " Studies in Spiritism." By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 102
" The One-Horse Dawn " : Additional Note on an Experiment described
in Proc. Vol. XX By Mrs. A. W. Verrall, . . 109
Part LXIIL—June, 1911. Price 5s. net.
I. Evidence of Classical Scholarship and of Cross-Correspondence in
some New Automatic Writings. By Sir Oliver Lodge,
II. Notes on Mrs. Willett's Scripts of February, 1910. By Mrs
A. W. Verrall, ......
III. Third Report on Mrs. Holland's Script. By Alice Johnson :
Introduction, . . . .
Cross-Correspondences, .....
The Principle of Selection in the Production of Scripts,
Appendices, .......
IV. Note on the Cross-Correspondence "Cup." By Mrs. A. W
Verrall,
"~
. . . •
. . . .
V. Miss Verrall's Script of March 16, 1908 : a Correction and an
Addition. By Mrs. A. VV. Verrall, .
VI. The Hypnoidal State of Sidis. By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.,
Supplement : Reviews :
_^
"An Adventure," . . . . ~^ .
Professor Robinson Ellis's "The Tenth Declamation of (Pseudo
Quintilian." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, -
Part LXIV.—August, 1911. Price 2s. 6d. net.
General Meetings, .......
I. Presidential Address. By Andrew Lang, .
II. Poltergeists, Old and New. By Professor W. F. Barrett, F.R.S., 377
III. Les Phenomenes Physiques de Spiritisme : Quclques Diffieultes. Par
le Comte Pfrovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, . . . 413
IV. On the a priori Argument against Physical Phenomena. By Sir
Oliver Lodge, . . . . . . 447
V. A Case of Emergence of a Latent Memory under Hypnosis. By
G. Lowes Dickinson, ...... 455
Supplement : Review
Professor Flournoy's '
Ksprii s et Mediums." By the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, . ..... 468
Appendix to Part LXIV. —Decen ber, 1911. Price Is. net.
Officers and Council for 1911, . '. . . . 477
List of Members and Associar <.'5, ..... 478
Index to Vol. XXV., . 520
113
176
218
229
282
293
304
320
338
353
361
363
364
