{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_f_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Peter F Probable NDE 9707","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter F Probable NDE 9707  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter F Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						5238 Peter F Probable NDE 9707  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    After four years of fighting cancer. my wife passed away on June 10, 2021. The next day while talking to my kids I started crying hard and got choked up. I could feel my throat constricting and breathing was becoming more and more difficult. I think my eyes where closed because I don't remember seeing anything at the time. When I couldn't breathe anymore I just gave up and found myself in a void. 

  There were no sensations at all, nothing to see, hear, feel, etc. I had no thoughts at all, just the deepest and purest sense of peace I ever felt. I had a vague sensation of going somewhere but had no way to tell where or how. I had no perception of time so I can't tell how long I was there. That was all there was in the void: a feeling of complete inner peace and vague movement to somewhere.

  At one point I started to hear my kids crying from afar and begging me to come back. I could feel them hugging me. The sounds and sensations started very faintly and got stronger and stronger. Eventually I came to and started breathing again and I found myself on the floor with my three kids covering me, sobbing and hugging me.

  I felt like I made a choice at that point to stay in this world for my kids. 

  I also lost any fear or worry I had about death. I look forward to it but for now my kids need me and I am on a mission to understand what happened to me.

  My wife was the love of my life and we spent 15 years together. I always had the thought in the back of my mind that if I ever lost her I would die of heartbreak. I wonder if it was wish-fulfilment that I did die. Of course, I can't confirm I was clinically dead but it certainly felt like it. I've also done many psychedelic trips before that (cannabis, psylobin, extasy) and have never had an experience that intense.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 June 11, 2021  

NDE Elements:     

  At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain         Heart break after my wife's death.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   My wife died the day before. When I had my experience I stopped breather and gave up on life  
  
How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  before coming back to this world I heard and felt my kids  I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I had none of the distractions of living (sounds, emotions, thoughts)  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       when I was in the void  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I had no sense of time at all. No idea how long it lasted.  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     there was nothing visual to see  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    there was nothing to hear  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     don't remember how I got into the void or out of it  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       no emotions, only a pure sense of inner peace  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths   Spiritual, I believe in a higher self and that this reality is one of many we "live" in and that all my selves are connected to my higher self.  

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I had expected either ceasing to exists or go somewhere... I did not expect a void.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I confirmed to myself that there is something after death  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            No       

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life       

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  the experience is burned into my memory, mostly I think because I keep thinking about it. The rest that happened just before on that day and the months after are a blur because I was I don't really want to remember them.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        that it is possible to love someone so much that you can die of heartbreak  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    several months. He believed me and encouraged me to learn more about it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   From various sources: books, films, articles, etc. I am very curious about all subjects. I don't know if it affected my experience.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     as something real that happened  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I'm %99 sure I was dead for a while.. but it could have been my brain tripping, who knows?  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   once, during a period when I was smoking cannabis every day, and while meditating I found myself in a void. But in this case I still felt a vague attachment to my body and I could think and feel. I could think of any question and the answers came to me. I had no sense of time.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       all good         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_f_probable_nde.html