{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1peter_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Peter B NDE 4610","mylang":"de"}
          	        Peter B NDE 4610  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Peter B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2329 Peter B NDE 4610  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My first experience was a feeling of floating. I didn't see my body, but I knew that I was not in my body. On my right, there was the sound of a large crowd, voices that were so numerous, I couldn't tell if I knew anyone, but it sounded like a happy party. A tall wall separated me from everyone. To my left, I saw a tunnel of a sort, the walls seemed to be turning and I was slowly being drawn into it, not quite sure if I was supposed to go into it. Eventually I started down the tunnel and saw a brilliant light that glowed so bright, that I couldn't see a face but a silhouette of a man. I knew he was the Lord. As I started to get closer, I felt a sudden pulling on my feet and was rushed backward. The tunnel spun faster and before I knew it, I was in the emergency room and told my wife right away that I had seen the Lord and I was in heaven. She immediately acknowledged that she believed me because she had found me outside, blue in color and not breathing. She said that she knew I was gone, but had fallen on top of me and prayed that the Lord would let me come back, that she wasn't ready for me to go, and in the witness of our neighbor who is a retired intensive care unit nurse, I began to breathe. By the time the ambulance arrived, I was breathing very heavily on my own and no one ever did rescue breathing or car.

Background Information:

Gender:	 male

Date NDE Occurred:	  3/5/2010

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    I had a pulmonary embolism. 3 blood clots 3 in lungs 1 in leg  other passed out in the side yard. When my wife found me i was not breathing. The nurse ran over from next door and said that i had passed.  Pulmonary embolism and possible heart attack.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole experience, but when I came to, the whole experience in the emergency room and the following week in the intensive care unit was not so clear.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     If felt different like it wasn't real but it was very real. I saw it and felt alive.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Bright and clear voices were loud but not offensive.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Loud voices but not offensive they sounded happy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Part way. Toward the light at the end, I was pulled by my legs. I thought my wife pulled me out.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     The light at the end of the tunnel definitely had the form of a person.

The experience included:       light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It is hard to describe. I saw the silhouette of a man and the brightness of him seemed to radiate through the tunnel.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Happy and peaceful, no fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I knew if I went through the tunnel all of the way, that I wouldn't come back and yet I knew somehow that I wasn't staying.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Stronger.

What is your religion now?       conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Stronger.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain It is too early to sort it all out.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience reaffirmed my belief in the afterlife.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    People that are close to me, believed. They know my character. When I came back, the first thing I did was tell my wife I saw Jesus.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I'm still trying to absorb it all. The world seems different in a way I can't put into words.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know what I saw and heard and believe it was a true experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1peter_b_nde.html