{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pepi_nde.html","mytitle":"Pepi NDE 67","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pepi NDE 67  		  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  			  				  					Pepi NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						2  Pepi NDE  67  					  				  			        			  			  				Experience Description  					</p>

  					 My NDE took place when I was 20 years old, in October of 1975.  I am currently a 45 year-old woman, and I teach English as a foreign language at a high school in Spain. I am Spanish and I studied English Philology at University for five years, between 1972-1977.


My NDE happened during a surgical operation to remove a lump in my breast.  I remember suddenly opening my eyes and all was dark, except for a narrow path, wide enough for me to walk comfortably.  It was like being in outer space, everything around was in silence, the whole cosmos was around me but I was not afraid or feeling bad at all. I felt full of hope, energetic, alive.  As if all my dreams were coming true.  All at once.


The path I was walking on was very, very bright, and I could see the end of it almost from the very beginning. Someone was waiting for me where the path ended. I knew it was Jesus. He was tall and strong, with long dark hair and a wonderful tender smile. His eyes were unforgettable, immense, dark, so loving and full of wisdom... He was wearing a long white tunic, and sandals. He was there all by himself and smiling, just waiting for ME.  He welcomed me.  He didn't say a word, I didn't either, but we were communicating without talking. Our minds were very close and after a second we were inside what seemed to be a spaceship. I didn't see it from the outside, just from inside.  It was a room full of lights and several men were sitting at their posts getting the controls ready to take off. Jesus introduced all of them to me. "She is our new passenger, our guest" (no words), and they all greeted me, (no words), just smiling, in the middle of their routine work with the controls of the spaceship. Their clothes were very different from that of Jesus. They were dressed in astronaut's clothes, light and bright too, but very sophisticated, futuristic, far from the way Jesus was dressed.


Then, suddenly, when I was getting comfortable and ready to stay there, he took me out again. "You must go back", he said (no words), and his smile has since then accompanied me throughout my life. I did not balk at what he said.  I just obeyed, unquestioningly.   He was my friend and my boss, no doubt about that.


We didn't have to walk or move in order to enter or leave the ship.  We only had to want to do it and it was done.  Our minds controlled everything.  And so I left as he had said and returned to my body and to this life.


I woke up, and cried... calling a friend's name for a while. Maybe I subconsciously knew that my friend would be the only one who would understand what had happened to me.

Background Information: 

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1975

NDE Elements: 

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Surgery-related    Clinical death No, they gave me something to put me to sleep. The operation was supposed to last one or one and a half hours but it lasted more than four. My parents never asked why. (I have always known that I probably had a "cardiac arrest,"  my heart stopped beating and they had to work on me for some time in order to revive me. I KNOW THAT, but I don't know why I know it.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I just saw myself walking on the path, never in the surgery room or anything like that, and my appearance was always the same as my body.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Everything was logical to me, nothing was surprising or shocking.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    not that I can remember.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     No, I didn't know anybody in the spaceship. They were all strangers to me. They were told of my presence by Jesus and they all said hello, without speaking, BUT in a routine sort of way, as if they did that all the time.  They just greeted me and continued with their work at the control knobs, getting the ship ready to leave.

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The path was very bright, nothing here can be compared to it, it didn't hurt my eyes at all but it was so bright, a mixture of yellow and white, like a sun ray, through which I was walking. Everything around was dark and silent.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in outer space, as if passing from Earth to another dimension, BUT everything was dark, no stars, not that I can remember. But it was nice, hopeful, pure beauty, in all that silence and peace while I was walking down the path and Jesus was waiting at the end of it.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Similar, in a way, to the ones I felt when I once traveled to the USA. Happiness, excitement, confidence, hope, all positive and peaceful.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I had the feeling that at the end of the path I was walking on, life goes on, new opportunities will come, the wish to learn and love better will be open forever. That was the universal order I received from my experience. Nobody told me but I learned it there. I am a very intuitive person in daily life, so imagine how it would be during such an experience.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No     Not then.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I felt sad because I cried a lot.

After the NDE: 

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   I don't think so, but, anyway, I never really tried very hard to tell anybody, as nobody was really interested in knowing about it. Most people I know, including most of my friends, don't believe in life after death, or even God for that matter. My friend whose name I called was the first person I really tried hard to remember the experience for because I knew he cared and wanted to know and took it seriously.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I have always had a sixth sense, in knowing how people feel.  I can read their minds sometimes; I can feel their fears, insecurities, and their bad side.   I sense when people are afraid or are suffering in some way, even if they don't say anything.  I still have not learned how to help them.  At times, I will try because I feel such love for them, but I don't follow any formula for helping them.  I can only follow what my heart tells me but sometimes I cannot help them.  It's as if their wave length and mine just can't connect.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       All was good while it lasted. The whole experience.  Remember that Jesus was with me all the time, so everything that happened was great.  And it lasted for such a short time…

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    No, only the close ones, and then I hid it deep in my heart.  People don't believe in that, so we never talk about it. Or they say that this experience belongs to an unknown world and they don't know how to deal with it.       Were they influenced in any way by your NDE?   Well, if anything, they took me even less seriously than before thinking that I was talking nonsense.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      During the NDE did you learn anything you did not previously know?   Well, I learned that even someone like me, unimportant and unknown, small and full of imperfections, was loved by God to such an extent that he sent Jesus to welcome me.  So, human parameters and God's are very different and therefore, we are not seen with human eyes, but with the mind's eyes, the soul's eyes, the heart's eyes.     *Did you learn anything that helps you live your life now?   Yes, It was a proof to me that this life is just a "rehearsal" for the one to follow, so the more I try to "act" well, the better the performance will be later on. It encourages me to overcome difficulties, to be honest, caring, love peace and justice and work for it, even knowing that I am not an "avant guard" person, unfortunately.     *Were you given an understanding of what your life mission was?   Not really. I was given proof that I will live forever, that I will continue having opportunities later on, after I die, when I will be free from my body.  It was a message of hope to me personally, unless I wanted to tell of my experience to anybody who would want to hear it. Jesus didn't say, "You go and tell this, etc."  No.  I'm sure that it only happens when you are about to die. Never before, and the nearer you are to death, the deeper you go into the experience, details, memories, so I was near death for only a very little time, and this is why my time out was very short. Jesus was there just in case the doctors couldn’t make my heart beat again.  While the doctors were busy bringing me back, he showed me the path for a future life, and then let me come back to be with my mom and dad.  I was their whole life.  And my boyfriend's too.

<span

&nbsp;  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pepi_nde.html