{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pedro_l_father_nde.html","mytitle":"Pedro L Father NDE 3232","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pedro L Father NDE 3232  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pedro L Father NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Secondhand NDE  						1154  Pedro L Father NDE  3232  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Well, I'm not the one who had the NDE, it was my father, but since he doesn't have a computer and he has told me the story many times, I'll tell it to you the best I can. Everything happened when he was more or less twenty-three or twenty-four years old. (He was born in 1954.) He had an infected molar so he went to the registered nurse/medical assistant so they would give him an injection of penicillin. He didn't know he was allergic! When the assistant gave him the injection, he got up and took a few steps towards his car to leave when, all of a sudden, he vomited. He noticed that his body seemed to swell up. The doctor - who was still very near - placed him on a stretcher and quickly realized, 'He's allergic!'

But as he searched for the antidote or remedy my father felt as if 'something' left his body (his soul, an energy); something which weighed nothing, and he started upwards rapidly, very, very high up - higher, he says, than the clouds. He didn't see the doctor nor did he see anyone down below. He also didn't even think of those below. It was as if he didn't remember them. He doesn't remember a light - or something defined as such - just that everything was very light and that he could move from one side to the other very quickly without tiring and without being thirsty. What he does remember is that he was looking for someone or something, but there was hardly any time, as the doctor injected the antidote and he returned to his body. That's the part he remembers least: how he returned to his body.

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

Date NDE Occurred:    Around 1968

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Allergic reaction    Life threatening event, but not clinical death .  I had an allergic reaction to the penicillin that almost cost me my life.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was conscious the whole time.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was conscious the whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I believe that time doesn't exist there/up there. It's like a huge infinite space.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Uncertain   It was not a light at the end of the tunnel as such, or anything like that. Everything was light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     si, era como ir corriendo por encima de las nubes incluso

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      I felt well, without thirst, without feeling tired. I searched for someone or something but there was no time to find it.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   católico

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     I believe that God has much to do with what exists after death.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist   católico

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I believe that God has much to do with what exists after death.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   The part about returning to the body.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Yes, the sensation of being able to 'run' freely, without being tired, without thirst, without pain.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    I told my girlfriend as soon as it happened, and my daughter, when she was older. (I didn't have my daughter when it happened.) Yes, they remain very positively affected, I believe. They have lost their fear of death, etc.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     It was a real as this now is real. On top of that, it happened twenty-five years ago and I remember it as if only five minutes had passed.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      No. It's fine the way it is.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pedro_l_father_nde.html