{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1penny_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Penny NDE-Like 1001","mylang":"de"}
          	        Penny NDE-Like 1001  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Penny NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						433  Penny NDE-Like  1001  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was given a mild anesthetic for minor oral surgery and apparently passed out (this was NOT supposed to happen and the nurse was very worried and alarmed when I finally regained consciousness). While I was unconsciousness, I had what seemed like a strange dream. I experienced a feeling of traveling quickly down a long tunnel - this was somewhat disorienting/dizzying - the only thing I can think of to describe the feeling of this is the effect of watching a spinning red and white pinwheel and feeling as if I was spiraling along a tunnel (this may sound silly, but it was like the effect employed by old television programs to indicate traveling back in time).


After traveling through the tunnel, I arrived in a small white luminescent room. This room evoked a feeling of being in a small reception room - a place to receive visitors. I felt joy, happiness and overwhelming love. My grandfather greeted me (he had passed away two years earlier). My grandfather was a wonderful person - very loving, down-to-earth, a fabulous sense of humor - everything anyone could ever want a grandpa to be (yes, I loved him a lot). There was only one thing that he couldn't do - during his lifetime he never had an opportunity to learn how to read.


I mention this because after my grandfather met me in the 'receiving room', we began walking (and talking of course) and we eventually arrived in a large room that looked like a library. This room was huge - coliseum scale - with bookcases and books everywhere, floor to ceiling. I had a sense that this library 'room' essentially went on forever, with unending nooks and crannies. As my grandfather talked to me we were able to 'float' up to higher levels in the great library. As we 'floated' along, my grandfather was pulling volumes off shelves and skimming text. I was astounded by this because I *knew* my grandpa could not read. I began asking him questions and he told me that all things would be revealed to me in time, but this was not my time. I was not supposed to be there yet. He comforted me and told me not to be afraid (I had been somewhat scared when I traveled down the tunnel).


I then woke up. A nurse was leaning over me with a very worried look on her face. She said, 'That was not supposed to happen.' I felt very confused and asked the nurse, 'Is it over now?' I did not tell anyone of this experience for many months - it all seemed so strange and very personal. I did eventually share this with my grandmother and we both cried. We both felt that this was exactly the kind of thing my grandfather would do - he was so kind, loving and caring during his lifetime, and it made perfect sense to us that he would be my 'guide' or guardian angel. Even though this experience happened over ten years ago, it is still very profound. It still makes me cry.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Surgery-related    Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening Reaction to the anesthetic.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very alert (but physically unconscious).

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   When I 'fell' through the tunnel I felt like I was falling through the ages. When I arrived in the 'library' I felt as if time was standing still - a feeling that time did not pass in any way that I was familiar with.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Not that I can recall now.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I experienced a feeling of traveling quickly down a long tunnel.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My grandfather, he had passed away two years earlier, greeted me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   See main narrative.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     See main narrative.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     In a sense, yes, but I have a recollection of my grandfather telling me that 'all things would be revealed to me in time', but it was not my time yet.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I had a feeling that my grandfather was reviewing my life when he was skimming through a book that he pulled off of the 'library' shelf.

The experience included:      Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?      Uncertain     I think there is another 'level' after the library - the library seemed to be a place to learn and research before attaining something higher.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   To some extent because I remember my grandfather telling me it was not my time yet and that I needed to go back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate   Brought up in a Catholic family and attended church with my grandmother.

What is your religion now?      Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I feel comforted by the fact that we are not separated from our family forever by death, we are eventually reunited.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Without a doubt the best part of this experience was seeing my grandfather - knowing that he did 'go on' existing in some sense and knowing that he has grown beyond earthly limitations. I feel certain that when it is my time, he will be there for me and will be my guide.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    With my grandmother, see main narrative.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1penny_ndelike.html