{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pedro_z_nde.html","mytitle":"Pedro Z NDE 8039","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pedro Z NDE 8039  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pedro Z NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4177 Pedro Z NDE 8039  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was with my friends from taekwondo at the pool. We did a choreography for a video and dived into the water.  I knew how to swim under the water, but not on the surface. After we were all in the pool, I tried to get out but couldn't.  And after a few seconds, I started to drown.  Nobody helped me because they thought it was a joke, even the lifeguards. I fought to get out but I only got in more trouble.  I swallowed water and fainted.  I remember thinking, 'That is all, that is all' and accepting that I was going to die in that moment. There were no flashbacks, no pictures of my life, nothing.

Then, I was standing on a wheat field.  It was daytime, cloudy, and the wind was blowing strong. There were no sounds. I felt the wheat moving and touching my body.  I felt the wind in my body.  I heard no sounds.  I was not feeling anything else but I was standing in total and absolute peace.  I was watching the field, looking at the sky, and seeing wheat moving. I was not waiting for anything, just observing the landscape. I didn't walk forward or back.

After that I woke up in a terrible way.  It was like being in a twister, everything was turning so fast that I couldn't notice if there were faces, trees, or whatever may be. For me it was total chaos to come back.  I tried to punch the lifeguards who saved my life.  I didn't know who I was, where I was, or even what I was. After a minute of trying to fight, I could perceive a known face who was the face of a friend.  Then I remembered who I was.  After seeing the pool, I remembered everything.  It was frustrating to realize that I had come back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  01-18-2009

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.    Suicide attempt. Drowning.       Other: I did not breath for minutes after drowning, but I was not 'clinically' declared as dead  I did not breathe for minutes after drowning, but I was not 'clinically' declared as dead.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was normal.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Standing in the wheat field.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I didn't feel like there was time in my experience.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was the same to me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    During the experience, I didn't hear anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     Wheat field, cloudy day, no sounds, just wind

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       PEACE

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   The last time I went to church was when I was 13 years old

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       No comment   I still don't go to church

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I didn't expect to feel peace.  At that time, I thought there was nothing after passing away.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I'm more curious to spiritual things, meditation, akashic registers, esoterica, astrology, and other stuff that may tell past life or early life events.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I felt that oneness. I felt the peace.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     He is everything, we are part of him and he is in us.  God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     At the end, there is no suffering, it is a peaceful existence, a peaceful everything.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife does not exist

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     We are not our bodies or our feelings.  We are everything and in that everything there is only peace.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Moderately fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Slight changes in my life     I want to go back there. I often remember it and wish I could be there soon.  I have suicidal thoughts but they are not extremely strong. I constantly feel that I don't belong here, but it is not my call to decide it.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     More dreams, mainly about what is happening to me at unconscious level, hard to interpret but very, very helpful. I also have foreseen events, i.e. my daughter falling from the bed or burning her hand with the stove.  Once I could save her and the other I was a bit late. I have foreseen things in sports. But that foreseeing is no more than 5 or 10 seconds in advance. I also feel entities enter my body and  not acting as normal after that.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Feeling the peace, it was wonderful to feel nothing and everything at the same time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They get surprised and curious, because it is not the usual experience they hear or watch in the movies.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Only the movies like Ghost, and stories of the tunnel and light and dead relatives.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just knew it, and felt it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pedro_z_nde.html