{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paula_y_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Paula Y Probable NDE 6143  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\t  \t\tProbable NDE during open heart surgery.<\/span>  \">","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paula Y Probable NDE 6143  		  		  		  		  		Probable NDE during open heart surgery.</span>  ">      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paula Y Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2909 Paula Y Probable NDE 6143  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My experienced happened during my heart surgery. I had a double valve replacement and an aortic aneurysm repaired.

I woke up with a very vivid memory that didn't feel like a dream. The experience is as follows: I was in a park and my deceased cat Amigo came running towards me and jumped into my arms. I recognized him instantly. I held him and hugged him. I was so happy to see him. I was smiling and extremely happy. He was happy to see me as well. He was rubbing his cheek against my face over and over. I kept squeezing him and feeling his fur. I was soooo happy to see him again. Then he jumped out of my arms and walked over to a park bench. There were people around, but no one stood out. I watched Amigo jump on to the park bench and curl up next to an old man. I realize the old man is my deceased grandfather. I start calling out to him; he looks over to me then motions with his hand for me to go away. He turned his head away and didn't make eye contact. I kept calling to him. My feelings hurt; he didn't want to say hi. I see Amigo sound asleep at his side. Then I was 'zapped', suddenly taken away from the situation.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 18, 2011

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related.  heart stopped to be put on heart-lung bypass, surgery lasted 7 hours when it should have only lasted 4.  Other heart stopped to be put on heart-lung bypass, surgery lasted 7 hours when it should have only lasted 4.  Heart surgery.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was under anesthesia during the experience.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Now, looking back, I feel like during the experience I felt as if I was thinking or understanding visual impressions faster than usual.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Same

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     When it ended I felt 'zapped' - like an immediate warp tunnel. It ended very fast.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My cat Amigo and my grandfather.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No     It looked earthly. It looked like a park.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete happiness, then sadness and disappointment.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Religious unaffiliated   Raised Catholic, do not practice and have not practiced for 20 years.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I never really gave much thought to life after death. I never gave thought to whether something exists. I never in my life would have thought I would see my cat or grandfather again - especially so vividly.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife probably exists     Yes     Seeing my deceased cat and deceased grandfather suggests that there is continued existence after earthly life.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life     No changes in my life

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Emotional.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Why did my grandfather motion with his hand for me to go away? He looked in my direction but wouldn't look me in the eye.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    One day after my surgery I shared what I saw with my mother and boyfriend. They both cried.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     It did not feel like a dream. It felt so very real. I still have mixed feelings as to what exactly I experienced.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Seeing my deceased cat and deceased grandfather suggests that there is continued existence after earthly life.  I never really gave much thought to life after death. I never gave thought to whether something exists. I never in my life would have thought I would see my cat or grandfather again, especially so vividly.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paula_y_probable_nde.html