{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paula_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Paula L NDE 6045","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paula L NDE 6045  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paula L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2870 Paula L NDE 6045  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Since I was a child I could astral project while I was awake. I did this in class and at home. I had no idea why, and I wondered if other kids also did this or could do this, although I did not tell anyone. I ended up in a violent relationship with the father of my children. I have four children. He was very violent. I was in this situation for 17 years. I finally got out. When I did, I had a hard time functioning. As a result of this, I tried to commit suicide. 

When this happened, I found myself astral projecting and then I could see a strong light. The feeling I was having when I looked at the light was of complete love and happiness. I then went through the light. I could see people at the end of the light that I recognized, but I couldn't get close enough to know who they were. I knew I did not want to come back to Earth. I knew I had died. I then felt the paddles on my chest that they use in the hospital to re-start your heart. 

I could hear someone in my left ear telling me' I love you Paula, you have to go back.' It was a man's voice. To this day, I do not know who this was. I then woke up in the hospital and I was so angry I did not die. I did not want to leave where I thought I was, in Heaven. I did not wake up for 3 days. After, I was in a semi coma and I could remember what happened in past lives. I remember I have lived before (in another life) and I had drowned. I know what it feels like to drown. I do not know who I was or where I lived but I know I drowned before. I am sure of this. Also since this happened I can see the future. I had the police come to my door asking me how I knew of a man who was killed on the next street. I told them I dreamed it. They brought me to the police station and I told them my dream.

I found out the dream had actually happened. I wrote a statement saying who had done it and how it happened. It was all true. The police believed me. They said everything I just told them has happened and they have the three people in custody in the cell room down the hall. I went home. Then I noticed I could see where children were when they went missing. I can also feel if there is a spirit around me. I can also see the future. I get a strong feeling about things, and then they happen. I have tried to astral project since all this happened and I can still do this, but not like I could as a child and not as easily as I did as a child. I find that most of my life I spend trying to understand what has happened to me, why I see and feel this now after the accident. I read and watch a lot of things on the paranormal. I find I am very interested in life after death.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Nov 5 2001
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Suicide attempt    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Attempted suicide.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I could see people running around while I was laying there. I could see my aunt and uncle in the hospital room beside the room I was in. I could see my aunt talking to my mom on the phone while I was I thought dead.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I sensed spirits around me.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Don't understand the question.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Now I find it harder to see in the dark compared to before.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I had a bit of hearing loss as a child. I heard spirits talking to me but in my mind's eye not in my ear.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     See narrative above.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Friends and family. Not sure who though. I couldn't get close enough to see. I just knew I knew them.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See narrative above.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love stronger than anyone has felt. I know no one on Earth feels love like that; and happiness

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     See narrative above.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told to go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     People are not as kind as they should be.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   I couldn't get close enough to know who they were.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   yes i new i new them there were 5 i couldent get close enought to know who they where

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     i will tell you when you call it is hard to exsplain or understand

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     yes bad and good there are spirites and there are different beings from diffrent dymentions with us on earth i am sure of this i understood once i was in heaven i understood earth and ralms and dymentions

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if God exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     definatly yes and before this happend i was not sure if there was a gad or spiritual being

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Special knowledge. I understand why we are here and understand lots of things that I didn't before.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No     no i was exsplained why there are dymentions and earth heaven good bad but not why i was here

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     it made me reolize there is definatly life after but not life like ours a spiritual life and that we life forever unless we have done somthing very wrong in the earth life

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Please excuse my spelling.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I see spirits. I feel them. I see children and people who are in trouble. I know when something's wrong, or someone is in trouble, or missing.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It changes your life. Well it did for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I am not sure if when I astral projected if I was maybe near death sometimes.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It made me realize there is definitely life after death but not life like ours; a spiritual life, and that we live forever unless we have done something very wrong in the Earth life.  Spirits live with us, so do angels, until the last day. This is what I got from my experience. There are bad and good spirits and there are different beings from different dimensions with us on Earth. I am sure of this. We do not chose what happens after we die. They do.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Yes. Before this happened, did people know who they were as a person?  After this experience, did they know who they were as a person?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paula_l_nde.html