{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pearler_nde.html","mytitle":"Pearler NDE 8098","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pearler NDE 8098  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pearler NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			4217 Pearler NDE 8098  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					January 23, 1982. 
 
 I was riding my motorcycle home, when a drunk came into my lane and hit me with his car. 
 
 I became aware that I was traveling faster than light.  The light was behind me and pure blackness was ahead. I thought, what is this? 
 
 As I went on, the gap between the light and dark became greater. I began to worry there would be a sudden stop. 
 
 I saw a dot of light and latched my all onto it. The dot became bigger and bigger.  As I got closer to the light, joy began washing over me. 
 
 The light became a doorway.  I was thinking, 'Oh my God, it is real! It's true and I am here!'  I heard thousands of musical voices and understood every one of them at the same time. Then Jesus was the light. 
 
 I was not of this body, but whatever I was, it was normal to me. Jesus telepathically said, 'I know it's bad and I know it hurts.  I am sorry.'  I could feel his sorrow for me.  He continued, 'You have not done what you said you would do and you must go back.' I did not know where back was, but I knew it was not through the light and that was the only way I was going.  I said, 'NO! By God, I'm here and I'm staying.'  Jesus said, 'You will come here.  You do get to come here, but not yet. Not now. I'm sorry.'
 
 I then heard someone say, 'We got him.  My God, he's awake!'  I was thinking, 'Why should I not be awake?' Then I heard a squishing sound in my head and woke up in intensive care. 
 
 The return here began as a nightmare most could not have survived.  There was no rehabilitation, no help with hospital drug addiction, and I was refused help from social security even though I was eligible. 
 
 I was only concerned with doing what I said I would do and returning to home. I became a chaplain. I have healed both people and animals. I have been asked to leave every church I have attended, except one. I was invited to speak to the children at the church and then asked to be a Deacon of their church. I agreed to do so if they would do one thing. They said name it. I asked that they turn the locks around on the doors. 
 
 I am no longer a Deacon of that church.  I no longer preach much and no longer madly try to do what I said I would do. I just watch and smile.  Sometimes I lay hands on people without their knowing. Sometimes I hear of a miracle healing and just smile. There are answers in the holy book, if you can see past the corruption of men.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 23,1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   Hit by a drunk driver head-on while riding my motorcycle.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Same

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       All the time

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster or slower than usual     I was traveling faster than light.  It was behind me and pure black darkness was in front of me.  I was moving through it without sense of movement.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     20/20

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No hearing, telepathy only

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Light was behind me and the blackest darkness was before me, but I am not sure if it was a tunnel.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Already did

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I stood before Jesus at the doorway to heaven.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Wonder, panic and joy

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Will not, thank you.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Do not know   Believe in God , but not the ones preaching

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     No longer hope, I now know!

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I preach the message I was shown .

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Realized it was all true.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     We all go home.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Jesus spoke telepathically with me and me with him.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Will no longer discuss

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I spoke with Jesus and he assured me I would come home but not then. God definitely exists.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Will not discuss

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Just a movie you chose to experience.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Unknown

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     This is not the beginning. Where we all return to, is the real world.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Will not discuss

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     Too much to tell, other than I have had irrefutable answered prayers.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The joy of knowing

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.    I went into a coma, a few days later and it was a profound message of what we really are doing.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Ability to heal, prayers answered, no longer practice or care because in the end we all go home. 
 
 Who am I to change or attempt change of your experience because of mine.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I cannot say yet.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately, but rarely ever now

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Profound still after 35 years now, I had traumatic brain injury, did not know my name or any of my 26 years of life, for more than a month, and still even now, but I knew my experience was real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Awakening

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Someday everyone who denied what I experienced will be where I was and I would love to speak with him or her.  Have patience.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pearler_nde.html