{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paula_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Paula S NDE 6297","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paula S NDE 6297  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paula S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3057 Paula S NDE 6297  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had an attack of pancreatitis while at work. The pain was extreme, my enzyme levels were at 70,000 (normal is 6-100.) An ambulance was called. While on the gurney, I saw a tunnel of bright light in the distance and I felt myself floating towards it. At first, as I entered the tunnel, it was dark. As I floated along through the tunnel, it became brighter and brighter. I noticed that all my pain was gone. I felt an incredible peace, love, and a sense of all knowing. I saw my father, my nephew, some in-laws, Grandma, and also a friend that had passed away. My grandmother held my hands, stroked my face, and told me I had to go back, it was not my time yet because I was still needed on Earth. As I travelled back through the tunnel, I felt my pain returning stronger and stronger. I remembered that when my father had recently passed away, incredibly, just before he passed, he let us know that he had seen my nephew, just as I had seen him during my experience; he was the first to greet me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  11/2002

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Illness    'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   Pancreatitis with extremely high level of pancreatic enzymes.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  People talking on earth seemed distant.  I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I seem to be more aware of everything; seemed to be a sense of all knowing; no need to ask questions, I just seemed to know.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       After passing through the tunnel and being greeted by my deceased friend and relatives.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It seemed there was no sense of time at all.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was brighter.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Duller, people talking on earth seemed distant and pulling away.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was dark at first and then became light and brighter and brighter until I entered in a place of pure light.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light from the tunnel. The people I met were of that same light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, joy, and love, like I was being enveloped by them. I also felt grief that I might be leaving my son who was two at the time.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     A sense of all-knowing.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Other Christian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I think religion is worthless, just a game people play. God is about love.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Unknown

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     i always  had the relgious beliefs of a city paved with gold and rivers flowing and god on a throne. i saw none of that.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I hold no value to religion anymore.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   I heard a voice that told me to go back.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     just a sense that  it is all about love and kindness. that we are all connected to each other and relgion is on the wrong path

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     that we are all connected as one

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     i felt his presence envelop me when i  let the tunnel and entered into the world of light

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Life’s meaning is only valued in love, nothing else matters.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     life meaning is only valued in love nothing else matters

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     just from my experience i knew that one continues on after this life

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     yes, that that what god is all about and not about relgion or rituals. no human can ever love  with the love i felt in that light. it is all consuming, all forgiving. nothing matches it. it is like the day you looked into the eyes of your child for the fi

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     That is what God is all about and not about religion or rituals. No human can ever love with the love I felt in that light. It is all consuming, all forgiving. Nothing matches it. It is like the day you looked into the eyes of your child for the first time magnified a million times. Indescribable.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes Have changed somewhat. I have a different view, I believe religion is totally worthless and love is what God is all about.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is hard to put into words the way I felt in the light.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     One of the people I met was my mother-in-law who I never met on earth. She died before I met my husband. She was an artist. I never could even draw stick people. After meeting her in the light I painted freelance murals on kids’ bedroom walls with ease.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The incredible feeling of peace and love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I didn't at first because I thought people would think I flipped. I then read other experiences. I had never heard about first entering a dark tunnel before light, like I did; then I read other people did, so I told a few people. They were amazed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I heard about them but I thought they were bogus.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     It felt real but I was a skeptic.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I have since read about it and my experience was similar to others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Place less emphasis on religion, it holds no value anymore. Realize God's all about love not doctrine or rituals.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paula_s_nde.html