{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pauline_nde.html","mytitle":"Paulene NDE 2471","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paulene NDE 2471  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paulene NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						761  Paulene NDE  2471  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I knew I was taking my last breath for I could feel the air become thicker with smoke than with air (due to the fire). Once I accepted this was it, I felt great peace and everything from my past flashed before my eyes in a matter of seconds and was overcome by the presence of God. When I say God, I say the most beautiful love my heart has ever felt and the feeling got stronger as the body got weaker. I was in no pain physically or emotionally, and as I crossed, which was like blinking or taking a breath, from one world into the next and it was busy with things happening. Everybody was doing their own bit but in complete peace within themselves and with each other. It was so nice it was quite noisy but not with chaos like here.

But there is an order and the knowing of something greater is being built for God and his children. Everyone and we were naked but the naked is a covering that is so beautiful without lust. I say this because this is what I felt when I looked around. I was just the same not even burnt but I knew on earth I was burnt. There were people there without flesh that glided along but they seemed more aware of me than the others did. There were trees and a huge wooden Buddha. Then almost like the next blink, I was in a huge glass house almost like something you see at the botanical gardens like the greenhouse. It was the hospital but not the physical hospital a spiritual hospital. I was led to a room that was white and I lay down, on what I don't know, but I couldn't lie there I wanted to walk around and meet people. Part of me went and met people but part of me stayed in the white room. Someone looked over me and thought nice thoughts of me and for me. Then again, like a blink, I am inside a room full of books with shelves of them in many rooms but everything was wood and smelt natural and clean. Then Martin Luther King entered the room and asked me to sit down so I sat in a leather chair quite comfy but I knew I was in this room to be told something important. (I can't tell you what it was because I really can't remember as I think I'm am not supposed to.) He moved his ladder across the shelf of books climbed the ladder and pulled down a book opened it and placed it on the table.

He talked to me, it was something I had to agree to and it had something to do with something I had to endure and do back on earth. He asked me questions and explained something really deep. I agreed but I remember going (oh no this is going to be hard). He gave me some words of encouragement, then he wrote something in my book, said a few more words to me and then put the book back. Then I remember waking up in hospital.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 10 march 1998  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Life threatening event, but not clinical death   House fire.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Different sounds.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Great love.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       From personal future   

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I love Jesus  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Yes and no, for to convey the feelings I felt is hard but what I seen is easier to explain.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes      

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I always knew I was going to die young but never knew I'd come back.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain     

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I'd like to talk to someone about what has happened to other people in regards to spiritual gifts. Also in regards to feeling the other side around you, constantly all levels of them too not just nice ones. Also in regards to this question: Does anyone else out there also feel the other side around them, see them at times, and hear them also just like they did when they were there? Likewise, do they get home sick for that peace that exists on the other side?     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pauline_nde.html