{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paula_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Paula M NDE 6023","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paula M NDE 6023  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paula M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2842 Paula M NDE 6023  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					A day before this happened to me, I was in a bookstore in Orlando, Florida where I was living at that time. Two different people came up to me and told me I was in grave danger. I was to not go outside of my daily routine. One touched me and I do not like being touched by people I do not know at all, I never have. I stood on the line at the bookstore and I was in shock that two different people had said almost the same thing to me, within a few minutes in time. It did bother me all the way home to my house that was for sure. I had a talk with my four children about this thing that had happened to me in the bookstore. They just said, 'sure mom' as they have known I have had a sixth sense all of my life since I was a small child. 

I went to bed and I had the most upsetting dream I could have ever imagine. I saw someone inside of a car not a face at all. So I had no idea what it was trying to tell me all I knew was I was going to tell the lady friend I cleaned with that I had seen this and that she was to drive slowly, to all of the people whom we cleaned for. We worked all day long and I waited each time for something to happen. The day ended and I was to go home. I said goodnight to my friend and drove home and I had that feeling that I better just watch where I am going. So I did and I got home and nothing happened at all. I made dinner and fed my kids and I went to bed.

I closed my eyes after a while. I was still so worried about what this was to mean. I got up early and went to the gas station; I had enough gas, mind you, at that time. But I had to go there; why? I have no idea, to this day. I got my gas, went back inside of my car, and slowly pulled out of the gas station. The last thing I can remember is my car spinning out of control and I was in a state of shock. Spinning around, I landed on an embankment. I sat there for a long time until I started to have this dream. I had no clue that I was not having a dream. 

I knew I was in the deepest pain ever. I wanted to die, I did. That pain was like a knife cutting through my body. All of a sudden, I saw a movie being played. I saw my four children crying that I was dead, then I saw my grandma the only one I had loved growing up telling me in a weird tone to fight like I have never ever fought in my entire life, it was not my time to see her again. I had to fight. She would not allow me to die. Then I saw my grandpa. I had loved him so much that my heart died the day he died. He was telling me that I cannot enter that light and I better fight for the life I needed to live as I was not done on this earth. I needed to finish what I was put on this earth to do. They both stood in this light, which was brighter than anything I had ever seen. But I heard their voices to fight and not give up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  January 2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident.  Stuck inside of my car for hours until someone found me, Had to cut me out  Other Stuck inside of my car for hours until someone found me, Had to cut me out  I saw my children standing at my grave site crying for me to come back and not leave them. I saw it as if it was in a movie frame, slowly then faster. I felt as if I did not want to leave them and I was fighting so hard not to leave them, as I loved my children more than my own life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard the EMT telling me to please sit still or I would die.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt things around me very sharply as if I could touch them with my fingers.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was very hurt. I had two broken hips and pelvis, and five broken ribs, and a lung that went the hell and back. I sat in so much pain I just wanted to die. The emergency medical technician was holding my hand telling me not to move or I could die. I was broken in too many places for him to give me medicine. They needed to know what was broken, before they could give me medicine. I was in and out. I was wearing a cross and a chain that actually went up straight at the angle to save my life inside of that car. But I wanted to move and I could not so I got mad over and over.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was brighter than normal; like a film going fast then slow showing me a film of what the life of my children would be for them if I was dead.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The voice was very direct and to the point it was trying to make so I would not give up.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I stood at the doorway; it felt like just standing there.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Grandparents

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was very bright and like nothing I have ever seen before in my life. It felt warm and nice. I was not scared at all of this light. I did know I was not afraid.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Looked like a heaven; peaceful.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Many things I cannot put in to words; peace, then not.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future     I just saw my children and my grandparents.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I was not going to give up my life as I loved my children with all my being and heart and soul.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Agnostic

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I care about people a lot, and how they are, compared to before.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Yes both my grandparents and they where the ones I loved all my life when I was younger. They where my strength.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I did not fear death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Yes the love from my grandparents that is the pure love

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes the fact my grandparents showed me to fight and not to die.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    They understood after I told them.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I live life to the fullest.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Always believe that there is another life on the other side, as there is one for sure!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paula_m_nde.html