{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Paul S NDE 2265","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul S NDE 2265  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						647  Paul S NDE  2265  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

Motorcar accident. Head injuries. The back of my head was ripped open when I flew out of the car. It was about 16:15 the afternoon. I can't remember anything for three months. That night at about 22:00 my heart stopped and I stopped breathing. The doctor was at my side at the time and was able to get my heartbeat and breathing back. I was in a coma for about ten days and in intensive care for about sixteen days. I had no control over any of my body functions. I was of work for five months but it took me almost two years to recover (rehabilitate). I had to read, write and walk again.

The experience was like this:

I was standing in a room with a coffin in front of me. A man was standing next to me. I didn't look at him, but was aware of his presence. I asked him why I was there. He said to me it is my coffin and I should get into it. I said that I am not ready to die, because of all the things I did in the past that was sinful and wrong (my divorce included). He (I then realized it was Jesus) spoke to me and said that He paid for my sins two thousand years ago, that I must not be afraid. I will not die, but I must focus on Him and He will bring me in contact with people and opportunities where He will use me. Remember, I had head injuries and could not remember things for a few months, so I believe that God spoke directly to my spirit.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 March 22, 2003   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury  Motorcar accident. Head injuries. The back of my head was ripped open when I was flung out of the car.  It was about 16.15 the afternoon. I can't remember anything for 3 months.  That night at about 22.00, my heart stopped and I stopped breathing. The d  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Car crash injury to the head. Stopped breathing and heart stopped.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I spoke to Jesus Himself.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I believe that this experience happened at the time when I stopped breathing and was clinical dead. I was aware of this experience the whole time, although I can't remember a thing about the accident and for three months afterwards.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I describe it elsewhere.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither     I felt peace.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     I felt guilty for all the things I did wrongly in the past. I didn't feel forgiven for it.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am able to sense things more.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I know now that Jesus really lives and paid for our sins. I also know that there is an afterlife.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    With everyone I know. I was ordered by God to tell everybody.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     About three months.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is part of my life.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_s_nde.html