{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paula_d_daughter_nde.html","mytitle":"Paula D Daughter NDE 4335","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paula D Daughter NDE 4335  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paula D Daughter NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Second-hand NDE  			2147 Paula D Daughter NDE 4335  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					My name is Paula and I am writing this information on behalf of my daughter who had the experience. 

Charlynn, my daughter, had a large amount of large blood clots in her lungs. She spent three months in the intensive care unit in a comatose state and the doctors did all they could to dissolve the clots. 

She died twice. She has no memory of those three months, but does vividly remember seeing her grandfather who had died two years earlier. She says she 'flowed' through a brightly lit tube. When she saw her grandfather and another person she did not recognize, she felt a great deal of love and warmth and a sense of belonging. But her grandfather told her, that it wasn't her time. She felt confused. She told me that he very firmly said, 'Go Home.' 

Several days later she woke up, and she was improving. She couldn't talk very well nor could she move, but she managed to scrawl on a paper pad, 'I saw Grandpa.' It took a week more before she could speak and she tried to explain her experience. At the present, she doesn't speak of what happened her, but her conception of a 'place' that exists after all brain function ceases, has become clear to her. I tend to believe her.

Thanks for listening I believe what you are doing is good and right and can give troubled people a lot of hope.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 2008 approximate

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Massive Pulmonary Embolism  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had massive pulmonary embolisms in both lungs.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   Unknown.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Unknown.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More vivid.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Unknown.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I laughed when she told me this. She said it felt like going into an amusement park ride and she felt happy.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were in the light, her grandfather and someone she didn't know. Her grandpa told her she didn't belong here and told her to go home.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Beautiful brilliant light, like the Northern Lights only on a huge scale.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       She told me she felt relaxed, unafraid, but confused about where she was.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I don't know if this counts but she told me once that she felt as if her grandfather is always by her side.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Unknown.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      For a while, Charlynn thought it was nothing more than a drug induced dream.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     Unknown.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Charlynn is on Warfarin, insulin, anti-depressants and a host of other meds.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paula_d_daughter_nde.html