{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paula_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Paula B NDE 937","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paula B NDE 937  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paula B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						390  Paula B NDE  937  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I fainted while reaching for a towel.  I saw several rings of light.  The center ring had my father's face in it and he was smiling.  The outer ring had my older brother Tony in the lower left and he was happy to see me.  Tony was the same age as he was when he died.  My upper left ring (outside of Tony's) was someone else; but I was concentrating on my father's face who was smiling at me as if I was being silly. I felt a great amount of love and peace at the time and wanted to go with him. I felt a pulling forward motion sort of feeling as well.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes     miscarriage  Life threatening event, but not clinical death miscarriage including severe bleeding in which I passed out while reaching for a towel to stop bleedingWas bleeding tub-full of water and constantly needing to change the water, then I felt dreamy and knew I was going to drown while passing out so I lifted myself out of the tub and crawled to the linen closet. There I reached for a blue towel and fainted. When I fainted, I felt the initial hit of the floor on my face and then saw three or four rings of light one inside the other with my father and brother and someone else who was so far away I couldn't see. But I saw a face, my father smiled at me as if to say, 'Silly Girl -- it's not time for you yet.' I saw my brother in the lower left circle, outside my father's circle, and I felt at peace and wanted to go with him. I believe I slept or remained passed out for a while and when I woke up I realized that I had defecated upon myself, at this time my husband was waking me up.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I had fainted and was not alert.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Altered space. Whereby I was not a whole body but spirit and when I say that I mean the particles of my body where everywhere.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     I was enclosed in darkness but before me were the rings of light as if I were being shown or displayed my family members.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Father and brother and someone else who I believe was female. I was told that it was not my time to come and I was not going to die and was silly for thinking so.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   The light was the circles.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Level of dimension in which I knew I was able to pull out of my body and die if I wanted to, but my father made it clear that I was not to come now.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Special knowledge that when I felt my father was talking to me or was near. I knew it beyond a shadow of a doubt that I was not crazy so that the experience was confirmation that he has always stayed with me and that Tony was with him.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I felt as if I were to come back to have more children; I now have five, I had one at the time.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   The decision was made by my dad and I felt like this, 'Ah, Come On Daddy -- I want to be with you.'

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I can feel bad and good energy from people. I can sometimes (sometimes) tell what will happen before it happens. I can feel my father's presence and hear him speaking to me in my head. Sometimes I dream of people I've never known and feel as though they are me. When the sniper hit Washington. I told my children, before he is found that his name is John and he is seventeen or so.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best: seeing my dad and brother again. Worst: waking up and realizing that I had used the bathroom upon myself.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    But some believe me and some did not; I don't generally speak of it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      No

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paula_b_nde.html