{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Paul T NDE 3679","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul T NDE 3679  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1678 Paul T NDE 3679  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					When I was the age of five my parents and me were taken to a tailor for stitching a new school uniform. After coming from the tailor, I was in the jeep and when we reached near the house (the other side of the road), I jumped from the jeep to be the first person home.

I jumped from the jeep and ran to cross the road to reach home first. What I remember is something coming beside me (later I knew it was a van). What I really remember is just taking one or two steps on the road then something happened. I was closing my eyes. I felt like I was a hydrogen balloon floating in the air. I was going upward. When I felt it, I tried to open my eyes and my head was laying downwards. When I slowly opened my eyes, I saw my body lying on the roadside. I got really frightened. I felt like I am paralyzed and I was going upwards but I felt someone is carrying me very lovingly (an unconditional love). 

I tried to move my body and turned my eyes upwards to see who is carrying me. What I saw was Mother Mary. She wore a blue and pink dress (there is a statue painted in this color) with a crown. The position is like she is carrying me with both her hands, I felt very comfortable in her hands. She kept me a place very slowly, as if a mother keeps her newborn baby in his/her bed. I felt very much relaxed and felt like sleeping.

Slowly I opened my eyes and saw many doctors around me pushing and hitting me. I cried loud calling my mom. Later a doctor didn't see any problem in my body except there was a small scratch on my head. They asked my parents to take a scan of my head. In between, I vomited while having food in hospital; this made my parents again worried. The doctor asked to take a scan of my head. After the scanning, the doctor who scanned told my parents that there is nothing happened and he was surprised that I had an accident because there were no symptoms of an accident in my body or in my head.

For few years I was very much close to God (even now with a small different). After my NDE experience, I was really close to my religion and am so afraid to do mistakes. When I was sixteen years old, I came to know about another near death experience. From that day onwards, I started to understand that not only me, but also many have experienced this.  I was keeping it as a secret because I don't know whether people could believe what I tell when am young. Later there was a TV program were an experienced NDE person talked to the TV about his experience and he was in the Hindu religion. He said he was traveling through a dark tunnel and reached a place that looked like a temple. From that time onwards, I was confused because I saw a person from my religion, and other guy saw something related to his religion. I started believing that religions are just a culture that helps humans to live better, if only a human knows how to accept good and bad. We should always be conscious and know what we are doing. That's what I learned from my experience. Even now I try to think about my life when I get free time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  May 1989
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' Accident (Hit by a Van)  Hit by a van.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I saw my body on the road after the accident, when I saw someone carrying me upwards, when I felt that am palatalized and can't move my hands while someone is carrying my soul.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Mother Mary.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Felt like hydrogen balloon floating on air, someone (Mother Mary) carrying me as if she was carrying her son Jesus from the cross. I felt paralyzed, I could only move my eyes, I saw my body on the road, felt an unconditional love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     This experience made me think about the reality. It made me feel there is life after death and all are equal after death. I always try to be conscious and think what I am doing. It's very difficult for me to tell lie and hurt others - I can't do it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     For a few years I believed in my religion and I was so closed but later after knowing few experiences I felt like there is one power for all and what we have to do in this world is to live accepting every good thing from every religion and do good to others or not to hurt others knowingly.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'I believe in one power, I believe there is life after death... I believe there is good and bad side after death. it's our wish what to choose. I believe in all religion. I accept every good things that never hurt people each other and make them help each other from every religion.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     For a few years I believed in my religion and I was so closed but later after knowing few experiences I felt like there is one power for all and what we have to do in this world is to live accepting every good thing from every religion and do good to others or not to hurt others knowingly.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Actually after my NDE experience I was really close to my religion and am so afraid to do mistakes. In my teenage years I started believing that religions are just a culture that helps humans to live better if only a human knows how to accept good and bad.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain Yes, am very sensitive, am not afraid of death. I feel empathy towards others. Am afraid to do wrong to others. I always try to think of reality. I am used to thinking what makes people do wrong, what is wrong?  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     My mom used to tell me that when I was suffering from fever and one day she checked me and my fever was gone and I told my mom that the guy in that photo came to me and gave me a toffee. The person whom I showed was the father of Jesus, Joseph. I have seen a white blur light outside my window (it's a window to see the dining hall, so the white blur light was inside the dining hall). It happened when I was between seven or eight. I have seen a skeleton just parallel to my room when my room was opened. The next day too I saw the same thing and as my relative - an old lady who told me if you believe in God no one can stop you - in that belief I stood up and looked at it and it disappeared. Now I think I saw his because I heard many stories about God and devil (told to me by the old lady).

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I believe in life after death. I believe there is a world beyond our life on earth. There is one power for all.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this experience at first to my mom. It was about one year later the experience. Later I said that I had this experience to a few of my friends when I was twenty then twenty-three and now some time I tell. I mainly talk about his to people who never see me, I mean while chatting through internet.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I believe in what happened but I was afraid to share with my friends - but after knowing other people from different religion also saw in their way I just believe in a universal power and it's for all.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After reading a few NDEs I believe that it's real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   Don't know whether it's a part of the experience or not but one day when I gave money (eleven years old) to a poor person and later when I think of it I feel like my hands are shivering.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I want every people to believe in life after death and whatever mistakes you do is a mistake and it can't be excused by another person. It should be excused by the person to whom we did the wrong thing. In short, I don't believe in confession. Counseling is better than confession.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Can you please ask a question like 'do you believe in your religion or in one universal power'? If not, it's okay. Experience of other religious people made me think which one is the real God. But I am sure that there is a GOD.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_t_nde.html