{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_v_nde.html","mytitle":"Paul V NDE 4820","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul V NDE 4820  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul V NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2446 Paul V NDE 4820  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was working for a construction company in Alabama when I had the accident. My co-worker and I were installing a rubber water stop at the facility. We used a melting iron to melt our end to form a watertight seal. The iron heats up to around 500 to 600 degrees. Everything was going well before lunch. After lunch, we went back to work. My co-worker stayed up top to cut our templates while I went down in the hole where we were installing the water stop. I plugged the melting iron in so it could heat up. In the meantime, I put some of the rubber in place to get ready to seam it together. As I was getting ready to check the iron, it started to rain. It rained really hard for about ten minutes; just enough to get me soaking wet. After it stopped raining, I went over to see if the iron was hot enough to work with. When I reached down and grabbed it, I felt the electricity run up my arm. I tried to let go of it, but I couldn't. It would not let me go. I felt it drawing all the muscles in my body up. It knocked me down onto the metal rebar that I was standing on. By that time, I was in a lot of pain.

After two to three minutes, the pain went away. I remember thinking about my family, wondering what they were going to do without me. That's the last thing I remember before I started going out of it. At first, everything went dark, totally black.  I felt myself leaving out of my body. I don't remember going through any kind of tunnel or anything. I did come out of the darkness however. The next thing I remember is opening my eyes up and seeing the brightest light you could ever believe. It was all around me. The light was ten times brighter than the sun, but it did not hurt my eyes to look at it. It was the most peaceful and serene feeling a human could ever experience. Words cannot express what I felt like at that moment! I knew I was in a good place. It was a lot better than where I have been in life. What I was feeling at that moment was just overwhelming.

The next thing I remember was these figures coming towards me. I remember thinking 'Who are all these people coming after me?' They seemed to be coming towards me unusually quick. There was more than one figure there, although I don't know how many were there. However, I do distinctly remember the main being that was approaching me. Even though I saw him clearly, I cannot remember his face. I do however remember this; the beings that I saw were human like. They were magical in appearance. They had on long flowing gowns and the light came from around them. It was like a person standing with a bright light directly behind them, although it was a lot more beautiful. No one ever spoke a word to me. The main one reached down and touched me and I came back into my body. I was jolted back so fast that I didn't realize what had happened. When I open my eyes again, everything was still very bright, but it was not the same kind of light.

My eyes slowly started coming into focus and I saw many of my co-workers there around me. I remember my boss saying to me, 'I thought you were dead.' I think I told him I was. I later found out that one of the men there performed CPR on me. A few minutes later, I stood up and seemed to be fine although I really wasn't. I had a big spot on my throat that was burnt deep right where my jugular vein and esophagus is. Instead of going to the hospital, my boss brought me home. When my wife came home and saw me, she just lost it. I didn't know how bad I was. My back was in a tremendous amount pain. I got to where I couldn't breathe well. When she saw my throat, she didn't know how I was still alive. She has been to nursing school and she is a third level paramedic. She carried me to the emergency room. 

I started my long road to recovery. I know I will never be exactly right again. When I came back to my body per se, I feel as though some part of me didn't. I don't know what it is, but something is missing. I have searched for whatever it is. Therefore, my soul longing question is - how do you find something when you don't know what it is you have lost? I know without a doubt, I felt the presence of the father and this is indescribable to you and now I know without a shadow of a doubt our body may die. However, I will go back one day in the Lord's time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Aug. 6, 2003
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  snake bite  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I was electrocuted on the job.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I felt at that point and time it had to be when I was in the presence of the light, although I didn't know where I was, I knew I was safe. However for a split second, I was afraid, but something made me feel tremendously safe and I can't explain it to you if it was all to do with the light. I felt free. I felt better than any other time in my life.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I don't know, I don't remember.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I really didn't hear anything during the experience, but when the electricity hit me I remember hearing a loud buzz. I can tell you it sounded like a skill saw was on. This was the exact sound. It was extremely loud, louder than a normal saw.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I can't remember going through a tunnel, however, when it first happened I was in total darkness, the best way I could describe it was being in a dark cave, then light came in almost instantaneous.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Already described.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   See above explanation.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     just the light

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was scared, because I knew there was no one there to help me, but when I left my body I peace beyond belief.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   'I believed in god and new some about the bible, but I did not go to church regularly'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have a lot more faith in God now, I pray every day even only if it is only a few words just to thank him.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   My faith has increased a lot. Almost everything in my life has changed.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a lot more faith in God now, I pray every day even only if it is only a few words just to thank him.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I can sometimes be more aware of other people's feelings and not take them for granted.  But I am also on reserve about my feelings due to the fact some people don't understand what I went through, they seem to look at me weird and think I'm a fruit cake, some have even had a fear of me, I guess it is the not knowing.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   People look at me like I'm an idiot when I start talking about what I went through. Many people think I'm just plain crazy. Some just don't want to hear about it. I have lost several friends as a result.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No     I have always had the ability to see angels, spirits, or ghosts, and I seem to deal with it better now.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I met Jesus I actually saw him and I know where I am going when my body dies.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately.  There have been a few physicians that have wanted me to speak at their church and in doing so I was deeply blessed at how it touched different members of their congregation.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have watched programs on the TV but it didn't quite compare to the experience that I encountered.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I knew it was real, but my mind kept doubting, with prayer and conversations with the father I do not doubt.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     A blessing and a curse all at the same time.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_v_nde.html