{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paula_c_nde.html","mytitle":"Paula C NDE 20949","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paula C NDE 20949  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paula C NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						670  Paula C NDE  20949  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was floating. I felt like I was floating very high, but I realized I was looking down at my mother standing over me in a bed. My mother was trying to wake me up, but I did not understand why. Everything was so peaceful floating there. I felt very safe and happy. Then everything went white, not exactly white, but colorless. When I was about seven years old, I dreamed that my Uncle Tony was carrying the crucifix on his back, like Jesus did. The next day my mother informed me that my uncle had been killed. I had later learned in life that my uncle was murdered. But I had always been in tune to my uncle. He would visit me at night. I informed my mother, and she would tell me I was dreaming. I insisted to my mother that my uncle would wake me up to ask me where my aunt had moved. And when Uncle Tony would wake me up, I was always at peace and not scared.


I was in the hospital and floating above myself looking down at my mother, not knowing why she wanted me to wake me up when everything is so peaceful and wonderful. Then the brightness faded and I was looking down a tunnel toward a point of light. In this point of light was floating my Uncle Tony with a beautiful bouquet of flowers. I remember telling him how beautiful they were. He held them out to me as I floated toward my uncle. I held my arms out to him, and then I remember pain. Like being beaten. My mother told me the next day I went into kidney and liver failure and was near death. Then the doctor told my mother that I was talking to my uncle and that was a good sign. My mother told the doctor my uncle was dead, and the doctor told my mother to do whatever she had to get me out of that situation, or I would not come back. I remember not wanting to come back. It was so peaceful there I wanted to stay. My mother was insistent and I could not stay where I was although I wanted to.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?    Accident. Allergic reaction     in a coma from alcohol poisoning

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was floating above myself. I saw my mother standing over me beating me to wake me up.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was in a coma, but I knew what was going on around me.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    But I could smell the fragrant flowers my uncle offered me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     My uncle was waiting to take me to heaven.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     My uncle who had passed when I was a child wanted me to come with him. It was such a wonderful feeling that I wanted to go.

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I saw a bright light that dimmed out. Then I saw a point of light and when I got close enough to it everything went bright again and there was my uncle.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Peace, joy, love, but also hate for my mother for trying to make me stop enjoying this experience.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I am very intuitive.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I have out of body experiences a lot. I actually saw my husband and the dog in bed with me. The dog saw me floating because he looked up at me.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future     I do have intuitive thoughts, and can usually call something in my family.  For example I usually know when someone is pregnant before they know.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I knew I was coming back to my body, but fought to stay in the peace.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I became very spiritual.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The out of body experience was the best feeling I ever felt. But coming back was not what I wanted.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Some people thought I was crazy, but others are fascinated by my experience and want to know what it was like.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paula_c_nde.html