{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Paul M NDE 31638","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul M NDE 31638  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1996 Paul M NDE 31638  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I can't right now. It makes me cry.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?               Yes

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was outside the ambulance seeing what route it was taking. When I was revived I told the paramedic what route we took and I was right even though I was clinically dead.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Severe sadness and/or grief feelings

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Oh my child you do not belong here this way

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Never met him in life

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The waiting room ( I call it)

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       A sense of concern for my well being

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew I was dead but I knew I still existed

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I knew I had a future  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    None

What is your religion now?       None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am spiritual  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I can't  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Empathy and more but I can't share

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Best: My life is comfortable  Worst: No one understands

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was completely misunderstood

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I have met others with the same experiences

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Salvia

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It happened at seven years old. I had no concept of spirituality. I woke up with a profound understanding of spirituality that changed my entire life

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Offer a free essay forum of what really what was experienced      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_m_nde.html