{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_nde_22145.html","mytitle":"Paul NDE 22145","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul NDE 22145  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Shared NDE  			2025 Paul NDE 22145  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a road trip with a friend. Started in Minneapolis and ended in California. We lost time when we were having lunch with my friend’s uncle. They had not seen each other for years. We were on a different route than we told his uncle. I woke up in intensive care with my uncle (who I hadn’t seen for three years) from northern California. My brother came as soon as he could. My parents were on their own road trip and were in New York. When I was in intensive care they had pulled all of the tubes out of my body. I could not communicate verbally and tried to communicate to my brother.

I knew Rick was in heaven and with his words, he sent me back! He might have wanted to be where he was.

During the experience, Rick stopped me with a voice that he only used certain times. He said it wasn’t my time. I hovered over my body and saw my teeth or blood on the road.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/22/1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   A forty five mile per hour head on collision with a semi-truck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was told I was conscious, but I don't remember anything. But I do know that the semi we ran into was red!

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I lost time when traveling from Rick's to uncle's house.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     It was my first road trip at nineteen years old.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was wonderful. I wish I could have stayed where I was.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told it was not my time.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I did not use the seat belt that probable saved my life for two years. For about two years, I thought that it had just been a nightmare. I did not go to my church so much afterward.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was 1972 and I stayed quiet for a few years.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     No more or less than usual until this year.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The loss of my friends and family.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    But not for some time. I was able to relate only when I started hearing others experiences.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I was unable to be with my friends and Rick’s family to say good bye!

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I understand that our experiences are all different.  Mine seems to be ‘classic’.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_nde_22145.html