{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Paul P NDE 5284","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul P NDE 5284  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2772 Paul P NDE 5284  					  				  			         			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a baby. I had been born with a heart defect and I had become weaker and was very sick. I was afraid because I could not breathe. My mother held me up on her shoulder all through the night so that I could breathe.  She took me to the doctor the next day and they sent me right to the hospital. In the emergency room, they began sticking needles into me and I cried. When I cried, it got worse, and then they put me on life support. My mom says that I turned white, and every time someone touched me, it left a purple mark on my skin. She said the hospital chaplain came into the room. They transferred me to critical care, and the heart specialist came. My heart rate was up to 300 beats per minute and stayed that way for 5 hours. I remember the lights were glaring overhead, and I could not fight any more. 

I left my body and went up a tunnel toward a beautiful golden light.  I was in the presence of a spiritual being, Jesus.  He told me that it was not time for me to stay there and that I would go back, that my mom needed me. He told me other things that I cannot remember.  I remember being in the hospital room and realizing that I was not in my body.  I remember seeing a baby. I no longer felt sick or scared. It was very peaceful, and I knew I would be okay.  

When I returned to my body, I felt stronger, and I got well.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'September 11, 1993'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  'Abnormal heart rhythm due to congenital heart defect, heart began beating too fast and would not slow down, body systems were shutting down, put on life support, death was fast approaching and the doctors worked for over six hours to save me'  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' 'On life support, body shutting down, heart beating too fast, lost oxygen'  The doctors were fighting to save my life. I had lost oxygen and was on life support.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was with the spiritual being.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was with the spiritual being.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was a bright light.  Everything was vivid, beautiful.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Telepathy.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus and an infant; probably me.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a bright golden light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I went up toward the light

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was no longer afraid, in pain, or struggling to breathe. I was at peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I was an infant at the time, so there wasn't much to review. I understood that it was not time for me to leave Earth, that my mom needed me to stay, and that everything was going to be okay. I believe I will return to Him one day. Some things that I was told, I can't remember or cannot put into words.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my mother about it when I was still very young, after I had learned how to communicate.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It was too long and too much to answer at one time. I may have left out some information.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_p_nde.html