{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_g_nde_8159.html","mytitle":"Paul G NDE 8159","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul G NDE 8159  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4255 Paul G NDE 8159  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Hello, and thank you for allowing me to 'connect' with others about my NDE. It has been a while since my experience. As I read from your other readers personal accounts, there were some I could relate to and others I could not. In my opinion, when I went through this experience, I don't care to explain myself for gain of money or even if someone believes me. I don't care, because I went through it and that's all that matters. 
 
 (Following are excerpts from my Manuscript): LIFE AFTER DEATH & DEATH AFTER LIFE a True Story by Paul A. Garcia © 2015 
 
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 At the time of my experience, I was 31 years old, had two children and was engaged to be married. This is a true account of an experience I had after being hit by a truck in Colorado, while walking along the road. How do I explain this experience? I saw and understood things that I cannot express. I grasp unsatisfactorily for hollow words to explain things that I know, I saw, and I felt. I truly believe I was somewhere in another dimension of the world beyond. 
 
 The date was New Year’s Eve, 1984. It was on that particular date that I felt beckoned to cross that vast, unknown void, between life and death. 
 
 THE RESTAURANT 
 
  Reservations were set for dinner, for two, at a very nice restaurant. My fiancée and I arrived at approximately 9:00 p.m. to celebrate the New Year with dinner, drinks and dancing. During our meal we got into one of those typical 'lover’s quarrels'. She told me that she was leaving and going home. Then she left the table and stormed out of the establishment with her full-length coat trailing after her like a white shadow. 
 
 THE SCENE 
 
 At first, everything seemed to be going in slow motion. Yet, everything leading up to the point of impact had taken approximately three to four seconds. Just before I was hit, I remember the bright headlights, the scratching sound of the tires, and the blaring horn. After the impact, everything was quiet as I was flying through the air. Then suddenly, there was a thump. My body had landed on the ground. I was lying on my back, face up in the snow bank about sixty feet from the point of impact. 
 
 THE SEPARATION 
 
 As I am lying face-up with my body against the ground, I look like the front or top of my body is a carcass, or more like a mold with an open back. On the top side of this 'body mold' is one part of this accident scene. It is very light on the top side of this mold. It is as though someone has taken a large imaginary knife and sliced the whole scene of the accident at ground level, with my body lying in the center of this picture. The imaginary slice is just below the snow and pavement. Directly below, is where the separation begins. Suddenly, as though an artist is cracking the shell of their art piece or mold, I am leaving my 'body shell'. I am now dropping down, sinking ever slowly as though time is non-existent. 
 
 THE SEVEN PLANES 
 
 I am breaking through these 'Planes' as my new spirit-like body continues to drop. I am still on my back even though there is no such thing as position here. It is as though there are some invisible, liquid type 'glass planes' present and I am dropping or sinking through them, one by one. It seems like this process is taking days, months or even years, despite the fact that there is nothing related to time itself here. Time is back on Earth. There is no time here. 
 
 It is hard to recollect what information I received then. I think it had something to do with those pod-like shells that were falling away from my brain as the information was entering my mind. Sometimes this whole thing sympathetically scares me, if 'scares' is the best word to use, as it was not a frightening place where I was. 
 
 THE REVOLVING WINDOW  
 
 After processing these thoughts, my body has now come to a complete stop. I have approached what appears to be an 'invisible but clear glass-like revolving-window.' I am still flat on my back, except now I am ever so slowly beginning to rotate over to my right side. If I continue this rotation, I will end up flat on my stomach. 
 
 WHAT I SAW 
 
 Being at this revolving window, before I begin my ascent, the following is what I was allowed to remember and know. There are many other people or souls all around me. This I know. They have heads and faces but their bodies are like unimportant nightgowns. I know that each of these souls/people have not lost their individuality/uniqueness. Each person I am looking at has retained his or her own identity. There are masses of people, enormous amounts of people. They are all moving in one unanimous flow or direction. They are all in the position of lying down on their belly. I believe they all have interesting expectations about what is ahead, however they seem content given the knowledge they possess. I, myself, am curious about what is ahead of them. 
 
 If someone were to ask me questions about that place like, 'Was it happy there, or was it sad?' I would simply answer, 'It was warm there, if warm can explain it.' What I do remember unequivocally is that at the point of the revolving window, there was something big, VERY BIG, ahead where everyone there was going to and moving towards it. 
 
 THE MASSES AND THE RETURN 
 
 The knowledge I acquired in the previous planes allows me to remember exactly what is in my present surroundings. Here I don’t need hearing or sight, because I know, without the need to focus. I know what is all around me. I understand as well the space all around me. With this 'full knowledge’, why do I need to physically turn my head and look ahead in order to see where I am going? I don’t! I know without seeing. I don’t know how, I just know things. Whoever made the decision, I am to return to Earth. I am beginning to ascend upwards slowly like an old freight elevator up the many traveled flights. It feels like I am reversing what was not meant to be reversed, as if I am swimming upstream or going against the grain. As I am passing through these planes, I know that I am moving through different dimensions in space and time. My mind is retaining only superficial information within each one of these particular levels. 
 
 THE END 
 
 Thank you again, for allowing me to express my account and myself. I was looking for a forum to share while I am still on this little planet called Earth.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1980?

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes. Accident         Other: I got hit by a truck while I was walking on the road.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  The only thing I saw was a projected scene of my two little children sitting in the front pew of a church.  They were crying and comforting each other while looking at my closed casket.  This is the only thing I remember seeing after I passed through the seven planes.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I had a realization while in the other dimension, that way back there on little tiny planet 'Earth', was not where things were 'Happening', this place in the void was where everything happens and has been happening since the beginning of time.  After I passed through the seven planes, I had full knowledge, like a God!!

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was fully conscious and in fact hyper-aware in the 'Void'.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     At that void, there is no time.  No up or down, no cold or hot.  I dropped down through the seven levels what seemed like being on a slow freight elevator, which finally came to a stop on the basement floor. Time there was nonexistent.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Same as  above, except that I did not have to physically turn my head to see with my eyes because I had full knowledge of my surroundings.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    In that dimension there was no sound or color, all was quiet and black and white.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, but the facts have not been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     After the seven levels, I was aware that my entrance to this dimension was rather dully illuminating the tunnel of beings/souls passing/floating by me. It was like shining a flashlight into a river at night and seeing a school of fish. During this awareness, I noted two beings/souls, 1) a male with a goatee looking at me who was welcoming me, and 2) a woman with long dark hair, but not noticing me. She was looking straight ahead focusing on what was to come, like everyone else there.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Full knowledge allowed me to project ahead and be aware that there was a tunnel of souls traveling into this bright edge of a light around the big round planet-like location.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       None.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe. There are seven planes that I pass through before I stop dropping. This first plane gives me information about Life, Earth, the surrounding space of Earth and it’s relativity to space itself. The other planes are relating to the larger and more distant thinking than that of little Earth. The information in these last planes is now becoming two-part. 'WOW! NOW I SEE, SO THAT’S HOW… THAT’S WHERE… I DIDN’T REALIZE THIS WAS SO BIG… I DIDN’T KNOW… HOW COULD THIS BE…? NOW I SEE, NOW I UNDERSTAND!'

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from my personal future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I reached the 'revolving door' that was the point of no return.  This I knew, having full knowledge.   I came to an abrupt halt and was returned back to little Earth.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will.     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant.   I was not very religious at the time of the accident, but that was my background.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Moderately important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   Not religious at this time.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     This place was all new to me.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     I knew all beings/souls were going to some sort of greater existence...

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     There are seven planes that I pass through before I stop dropping. This first plane gives me information about Life, Earth, the surrounding space of Earth and it’s relativity to space itself. The other planes are relating to the larger and more distant thinking than that of little Earth. The information in these last planes is now becoming two-part.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife probably exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes.     The whole experience was proof to me that there is another dimension beyond the boundaries of 'Life'.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love transcends all! The Love that is in all beings stays with you forever; it can't be squelched.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life.     None, other than realizing there is no promise of tomorrow.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain. Not sure, all I know is that I try to be as close to the family members that allow me to be. I have painted a picture of the scenery of the dimension where I was, and it is very impressive especially given the fact that I am not a painter.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events.   I firmly believe that if I had not written down the experience then, I would have no recollection of it.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That there is definitely something big going on after this life on Earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    That same year my friend had just lost a friend in a motorcycle accident. She came over to my house crying, asking what I saw there so she could know where her friend was. I told her my experience, and I believe, afterwards, she became consoled.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes.   I would laugh about the books out there where they were 'Walking into the light', and, 'saw their grandma or other relatives'. But when it happened to me, I can no longer be a Doubting Thomas. I do not believe my attitude about NDEs affected my experience in any way. How could it? Someone else was in full control there. I had no control of the ride I was on, whatsoever.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     I went through a weird hard-to-explain experience. But again, when it happened to me there is NO denying it. It does not matter whom or if people believe me. It really doesn't matter; it is not important, because I am not inventing the news, just reporting it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Just the painting that I previously mentioned. The experience has been locked in my mind and I couldn't get it out. Every time I went to the movies and saw that big 'Universal Pictures' globe revolving around in space on the screen as the words came around, it rather freaked me out. The Universal Picture globe was the planet-like figure I saw all the beings/souls moving into, in the other dimension. I finally took a class on watercolors to try to paint what I saw, and believe it or not, I painted it just how I remember it. The picture screen showed the planet and stars, but the dimension that I was in had NO STARS, like that, dimension was somehow 'Beyond' the space, as we know it here on 'Little Earth'. Anyway, I was relieved finally to get that on a physical surface instead of just in my mind.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       No. No. You were very thorough and you did some cross-referencing as well, good job.   				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_g_nde_8159.html