{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Paul G NDE 665","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul G NDE 665  		  		  		  		  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  				  				  					Paul G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						202  Paul G NDE  665  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I was in a three-day summer camp with my older brother (the one that died). There was a swimming pool there, so he decided to teach me to swim.  When he had given me some fundamentals to work with, he told me to stay in the shallow water, and close to the edge.  He then got out, and went to play with the roller skaters. It couldn't have been more than five minutes of practice, before I decided to combine techniques and swim across the pool!  I made it halfway, about eight feet. In my desperation, after struggling for what seemed like forever, I did what they do in the cartoons. I stuck my hand out of the water, and lowered my fingers, one at a time. When I lowered them all, I let out my toxic air, with great relief.


They said that when they rescued me, I was lying on the pool floor. They thought I was playing!  So, they waited for me to come up for air!  When I didn't, one of the counselors dove in after me. No one knows how long I was there before being spotted!  Lotta kids!


It's been a long time ago - I have always said that I remember as if it was yesterday. Guess I'm gonna have to stop saying that. The experience itself is why I said that. I cannot remember if the figures faded in, or I opened my eyes. At any rate, I have never been faced with such brightness!  It was like being in a room that was being lit by its personal sun, only brighter! I really don't remember the number odd figures I saw - I always followed my religious background and figured twelve - for a minute, these men just stared. Then the middle one (Peter) leaned forward and his face was inches away from mine. Then he began to slowly shake his head, 'No'.  As he did this, the bright lights very slowly began to soften, and slowly began to fade into a mixture of white and powder blue. I should say it was so bright in there; it was in black and white! A bright light making all the people look like shadows.  I could make out faces, especially the one that leaned toward me. But they were all in black and white! Anyway, as the white light began to fade, the number of people began to grow - at the same time, the shapes, or the heights were changing. Color in the people, trees, chairs, etc.  Then, there I lay.  In the middle of a circle of children and adults! 

Background Information:

Gender:    Male

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death I drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was out.  Gone.  Dead.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I definitely have since!

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn't actually meet them, they were standing over me.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Correction, everything I saw was white light, or in that light.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I have, until now, believed that I had a greater purpose than all others that did not go through this experience.  I have, since then, always felt someone was watching over me.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Of the group of people in the light, the one in the middle, an older balding white man (who I always believed was Peter - you know, in The Bible) leaned forward.  As if to get in my face - stared right at me and began to shake his head.  After a few seconds, faces faded, colors changed from bright white, to slowly becoming blue - the number of people began to increase, and the sizes and shapes began to change.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Uncertain     Some of this, I'm just now beginning to accept.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Uncertain

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       It's not over.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Supportive, but I never thought they understood.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I was informed of my brother's death in October. Two days before my forty-fifth birthday.  The coroner's letter stated that he had been dead for three years, and they were just looking for the next of kin!  I'm an emotional wreck, reevaluating, decided to look for you all.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?     Uncertain     

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_g_nde.html