{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_h_probable_ndes.html","mytitle":"Paul H Probable NDEs 4549","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul H Probable NDEs 4549  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul H Probable NDEs  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2289 Paul H Probable NDEs 4549  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					1954, 1997 - Both experience of void and reaching incredible light, all colors, almost to boundary line. Experiences later, e.g. 1974, sudden access to every book I've ever read, many human languages, whatever search terms, photographic - then whoosh-like feeling, back-into-body, seated near four other people, talking, who did not notice that I had 'been gone'. Joined core contactee group in Washington DC-metro area, 1997-2000, after inpatient bone marrow ward experience; Curious to note how few writings connect pre-death dream literature of Martin Luther King, Jr., or of Mohandas Gandhi (nearly killed numerous times).

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  '1954, 1997'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  3 genetically-related sisters and 1 genetically-related brother dead before I reached age 5  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   In 1954, the doctors expected me to die as had all four genetically-related siblings.  In 1997, the doctors did not necessarily expect me to live. Told in 1998 I had five years to live, statistically, by Hematology Div. Head, NHLBI, Bethesda MD.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When light reached everywhere, calming, healing feeling.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When light reached everywhere, calming, healing feeling.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Beyond space-time dimensions.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Colors beyond Earth colors.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Synesthesia - hearing colors, seeing sounds.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     No tunnel memories.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Fully light, not physical.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Beyond space-time dimensions.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Many dreams, passing through walls, visiting other dimensions or worlds as small child.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     1974, especially, total recall - like so-called Akashic libraries.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Future travel, conversations bridged by NDE memories.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Future travel, conversations bridged by NDE memories.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Future travel, conversations bridged by NDE memories.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Beyond space-time dimensions - more like omniversal experience.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Future travel, conversations bridged by NDE memories.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Beyond words in any human language; I work in quite a few different, mostly Euro-oriented languages.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Too intuitive at times - initially not ready for such, made friends uncomfortable.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Curiosity as to green, vs. red-blue U.S. party politics.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Years.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Second time around.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Does NDE push folks not only toward 'peace' but also nonviolent means toward peace?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_h_probable_ndes.html