{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V29 1918","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v29_1918.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V29 1918","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXIX
(CONTAINING PARTS LXXII, LXXIII, LXXIV, AND APPENDIX)
1918
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
publislied in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1918
Agents for the sale of publications :
. LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 81 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW : JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/proceedingsofsoc29soci
CONTENTS
PART LXXII.
November, 1916.
I. Gross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. By J. G. Piddington,
II. Presidential Address. By Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D., .......
III. Report on a Series of Experiments in "Guessing." By Mrs.
A. W. Verrall,
IV. Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. By Sir Oliver
Lodge, E.R.S., . •
V. Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Verrall, ....
Supplement : Reviews:
Mr. Henry Holt's "On the Cosmic Relations." By Pro-
fessor W. R. Newbold, .....
Professor Boris Sidis's "The Foundations of Normal and
Abnormal Psychology." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.,
Professor Jung's "Collected Papers on ^Analytical Psycho-
logy" (translated by Dr. Constance Long). By T. W.
Mitchell, M.D., ......
PART LXXIII.
March, 1917.
The Ear of Dionysius : Further Scripts affording Evidence of
Personal Survival. By The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, . 197
PART LXXIV.
December, 1917.
I. On the Development of Different Types of Evidence for
Survival in the Work of the Society. By Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick, ... . - • • 245
II. The Ear of Dionysius : A Discussion of the Evidence. By
Miss F. Melian Sta^vell, ..... 260
191059
iv Contents.
III. The Ear of Dioh>!?ifs"; \ 5 U p) v.' By J'l'EIRwshtJJon. G. W. PAoa
Balfour, . . . . . 270
[V. Presidential JLddtdss : I'll" Thwory of Siii-ViAal' ;in. 'the Light
of its Context. By L. P. Jacks,. IjL'J);,- % \ \\, . . 287
V. Some Experiments with a New Automatist. By Mrs. W. H.
Salter, ....... 306
VI. Some Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. By the
Rev. M. A. Bayfield, ..... 350
Supplement.
VII. In Memoriam—Mrs. A. W. Verrall, . . . .376
VIII. Reviews:
Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research,
"The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality." By
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . . . .386
Sir Oliver Lodge's "Raymond." By Mrs. Henry Siduwick, 404
APPENDIX TO PART LXXIV.
March, 1918.
Officers and Council for 1918, . . . . . .410
List of Members and Associates, ...... 411
Index to Vol. XXIX., ....... 451
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXXII.
November, 191G.
CROSS-CORRESPONDENCES OF A GALLIC TYPE.1
BY J. G. PlDDINGTON.
" They order, said I, this matter better in France."
Steme, A Sentimental Journey.
INTRODUCTION.
At the end of 1913, Dr. Gustave Geley read a paper
before the Societe Universelle d''Etudes Psychiques, in the
course of which he discussed the cross-correspondences
published in our Proceedings, and gave an account of
5 cases of cross-correspondence that had occurred during
the summer of 1913, between two French automatists. 2
These cases being all of a very simple and clean-cut
character require little explanation and commentary, and
1
This paper was read at a General Meeting of the Society on January 29, 1915.
2
Contribution a Vitude des Correspondances croise"es ( Documents Nouveaux
)
Conference faite par Le Docteur Gustave Geley. Paris, Imprimerie E. Roussel,
20, rue Gerbert, 1914.
A
2 J. G. Piddington. [part
are all described in a few pages ; and so, thinks Dr.
Geley, contrast favourably with our cross-correspondences,
which have to have big, fat volumes written about them
before their intricacies and obscurities are—I must not say
unravelled and elucidated, but—placed before the reader.
In fact, remarks Dr. Geley, there lies the same psycho-
logical abyss between his cross-correspondences and ours
as between the French mind and the Northerner's mind.
I suspect that Dr. Geley was restrained only by the
politeness characteristic of his nation from pronouncing
our cross-correspondences to be as foggy as our climate.
What he actually does say is that while the Northerner
delights in complicated researches and mysterious symbols
and subtle arguments, the French mind craves for clear-
ness and orderliness ; and that the effect of these two
different diatheses can be seen in the cross-correspondences
produced on opposite sides of the Channel.
Now, I ought to be one of the last people to deny
that some of our cross-correspondences are complex
and difficult to follow ;
yet I think that Dr. Geley's
condemnation of our poor English efforts is too wholesale,
for we have published some simple and straightforward
cases: e.g. "A triangle within a circle" and "Laurel
Wreath" in Proc, Vol. XXII., "Neptune and trident,"
" Troy and Joy " and " Exile and Moore " in Vol. XXIV.
;
and this last volume also contains the " Sesame and
Lilies " case, which, apart from some unessential ex-
crescences, is not really involved.
But as Dr. Geley has either overlooked these instances
or does not think them simple or numerous enough, I
propose in this paper to produce some fresh examples of
fairly simple cross-correspondence, in the hope of convincing
our French critic that, in spite of our national predilection
for the obscure and complex, our automatists are not
quite so black as he has painted them.
I do not mean that their phenomena rival, but only that
they sometimes approach within humble distance of those of
the French automatists. These Dr. Geley describes as being
" d'une grande simplicity " ; and no one who has read his
paper would, I think, quarrel with that description of them.
Lxxn.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 3
Four out of the five cases reported by Dr. Geley conform
to one of two patterns.1
Either both automatists write
" Polly, put the kettle on " ; or else Automatist A writes
" There was a little girl " and " right in the. middle of
her forehead," while Automatist B writes " and she had
a little curl " : the sum of these parts making
" There was a little girl,
And she had a little curl
Right in the middle of her forehead."
Our own automatists, you will find, only once quite
succeed in attaining the majestic simplicity of the first
type ; and can produce but clumsy imitations of the
second. Still, if allowance be made for the racial dis-
advantages under which they labour, they will, I hope,
be thought to have done better than might have been
expected.
But the aim of this paper is not only to vindicate
our automatists from some of the aspersions cast on
them by Dr. Geley, but also to describe some concordant
automatisms of a simple type as simply as I may, for
the benefit of any weaker vessels—if such there be in
our Society—who, like Dr. Geley, Dr. Maxwell and others,
have found much of the previous evidence difficult of
digestion.
I also aspire, though with no very sanguine hopes
of success, at bringing forward evidence which will alter
Dr. Maxwell's opinion of our cross-correspondences. Dr.
Maxwell, as Dr. Geley reminds us in his article, at present
considers that they are to be put down to chance or
else to forced and overfanciful interpretation.
I do not, however, propose to argue the question of
whether chance is an insufficient explanation of the
coincidences I am about to describe, because theoretically
chance may always be held to explain a coincidence,
or, rather, may always be urged as an alternative to
1
As I am dealing here only with the pattern in which the French
cross-correspondences are cast, I leave out of account the fact that,
except in one instance apparently, the coincidental phrases are original
and' not drawn from a literary source.
4 J. G. Piddington. [part
some other explanation. If ten automatists on the
same day each wrote : "A covey of elephants danced
round Buckingham Palace, and sang '
We won't go home
till morning '
", no one could prove that chance would
not cover the coincidences. One has to judge in these
matters by common sense ; and common sense does not
lead everyone to the same conclusion.
I do not intend, either, in this paper to raise such
questions as whether the cross-correspondences are pur-
posive, or whether there lies behind them any ulterior
meaning, or whether their content affords evidence of
the action of surviving personalities.
Rather my design is to throw each of the coincidences
at the reader, so to speak, and then to limit myself to
asking him, explicitly or implicitly, this question :
" Do
you believe this kind of thing happens by chance ? Or,
if you think this or that coincidence is due to chance,
do you think a series of such coincidences is ?
"
I shall have occasion in the course of this paper to
mention a new automatist under the pseudonym of
Mrs. King. All that I need say about her is that she
has only recently developed the automatic faculty, that
she has been a member of this Society for a good many
years, and that she is known to me and much better
known to some of my colleagues.
I shall also have occasion to state how often particular
words, phrases or quotations have occurred in the various
scripts. These statements, I may explain, are not made
upon the strength of perfunctory examinations of the
scripts, but are based upon elaborate indexes of words,
phrases and quotations occurring in the scripts of all
the automatists whom I shall mention except Mrs. King.
Naturally, I do not claim that these indexes are entirely
free from errors of commission and omission ; but I may
say that they have been compiled with care and are
constantly being checked.
To save repetition in each individual case, I may as
well at this point make two observations, which apply to all
the cases of cross-correspondence dealt with in this paper.
lxxil] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 5
In the first place, it is to be understood that no one
of the automatists contributing to any given cross-corre-
spondence saw the contributions made to it by the other
automatists until some time—usually a long time—after
the cross-correspondence was complete.1
In the second place, I have asked all the automatists
concerned whether the topics which have formed the
themes of the cross-correspondences had, to the best
of their recollection and belief, been brought to their
attention in some ordinary, everyday manner at or about
the time when references to them emerged in their scripts.
To this question, it is to be understood, unless otherwise
stated, that the answer in each case was " No."
Festina lente.
The subject of my first case is the words " Festina
lente," which mean " Hasten slowly." This motto is
found for the first time in any of the scripts in Mrs.
Holland's script of Dec. 9, 1908. I do not regard this
occurrence of it as forming part of the cross-correspon-
dence, and confine myself to stating the fact.
Nearly five years pass before it is quoted again by
any of the automatists. Then, on Nov. 28 and again
on Dec. 19, 1913, it appears in the script of Mrs. King,
who had not seen Mrs. Holland's script. 2
Less than three weeks later—on Jan. 6, 1914—it re-
appears in the script of Miss Verrall,3
who had seen
1
In making this statement without qualification, I am not losing
sight of the cases where a phrase has been " cribbed " by one auto-
matist from another's script, because a coincidence of this kind, unless
otherwise reinforced, does not constitute a cross-correspondence'. See
pp. 10, 11, 20, 21.
2
Parts of Mrs. Holland's script of Dec. 9, 1908, have been printed
in the Proceedings (Vol. XXIV., p. 320 ;
XXV., p. 250), but not the
part containing the words "Festina lente."
3
As both this paper and the scripts discussed in it were written
before Miss Verrall's marriage to Mr. W. H. Salter, I refer to her
throughout by her maiden name.
6 J. G. Piddington. [part
neither Mrs. Holland's nor Mrs. King's script, in the
following form :
Festinasse lente dulcedine captus amoris
temporis impatiens . . -
1 festina lente.
A literal translation of this would be :
" To have
hastened slowly 2
captivated by the charm of love
impatient of time . . . hasten slowly." Probably
" dulcedine captus amoris temporis impatiens " is an
attempt to say :
" One whom love has made captive
chafes at delays." In any case a contrast must be
intended between " temporis impatiens " and " festina
lente."
Eleven days later, on Jan. 17, 1914, Mrs. Verrall,
who had seen Mrs. Holland's script of Dec. 9, 1908,
but had not seen either Miss Verrall's or Mrs. King's
script, wrote as follows :
Where Tweed meets Tyne
There is a rhyme about the meeting of those rivers—or the
rivers speak
Says Tweed to Tyne
For Auld Lang Syne
Says Tyne to Tweed
More haste less Speed.
" More haste less Speed " is a very good paraphrase
of " Festina lente " ; and the following well-known poem,
1
In the omitted part of the script represented by dots seven distinct
topics are mentioned between "festinasse lente" and "festina lente."
This shows that the fact of two phrases being separated by a consider-
able interval does not necessarily imply that they do not belong to-
gether. Miss Verrall's script of April 6, 1914 (see pp. 13-14) furnishes
another instance of the separation of two related phrases.
2
The probability (hat "festinasse," the perfect infinitive of festino.,
was a mere slip of the pen for " festina," the present imperative,
is increased by the fact that, if " festina " be substituted for " festinasse,"
a perfect hexameter line results :
" temporis impatiens " making the
beginning of another hexameter. Original Latin hexameters are not
uncommon in Miss Verrall's script.
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 7
of which the script is obviously reminiscent, might well
bear the title " Festina lente."
Says Tweed to Till—
'
What gars ye rin sae still ?'
Says Till to Tweed—
'
Though ye rin speed
And I rin slaw,
For ae man that ye droon
I droon twa.'
The very next day, Jan. 18, 1914, Miss Verrall's script
opens thus :
" Festina lente—note when that phrase
recurs." The first time it appeared in Miss Verrall's script
was on Jan. 6, 1914, the second time on Jan. 18, 1914
;
and, as between these two dates Miss Verrall produced
no script, her only citations of " Festina lente " occur
in successive scripts ; and in between these two successive
scripts falls Mrs. Verrall's " More haste less Speed."
Twice more the motto comes in script : on March 8,
and July 22, 1914 ; each time in Mrs. King's script.
If the first appearance of the motto in Mrs. Holland's
script is left out of account, we find that between Nov.
28, 1913, and July 22, 1914, it occurs no less than six
times : four times in Mrs. King's and twice in Miss
Verrall's script. Why, I ask, this sudden outburst of
reiterated " Festina lente's " ?
Moreover, eleven days after the first, and one day before
the second occurrence of " Festina lente " in Miss Verrall's
script, Mrs. Verrall writes " More haste less speed "
—
a proverb that has not been quoted elsewhere in any
of the scripts.
Though I have felt bound to mention Mrs. Verrall's
contribution to this cross-correspondence, I cannot help
regarding it as regrettable, because it spoils what would
otherwise have been an ideally simple and lucid type
of cross-correspondence. The French blood that flows in
Mrs. Verrall's veins ought.! to have saved her from ' thus
" darkening counsel by words without knowledge." I
suppose she might plead in mitigation that her subliminal
purposely substituted " More haste less speed " for " Festina
s J. O. Piddington
.
[PART
lente " because it knew that her supraliminal had seen
the latter phrase in Mrs. Holland's script. To a conjecture
of this kind I might have listened with sympathy in my
unregenerate days before I read Dr. Geley's paper ; but
now my ears are deaf to such sophistries.
Music has charms.
I now turn to two coincidences of a straightforward
land between the scripts of Mrs. and Miss Verrall.
On April 11, 1913, Miss Verrall's script contained the
following :
the Lesbian lyre—to strike the lyre with might music hath
charms.
" Music hath charms " is from Congreve's play The
Mourning Bride :
" Music has charms to soothe a savage,, breast,
To soften rocks, or bend a knotted oak.
I've read that things inanimate have moved,
And, as with living souls, have been inform'd
By magic numbers and persuasive sound."
Four days later—on April 15, 1913—Mrs. Verrall's script
opens thus :
And the mountain tops that freeze
Follow after follow after
Now with tear and now with laughter
Music has charms and you know the rest
Then write again Music.
" And the mountain tops that freeze " is from " Orpheus
with his lute " hi Henry VIII. ; and it is quite appro-
priate to associate this song with the quotation from
Congreve's The Mourning Bride, because the context
of " Music has charms " there evidently alludes to Orpheus.
As a matter of fact, Mrs. Verrall did not know the
full context of " Music has charms." She knew, as
everyone does, the whole line " Music has charms to
soothe a savage breast," but not the succeeding four
lxxii.] Gross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 9
lines which particularly suggest Orpheus. Still, as Mrs.
Verrall herself says, the first line is enough to suggest
" that Orpheus is likely to be in the neighbourhood."
I must not, then, be understood, as claiming that Mrs.
VerralFs script shows a knowledge of the context of
" Music has charms " which the automatist herself did
not consciously possess. What I do think is that the
reference in her script to Orpheus which precedes, and
the remark, " and you know the rest," which follows
the quotation, suggest that stress is being laid on the
fact of these words having a literary source and a context,
and of their not being a mere unattached proverbial
saying like " A rolling stone gathers no moss." Why
I wish to make this point will appear presently.
It is Mrs. Verrall's habit to copy her scripts, soon
after they are written, into a book which she keeps for
the purpose ; and to post the originals, as soon as the
copy is made, to Miss Johnson or me. To the copies
she adds from time to time various notes and com-
ments, and puts against them the dates on which they
are made. Thus, on April 16, 1913—that is the day
after " Music has charms " appeared for the first and
only time in her script—she noted that it is a quotation
of which she does not know the source.
She teUs me that to the best of her belief nothing
had happened to bring this quotation to her mind at or
about the time when it occurred in her script : I mean
nothing she had lately been thinking of, or reading, or
hearing said.
With Miss Verrall the case is, or appears to be, otherwise.
Some time in April 1913, she talked with her cousin,
Mr. Evelyn Riviere, about a Literary Problems Party
which they were both concerned in getting up, and
which was to, and did, take place on May 19, 1913.
During this conversation Mr. Riviere told Miss Verrall
that one of the questions to be asked at the Party
was the source of " Music has charms," and he then
informed her that it came from Congreve's Mourning
Bride : a fact previously unknown to her. The date
on which this conversation took place Miss Verrall cannot
LO J. G. Piddington. [part
ascertain for certain. On my first asking her when it
occurred, she said she thought about the end of April,
1913 ; but she subsequently decided that it must have
been before April 11, 1913 : the date on which the
quotation appears in her script. I gather from her
that the chief reason for her change of opinion is that
since the quotation appeared in her script on April 11,
1913, it was therefore before this date that Mr. Riviere
mentioned it to her. I am not entirely convinced by
this argument ; for if, as appears to be the case, Mrs.
Verrall got the quotation telepathically from Miss Verrall,
it seems not unreasonable to suppose that Miss Verrall
may have got it telepathically from Mr. Riviere. I
find a stronger argument in favour of Miss Verrall's view
in the script itself, which opens with references to " Dido
with a willow in her hand " and to Semele " the bride of
the bladed thunder " : both " Mourning Brides " ; and
this suggests that she knew when this script was written
that " Music has charms " comes from Congreve's Mourning
Bride. In any case it is safer to accept the earlier date.
Mrs. Verrall, at any rate, knew nothing about the
problems to be set at the Party until after " Music has
charms " had appeared in her script. On April 27,
1913, Miss Verrall told her mother about the proposed
Party, and mentioned the choice of " Music has charms "
as one of the problems, and told her where it came
from. Mrs. Verrall was careful to note in her script-book
on April 27, 1913, that she then told her daughter that
the quotation had recently occurred in her own script.
I hope that no one will imagine that I have set forth
the above facts because I think they afford a normal
explanation of the cross-correspondence in question. They,
of course, do nothing of the kind. They explain, or
may explain, in a perfectly normal way the appearance
of the quotation from Congreve in Miss Verrall's script ;
but not its repetition four days later in Mrs. Verrall's.
My reason for mentioning the facts is to show the kind
of precautions that ought to be taken, and that we do
as a matter of fact take, to guard so far as is possible
against the risk of coincidences explicable by normal
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 11
causes being mistaken for cross-correspondences. It is
clear that such pseudo-cross-correspondences are more
likely to occur in the scripts of a mother and daughter,
who, it is true, do not live in the same house, but who
meet at fairly frequent intervals, than in the scripts
of mere acquaintances or strangers. In the case under
review it is evident that had Mrs. Verrall known about
the problems to be set at the Party by or before April 16,
the coincidence might still have occurred, but it would
have been absurd to claim it as a cross-correspondence.
Walking in Darkness.
The second example of a cross-correspondence of a
simple kind between Mrs. and Miss Verrall is this.
On September 11, 1913, Mrs. Verrall's script contained
the following :
non visum neque tactum, sed non invisibile neque
intangibile. Interpret that riddle-—they see not neither
do they hear—no, you miss the point.
She walks in darkness like the night that gives a
better analogy. Try this—her own darkness makes the
night visible, and the same darkness makes her invisible
—then say that inward eye I can't get anything more
here and now—But I think there is something said that
wanted saying—though there is certainly confusion.
" She walks in darkness like the night " is a mis-
quotation of Byron's
She walks in beauty, like the night
Of cloudless climes and starry skies ;
And all that's best of dark and bright
Meet in her aspect and her eyes :
Thus mellow'd to that tender light
Which heaven to gaudy day denies.
The misquotation—recognised by the automatist—whether
intentional or not, certainly serves to emphasise the
words " walks in darkness."
The Latin means :
" not seen and not touched, but
ot invisible and not intangible."
L2 J. G. Piddington. [part
The first script written by Miss Verrall after the date
of this script of Mrs. Verrall's—namely, eight days later,
on Sept. 19, 1913—contained the following passage :
the starlit path—the lantern beams—they cast their
light before them but they themselves walk in darkness
—handing on the torch
—
There had been one previous reference in Miss Verrall's
own script to torch-bearing and one to the XajuiraSijcpoplu,1
and three references to the \a/u.7ruS>i<popla. in Mrs.
Verrall's script 2
of which Miss Verrall knew ; but in
none of these cases is there the slightest suggestion of
the torch-bearers being themselves in darkness.
The Days of Creation.
The coincidences in this case consist of a series of
references in the scripts of two, and perhaps of three,
automatists to the Days of Creation. This topic, which
some seven years later was to become the theme of a
spacious cross-correspondence, first appeared explicitly in
Mrs. Verrall's script of Dec. 24, 1906. But before quoting
this script, I will first quote two earlier scripts of Mrs.
Verrall's, because it seems probable that in them are
to be found the first approaches to the topic clearly
expressed in the script of Dec. 24, 1906.
Extract from Mrs. Verrall's script of Dec. 3, 1902.
Vesperavit iam ante in lumine lux fiat [i.e. Evening has
already come before ha the light let there be light.] . . .
Extract from Mrs. Verrall's script of March 1, 1903.
. . . largas ad lummis oras 3
. . . Ex tenebris fiet lux 3
[i.e. To the wide shores of light . . . Out of darkness
will light come.] . . .
1
On Dec. 16, 1909, and June 11, 1912, respectively.
2
On May 26, June 30, 1901, and Jan. 18, 1903.
3 " Luminis oras" is a Lucretian phrase. H. A. J. Munro says that it
"is a favourite phrase, by which Lucretius seems to denote the line or
border which divides light from darkness, being from non-being." Hence
it is appropriately connected in the script with " fiet lux," which
is clearly reminiscent of the Vulgate's "Fiat lux," "Let there be light."
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. L3
Extract from Mrs. Verrall's script of Dec. 24, 1906.
Let there be light he said and there was light And the
evening and the morning were the first day. The re-
ference has been given before 1 but I think not understood
—largas luminis oras.
I am not proposing to consider the references in
the various scripts to " Let there be light," except where
these words are combined with, or soon followed by,
one of the " evening and the morning " verses from
the first chapter of Genesis ; but in order that the reader
may be in a position to judge whether or not I have
dealt fairly with* the evidence, I shall give at the end
of this section a list of all the quotations in the scripts
from the first two chapters of Genesis. It is, then, the
occurrences of one or other of the " evening and the
morning " verses which I regard as constituting the
cross-correspondence.
After Dec. 24, 1906, more than six and a half years
passed before any of these " evening and morning
"
refrains appear again in any of the scripts. Then, on
August 24, 1913, Mrs. Verrall's script ends with " And
the evening and the morning were the first day." Next,
after an interval of nearly seven and a half months,
on April 6, 1914, Miss Verrall's script, which she began
to write at 4.20 p.m., opened with the words " Parvus
—per amicitiam—luminis oras " ; and then in the next
dozen lines or so went on to refer to seven different
subjects, between none of which and " luminis oras
"
can I see any connexion. At this point the automatist
was interrupted. When she resumed at 5 p.m., she
quoted first from The Blessed Damozel, next from Tenny-
son's Mariana, and then wrote the following :
" And
the morning and the evening were the third day. We
have got to get things through as we can and sort them
out afterwards bit by bit."
Now, in January 1914, Mss Verrall had seen for the
first time a printed collection of all the scripts produced
by Mrs. Verrall between January 1905 and May 1907.
1
Namely in the script of March 1, 1903.
14 J. G. Piddington. [part
Among these is the script of Dec. 24, 1906, which com-
bines " And the evening and the morning were the first
day " with " luminis oras." It is fair to assume, therefore,
that the appearance in Miss Verrall's script of April 6,
1914, of "luminis oras" and of "the morning and the
evening were the third day "—separated though these two
phrases are by a considerable interval from each other-
is due to her acquaintance with Mrs. Verrall's script
of Dec. 24, 1906. Miss Verrall, in fact—to use an ex-
pression that Mrs. Willett has applied to similar instances
of borrowing
—" cribbed " from Mrs. Verrall.
Naturally, then, I do not claim the coincidence as
evidence of supernormal faculty. At the same time
the fact should not escape notice that the " crib " was
not textual : Miss Verrall's script mentioning the third
day of Creation, and not, like Mrs. Verrall's, the first.
This variation from the known original is emphasised by
the very next script that Miss Verrall wrote—on April 17,
1914—as it opens with the words :
" And the evening
and the morning were the fourth day."
Nearly eight weeks passed before another " Evening
and morning " reference occurred. Then, in close succes-
sion, came six such references in Mrs. Verrall's script,
as follows
:
June 11, 1914: "And the evening and the morning were
the first day and so of all days "
;
June 22, 1914: "And the evening and the morning were
the 2nd day "
;
June 26, 1914 :
" And the evening and the morning were
the third day. And there was light " ;
June 27, 1914 :
" This is not an evening and a morning
—
quite in another series " ;
June 28, 1914 :
" Let there be light and the evening and
the morning were the fifth day Yes
I mean what I say—the fifth day " ;
June 29, 1914 :
" And he rested on the 7th day—Don't
try to understand these little tags
from Genesis—But each has its pur-
pose, and I have said—and you have
written—in each case what I mean."
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. L5
Then, after g» ^Ta^fcqr^al^of , jiQarJjr eleven weeks, Miss
Verrall takes up thei ^galn: n?/,fvfd
;
,
successive scripts.
On Oct. 13, 1914, she writes:
" The elements,: riihigkidf^eaj'th; &irij&r,e\ and\ water
—
And he said let there "be light "and there :was light "
;
and on Oct. 16, 1914 :
" And the morning and the evening were the first day."
Now, if my object were to present the facts, not as
they are, but as they ought to be, I should leave this
cross-correspondence as it stands, and claim it as a
Gallic " gem of purest ray serene " ; for recalling, as
it does, the rhythmic simplicity of " One little, two
little, three little, four little, five little Blackamoor boys,"
it seems fairly entitled to rank beside either of Dr. Geley's
two ideal types of cross-correspondence—nay, even to
comprise the perfections of both.
But candour compels me to confess that probably I
have not yet told all the relevant facts ; and I am afraid
that the truth probably is that, just as Mrs. Verrall
marred the Gallic clarity of the " Festina lente " cross-
correspondence by her " more haste less speed " script,
so here Mrs. King marred this cross-correspondence by
making indirect or obscure allusions to the Creation
instead of quoting one or more of the " evening and the
morning " tags.
Paragraphs to be avoided by M. M. Celey and Maxwell.
The passages in Mrs. King's script which seem to
contain these indirect or obscure allusions to the Creation
are as follows :
Extract from Mrs. King's script of Dec. 29, 1913.
. . . The luminous globes ... 1
Fulmine gens He moved
across the face of the waters . . .
1
These dots represent the omission of a few words of encouragement
addressed parenthetically to the automatist. This is quite a common
feature in Mrs. King's script.
16 J. G. Piddington. [part
Extract from Mrs. King's script- 'of. J.dmt 3.914.
. . . Let .there be 'Iigiif;. .
'.. •
•
Extract from Mrs. King''s. sprint of. .Jan. 1;8,. 1914.
. . . The -g'cistenifeg'/gl.o^s .'.
.
."• •"•*•
:
Extract from Mrs. King's script of Jan. 20, 1914.
. . . One moment more 1
—Deukalion the last is the best . . .
Few will question that " He moved across the face of
the waters " is a reminiscence of the second verse of the
first chapter of Genesis :
" And the earth was without
form and void ; and darkness was upon the face of the
deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of
the waters."
What, however, of " the luminous globes " ? These
words, by themselves and without context, would not
suggest any connexion with the Creation ; but closely
followed, as they are, by words strongly reminiscent
of a sentence in the biblical narrative of the Creation,
I think it not unreasonable to see in them an allusion
to a famous series of six pictures 2
by Burne-Jones called
" The Angels of Creation." In this series each day of
the Creation is represented by an Angel holding in his
hands a luminous globe, wherein are reflected the chief
features of each day's creative work. At the feet of
the Angel of the Sixth Day is seated the Angel of the
Seventh Day holding, not a globe, but a harp.
So far I have passed over without comment the words
" fulmine gens," which come between " the luminous
globes " and " He moved across the face of the waters."
In offering an interpretation of them, I hope it will be
understood that I do not claim for it anything more
than a certain degree of probability.
The words mean literally " by lightning a people,"
and, as they stand, make no sense. The first time,
however, that I saw them in Mrs. King's script, and
long before I saw the reference to Deukalion in her
1 " One moment more " is an instruction to the automatist to try
for one more impression before ceasing to write.
'
To one of these pictures there is an allusion in Mrs. Verrall's script
of Feb. 6, 1908 ; but Mrs. King has never seen this script.
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. IT
script of Jan. 20, 1914, they immediately suggested to me
the opening lines of Hor. C. I. 2 :
Jam satis terris nivis atque dirae
Grandinis misit Pater, et rubente
Dextera sacras jaculatus arces
Terruit urbem,
Terruit gentes, grave ne rediret
Seculum Pyrrhae.
(Enough of snow and dreadful hail the Father has now sent
upon the earth, and, smiting with red right-hand the sacred
heights, has affrighted the city, has affrighted the nations, lest
the troublous age of Pyrrha should return."
Lonsdale and Lee's Translation.)
Here, then, we get "gentes" (the plural of "gens");
and by implication " fulmen " too, for, though the word
" fulmen " is not actually used, the thing that Jupiter
hurled {jaculatus) is, of course, his " fulmen." Moreover,
the day after the allusion to " the glistening globes "
—
which has every appearance of being meant as equivalent
to " the luminous globes "—comes the name " Deukalion,"
which will suit with the "Pyrrha" of Horace's lines.
If I recall in rough outline the story of Pyrrha and
her husband Deucalion, it will be clear to the reader
why an allusion to it might appropriately be sandwiched
between allusions to the Creation.
The impiety and vice of mankind in the Iron Age
had so angered Zeus that he determined to destroy
all the inhabitants of the earth, and to create a new
race of men. He caused a great flood to overwhelm
the earth, so that the top of Mount Parnassus was the
only land not covered by the waters. The whole human
race was drowned except Deucalion and Pyrrha : a pious
couple, who had sought refuge on the heights of Par-
nassus. Zeus took pity on them, and for the sake of
their uprightness and devoutness spared them, and made
the flood to abate. Realising that they were the only
beings left alive, Deucalion and Pyrrha sought counsel
from an oracle how they might replenish the earth. The
oracle bade them throw the bones of their mother behind
B
18 G. Piddington. [part
their backs. Pyrrha refused to do anything so disrespect-
ful ; but Deucalion, with an ingenuity worthy of some
psychical researchers, suggested that the oracle meant
the Earth by their mother, and stones of the earth
by her bones ; and argued that there could anyhow be
no harm in acting on this hypothesis. Accordingly they
did ; and the stones thrown by Deucalion became men,
and those thrown by Pyrrha became women ; and so
took place the second Creation of Man.
If, then, Mrs. King's " fulmine gens " and " Deucalion
"
are allusions to the opening lines of Hor. C. I. 2, they
are not inappropriately combined with phrases that directly
or indirectly relate to the Biblical account of the Creation
of Man.
I append, as promised, a list, in chronological order,
of all quotations from, and phrases reminiscent of the
first two chapters of Genesis occurring in the scripts.
Against those which form the cross-correspondence asterisks
are placed. No quotations from the first two chapters
of Genesis occur in Mrs. Holland's or in the Mac scripts.
Mrs. King's script has not been thoroughly indexed, but
I believe that it contains no other quotations from these
chapters than those given below ; and this is all the more
significant since her script teems with Biblical quotations.
M. V. =Mrs. Verrall's script ;
H. V. =Miss Verrall's script ;
King =Mrs. King's script ;
W. =Mrs. Willett's script.
M. V. Jan. 17, 1902. " Fiet lux."
„ Dec. 3, 1902. " Lux fiat."
March 1, 1903. " Ex tenebris fiet lux."
,, Dec. 24, 1906. " Let there be light he said and
there was light
And the evening and the morning
were the first day."
H. V. Jan. 22, 1909. " Something about the spirit—on
the face of the waters."
„ Feb. 22, 1910. " Let there be light."
„ May 12, 1910. " Fiat lux."
Lxxn.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 19
w. Aug. 23, 1911. "The life of the Whole flowing
through and beholding itself that
it is good."
5 J
Dec. 3, 1911. " Let us make Man in our Image."
*M. V. Aug. 24, 1913. " And the evening and the morn-
ing were the first day."
*King. Dec. 29, 1913. "He moved across the face of the
waters."
* Jan. 6, 1914. " Let there be light."
*H. V. April 6, 1914. " And the morning and the evening
were the third day."
* April 17, 1914. " And the evening and the morning
were the fourth day."
*M. V. •June 11, 1914. " And the evening and the morning
were the first day."
* June 22 1914. " And the evening and the morning
were the 2nd day."
*
55 June 26, 1914. " And the evening and the morning
were the third day. And there
was light."
*
5 5
June 27, 1914. " This is not an evening and a
morning."
*
55 June 28, 1914. " Let there be light and the evening
and the morning were the fifth
day."
* June 29, 1914. " And he rested on the 7th day."
*H.'V. Oct. 13, 1914. " And he said let there be light and
there was light."
*
55 Oct. 14, 1914. " And the morning and the evening
were the 1st day."
It will be noticed that the scripts forming the cross-
correspondence refer to the first, second, third, fourth,
fifth and seventh days, but not to the sixth day, on
which Man was created. To the work of the sixth
day the only direct reference is in Mrs. Willett's script
of Dec. 3, 1911, though of course the phrase in her
script of Aug. 23, 1911—"the life of the" Whole flowing
through and beholding itself that it is good "—includes
the work of all six days.
20 J. G. Piddington. [part
Narthex.
In the last case I had occasion to draw attention
to the fact that in all probability Miss Verrall " cribbed
"
the words " luminis oras " from an early script of Mrs.
Verrall's. By way of introduction to the present case,
it will be convenient to say something further about
" cribs " in Miss Verrall's script. Miss Verrall is, or
must be assumed to be, familiar with all scripts published
in our Proceedings or Journal. Moreover, between May
and December, 1912, she went through Mrs. Verrall's
script from its beginning in 1901 down to the end of
1904, for the purpose of translating the Greek and Latin
words, phrases and quotations that occur in it ; and in
January 1914, she received a copy of a printed volume
of Mrs. Verrall's scripts produced between January 1905
and May 1907. If she has not read all these scripts
—
about 500 in all—she has at any rate browsed among
them. It might, accordingly, be thought that her own
subsequent scripts would exhibit a large number of "cribs"
from Mrs. Verrall's scripts. But as a matter of fact
this is not so.
In this paper I shall cite no script of Miss Verrall's
earlier than April 11, 1913, or later than Oct. 16, 1914,
as contributing to a cross-correspondence. I have gone
carefully through all her scripts between these two dates
with a view to ascertaining how many words or phrases
borrowed from Mrs. Verrall's scripts they contain ; and
I have succeeded in tracing only three certain " cribs
"
and one possible one.
The possible " crib " is the word " Nympholeptus,"
on Aug. 7, 1913, which may be a reminiscence of the
word " nympholept " found in Mrs. Verrall's script of
Jan. 23, 1903 ; but just as probably, if not more pro-
bably, a classical author or Browning's poem Numpkoleptos
was the source on which Miss Verrall drew.
Two of the certain "cribs" are (a) "narthex cero-
matica " and (6) "luminis oras" combined with an "evening
and morning " quotation. These two appear in successive
scripts on March 31 and April b, 1914, respectively.
Lxxn.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 21
One, as we have seen, and the other, as will presently
appear, have formed the themes of cross-correspondences.
The third certain " crib " occurs on Aug. 29, 1914, and, so
far as I know, is not re-echoed in the script of any of
the other automatistss
Still, when I find that two out of the three certain
" cribs " are thus re-echoed, it makes me suspect that
this " cribbing " is not a random process.
The way is now clear to deal with the " Narthex
"
cross-correspondence.
The word Narthex occurs twice—and twice only—in
Mrs. Verrall's script : for the first time on Feb. 2,
1903, in the form " cum narthece ceromatico," and for
the second time on Sept. 23, 1908, in the following
forms :
yap vapOipci KaXujUL/uepov to irvp ih TlpofJujOevs
tow av6pct)7rovs deoiaiv eoiKOTag eiroujcre.
In a narthex stem conveyed
By the god who disobeyed
Broke the fate, mankind to save
So gave freedom to the slave.
The Greek means " For in a narthex was hidden the fire
by which Prometheus made men like unto gods."
Narthex is the name of some plant with a hollow
stalk. It is also used of a small case or tube for holding
unguents. Its best known association is with the hollow
stalk in which Prometheus brought down fire from heaven
;
and it is in this sense that the word is used in the
second of Mrs. Verrall's two scripts. The words " cum
narthece ceromatico " in her first script mean literally
" with a waxen narthex," and Mrs. Verrall takes this
to mean " a phial of unguent." The first of these two
scripts—that of Feb. 2, 1903—has been printed and
discussed in Proc. Vol. XX., pp. 121-123 ; the second
in Proc. Vol. XXV., p. 259.
Mrs. Willett and Miss Verrall have read these volumes,
and may therefore be assumed to be acquainted with both
scripts.
The word Narthex does not occur in the scripts of
22 J. G. Piddington. [part
any of the other automatists until March 31, 1914, when
Miss Verrall's script contains the following :
narthex—what is that 1 ceromatica—this is important—
it is wanted for completion.
Then on May 2, 1914, Mrs. Willett's script has :
The divine fire in a narthex this was conveyed to the sons
of men.
This, as Mrs. Willett herself recognised, is a " crib
"
from the second of Mrs. Verrall's two " Narthex " scripts ;
while Miss Verrall's " narthex ceromatica " is a " crib
"
from the first of the two.
Why, I ask, within less than five weeks of each other,
did Miss Verrall select one and Mrs. Willett the other
of the only two references to Narthex in Mrs. Verrall's
script for reproduction in their own scripts, rather than
some of the other thousands of phrases in Mrs. Verrall's
script equally known to both of them ?
" The stabs when they sang together,"
and Tennyson's " Mariana."
Miss Verrall's script of April 6, 1914, has already, as
we have seen in the Days of Creation case, furnished
one cross-correspondence. But that was not the only
one, for it contained three other cross-correspondences ;
and of these I will now proceed to render an account.
It will be remembered that on April 6, 1914, Miss
Verrall was interrupted in the middle of writing her script
(see p. 13). The last words she wrote before the inter-
ruption were these :
Something about music too—the common chord—but
not Abt Vogler—this is another association.
Then after the interruption she wrote :
the stars—when they sang together—he cometh not she
said—And the morning and the evening were the third day.
" He cometh not she said " is from Tennyson's Mariana.
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 23
The original source of " the stars—when they sang
together " is, of course, Job, xxxviii. 7 :
" When the
morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God
shouted for joy." But the words in the script " the
stars—when they sang together " are more probably
derived from Rossetti's The Blessed Damozel than from
Job. This will be clear if the three are placed side
by side.
Job. " When the morning stars sang together "
;
Rossetti. " Her voice was like the voice the stars
Had when they sang together "
;
Script. " the stars—when they sang together."
Rossetti and the script both omit " morning " ; and
both have " the stars when they sang together," whereas
Job has "When the stars sang together."
But although the script phrase is in my opinion nearer
to Rossetti than to Job, I think that the combination of
" And the morning and the evening were the third day "
with " the stars—when they sang together " makes it
practically certain that Job, as well as Rossetti, was
in the automatist's thoughts ; for the context of " When
the morning stars sang together " in Job is concerned
with the Creation of the World :
Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the
earth ? . . . Whereupon are the foundations thereof
fastened % or who laid the corner stone thereof ; When
the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of
God shouted for joy % Job, xxxvih. 4, 6, 7.
The first time that Mrs. Willett wrote automatically
after April 6, 1914—the date of Miss Verrall's script
just quoted—was on April 12, 1914, when her script
contained the following passage :
The Blessed Damozel leans down ... In vain for hei
shall seraphs harp, her eyes were deep as water stilled
at even. He will come He will come.
All these phrases are taken from The Blessed Damozel,
except " In vain for her shall seraphs harp," which, I
24 J. 0. Piddington. [PART
susjoect, is an intentional variation of the following lines
in P. W. H. Myers's Immortality :
I fear that howsoe'er the seraphs play
My life shall not be theirs nor I as they,
But homeless in the heart of Paradise.
Whatever its source, it was entirely appropriate to
insert " In vain for her shall seraphs harp " in the midst
of allusions to Rossetti's poem, for Paradise was to be
but homeless for the Blessed Damozel, and her joy not
perfect, until she was joined to her lover again.
Appropriately, too, does the " He will come He will
come " of Mrs. Willett's script answer to the " He cometh
not " of Miss Verrall's ; for although Mariana's " He
cometh not " and " He will not come " are in formal
contradiction with the Blessed Damozel's " He will come",
both cries are the expression, the one in the language of
despair, the other in the language of tremulous hope,
of the same passionate yearning.
She only said, '
My life is dreary,
He cometh not/ she said ;
She said, '
I am aweary, aweary,
I would that I were dead !
'
and again :
Then, said she, '
I am very dreary,
He will not come,' she said ;
She wept, '
I am aweary, aweary,
Oh God, that I were dead !
'
(Tennyson, Mariana.)
" I wish that he were come to me,
For he will come," she said.
Have I not prayed in Heaven ? —on earth,
Lord, Lord, has he not pray'd ?
Are not two prayers a perfect strength ?
And shall I feel afraid ?
(D. G. Rossetti, The Blessed Damozel.)
The coincidence between Miss Verrall's and Mrs. Willett's
scripts is striking enough as it stands ; but it is enhanced
by a passage in a later script of Mrs. Willett's.
lxxh.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 25
After April 12, 1914, there was no further quotation
from, or allusion to, The Blessed Damozel in Mrs. Willett's
script until August 16, 1914, when this came :
Seven Stars . . -
1
He mousike [i.e. >j iuovotiki] = Music]
a harmony of other days Such harmony is in immortal
Souls that is the true music of the spheres to which the
world goes round The young eyed cherubims and the Sons
of God Job and Browning no Job and Rossetti the stars
singing together.
If I now give those passages of The Blessed Damozel
to which Miss Verrall's script and Mrs. Willett's two
scripts make allusion, the reader will be able to realise
at a glance how remarkably the three dovetail.
The blessed damozel leaned out
From the gold bar of Heaven ;
Her eyes were deeper than the depth
Of waters stilled at even ;
She had three lilies in her hand,
And the stars in her hair were seven.
(Omission of 1\ stanzas.)
and now she spoke as when
The stars sang in their spheres.
The sun was gone now ; the curled moon
Was like a little feather
Fluttering far down the gulf ; and now
She spoke through the still weather.
Her voice was like the voice the stars
Had when they sang together.
(Omission of one stanza, placed within parentheses
in the original.)
1
These dots represent a considerable omission ; but it is almost
impossible when an unmistakeable allusion to The Blessed Damozel occurs
in the same script not to connect " Seven stars " therewith, however
great the interval.
26 J. G. Piddington. [part
" I wish that he were come to me,
For he will come," she said.1
The quotation from Tennyson's Mariana in Miss VerraiTs
script of April 6, 1914, is her only quotation from this
poem. The only other quotations from it in the scripts
of the other automatists are as follows :
Mac. script of July 20, 1908 : "I am aweary."
Mrs. VerraiTs script of July 4, 1911 :
" Mariana said
that he came not but reverse that "
;
Mrs. VerraiTs script of May 10, 1913 :
" Upon the sill
the flower pots were mossy dank and dripping what
is it Mariana With blackest age the flower pots."
Mrs. VerraiTs script of Sept. 17, 1914 :
" With dankest
moss the flower pots."
The only one of these scripts that Miss Verrall had
seen when she wrote her script on April 6, 1914, was
the Mac. script of July 20, 1908. It should especially
be noted that she had not seen Mrs. VerraiTs script of
July 4, 1911. Mrs. Verrall does not quote at all from
The Blessed Damozel.
" Blow, blow thott winter Wind " and
Tennyson's " Mariana."
I pass on now to the third cross-correspondence to
which Miss VerraiTs script of April 6, 1914, contributed.
On May 10, 1913, Mrs. VerraiTs script contained the
following :
Blow blow thou wintry wind . . . Boil thou first in
the charmed pot and upon the sill the flower pots were
mossy dank and dripping what is it Mariana With
blackest age the flower pots.
Here we get combined " Blow, blow thou winter wind "
1
As there are several versions of The Blessed Damozel, and some
omit the stanza beginning " The sun was gone now," I should explain
that I have quoted from The Poetical Works of Dante Gabriel Rossetti,
Edited with Preface by William M. Rossetti, A New Edition in one
Volume, London, 1910.
lxxh.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 27
from As You Like It with quite unmistakeable reminiscences
of Tennyson's Mariana.
Nearly eleven months later, on April 6, 1914, Miss
Verrall's script contained the following :
Blow blow thou winter wind . . . Something about
music too—the common chord—but not Abt Vogler—
this is another association [Interruption] the stars—
when they sang together-—he cometh not she said.
The last words, as already stated, are a quotation from
Tennyson's Mariana. Both scripts, then, comprise " Blow,
blow thou winter wind " and Mariana*
I say " comprise " rather than " combine," because a
number of phrases intervene in Miss Verrall's script
between " Blow, blow thou winter wind " and the Mariana
quotation, and there is nothing to show that they belong
together. Moreover, the interval of time between the
two coinciding scripts is a long one. These are weak
points in the case. Against them, however, may be set
four considerations :
(1) Miss Verrall's script of April 6, 1914—the one in
question—displays no less than three other instances of
cross-correspondence ;
(2) In this very same script " luminis oras " is separated
from " the morning and the evening were the third
day " by an even wider interval than " blow, blow, thou
winter wind " is from the Mariana quotation ;
yet the
former pair, for reasons already given (see pp. 13-14),
certainly belong together. And in Miss Verrall's script of
Jan. 6, 1914, " Festinasse lente " is separated from
" Festina lente " by a number of irrelevant topics ;
yet
there can be no doubt that they belong together ;
1
(3) The " author " of the script of April 6, 1914, is
aware that the topics have emerged in disjointed fashion
and need re-sorting, as is shown by the words :
" We
have to get things through as we can and sort them
out afterwards bit by bit "
;
1
As a matter of fact, there are scores of instances in Miss Verrall's
script where two or more complementary phrases are widely separated
from each other.
28 -/. G. Piddington. [part
(4) The combination of topics does not seem a likely
one to occur by chance to two persons independently.
In Tennyson's Mariana, it is true, there are allusions
to " cold winds " and " wild winds " which might suggest
the Shakespearian " Blow, blow, thou winter wind," and
might the more readily do so, perhaps, because Tennyson's
Mariana is explicitly connected by the poet himself with
Sfmkespeare's Mariana. And moreover, the "winter wind"
being "not so unkind as man's ingratitude" might suggest,
the faithlessness of Mariana's lover. But that these far
from obvious or inevitable associations should independently
suggest themselves to two automatists is not easy of belief.
To facilitate the reader's task in following the four
cases of cross-correspondence into which Miss Verrall's
script of April 6, 1914, enters, I append a copy of the
whole of it except the last two or three lines.
Miss Verrall's Script of April 6, 1914.
(4.20 p.m.)
Parvus—per amicitiam—luminis oras—the wind in the
trees—a sighing and a sobbing—Poor cock Robin—
I
said the sparrow—Be the green grass above me
—
and here let the wind blow
—
The flight of the arrow—Swifter far than swallow's
flight—the snake in the grass
—
Blow blow thou winter wind—there is an important
point in this Script—it should be clear I think
—
Something about music too—the common chord
—
but not Abt Vogler—this is another association
—
(Interruption.)
(5 p.m.)
the stars—when they sang together—he cometh not
she said
—
And the morning and the evening were the third
day—We have to get things through as we can and
sort them out afterwards bit by bit. Otherwise we
should never get on at all. As it is things mostly
do get clear in the end . . .
Lxsn.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 29
Swifter fab, than summer's flight.
The fourth cross-correspondence in which Miss Verrall's
script of April 6, 1914, plays a part remains to be described.
Miss Verrall's script of August 2, 1907, contained the
following original rhymed lines :
Sing on sweet harbinger of summer days
thy voice with its monotonous refrain
Hath the rich cadence of the ripening grain
A satisfying melody of praise.
None of the phrases which go to make up this verse
occurs again in Miss Verrall's script except on February 15,
1912, when " harbinger of summer days " reappears in
the following context :
the swallow summer—harbinger of summer days.
" The swallow summer " is a quotation from Shelley's
poem Remembrance.
Anyone, therefore, who saw these two scripts might
naturally, owing to both having the phrase " harbinger
of summer days," be led to associate together in his
mind the topics expressed or implied in each. Thus, he
might associate the original verse of the first with any
line of Shelley's Remembrance. Now, some time before
Mrs. Willett wrote a script which I am going presently
to quote, she had seen these two scripts of Miss Verrall's,
and was consequently in a position to do what anyone
else who had seen them could have done : namely, to put
the contents or some of the contents of the two together.
Before, however, I quote this script of Mrs. Willett's
I must first quote from a third script of Miss VerraU's,
namely, the one she wrote on April 6, 1914 :
The flight of the arrow—Swifter far than swallow's
flight . . . the stars—when they sang together.
" Swifter far than swallow's flight " is an obvious
" portmanteau " of two lines in Shelley's Remembrance :
" Swifter far than summer's flight,"
and
" The swallow summer comes again."
30 J. G. Piddington. [part
" The stars—when they sang together " is to be referred,
as we have already seen (see p. 23), to Job and Rossetti's
Blessed Damozel.
Now, anyone—whether possessed of supernormal powers
or not—who had seen all three scripts of Miss Verrall's,
might of course associate together topics found in them,
because, as the foUowing tabulated summary of them
shows, the three are interconnected.
But why should anyone who had not seen the 3rd
Script, associate Job and The Blessed Damozel with " Har-
binger of summer days " ? Yet that is what Mrs. Willett
did on August 16, 1914, in the following very definite'
manner :
Sing on thy passionate refrain hath the true some-
thing of the ripening grain harbinger that is in it in
the line Cadence too Cadence the word should be said
Melody He Mousike a harmony of other days Such
harmony is in immortal Souls that is the true music
of the spheres to which the world goes round The
young eyed cherubims and the sons of God Job and
Browning no Job and Rossetti the stars singing together
Thy passionate refrain Hath the deep cadence of the
ripening grain.
On August 5, 1913, Mrs. Verrall's script contained the
words " Dux femina facti," which mean " a woman the
leader of the enterprise." They are a quotation from
the first book of Vergil's Aeneid, and relate to the found-
ing of Carthage by Dido.
The context in which they occur is as follows :
Aeneas, flying from Troy, has been driven by stress of
weather on to a strange coast. As he is wandering
along the shore his mother Venus, disguised as a huntress,
accosts liim ; and Aeneas asks her to tell him what
1st Script. "Sweet harbinger of summer days" etc.
2nd Script. „ „ „ ,, „ +1
3rd Script. +Job and The Blessed Damozel.
SlCHAETTS AND DlDO.
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 31
country it is that he has reached. Venus answers him
thus :
" Punic is the realm thou seest, Tyrian the people . . .
;
but their borders are Libyan. Dido sways the sceptre,
who flying her brother set sail from the Tyrian town. . . .
Her husband was Sichaeus, wealthiest in lands of the
Phoenicians. . . . But the kingdom of Tyre was in her
brother Pygmalion's hands, a monster of guilt unparaUeled
Between these two madness came ; the unnatural brother
blind with lust of gold . . . lays Sichaeus low before
the altars [ante aras] . . . and for long he hid the deed,
and by many a crafty pretence cheated her love-sickness
with hollow hope. But in slumber came the very ghost
of her unburied husband, lifting up a face [ora] pale
in wonderful wise ; he exposed the cruel altars [aras]
and his breast stabbed through with steel, and unwove
all the blind web of household guilt. Then he counsels
hasty flight and abandonment of her country, and to
aid her passage discloses treasures long hidden under-
ground, an untold mass of silver and gold. Stirred
thereby, Dido gathered a company for flight . . . they
seize on ships that chance to lie ready, and load them
with the gold. Pygmalion's hoarded wealth is borne
overseas ; a woman guides the enterprise [Dux femina
facti]. They came at last to the land where thou wilt
descry a city now great, New Carthage."
(Mackail's Translation.
)
Two of the outstanding features of this story are that
it was at the instigation of the ghost of Sichaeus that
Dido left her home and fled to Libya, where she founded
the city of Carthage ; and that this achievement was the
work, not, as would be usual, of a man, but of a woman.
Before the appearance of the words " Dux femina
facti " in Mrs. Verrall's script of August 5, 1913, there
had been no quotation from, or allusion to this passage
in the first book of the Aeneid in the scripts of any of
the automatists ; nor have there been any since with
the exception of three allusions thereto which I am now
going to cite.
32 J. G. Piddington. [part
On April 17, 1914, Miss Verrall's script contained the
following phrases :
The plumed East—yes plumed—a labyrinth of flowers
of Dis
—
The word that follows " a labyrinth of flowers " was
badly written, and I could not decipher it with certainty.
The letters appeared to be " S-i-c-h-a-s," but as there
is no such word or name, I showed the original script
to Miss Verrall at 3 p.m. on April 23, 1914, and asked
her what she thought the word was. She said she
thought it might be " Sichaeus." I then suggested that
when she next wrote automatically she should try to
get the word clearly written. The result of this suggestion
is seen in a script written at 6 p.m. on the same day,
viz. April 23, 1914 :
/va*4v»/5 a funeral pyre the grave gives up its
dead— ante ora—Sichaeus.
On this occasion the doubtful word is first written
badly as before—in fact the imperfect writing of it in the
previous script seems to be intentionally reproduced—
and then it is written quite clearly. As regards the
phrases which fall between the two writings of the name
" Sichaeus," it seems likely that they belong thereto.
A funeral pyre had only once before been mentioned in
Miss Verrall's script, or: January 24, 1908 ; and there
it is explicitly associated with Dido's death.1 " The
grave gives up its dead " is possibly an allusion to the
apparition of Sichaeus when he warned Dido to fly from
Pygmalion ;
but, if so, it can hardly be called a happy
one, because Vergil speaks of the ghost of Dido's unburied
husband.
With regard to "a labyrinth of flowers " —a phrase
1
See Vergil, Aen. iv. 502 and 504, for references in close sequence
to the death of Sichaeus and to Dido's funeral pyre.
a festival—to hold high festival in the Court
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 33
that is probably taken from a poem of W. de la Mare's
—Mrs. Verrall has suggested to me that it is an attempt
to allude to Aen. rv. 504-507 :
" But the Queen, when the pyre is built up of
piled faggots and cleft ilex in the inmost of her
dwelling, hangs the room with chaplets and garlands
it with funeral boughs.."
" To hold high festival in the court of Dis " may
reflect the scene described in 11. 509-511 :
" Altars are reared around, and the priestess, with
hair undone, thrice peals from her lips the hundred
gods of Erebus and Chaos, and the triform Hecate,
the triple-faced maidenhood of Diana."
(Mackail's Translation.)
There remain the words " ante ora " to explain. They
mean " before the eyes " or " before the faces." They
had never occurred before in Miss Verrall's script ; and
they have occurred only once since, namely, in her script
of Dec. 17, 1914, in the following context :
" Sic fatur lacrimans—ante ora parentum."
For a reason given on p. 37 below, it is quite certain
that " ante ora parentum " here is an expansion, and
so an explanation, of the " ante ora " of the earlier
script. The connexion of " ante ora " with Sichaeus
and of " ante ora parentum " with the Vergilian phrase
" Sic fatur lacrimans " indicates that the source of " ante
ora parentum " is to be sought in Vergil's Aeneid.
"Ante ora parentum" occurs twice only in the Aeneid :
1
first of the Trojan boys defiling on horseback " before
their parents' eyes " at the Funeral Games in honour
of Anchises (Aen. v. 553) ;
secondly, of those young men
and maidens laid on funeral piles " before their parents'
eyes " whose ghosts form part of the crowd that swarms
round Charon's boat (Aen. vi. 308).
1 " Ante oculos evasit et ora parentum " in Aen. n. 531, and " Exclusi
ante oculos lacrimantumque ora parentum " in Aen. xi. 887, need
not be considered on account of the separation of " ante " from " ora
"
in each case.
34 J. 0. Piddington. [part
That it is the latter that is meant is practically certain
for two reasons : namely, that it is one of the best
known passages in the Aeneid, and that " Sic fatur
lacrimans," 1
found once only in the Aeneid, are the
opening words of the Sixth Book. The passage is as
follows :
"Hue omnis turba ad ripas effusa ruebat,
Matres atque viri, defunctaque corpora vita
Magnanimum heroum, pueri innuptaeque puellae
Inpositique rogis iuvenes ante ora parentum." 2
" Hither all crowded, and rushed streaming to the
bank, matrons and men, and high-hearted heroes dead and
done with life, boys and unwedded girls, and youths and
maidens laid on the funeral pile before their parents' eyes."
" Ante ora " in the script of April 23, 1914, seems,
then, to emphasise " a funeral pyre " (i.e. Dido's funeral
pyre) ; and the intention of the emphasis thus thrown
may have been to point to the words spoken by Dido,
when, having cast herself upon the funeral pile, she is
about to stab herself with the sword of Aeneas :
" And now shall I go a queenly phantom under
the earth. / have built a renowned city ; / have
seen my ramparts rise ;
by my brother's [Pygmalion's]
punishment I have avenged my husband [Sichaeus]
of his enemy." (Aen. iv. 654-656.)
These words spoken by Dido at the point of death
bring us back to the subject of Mrs. Verrall's script of
Aug. 5, 1913 : the founding of the city of Carthage
by Dido after she had fled from her brother's court
at the instigation of the ghost of Sichaeus.3
1 " Sic fatur lacrimans " (" So speaks he weeping ") refers to Aeneas'
apostrophe to his drowned pilot Palinurus, whom he afterwards meets
among the crowd of unburied dead that flocks to the banks of Cocytus
and pleads with Charon to be ferried across. There is, therefore, a
fairly direct association of ideas between "sic fatur lacrimans" and
"ante ora parentum."
2
The last three lines are repeated from Oeorg. iv. 475-477.
3
Though I believe this explanation is correct so far as it goes, I
suspect that there may be other reasons besides for the conjunction of
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 35
The third and last reference to the story of Dido and
Sichaeus occurs in Mrs. Willett's script. On April 18,
1914—one day, that is, after the first, and five days
before the second, occurrence of the name Sichaeus in
Miss Verrall's script—her script contained the following :
It was a woman who founded the city
Not Ilion's golden towers
The " woman who founded the city " is Dido ; and
for the phrase " founded the city " there is actual warrant
in the Aeneid :
" 0 Regina, novam cui condere Iuppiter urbem
. . . dedit." {Aen. I. 522-523.)
" Not Ilion's golden towers " indicates the city that
the woman founded ; and does so in a way that seems
to show close acquaintance with the story of the founding
of Carthage as told in the Aeneid. Tor the success of
Dido's enterprise was largely due to her possession of
the secret hoard of gold which the ghost of Sichaeus
told her of :
" Then he [Sichaeus] counsels hasty flight
. . . and to aid her passage discloses treasures long
hidden underground, an untold mass of silver and gold. . . .
They seize on ships that chance to lie ready, and load
them with the gold. Pygmalion's hoarded wealth is
borne overseas ; a woman guides the enterprise [Dux
femina facti]."
Not only did gold make the enterprise practicable,
but Vergil calls Carthage " dives opum " and makes
frequent and marked references to the gold with which
the royal palace and Dido's person were adorned. (See
Aen. i. 14, 640, 698, 726, 728, 739, 741 ; iv. 135, 138,
139, 148.)
The interval of time between Mrs. Verrall's " Dux
femina facti " and the corresponding allusions in Miss
Verrall's and Mrs. Willett's scripts is a long one ; but
this weak point in the case appears to me to be more
than counterbalanced by the nearness in time of Miss
" ante ora " with " a funeral pyre " and " Sichaeus," which I have
failed to seize.
3G ./. G. Piddington. [part
Verrall's and Mrs. Willett's contributions to the cross-
correspondence. The case may be tabulated thus :
M. V. Aug. 5, 1913. " Dux femina facti."
H. V. April 17, 1914. " Sichaeus."
W. April 18, 1914. "It was a woman who founded
the city."
H. V. April 23, 1914. " Sichaeus a funeral pyre . . .
Sichaeus."
It should be borne in mind, moreover, that the two
H. V. scripts are successive ones : that is to say, the
first script written after April 17, 1914, by Miss Verrall
was that of April 23, 1914.
It may be as well to add that when, on the afternoon
of April 23, 1914, I asked Miss Verrall how she read
the word I had deciphered as " Sichas," I had not seen
Mrs. Willett's script of April 18, 1914. I could not,
therefore, have given, by direct suggestion or otherwise,
any clue whereby Miss Verrall could have been led to
convert " Sichas " into a name which would tally with
Mrs. Willett's " it was a woman who founded the city."
As a matter of fact when she read the word as "Sichaeus,"
I doubted whether this could be right.
Sequel to the " Sichaeus and Dido "
Cross-Correspondence.
There is an offshoot of this last case which, though
it is rather outside the scheme of my paper, I may,
perhaps, be allowed to describe at this point.
The interpretation I have given above of the words
" ante ora " in Miss Verrall's script of April 23, 1914,
was not the first that occurred to me. In the first draft
of this paper, written before the fuller version of " ante
ora " appeared in Miss Verrall's script of Dec. 17, 1914,
I had suggested that " ante ora " was an error for " ante
aras," "before the altars"—the altars, namely, before
which Sichaeus was slain by Pygmalion :
" Ille Sichaeum
Impius ante aras
Clam ferro incaixtum superat." (Aen. I. 348-350.)
LXXil.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 37
I had suggested further that the substitution of " ora
"
in the script for " aras " was traceable to the vicinity
of the words " ora " and " aras " in the immediate
context of " ante aras."
"Ipsa sed in somnis inhumati venit imago
Conjugis, ora modis attollens pallida miris ;
Crudelis aras traiectaque pectora ferro
Nudavit." {Am. I. 353-356.)
On Dec. 11, 1914, when I told Miss Verrall about this
cross-correspondence,1
I mentioned my conjectural explana-
tion of " ante ora " ; and she thought it not improbable.
Her script, however, thought otherwise ; for the appear-
ance in it on Dec. 17, 1914, of the words
" Sic fatur lacrimans—ante ora parentum,"
certainly implies the rejection of my conjectural emenda-
tion ; and seems to give the right, and certainly gives
a simpler, explanation of " ante ora."
This script of Dec. 17, 1914, was written at 5.40 p.m.,
and I received it by the first post on Dec. 18.
By the first post on the next day, Dec. 19, 1914, I
received a script of Mrs. Verrall's written on Dec. 17,
at 10.20 p.m. : that is 4 hours and 40 minutes later than
Miss VerralFs script containing the words
" Sic fatur lacrimans—ante ora parentum."
This script of Mrs. Verrall's ran as follows :
I dont think I can get tonight the message that is
wanted—but yon might try.
By their fruits ye shall know them You need not
send more to Piddington than that and just this word
—
that I was amused to see him in the light of the electric
lamp the other day struggling with the lexicon—its not
there he will get the clue he wants—Tell him it is quite
plain in Helen's recent script and I think that he will
make it out That will do.
1
1 had mentioned the bare fact of there being a cross-correspondence
on the subject of Sichaeus to Miss Verrall first on Nov. 27, 1914, but
gave her no details until Dec. 11, 1914.
:;s G. Piddington. [part
After reading this script I noted down that during
the previous two or three weeks I had " struggled with
the lexicon " over three points, all connected with Miss
Verrall's script :
(a) I had looked through all the references in Lewis
and Short's Latin Dictionary under the words " o," "si,"
and " sic," in a vain endeavour to find whether there
is any classical authority for " o si sic omnes " : a varia-
tion of the well-known phrase " o si sic omnia " that
has appeared four times in Miss Verrall's script and once
in Mrs. Verrall's ;
(b) I had looked up the words, inrepTUTos, Opovos,
a-rpw/xa and <TTpw/uLi>}] in Liddell and Scott in the hope
of tracing the source of a phrase in a script of Miss
Verrall's containing these Greek words ; and
(c) I had looked through all the references in Lewis
and Short under " ante " and " os " in the hope of
finding the words " ante ora " in a context which would
explain their conjunction with " Sichaeus " in Miss Verrall's
script of April 23, 1914.
It was the last of these three subjects that had engaged
my attention the most : the first two had interested me
only in a small degree.
If the statements made in Mrs. Verrall's script of
Dec. 17, 1914, are referred to the facts given under (c),
they fit them uncommonly well. I cannot, of course, say
whether the communicator was amused ; but it is true
that I struggled with the lexicon, that I did not find
in the lexicon the clue I wanted, that a clue of the
kind I wanted had been plainly given in Miss Verrall's
recent script, and that I did " make it out." I cannot
swear that when I looked through the passages quoted under
" ante " and " os " I was working by electric light ; but I
believe that I was.
Pine Trees.
According to Dr. Hyslop 1
we have been criticised of
late for displaying a predilection for material which
1
Journal of the American Society for Psychical Research, September,
1914, p. 414
lxxii.] Gross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 39
permits us to " air our classical knowledge." Dr. Hyslop
does not say whether he himself endorses this kindly
estimate of our motives ;
but, as I am afraid he may
do so, I shall not again in this paper venture to select a
case of cross-correspondence, like the last, involving an
expedition into that mysterious region of human lore,
the classics. So I must content myself with taking for
my next and last example a case which will not lead
us beyond the borders of our own literature, but which
will yet have the advantage of permitting me to air
a knowledge of Ruskin : —a knowledge that, I hope, will
not impress my readers the less because it has been crammed
for the occasion.
Two automatists only, Mrs. Whlett and Miss Verrall,
are concerned in this case.
On June 15, 1914, Mrs. Willett's script contained the
following passage :
a great pine and the Pine trees that march in gallant
companies up the mountain side the Morning [sic] Glory
Ruskin wrote of it.
Mrs. Willett's own contemporaneous note on it is
:
" I take this to refer to the 7th paragraph of Ruskin's
chapter on '
Mountain Glory '
in Modem Painters :
'
climbing hand in hand among the difficult slopes,'
'
gliding in grave procession over the heavenward ridges.'
"
But I had better quote more extensively from this para-
graph of the chapter on The Mountain Glory than Mrs. Willett
has done. Ruskin is arguing that trees are seen to greater
advantage in mountainous country than in plains ;
" For," says he, " the resources of trees are not de-
veloped until they have difficulty to contend with ; neither
their tenderness of brotherly love and harmony, till they
are forced to choose their ways of various life where
there is contracted room for them. . . .
. . . The various action of trees rooting themselves
in inhospitable rocks, stooping to look into ravines, hiding
from the search of glacier winds, reaching forth to the
rays of rare sunshine, crowding down together to drink
at sweetest streams, climbing hand in hand among the
40 J. G. Piddington. [part
difficult slopes, opening in sudden dances round the mossy
knolls, gathering into companies at rest among the fragrant
fields, gliding in grave procession over the heavenward
ridges,—nothing of this can be conceived among the
unvexed and unvaried felicities of the lowland forest."
Observe the strongly anthropomorphic language that Ruskin
here repeatedly applies to trees. He in a way reverses the
metaphor of the blind man at Bethsaida who saw " men as
trees, walking ", and speaks of " trees as men, walking ".
Mrs. Willett connects pine trees with this passage from
The Mountain Glory. Explicitly Ruskin does not ;
but,
considering that he is here particularly treating of Swiss
mountain scenery, and that Modern Painters is rich in
references to pines (for which Ruskin had a great affection),
we can hardly doubt that he had pines—even, perhaps,
rather specially—in mind when writing this passage.1
Not
indeed, that it matters, so far as the cross-correspondence
is concerned, whether he had or not ; because Mrs. Willett's
script at any rate definitely associates pine trees with the
Ruskinian passage.
So much, then, for Mrs. Willett's script. But before
I give Miss Verrall's contribution to the cross-correspon-
dence, I first want to quote, for a purpose which will
soon be plain, a short extract from another of the chapters
on Mountains in the fourth volume of Modem Painters.
It is the closing passage of the chapter " On the Sculpture
of Mountains." 2
1
Yet, in another passage in Modern Painters (Vol. IV. Ch. XI., § 9)
devoted to pines, Ruskin lays stress on their immobility :
" all along
its ridges stand the dark masses of innumerable pines . . . asserting
themselves for ever as fixed shadows . . . fallen flakes and fragments
of the night, stayed in their solemn squares in the midst of all the
bendings of the orchard boughs."
With particular reference to this passage Ruskin himself wrote :
" Almost the only pleasure I have, myself, in re-reading my old books,
is my sense of having at least done justice to the pine."
2 The last thirteen chapters of the fourth volume of Modern Painters
are all on the subject of Mountains. The first four are named " Of
the Materials of Mountains," the next two " Of the Sculpture of
Mountains," the next five " Resulting Forms," and then next and
last come " The Mountain Gloom " and " The Mountain Glory."
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 1 I
The rock stands forth in its white and rugged mystery,
as if its peak had been born out of the blue sky. The
strength that raised it, and the sea that wrought upon
it, have passed away, and left no sign, and we have
no words wherein to describe their departure, no thoughts
to form about their action, than those of the perpetual
and unsatisfied interrogation,
—
"What ailed thee, 0 thou sea, that thou fleddest %
And ye mountains, that ye skipped like lambs ?
"
Miss VerralTs script of June 18, 1914—the first she
wrote after Mrs. Willett's script of June 15, 1914
—
contained the following passage :
the Delectable Mountains—the mountains shall skip
—the pine trees Ours is a great wild country—We
have spoken before of the Flight of the Dxichess. I do
not think it has been clearly understood.
There can be no doubt as to what passage in R.
Browning's The Flight of the Duchess is meant, for, other
considerations apart, pines are only once mentioned in
that poem.
" Ours is a great wild country :
If you climb to our castle's top,
I don't see where your eye can stop ;
For when you've passed the cornfield country,
Where vineyards leave off, flocks are packed,
And sheep-range leads to cattle-tract,
And cattle-tract to open-chase,
And open-chase to the very base
Of the mountain, where, at a funeral pace,
Round about, solemn and slow,
One by one, row after row,
Up and up the pine-trees go,
So, like black priests up, and so
Down to the other side again
To another greater, wilder country . .
."
Browning, like Ruskin, sees trees as men walking,
but, unlike Ruskin, specifies the trees.
42 J. G. Piddington. [part
Now can anyone—even Dr. Maxwell—suppose that a
literary parallel so exact and felicitous, and yet so far
from commonplace, occurs by chance in scripts produced
by independent writers within an interval of only three
days ?
Preceding the quotation from The Flight of the Duchess
in Miss Verrall's script is " The mountains shall skip."
Though personally I have little doubt that these words
reflect the quotation from the HUh Psalm with which
Ruskin ends his chapter " On the Sculpture of Mountains,"
I will not lay much stress on this subsidiary coincidence,
for fear lest I quench some tiny spark of faith that
the central coincidence may kindle in Dr. Maxwell's breast.
But I do claim two things for this combination in Miss
Verrall's script of " the mountains shall skip " with the
quotation from The Flight of the- Duchess :
First, it links together mountains and pines, and so
accentuates the coincidence with Mrs. Willett's connexion
of pines with Ruskin's passage on mountain trees.
Secondly, it makes the first of two examples in Miss
Verrall's script of the attribution to inanimate things
(i.e. mountains and pines) of locomotory powers (i.e.
skipping and climbing) ; and so supplements the coinci-
dence with the Ruskin passage referred to by Mrs. Willett,
where exactly the same kind of metaphor is employed.
After quoting " Ours is a great wild country " Miss
Verrall's script goes on to say :
" We have spoken before
of the Flight of the Duchess. I do not think it has been
clearly understood."
These words probably refer in part to the following
passage in Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 26, 1912 :
The flight of the Duchess there is a quotation from it
which I have given elsewhere.
The only quotation from The Flight of the Duchess
besides " Ours is a great wild country " that has been
traced in any of the scripts is one-—quite unconnected,
by the way, with pines or the " great, wild country
"
—in Mrs. King's script of November 25, 1913. Obviously
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 43
Miss Verrall's script of Feb. 26, 1912, is not referring to
a script written 21 months later. To what then does
it refer ?
I suspect that a trace of the quotation from The
Flight of the Duchess that " has been given elsewhere
"
and " not clearly understood " is to be found in Mrs.
Holland's script of Oct. 13, 1909, which opens thus :
" The pines drawn up as if in battle array."
This is not a quotation from the poem, but it may have
been suggested by an imperfect recollection of the lines :
" One by one, row after row,
Up and up the pine-trees go."
This script of Mrs. Holland's had not been seen by
Miss Verrall, who gives the quotation about the pine-trees
from the poem. It had been seen by Mrs. Willett, who,
however, connects her reference to pine-trees not with
The Flight of the Duchess but with Ruskin's Modern
Painters. At the same time I think it probable that
the peculiar military turn given by Mrs. Willett to her
reminiscence of the passage in Modern Painters was due
to her recollection of Mrs. Holland's " The pines drawn
up as if in battle array." Thus, while Ruskin speaks of
" companies " he does not speak, as does Mrs. Willett, of
" gallant companies " ; and though he speaks of the trees
" climbing " and " gathering into companies," he does not
make them " march," as does Mrs. Willett. But even if
it be true that Mrs. Willett's script was influenced by
Mrs. Holland's, this does not in the slightest degree help
to explain the coincidences between Mrs. Willett's and
Miss Verrall's scripts of June 15 and 18, 1914, respectively.
A critical reader may like to know how many references
to pine-trees there are in the scripts, and of what character
they are. Exclusive of the references already cited,
pines are mentioned nine times in Miss Verrall's script
between 1903 and 1914 ;
eight times in Mrs. Verrall's
script between 1901 and 1914 ;
1
twice in Mrs. Holland's
1
This includes two mentions of " conifera arbos " which may, or may
not, be a pine-tree.
J. G. Piddington. [part
script between 1903 and 1910 ; twice in Mrs. Willett's
script, both times in June, 1910. Mac script contains
no reference to pine-trees.
In most of these instances the reference is of a vague
character : such as " the pines smell strong," or " Why
does the hurricane rage in the pine trees ?
" There are
three probable allusions in Mrs. Verrall's script, and
one certain allusion in Miss Verrall's, to a pine tree in
one of Turner's pictures ; one allusion in Miss Verrall's
script to the pines on Mount Ida loved by the Oenone
of Tennyson's poem ; one allusion in Miss Verrall's script
to the last verse of Hood's " I remember, I remember "
in this form : "fir branches fir
—
pine I remember I
remember " ; one problematical allusion in Mrs. Willett's
script to some pine-groves mentioned in Ovid's Fasti,
and one still more problematical allusion in the same
automatist's script to the " pine tree of Makistos " in
Browning's La Saisiaz. Mrs. Holland's first mention of a
pine, " A screw pine stood like a sentinel," introduces
a martial metaphor, as does " The pines drawn up as
if in battle array " in her script of Oct. 13, 1909 ; but
it should be noted that in each case Mrs. Holland's
pines are stationary and do not march like Mrs. Willett's,
or climb like Browning's pines and Ruskin's mountain
trees.
There are besides a few references to Fir-trees in the
scripts. These I have examined carefully with a view
to estimating whether they could be supposed, had Miss
Verrall or Mrs. Willett seen them, to have suggested to
them the passages in The Flight of the Duchess and in
The Mountain Glory. I have failed to find among them
any which seem in the slightest degree likely to have
prompted a recollection of either the Buskin or the
Browning passage.
Conclusion.
Here it will be safer for me to stop ; for the last
two cases have, perhaps, gone rather near the border-line
that divides the simple from the complex—the light
from the darkness ;
and, were I to continue, the old
lxxii.] Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. 45
Adam might, I fear, gain the upper hand and—against
my newly-acquired better instincts—force me once again
along the path that leads, indeed, through a Slough of
Despond, but, alas ! to no Wicket Gate. It is this appre-
hension, and not lack of material, that makes me bring
this paper to an end. Were there anything to be
gained by piling up the evidence, I could add to the
list a good many more examples of cross-correspondences
that conform more or less closely to the Gallic type.
At the same time, I do not wish to convey the im-
pression that the reformation of our automatists is com-
plete or likely to be permanent. Bad habits of long
growth are not to be eradicated in a moment ; and
there are still to be found enshrined in their scripts
coincidences of a very complex character.
Even with the cases dealt with in this paper I have
more than once, as the reader may have observed, had
to resort to a certain amount of manipulation in order
to bring them within the desired category. Thus, I have
split up into several tidy isolated units what might have
been treated as one straggling complex of coincidences ;
or, to use a culinary metaphor, I have chopped neat
—or comparatively neat—little cutlets off unshapely joints
and, with the temerity of a heavy-handed English cook,
tried to serve them a la francaise.
Yet, if I have simplified some of the cases in something
the same way that history has been simplified in Little
Arthur's History of England—a work, by the way, which
I venture to recommend to M. Geley for its transparent
lucidity and entire lack of subtlety—I hope I am not
guilty of having given a wholly misleading impression
of them.
Dec. 26, 1914.
46 Professor Gilbert Murray. [part
II.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on July 9th, 1915.
By Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D.
When I chose as the subject of this address " The Fringe
of Consciousness," I had not read the discourse given
to the Society two years ago by a President whom I
feel myself particularly unworthy to follow. But I find
now that M. Bergson has not only used almost the same
language that I was proposing to use, but has, in the
course of his far deeper and more philosophic paper,
thrown out certain suggestions which lead almost directly
to the line of inquiry which I wish to put before you.
I will start by two quotations from M. Bergson's address :
" If telepathy is a real fact, it is very possible that
it is operating at every moment and everywhere, but
with too little intensity to be noticed, or else it is oper-
ating in the presence of obstacles which neutralize the
effect at the same moment that it manifests itself. We
produce electricity at every moment, the atmosphere
is continually electrified, we move among magnetic cur-
rents ;
yet millions of human beings lived for thousands
of years without having suspected the existence of elec-
tricity. It may be the same with telepathy."
The second quotation comes after a discussion of the
work performed by the brain in limiting and defining
and, as M. Bergson puts it, " canalizing " the life of
the mind by selecting for conscious remembrance certain
LXXII.] Presidential Address. 47
experiences and rejecting others. He proceeds to say
the same of sense-perception, using, as he often does,
the technical language of Aristotle :
" I think that we perceive virtually (cWa/xet) many
more things than we perceive actually (epycp), and that
here once more the part that our body plays is that
of shutting out from the field of our consciousness all
that is of no practical interest to us. . . . The sense
organs, the sensory nerves, the cerebral centres, canalize
the influences from without, and thus mark the various
directions in which our own influence can be exercised.
But in doing so they narrow the field of our vision of
the present, just as the cerebral mechanisms of memory
limit our vision of the past. Now, just as certain useless
memories, or '
dream '
memories, may slip into the
field of consciousness, availing themselves of a moment
of inattention to life, may there not be around our normal
perception a fringe of -perceptions, most often unconscious
but all ready to enter into consciousness, and in fact enter-
ing in in certain exceptional cases or in certain predis-
posed subjects ? If there are perceptions of this kind,"
the philosopher proceeds to recommend to this society
the study of them, and it is that particular study about
which I ask permission to speak to you to-day.
And here let me explain the plot of my address and
at the same time make some very necessary apologies.
When the Society did me the high honour of electing
me to be its President, my first intention was to make
a thorough study of the publications of the last few
years and try to estimate the actual advance of knowl-
edge which your patient and systematic researches have
achieved. I have no doubt whatever that the advance
is there ; that some questions really have been answered,
and that now, in 1915, we face a number of important
psychological problems from a standpoint very different
from that of 1895. But the War has upset everybody's
calculations ; and I soon found that I should not have
the time for any proper research into the literature of
the subject, nor the leisure of mind to form a judgment
on a number of difficult questions which were bound
1
48 Professor Gilbert Murray. [part
to present themselves. Consequently I have fallen back
on a subject which was ready in my mind. It is not
an ambitious subject ;
yet, I regret to say, it is open
to two quite particular objections. It is in the first
place egotistic, and will land me in frequently talking
about myself. Secondly, it is largely based on evidence
of the most unimpressive kind —to wit, that of first hand
experience without documents. I remember Sir F. Burnand
observes in Happy Thoughts that if a man told you
he had seen a ghost you very properly disbelieved him ;
but if he told you that he had a friend, a man of the
highest character, who had under a seal of secrecy con-
fided to him a document in which he described how
he had seen a ghost, you could not help being impressed.
Now I have never seen a ghost, nor could I earn even
the meagrest and most precarious livelihood as a medium ;
but I have long been interested in the sort of phenomena
that we generally class under the head of telepathy,
and have had a good deal of success now and then
in small telepathic experiments. And I feel that if I
could refer to my experiences as " the Case of Mr. X . . .
(a gentleman personally known to me), printed in volume
140 of the Proceedings " of this or some other Society,
they would be far more impressive than if I merely
tell you what happened.
However that may be, the line of argument which I
wish to lay before you, and which is based on a fair
amount of thought and attention throughout a number
of years, will be one that is familiar to most of you :
that, as M. Bergson suggests, the action of what we
call telepathy is habitual in ordinary human intercourse.
And secondly, that in essence it consists in nothing more
mysterious than the action on the mind of sense-im-
pressions which are too faint to establish themselves,
as sense-impressions, above the threshold of consciousness.
The action or the knowledge of the good telepathic
" medium " is in fact simply based on that " fringe of
perceptions, most often unconscious but ready to enter
into consciousness " of which M. Bergson speaks. I may
however wish to extend that fringe rather widely.
LXXH.] Presidential Address. 49
Now I suppose it is beyond dispute that, at any mo-
ment, the conscious experience of any person, the " stream
of consciousness," as William James calls it, has a vivid
centre and dim edges, gradually passing into the imper-
ceptible. If you cut a section across the stream of
consciousness that is what you would find : a focus
of attention, vivid and strong, and shading gradually
away from it a rather wide field of experience, conscious,
sub-conscious and eventually not conscious at all. This
is seen at its simplest if we take one sense at a time.
Medical men may judge of a patient's health, for instance,
by the range of his field of vision. The patient looks
at a focus straight in front, but has some dim vision
of objects held about 80 degrees to either side. The
size of the field is said to vary according to the patient's
mental vigour ; it seems also to vary inversely with the
intensity of one's attention. At least, I should say that,
when not particularly interested in anything, I am often
conscious of things outside the rims of my spectacles ;
but if interested in the object I am looking at, I am
not conscious of anything outside the direct line of vision.
The case is even clearer with the sense of hearing. If
you stand still in Trafalgar Square at mid-day and try
to count all the continuous sounds which are impinging
on your ear, drowning one another and slipping in between
one another, and diverting your attention now this way
and now that, you cannot but realize the extraordinarily
wide field from which you are at any moment selecting
the sound which you mean to attend to. For of course
it need not be the loudest. An abnormal crash will
no doubt always attract attention ; but normally, if
amid all the whistling of trains and roar of traffic some-
body speaks to you by name, you will probably attend
at once to the slighter sound and become barely conscious
of the noises. In normal healthy life the sound which
you attend to will be chosen, as M. Bergson says, for
its significance, its practical relation to life. A Red
Indian surrounded by the noises of a camp full of horses
and the roar of a waterfall would, so the stories used
to tell us, start to attention instantly at the cracking
D
50 Professor Gilbert Murray. [part
of a twig which might betoken the approach of an enemy.
A nurse in a sick room will sleep peacefully through
any amount of ordinary noise, but will wake if the patient
moves. This is a power, a definite increase of mental
capacity, made by the process of selection or " canaliza-
tion." But if the mental life is a little out of gear or
disjointed, you will find people attending to the wrong
things. I have heard of a lady who, while receiving
a proposal of marriage, could not hear her suitor's words
because his watch ticked so loud that she could attend
to nothing else. This is akin to what M. Bergson calls
" inattention to life." The process of selection has gone
wrong.
It may seem odd that the sense-impression to which
one attends should be not the strongest but merely
what one calls " the most significant." But of course
the whole problem of attention is a difficult one ; and
I think it quite likely that if you take into account
not the isolated sense-stimulus but the whole psychic
disturbance, the result will come out that one does attend
to the sight, or sound, or whatever it is, that causes
the most psychic disturbance. That is, the significant
sound does not produce more auditory disturbance than
other sounds, yet it does produce greater psychic
disturbance on the whole. The nurse who hears the
patient move, the Indian who hears the twig snap, is
really receiving an extremely exciting sense-impression,
as a whole, though only hearing a slight sound. One
could easily extend these examples to the other senses,
touch and taste and very decidedly smell. One is always
receiving a vast number of sense-impressions and selecting
a very few of them to attend to.
Hitherto we have only considered impressions which,
whether attended to or not, were at least of the normal
strength necessary for reaching the human consciousness.
Now let us extend our range a little. People with
special sensitiveness or in special conditions of attention
can become conscious of impressions well below the
strength that is normally necessary. We can find simple
cases of hyperesthesia, especially in the sense of sound.
LXXII.] Presidential Address. 51
I knew a lady who, during an illness, could hear the
doctor's carriage pass along a certain road at a distance
which made ordinary hearing impossible. Another who
could often tell by the smell of a ribbon whether
it had ever been worn and which of several people had
worn it. In such cases, we observe that the sense is
abnormally acute, and therefore the extremely faint
sense-impression is, as far as we can judge, consciously
received as a sense-impression, a sound or a smell. Now
let us go a little further still towards the outer fringe.
There are cases where a sense-impression or a memory
of some experience is too faint to come up into con-
sciousness itself, but yet able to produce the same, or
practically the same, result which it would have pro-
duced if fully received into consciousness. The point
is important and a little difficult. In a previous case
we noticed that, amid a great confusion of sounds, a
particular significant sound, though comparatively low,
was able to seize the attention. But the sound we
thought of was definitely audible, though faint. Similarly,
in a case of hyperesthesia the sound, though fainter still,
is yet audible to that particularly sensitive person. But
now I am supposing a sound —or any sense-impression
—
which is too faint to be consciously perceived at all, yet the
infinitesimal disturbance which it makes sets going some
other disturbance which may be quite large and important.
I omit mere cases of reflex action, where, for example,
jrou draw your foot back from the fire because it is
too hot, without noticing either that it was hot or that
you have moved it. I will consider only voluntary
actions. But we can take a gradation of cases. First,
incidents of ordinary life, so common and unimportant
as to be generally neglected. Next, instances where
the sense, or the general mental responsiveness, of the
agent has been specially sharpened by professional train-
ing or practice or need ; and lastly, cases which most
people would be inclined to regard as abnormal.
In ordinary life an incident like this is quite common.
In a concourse of people, while you are talking, some-
body in another part of the room calls you or mentions
52 Professor Gilbert Murray. [part
your name. You do not consciously hear the name
but you turn and give attention. I have several times
noticed a variant of this —You suddenly find yourself
listening to the conversation of a particular group and
then discover that they are speaking of something that
specially interests you. This almost certainly means
that you sub-consciously overheard some fragments of
the conversation, and, without the words heard ever
fully getting into your consciousness, acted upon the
stimulus which they applied.
Examples of professional hyperesthesia, or at least
of specially acute responsiveness, are as common as
blackberries. Fishermen, hunters, scientific investigators
are all apt to display it, as well as trained nurses. The
only question is whether it works in cases where the
sense-impression is not consciously received at all. I
have no good instance to give ; but I have frequently
heard both from nurses and doctors that a good nurse
will often act on a sense-stimulus which she has not
consciously perceived. If asleep she will wake, if in
another part of the ward she will come, to find that
the sound of the patient's breathing has changed, or
that he has moved into an unsuitable position or the
like. The account she will give of it may be simply :
" I thought I had better have a look at you," or " I
just wondered if you were comfortable." But the pro-
bability is that her trained ear was attending all the
time to a sharply selected complex of sounds, all of them
significant. Then a changed sound occurred which qua
sensible sound was not strong enough to force its way
into consciousness, but qua significant information, if
I may so speak, was enough to wake her and make
her move.
Let us now turn to cases which would generally be
classed as abnormal and attributed to clairvoyance or
second-sight. And first we will take the simple class
of case in which the percipient acts without any hallu-
cinations or fictitious machinery.
I met recently a Scotch lady engaged in some respon-
sible work which necessitates her taking stock every
LXXII.] Presidential Address. 53
week or fortnight and making sure that of a huge number
of small objects and papers none have been lost. She
says that she can generally tell, when some object is
missed, whether it is really lost or is going to turn up,
and her companions seem to recognize the power. This,
I should think, was a case of unconscious observation
and memory. Her memory of what has happened to
paper 5009 is too weak to enable her to say where it
is, but strong enough to make her feel a sort of assurance
about it. If she were a less sensible woman a Voice
from Heaven would confirm that assurance. I will venture
to add here an experience of my own which is possibly
of the same character. In a house where we once lived
there was a high hall and a lamp suspended by a long
chain from the ceiling. One day I came in, not in any
way thinking of the lamp, walked past the lamp and
was going upstairs, when it suddenly struck me that
the chain was going to break and the lamp to fall. The
feeling was strong enough to make me go downstairs
and reach up to feel the lamp. I lifted it slightly in
my hand and let it down again, and as I did so the
chain broke and the lamp came into my hand. It seems
probable that I had sub-consciously observed something
about the chain—I do not in the least know what
—
which led me to conclude that it was likely to break.
The original stimulus was not strong enough to get into
full consciousness, but the deduction drawn from it, being
rather alarming, was. I had about the same time a
very similar experience about a swing. I suddenly began
to think it was going to break, and it did.
Now, in making these confessions or boasts—and I
am intending to make some more presently—I am filled
with a natural sense of shame. That I admit. Yet
my shame is mingled with some lurking spirit of defiance.
It is very easy to condemn me, when I have been found
out ; but I do not believe that other people are really
quite so innocent as they pretend. I suspect that most
sensible persons, when they have experiences like this,
promptly forget them. Their well-formed brain performs
its duty and effectively walls off the recollection of such
54 Professor Gilbert Hurray. [part
undesirable incidents. And then they give themselves
airs and despise the supposed delusions of their more
candid neighbours !
At the same time I would like to plead in mitigation
of any sentence you may be passing on me, that, what-
ever small acts of petty clairvoyance may be laid to my
charge, I have never condescended to a hallucination.
I have never heard Voices or seen Visions. Now here
is a case which shows what I might have done and did
not. It is given by Mr. Archer in his paper in M'-Clure's
Magazine of January, 1915, " Can We Foretell the Future ?
"
" A steam yacht was lying moored by two ropes to
a wharf in the Norfolk Broads. One of the two friends
who had chartered her had a very detailed and vivid
dream of two aerial figures burning away the mooring
ropes, so that the steamer drifted and was lost on the
river bar. The dreamer was incapable of moving for
some time, but at last dashed out of his berth, smashed
open the bolted cabin door, and was just in time to
save the vessel, both ropes having actually parted."
We may assume, in all probability, that he had some
unconscious sense-impression—he heard the ropes creak
or felt them give—which indicated the danger ; and his
subconsciousness, not knowing how it had got its in-
formation, dreamed a sort of mythological groundwork
for it. Such a proceeding is very common in dreams.
For my own part I would never have condescended to
it. If I had been that man I should have woken up,
have felt a suspicion that the ropes were parting, and
then lain quietly in my bed until I was drowned and
proved right.
The more showy and intemperate method pursued by
this unnamed gentleman has of course attracted a great
deal of attention and even exercised some influence on
public history.
The subject, having made a discovery or reached a
conclusion by means of some unconscious mental process
—whether sense-perception or memory or something far
more complex—instead of leaving well alone invents some
fictitious machinery to fortify the belief or emotion at
LXXII.] Presidential Address. 55
which he has now arrived. The internal process, what-
ever it may have been, is projected into a mythological
shape. The form of the projection is, of course, deter-
mined by the habits of thought to which the subject
is accustomed. Ancient armies in certain crises of emotion,
when they reached a sudden feeling of confidence which
they could not explain, generally saw the brethren Castor
and Pollux championing them ; modern armies see Angels
or a Cross in the sky or the green standard of Mohammed.
I see that the man who tried this week to assassinate
Mr. J. P. Morgan states that he heard a voice from
heaven bidding him do so. And I remember as a child
conceiving an unfavourable—and, I am sure, most unjust
—opinion of St. James the Less because a certain murderer
in Australia firmly maintained that his crime had been
recommended to him by that saint in person. I fear
that I may be differing from the judgment of your
last year's President when I express the opinion that,
though the murderer's belief was a matter of some im-
portance, and nerved him to a difficult action, it was
nevertheless quite untrue, and would have remained equally
untrue if it had involved ten thousand murders, or caused,
or prevented, a European war. But Dr. Schiller uses
the word " truth " in his own pragmatic way, and it
is quite likely that I have misunderstood him. I do
not want to quarrel with him so much as I do with
a quite different class of writers, who positively believe
in the truth of these visions, and use the word truth
in its ordinary sense. Some of our troops in the retreat
from Mons are said to have seen angels in the sky ;
and they deserved to do so if ever troops did. But
it does sadden and disappoint me to find an educated
clergyman actually maintaining that the angels were
there—angels with long feathery wings, as in Christmas
cards—and basing arguments upon the supposed fact.
There have been plenty of people who have had visions
of Apollo and Anubis and the divers gods of the cannibal
islands. There have been people who have had visions
of Demogorgon, though Demogorgon is not a person at
all but only a slip of the pen—the word demiurgum
56 Professor Gilbert Murray. [part
being mixed by a scribe's mistake with the word gorgona
in a known passage of Lactantius Placidus. In last
year's Proceedings we can read how Mr. Griinbaum had
a vision of the spirit Bien-Boa, whom he had read about ;
and the original Bien-Boa has been shown by Miss Verrall
not to have been a spirit at all but a mere fraudulent hoax.
The best illustration of the process by which these
hallucinations arise is to be found, as I suggested above,
in the myth-making faculty of common dreams. There
is a well-known case, printed in an old number of the
Proceedings of this Society, of a girl who was asleep
and was roused by her sister, who caught her by the sleeve
and said " Boo." In the moment before she woke she
had a long dream. A huge dog was pursuing her, with
barks and growls. She held a door against it, but it
broke through ; then another door and another door ;
at last she was holding the last door of the house, the
brute was too strong for her ; it burst through and,
uttering a roar, seized her sleeve with its teeth. You
will observe that the sequence of time is rather curious.
The sense-perception which caused the dream occurs in
the dream not at the beginning but at the end. The
rest of the dream consists in what we may call a hurried
improvisation of imaginary incidents to lead up to the
sense-impression which started it. It is as though the
sleeper's subconsciousness said : "A cry of Boo and a
pull at my sleeve ! How the dickens can I account for
this ?
" It is just the same in a more elaborate case
given in vol. xii. of the Proceedings by a distinguished
American Assyriologist. He had been working' late at the
arrangement of an Assyrian collection in the University
of Pennsylvania. In the course of the night, his brain
still working in its sleep, it struck him that two pieces
of cut jade which had been classified as having nothing
to do with each other were cut out of the same piece,
and that piece an inscribed cylinder. The shock of
discovery took shape in a dream, after which he got up
and verified the suggestion, and it proved true. But
the way in which his dream presented it was this. He
found himself standing, if I remember rightly, in an
LXXII.] Presidential Address. 57
ancient Assyrian temple, when there came to him a
long-robed high priest, whose dress he noted carefully
and compared with his expectations. The priest beck-
oned him to come to the treasure-chamber on the south-
east side of the building, and there told him a story ;
how the King, Sargcn, had sent a message to the priests
who were in this room, bidding them send him a pair
of jade ear-rings, and, having no other jade handy, they
had cut an inscribed cylinder in two and made ear-rings
of it. " Which two ear-rings," the priest concluded,
" are now Nos. (say) 932 and 128 in your collection at
Pennsylvania."
What seems to occur in a dream of this sort, or in
an ordinary hallucination, is that the mind reaches some
conclusion or some passionately held belief by a process
of which it is not properly conscious. It desires some
support for its present state ; it insists on having it ;
it projects its own desire for support into the form of
an external assurance.
Now, so far I have been speaking, for simplicity's
sake, as if the only means by which we can receive
communications from the external world were the orthodox
five senses. This view probably needs correction. The
five senses are, as M. Bergson says, the canals into which
our consciousness of the external world is specially directed.
It is thus made clear, definite, limited. But there seem
to be other forms of sense-perception which cannot ex-
actly be referred to the special organs of sense. There
is the sense of internal strain, for example ; and perhaps
the curious sense of propinquity—as, for instance, when
in the dark you feel that you are coming close to a wall.
I am here quite out of my depth, but I rather suspect
that we must also allow for some direct passage of vibra-
tions from one human body to another, or of currents
between two minds. I do not wish to be dogmatic
here. The cases in which a man seems to receive in-
formation direct from another mind, and not by any
definite channel of sense, will seldom bear close examina-
tion. For example, one can feel, as we say, " instinc-
tively," that some one in the room is cross or hostile,
58 Professor Gilbert Murray. [part
but it would be very rash to conclude, in such a case,
that there had been no sense-perception of the uncon-
scious kind. What makes me incline to a belief in the
transmission of thoughts or impressions by some method
different from our normal five senses is chiefly my own
experience in telepathy. When I am getting at the
thing which I wish to discover the only effort I make
is a sort of effort of attention of a quite general kind.
The thing may come through practically any sense-
channel, or it may discover a road of its own, a chain
of reasoning or of association, which, as far as I re-
member, never coincides with any similar chain in the
mind of anyone present, but is invented, much as a
hallucination is invented, for the purpose of the moment.
I will illustrate this by a few instances.
The method followed is this : I go out of the room
and of course out of earshot. Someone in the room,
generally my eldest daughter, thinks of a scene or an
incident or anything she likes, and says it aloud. It
is written down, and I am called. I come in, usually
take my daughter's hand, and then, if I have luck,
describe in detail what she has thought of. The least
disturbance of our customary method, change of time
or place, presence of strangers, controversy, and especially
noise, is apt to make things go wrong. I become myself
somewhat over-sensitive and irritable, though not, I
believe, to a noticeable degree. You will understand
that I am not attempting to prove the validity of these
experiments, much less alleging that I have any stronger
powers of telepathy than my neighbours. I am merely
using certain incidents in my own experience for what
they are worth—and they may be worth very little
—
as illustrations of the theory I have been putting forward
about the fringe of consciousness.
Let me first take a perfectly simple and uninteresting
instance, not an experiment at all but an accident. A
few days ago a lady whom I know slightly came and
told me a longish story affecting a matter of business.
In it there occurred a person whose name she would
not mention, but whom she called "Mr. X." As soon
LXXII.] Presidential Address. 59
as she said " Mr. X. " I knew who the man was, though
I had never heard him called out of his name before,
and did not know that he knew this lady. This know-
ledge seemed to come immediately. But I should not
like to be sure that it did. It may have been rapid
unconscious reasoning
.
Now for some experiments, where the subconscious impres-
sion chose some sense-channel by which to reach me. First,
the sense of smell. My daughter thought of Savonarola
at Florence and the people burning their clothes and
pictures and valuables in the square.—I first felt " This
is Italy," then " This is not modern " ; and then hesi-
tated, when accidentally a small tarry bit of coal tumbled
out of the fire. I smelt oil or paint burning and so
got the whole scene. It seems as though here some
subconscious impression, struggling up towards conscious-
ness, caught hold of the burning coal as a means of
getting through. (I am sorry to use metaphorical lan-
guage, but exact language would be both difficult and
cumbrous.) In this case, then, the information came
through the channel of the sense of smell.
Often it comes through sight. For example : Subject
set :
" Mr. B. . . . in the quad at New College with
a big dog jumping up on him.''—My guess: "Mr.
B. . . .in the courtyard of a hotel with a dancing bear.*'
This erroneous guess was evidently a misinterpreted
picture. There are many cases of correct pictures. E.g.
Subject set : "I think of grandfather at the Harrow
and Winchester cricket match, dropping hot cigar-ash
on Miss Thompson's parasol."
—
My guess (verbatim) :
" Why, this is grandfather. He's at a cricket match
—
why it's absurd : he seems to be dropping ashes on
a lady's parasol."
Sometimes the impression comes through hearing. Once
I had to guess something about a man called David ; I got
the action right, but thought the man was Davies. This
case is not quite as conclusive as it looks, since it so
happened that the two men, David and Davies, had in
some ways just the same geographical atmosphere about
them. This incident set us all on the look-out for evidence
(10 Professor Gilbert Murray. [part
of auditory hyperesthesia ; but the clue was not particu-
larly successful, though once or twice I have described
the scene or incident in almost exactly the same words,
or in phrases of the same rhythm, in which they were
described by the person setting the problem.
Sometimes I get at the result by a fictitious association
of ideas. A good case is the following. Subject set :
Mr. Z . . . galloping along a beach in Greece.—When I
came in my eyes caught a book by Mr. Z . . . on my
bookshelves, and presently I heard a horse in the
road outside. I then said :
" This is a mere guess,
because I hear a horse galloping and I happen to have
seen Z . . .'s book ; but I think of Z . . . galloping
on a horse." Question : Where ?
" Oh, I suppose in
Greece." (His book was about Greece.)
Much more often, however, the information comes not
through any particular sense but through what I may
call a sort of indeterminate sense of quality or atmosphere.
For instance, I almost always, if I am going right, get
first a feeling of the country in which the scene or in-
cident is set. I say, " This is Russian," " This is Italian,"
" This seems tropical," or the like. Also I am apt to
know whether a thing comes from a book or from real
life, and the taste of the book is apt to be very strong.
One could never confuse Thackeray and Tolstoy, for
instance. A rather instructive case, and one in which
I do think I was rather clever, referred to a scene in
a book which I had not read. I give it more at length.
Subject set : A scene in a story by Strindberg. A
man and woman in a lighthouse, the man lying fallen
on the floor, and the woman bending over him, looking
at him and hoping that he is dead.
My guess : "A horrid atmosphere, full of hatred and
discomfort. A book, not real life. A book I have
not read. Not Russian, not Italian, but foreign. I
cannot get it. . . . There is a round tower, a man and
woman in a round tower ; but it is not Maeterlinck.
Not like him. I should guess it was Strindberg. The
woman is bending over the man and hating him, hoping
he is dead."
lxxii.] Presidential Address. 61
Another Strindberg scene, also from a book I had not
read, raises a rather interesting point. The subject set
was an old cross, poor, disappointed schoolmaster eating
crabs for lunch at a restaurant, and insisting on having
female crabs. I got the atmosphere, the man, the lunch
in the restaurant on crabs, and thought I had finished,
when my daughter said, " What kind of crabs ?
" I
felt rather impatient and said :
" Oh, Lord, I don't
know : Female crabs." That is, the response to the
question came automatically, with no preparation, while
I thought I could not give it. I may add that I had
never before heard of there being any inequality between
the sexes among crabs, regarded as food.
Before sitting down let me recapitulate the kind of
conclusion to which I think these results possibly point.
I will take them under two heads.
In the first place, my whole experience leads me to
believe strongly in the truth of M. Bergson's suggestion
that telepathy is as a matter of fact operating at every
moment and everywhere. I greatly doubt whether it
does not lie at the root of language. It is hard to
see how language can originally have grown, or how
an infant can learn it, or how we can ever, by means
of language, understand a new idea, without telepathy.
Of course there is a considerable difference in degree
between that ordinary everyday amount of telepathy
and the somewhat disgraceful stage of proficiency attained
by your temporary President. And you will suspect
me of trying to shelter myself by blackening the characters
of my neighbours when I express the opinion that pro-
bably most people could attain the same results if they
practised for a good time and did not get excited or
flurried. It is however quite possible that, if my results
are above the average, it may be that I have accidentally
hit on some good method—though I have no idea what
it is. It does not seem to me likely that the fact of
my not eating meat or the like has anything whatever
to do with it. Nor do I suppose that there is any
importance in the fact that I find the whole business
rather unpleasant : it does not make me ill or exhaust
62 Professor Gilbert, Murray. [part
me in any noticeable way, but I rather dislike it and.
would sooner do something else. I think this probably
means that I get into a state of slight hyperaesthesia
and am particularly sensitive to every kind of impression.
Noises, for instance, become intolerable. In any case, I
have, in this matter, thrown myself on your mercy. And
if you feel disposed to think harshly of these proceedings
in a respectable bourgeois paterfamilias of sober habits,
I would venture to warn you to look inside and make
very sure of yourselves before you condemn others.
The second conclusion to which I incline is this. The
basis of this so-called telepathy is unconscious sense-
perception, the sensory disturbance itself being too slight
for consciousness, but the state of mind resulting from
it being fully perceptible. (As, e.g. an imperceptible touch
may make a man unconsciously put his hand towards
his waistcoat pocket without knowing why he does so, and
may at the same time excite him violently with the
thought that his pocket has been picked.) The basis
is unconscious sense-perception ; but we must be prepared
for the possibility that this sense-perception is not con-
fined to the canonical five channels of Sight, Sound, Smell,
Taste, Touch. At least, in my own experience, when the
information professes to come through one of the regular
senses, the profession has generally the air of being false.
I mean, I seize on the smell of the burning coal in the
Savonarola subject, or on the sound of the horse galloping
on the road in the Mr. Z . . . subject, where a less well-
regulated mind would at once have a direct hallucinatory
communication from St. James the Less. And again,
some of the information which seems to come most clearly
and rapidly, as when I feel a certain emotional atmosphere,
or the country to which an incident belongs, or the
fact that it is in a book and not in real life, does
not seem to be the sort that could well be conveyed
by mere sense-impressions of the canonical sort. Thus
I should be inclined provisionally to admit the likelihood
that we may become directly sensitive to another person's
state of mind ;
though I realise that it is hard here
to say exactly what one means. We spoke above of
LXXII.] Presidential Address. 63
a familiar experience. For example : that if one person
in a small party is angry, others will often feel it without
any tangible source of information. It feels like a direct
sensitiveness of mind to mind. Yet it seems likely
enough that one is really getting the information from
extremely slight subconscious sense-impressions ; that the
angry person, if put under a psychic microscope, would
be seen to be kicking, pouting, snorting, and making un-
mistakable grimaces, and that it is one's unconscious
perception of these that causes the so-called telepathy.
But I do not feel able to rule out the possibility of
a much wider and more direct impression, not conveyed
through any of the specialized channels. I leave the
question to biologists.
[Note. Some of the cases quoted here are given from
memory. The contemporary written record will be found
in Mrs. Verrall's paper or in the Appendix. The con-
temporary record, it should be mentioned, being hurriedly
scribbled in long hand and uncorrected, is apt to be not
quite complete. G. M.]
64 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
III.
REPORT ON A SERIES OF EXPERIMENTS IN
" GUESSING."
By Mrs. A. W. Verrall.
Read at a General Meeting of the Society on February 23,
1916.
My object in this paper is to give a detailed account of
the experiments to which Professor Murray alluded, and
some of which he described, in his Presidential Address to
our Society 1
delivered in July, 1915, and so to enable the
reader to form his own conclusions as to their results.
The experiments have extended over a period of some six
years, from the spring of 1910 to the end of 1915, and a
complete and careful record has been kept. The total
number of experiments recorded is 505 : a number, it
seems to me—especially in view of the complex nature
of the subjects selected for transmission—sufficient to
call for thorough examination and analysis, although
perhaps insufficient to establish beyond doubt their vera
causa.
Professor Murray has briefly described the method
observed : A small group of people assemble in one room,
and in the absence of the percipient, a scene or incident
is selected for transmission, briefly described by the person
selecting it, and noted in writing by one of the company,
usually not the selecting agent. Professor Murray, on being
called into the room, takes the hand of the agent and
1
See above, pp. 40-63.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing.'''' 65
proceeds to describe his impressions. The company in
general remains silent, but a few questions may be asked
by the agent ; and these, as well as the percipient's
remarks, are recorded by the note-taker. I have spoken
of the "agent," but that is perhaps to beg the question,
for when there are four or five persons present, all of
whom know the subject selected, it is possible that
the "agency" is distributed among them and not con-
fined to the person whom Professor Murray specifically
addresses.
Some variations have been made in the procedure ;
contact has occasionally been omitted, and written sub-
stituted for spoken description of the incident selected.
More frequently the subject has been chosen by a member
of the company who does not act as the ostensible agent.
Mr. Murray has pointed out that the least disturbance of
the customary method is apt to make things go wrong,
and this is an experience familiar to all who have any
acquaintance with experiments on such lines as these, or
indeed with any supernormal phenomena. Too much
reliance must not, therefore, be placed on the effects
which seem to follow these variations, but the effects are
worth noting and may be suggestive.
Contact does not appear to be necessary to the success
of the experiments, though it probably serves the purpose
of fixing the attention of agent and percipient, and in
some cases may afford to the latter indications as to the
general success or failure of the impression described. But
the complexity of the selected incidents makes it difficult
to suppose that much help could be derived from a
positive or negative indication unconsciously given by
contact, and herein the case differs markedly from " muscle-
reading performances," which are so arranged by the
"thought-reader" as to present a series of alternatives to
which the response must be " Right " or " Wrong." Pro-
fessor Murray's successive approaches, when he is not at
once successful, introduce two or three elements, of which
one may be right and others wrong, or vice versa. Take,
for instance, an experiment at which I was present
(February 17, 1914). The subject, a purely fantastic one,
E
66 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
selected by Professor Murray's elder daughter, Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee, was as follows :
" Celia Newbolt 1
under a gourd tree at Smyrna."
Professor Murray's successive statements were as follows :
(a) Modern Greek of some kind.
(b) Sort of Asia Minor place.
(c) A tree and women sitting under it.
(d) A particular tree.
(e) A girl sitting under it.
(/) She does not belong to the place.
(g) She is English.
(h) Something to do with a poet.
(i) Can't be Mrs. Kipling.
{k) No, it's a girl.
(I) Rather like one of the 0 s.
(m) Don't think I can get her.
It is difficult to imagine what kind of indication from
contact could lead from step to step in the above series ;
how, for instance, after (c) had been said, could contact
indicate that not " women " but " a girl " was thought of
as sitting under the tree, and how can contact uncon-
sciously, or for that matter consciously, indicate that the
girl in question has " something to do with a poet " ?
Moreover, that contact is not indispensable to the
success of the experiments is shown by an examination of
the eleven recorded cases where there was either no
contact at all or contact only half-way through the
experiment. In two of these cases there was failure, but
in the other nine there was at least partial, and in some
of them striking success. Thus on August 11, 1913, the
subject chosen by Mrs. Toynbee was as follows :
" The scene in [Tolstoi's] 2
Resurrection where the girl
[Maslova] goes to the station to see Nekludov, but instead
of the real girl I'll think of Christina [Roberts]—she goes
to the station, but he won't [stop]."
1 " Celia Newbolt " is the daughter of Sir Henry Newbolt, the poet,
author of Admirals All, etc., etc. See Appendix, p. 107.
2
The words in brackets are my explanatory additions in the contem-
porary record.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." 67
Professor Murray, without contact, said :
" It's a faked thing. You say it's a Tolstoi, in Resur-
rection, but it's really Christina Roberts," then after
taking hands, he added :
" I can only get her at Waterloo going to Brackland
[near Hindhead, the house of her parents]. I know it's
not right, but it's something to do with a station. I
can't get it."
Here the " faking " and the combination of Resurrection
and Christina Roberts were described before contact, after
which was added the idea of a station, but the exact
incident was not divined.
On a date not named, in 1914, three successive experi-
ments without contact were made, with excellent results.
1 quote one of these :
Mrs Arnold Toynbee : "Mrs. C hitting the Purser 1
with a skipping rope."
Professor Murray, without contact :
" I think it's Mother
hitting the Purser with a skipping rope—No, it's your
woman the overdressed woman—Mrs. C ."
On the other hand, on ten occasions when writing was
substituted for speaking, during Professor Murray's absence,
there was no success, and this fact of course suggests that
the success in other cases may be due to hearing, that is,
not to telepathy in which the senses are excluded, but to
hyperesthesia. The conditions are clearly such as to
exclude any chance of Professor Murray's overhearing what
is said in the room after his departure, if one is to reckon
with ordinary sense-impressions. The door of the room is
shut, Professor Murray waits either in the hall at some
distance from the closed door, or in another room beyond the
hall, with the door shut, the party inside the room are also
at some little distance from the door, and the speaker
describes the selected incident in a low voice. But we
know so little about the conditions of hyperaesthesia that
it must not be ruled out as a possible explanation, and
no doubt the complete failure in these ten cases when the
subject was not audibly expressed suggests that audition
1
This incident actually occurred, but was not known to Professor Murray.
68 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
plays a part in the result. 1
But it should be noted that
six of them are parts of unsuccessful series of experiments.
Thus on June 10, 1910, out of the whole number of
experiments, thirteen (four written), there was only one
success and three partial successes : a proportion far below
the average. 2
On December 15, 1910, when two further
attempts were made without speaking, there had been
distinct success in the first three cases (spoken), but after
the failure in the fourth case (written) there was little further
success on that day. Another of the failures was the last
in a series of ten, and the agent was a stranger making his
first trial, so that failure is not surprising. Still, when all
allowance is made for disturbance of normal conditions,
and discouragement arising from previous failure, the want
of success when writing is substituted for speaking un-
doubtedly makes it necessary to watch carefully for other
indications suggestive of auditory hyperesthesia.
Before considering this question further, some general
account must be given of the experiments, and of the
proportion of successes, partial successes and failures. It
is not possible to classify complex incidents of this kind
as "Right" or "Wrong"; many cases are on the
border-line and might be classified differently by different
people. About failures there is little or no doubt, and
where there is any doubt, I have counted the experiments,
for statistical purposes, as failures. The non-failures I
1
On one of these occasions, however, although Mr. Murray was not
successful in describing the subject selected, he seems to have become
aware of the action of one of the company. A subject was chosen by
his brother, Mr. Aubrey Murray, who handed a written note of it to
the agent, Mrs. Toynbee, pointing vigorously to it to draw her attention
to this new suggestion that writing should be substituted for speaking.
Professor Murray received the impression that the subject was " some-
thing you can point out here," and on being told that was not so, he
added, making a vigorous gesture, like that of his brother :
" It's very
odd, I get an impression that you pointed at something." No hyper-
aesthesia can account for this. The contemporary record, though it
makes clear the " vigorous pointing " does not state that the subject
was written and not spoken. My information on this point comes from
the witnesses themselves, but I have not included the case in the main
report, owing to the want of clearness in the contemporary record.
2
For statistics, see below, p. 70,
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing.''' 69
have placed in two classes, which I have called Successes
and Partial Successes. I have counted as Successes not
only all cases where the complete incident is described,
but also cases where what may be called the essential
elements are given by the percipient, but, of course,
opinions will differ as to what is essential. That difficulty
can only be met by my giving in detail one or two
instances, which I have classified, for statistical purposes,
as Successes (S) and Partial Successes (P), so that the
reader may form his own impression as to my judgement
in this matter.
Of the seven cases described by Professor Murray,1
six
come under the head of Successes in my classification,
although in one case (May 8, 1910), that of B in the
front quad at New College with a dancing bear, the
animal thought of was in fact a dog. 2
The seventh case
I have counted as P and not S, because whereas the
subject was :
" Mr. Z. riding on the sea- shore on a horse,"
the description gave no definite locality. 3
My method
of distinguishing P from S is further indicated in the
three following cases, which I count as P. The first two
were on the same day :
J?me,4
1910.
Subject. " Miss Barbara Tchaikovsky visiting a political
prisoner in the Peter and Paul [prison]."
Professor Murray. " Tchaikovsky, but I can't see what he's
doing.—No, I've got it blurred. I've got it mixed up
with Miss Tchaikovsky. I've got her knocking at a
front door."
As the idea of prison, prisoner, is absent in the descrip-
tion, I have not counted this as a complete success.
1 See above p. 59 ff.
2
The record here shows that though the locality was incorrectly
guessed at first, it was subsequently correctly given. (See Appendix,
p. 90).
3
For further comment on this case, see below, p. 85 and Appendix, p. 92.
4
The date is not noted, but was between June 10 and Juno 18. (See
Appendix, p. 94.)
70 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
June, 1910.
Subject. " Paul Sabatier walking with an alpenstock along a
winding road in Savoy."
Professor Murray. " A man like Mr. Irving going up a
mountain—it isn't Mr. Irving—it's a clergyman with an
alpenstock—I should say it was a foreign clergyman." 1
Here, again, since the name "Paul Sabatier" and the
locality " Savoy " were not given, the success is counted
only as Partial, though I think it will be admitted that
the greater part of the desired impression was successfully
transmitted, and, incidentally, the failure to mention the
distinctive names is against the theory of auditory hyper-
aesthesia.
September 14, 1913.
Subject. " Alister and [Malcolm] MacDonald running along
the platform at Liverpool Street, and trying to catch the train
just going out."
Professor Murray. " Something to do with a railway
station. I should say it was rather a crowd at a big
railway station, and two little bo37
s running along in the
crowd. I should guess Basil." 2
Here, again, though the picture of two little boys
running in a railway station is correctly described, the
name of the station is not given, and the boys are not
identified. This therefore appears as P, and not S.
Having, an I hope, enabled the reader to attach a
meaning to the symbols P and S, I joroceed to a statistical
examination of the experiments.
The total number of recorded experiments is 505. On
six occasions where the subject is noted there is no entry
of a description, and these I count as Failures. So also
I do ten cases where only the word " Failure " is noted.
In sixty-eight cases no impression was obtained, and for
statistical purposes these are, of course, also Failures,
though there is a great distinction, as regards our estimate
1
See Appendix, p. 94.
2
For further comment, see below, p. 74
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." 71
of the phenomena, between a wrong guess and a failure
to have any impression. These may be called Negative,
and the others Positive Failures. The whole number of
Failures of every kind is 197, sixty-eight of these being
due to absence of any impression. 1
The number of
Partial Successes is 141, and of Complete Successes 167.
Thus, in the whole 505 experiments, we have the follow-
ing percentage :
Success - - - - 33-1
Partial Success - - 27-9
Failure - 39-0
or, excluding the sixty-eight cases in which no impression
was received, in the resulting 437 experiments we have :
Success - 38-2
Partial Success - - 32-3
Failure - 29-5
so that where some sort of impression was obtained, the
cases in which there was complete failure amounted to
less than a third of the whole.
These figures clearly establish the fact, already suffi-
ciently shown in the cases quoted above, that some
information is transmitted to the percipient, and it be-
comes therefore of great interest to determine if possible
whether the ordinary senses, if we allow for special sensitive-
ness, are the agency for the transmission. The conditions of
the experiment show clearly that the only sense we need
consider is that of hearing, and, as I have said, our
attention is specially directed to that by the failure of
the few cases where the selected subject was not described
in spoken words.
Another feature of these records also disposes one to
look for a solution in the direction of auditory perception.
In several instances, about forty, the subject was selected
by one member of the company and described to another
person who was to act as agent, that is, who was to be in
*I have counted the "Failures," so noted, and the blank entries as
Positive Failures, though I suspect that in most if not all these cases no
impression was obtained. [Note by Professor Murray. " Yes, that is so."]
72 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
contact with Professor Murray, and to whom he addressed
himself when describing his impression. Now, in the
majority of these cases, Professor Murray begins by saying
to the agent :
" This is not yours ; this seems to be So-
and-So's." Of course, his impression may be telepathically
derived, but we cannot exclude the possibility, granting
auditory hyperesthesia, that the percipient subconsciously
hears a voice which he recognises as not that of the
ostensible agent, and, in fact, on more than one occasion
Professor Murray has announced on entering that he " heard
So-and-So's voice," 1
and the experiment was usually
stopped. Less delicate sense of hearing would be needed
to recognise a voice than to catch actual words, so that
if audition plays any part in the phenomena, we should
expect it to enter into the recognition that the subject
has been selected by some one other than the ostensible
agent. If this were so, if, that is, the guess were thus
helped by ordinary sense-perception, it would be reasonable
to look for at least as high a ratio of success in these
forty instances as in the general totals. But that is not
the case. The failures are relatively more numerous,
amounting to twenty out of forty, that is, to 50 per cent,
instead of 29 per cent. This fact, so far as it goes,
points against audition, and in favour of telepathy from
the agent. For it may, I think, be assumed that the
agent realises less vividly a subject dictated by another
than one deliberately chosen by herself, and that in
consequence the telepathic transmission is less clear. I
make this suggestion with diffidence, as I am aware that
the number of these cases, forty, is not large enough to
warrant a conclusion. But I note it because the more I
consider these records, the more plain it becomes that
vivid realisation on the part of the agent, and a real as
distinct from a momentary and ad hoc interest in the
subject, is conducive to success—a fact which, if true,
would seem to point to telepathy rather than to hyper-
aesthesia as a vera causa.
On the whole, however, the recognition that the subject
1
For the evidential value of the percipient's own impressions, see
below, p. 85.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." 73
has been chosen by some one not the ostensible agent is
at least suggestive of auditory perception ; and so perhaps
is the fact that noise, during the percipient's absence
from the room, is recognised as a very potent cause of
failure to obtain any impression at all. In many of these
cases Mr. Murray, on returning to the room, says :
" Too
much noise ; no impression," or
11
1 was disturbed by the
servants," or " by the dogs." But to this I do not
attach much value, as all Avho have taken part in experi-
ments of this kind, under conditions excluding sense-
perception, know how important concentration and freedom
from disturbance is to the percipient, and how " sensitive
"
most successful percipients are to noise or other irregular
interruptions.
The question of hyperesthesia versus telepathy can, it
seems to me, be best answered by a detailed examination
of the records, and especially of the partially successful
cases and the failures, with a view to seeing whether (a)
the errors are likely to be produced by mishearing, and
(b) whether any elements are observable which cannot be
accounted for by hearing. I have examined the records
carefully with this object in view, and I propose to place
before the reader, such evidence as I have been able to obtain.
(a) Evidence suggestive of auditory hyperaesthesia.
The chief source of this evidence must be sought among
errors, though, of course, it is possible that when a
description reproduces faithfully the words used by the
selecting agent, the success is due to overhearing. But it
may equally well be due to a vivid telepathic impression,
and therefore does not help to determine the question
under consideration.
A careful examination of errors gives seventeen cases,
besides the one described by Professor Murray,1
where mis-
hearing might conceivably account for the mistake. Thus
we find the following substitutions :
J. A. Smith for Jane Eyre
Masefield for Mansfield
1
David—Davies. See above, p. 59.
74 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Synge and Arran
Margoliouth
for a Scene with Anne Boleyn
for Margie, subsequently
corrected
hall
Cannan
Harconrt
Mrs. Garr
Bellot
for horse
for Cameron
for Cartagena
for Mrs. Carlyle
for Bell
for Alister 1
for Miss N. with a reading lamp.
perhaps Basil
and Miss N. reading
This Jast perhaps suggests that the word rather than the
picture was transferred. Sometimes a word is unmistakeably
recognised. Thus, on February 4, 1911, the subject being
" The merchant picking red roses in Beauty and the
Beast,'" Professor Murray says : "I seem to get the one
word '
Merchant.' " On other occasions a word is recog-
nised but misinterpreted, as when " Poll " is substituted,
though afterwards corrected, for " Pole," " Ball " is taken
to be a name instead of a dance, and " Karen," an
acquaintance of the experimenters, is described in the place
of Karen, a character in a book. The two remaining
cases of possible audition are as follows :
November 13, 1910. 2
Subject. " Out of UEspion ; Evsei finding a fly in his ink."
Professor Murray. " This is a book too, a Russian book.
It's L'Espion. It's a scene I don't remember at all. I get
[the] impression of the boy squashing a fly, but I can't
remember it at all. I confuse it with Joseph Vance."
The name of the boy Evsei is not given by Professor
Murray, but I think that it is responsible for the con-
fusion with Joseph Fance. 3
In this case, however, as
Professor Murray had read UEspion, it is quite as likely
that a half-recalled normal memory of his reading
suggested the similar sound, as that he had subconsciously
heard his daughter give the name.
3
A correspondent suggests that the confusion may be duo to the
" crocking " of the " hinseck " in the bur, described at the beginning
of de Morgan's book.
1
See above, p. 70. 2
See Appendix, p. 97.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing.." 75
September 7, 1913.
Subject. " Lewis Carroll drawing pictures of black cats in the
parapet room at Naworth."
[To this is appended a note saying that the agent, Mrs. A.
Toynbee, " at one moment thought of Christ Church," the
Oxford College of which " Lewis Carroll " was a member.]
Professor Murray. " It's Naworth, and it's somebody
drawing in the parapet room. It's somebody who
doesn't belong there. He's drawing the picture of the
cat in Alice in Wonderland with a grin. Can't get
him a bit. He makes the same sort of impression as
Verrall, but he isn't Verrall. I think it is not a real
cat. I think it is Alice in Wonderland. At one time
I got a feeling of Christ Church."
I have quoted this case at length at this point because
without the context it might be thought that the intro-
duction of the name Verrall was due to a mishearing of
Carroll. But under the circumstances, seeing that the cat
in Alice in Wonderland had already been mentioned, it is,
I think, pretty certain that it is some other reason and
not similarity of sound which is responsible for the intro-
duction of " Verrall." 1
This is the complete list which careful scrutiny has
furnished of errors suggestive of mishearing, and it will
be admitted that the number is not large nor the evidence
striking. It remains to examine the other class of cases,
those, namely, suggesting that the impression of the
subject is such as it is unlikely or impossible should be
derived from auditory hyperaesthesia.
(b) Evidence suggestive of telepathy.
Against the seventeen cases just described must be set
forty-five instances where the whole arrangement, if I may
use that word, of his impression by Mr. Murray suggests
that he has in some way caught a picture of the subject
chosen, or perceived its general characteristics, and is not
influenced by the words used by the agent. It is exceed-
1 Note by Professor Murray. "I think it was the feeling of wit." Cf.
the feeling of connexion with a poet in the Celia Newbolt case, p. 66.
7G Mrs. A. W. Verratt. [part
ingly difficult to represent to the reader how strongly I
have been led by a study of these records, and even
more by witnessing the phenomena, to the conclusion
that, as Mr. Murray has said, " the percipient often
seems to receive information which comes direct from
another mind and not by any definite channel of sense."
But, perhaps, a summary of certain types, and a detailed
account, with comments, of some others, will enable the
reader to realise, if not to share, the writer's feeling that
the main, perhaps the sole, explanation of the phenomena
is to be found in telepathy.
In thirteen of the forty-five cases mentioned above, the
scene is described but no names are given, although the
names were mentioned by the agent. The three following
are types of this sort :
March 15, 1913.
Subject. " Ta.gore singing his own hymn and preaching."
Mrs. A. Toynbee was the agent, but the subject was chosen
by Lady Mary Murray.
Professor Murray (to Mrs. A. T.). " I don't think this is
yours.—I don't think I am going to get it."
Professor Murray (to Lady Mary Murray). " Do you
remember a story of your father's about a German
describing a picture :
'
Paulus in the middle j)red,i]cant .'
No, I don't think I am going to get it."
Here, although the main subject is not caught, and no
single one of the words is reproduced, the idea of preach-
ing is conveyed by an allusion to a story familiar to Mr.
Murray and to Lady Mary Murray, in which the German
word for " a preacher " occurs.
March 15, 1914.
Szibject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of a scene
in a silly play that [Norah Shrewsbury] 1
did. I think of it
on the morning of the election when the man comes in, and
he's very sorry he got in."
Professor Murray. " Something to do with an election, and
he's returning thanks, and he's sorry he got in. [Is it]
somebody I ought to know ? No, I don't know him
—
1
Pseudonym.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." 77
Ought I to know who it is 1 —Oh, it's in a play, or a
book, a play. The only play I've seen with that is a
Barrie play, but I do not think it's that. I get an
impression of its being feeble, feeble, or silty, or some-
thing, but I can't get anything more. No. I feel as
though it were something amateurish,—written by a
nobleman who wanted to write plays,—or something like
that."
Here the two main ideas, the annoyance of the success-
ful candidate and the source from a " silly play," are
both reproduced, but the lady's name though mentioned
by the agent is not given ; the " nobleman," however,
probably represents the surname, that of a well-known
peerage.
June 19, 1915.
Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Miss Negroponti
[a Greek lady] looking at tulips at Kew."
Professor Murray. " [I] don't feel at all sure about this.
Is it Jamaica, or the West Indies ? I get an impression
of a girl looking at flowers, in a garden. Its funny, I
thought she was an Italian, but she is not Italian ; she
seems like a black. I thought she was looking at
tulips."
(At this point the company began to laugh and make fun.)
" Not one of Mrs. W.'s black Belgians ?
"
A contemporary note here adds that Mrs. A. Toynbee
first thought of tulips, then thought of a very dark
person looking at them, a negroid person, before fixing on
Miss Negroponti.
This case is interesting. The introduction of " Jamaica,
West Indies, like a black " is clearly not fortuitous. It
may be derived from Mrs. Toynbee's rejected impression of
a " negroid person," 1
or it may be due to a vague
apprehension of the name Negroponti, in which case
hyperaesthesia is not excluded. I have quoted the incident
as interesting in itself, and as affording the weakest
evidence against hyperaesthesia among these thirteen cases.
1
For other instances where rejected impressions are caught by the
percipient, see below, pp. 79 and 90.
78 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
In another group of cases, eleven in all, though the
whole impression is not correct, what may be called " the
atmosphere " has been perceived. Twice, for instance, on
November 13, 1910, and September 7, 1913, when the
subject selected was a specified literary person engaged in
writing, the general situation was apprehended, though in
both cases the actual writer was incorrectly guessed, in
one case " May Sinclair " being substituted for " Forster,"
in the other " a literary man in India or somewhere " for
"Mary Wilkins in America." 1
On June 1, 1912, a scene,
described in Tchekov's play The Cherry Orchard, was said
by Professor Murray to be " Russian, it's in a book, it's a
play, it's a very inconsequent play, Tchekov, one of the
two Tchekov plays, I should say The Cherry Orchard, but
that's just guessing," and he failed to get the exact
scene. Again on December 12, 1915, a scene from Conrad's
Under Western Eyes, a story of Russian anarchists in
Switzerland, appears as " it's a book, it's about Russia,
I do not think it's a real Russian book . . . guessing, I
should say it was Conrad. It's English and it's about
Russia." Here, also, the exact situation is not described,
though the percipient, quite correctly, notes that there is
" someone in a great state of terror or anxiety coming
downstairs." Once, on June 19, 1915, the selected subject
being an extravagant dream, Professor Murray, though failing
to perceive all details, remarks that it is " something in-
vented. It's not a story, not a book ; I should think it
was a dream. There is some queer element of unreality
about."
But suggestive as the above-quoted cases are that Pro-
fessor Murray's impressions are not derived from auditory
hyperesthesia, they are not conclusive against such an
explanation, for experience has shown that impressions sub-
consciously obtained through one sense may take a form, as
they come into the percipient's consciousness, appropriate
to quite another derivation. In my own case, for instance,
in the course of some experiences in guessing the values
of cards felt, with closed eyes, by my finger tips, the
1
See Appendix, p. 103.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." 79
impressions derived soon began to appear to me as visual
images, probably because to a good visualiser, as I am, most
mental impressions take that form. 1
It is, therefore, possible
that information subconsciously heard by Professor Murray
rises into his consciousness as a perceived scene or a
general impression, so that his feeling that a girl in Jamaica
"something like a black" is looking at tulips is due
to his having in fact heard subconsciously the name
Negroponti.
For conclusive evidence that telepathy is at work in
these experiments, we must look for indications in the
percipient's descriptions that thoughts, as distinct from
spoken words, have been transferred from the agent or
agents. Some evidence for this there is, and I give it
in detail here ; if telepathy can be established in
these cases, the presumption is very strong that it is
also acting in other cases, where otherwise we are bound
to strain the evidence for hyperaesthesia as the vera
causa. 2
Twice (June 7, 1910, May 18, 1913) when the agent
rejected her first selection in favour of a second, the first,
and not the second, was apprehended by Professor Murray
;
but the cases are not perfectly clear for both selections were
described in words, and might therefore have been heard.
One of these presents several points of interest, and is
therefore quoted here :
June 7, 1910. 3
1st Subject, suggested to the agent, Mrs. A. Toynbee, by Lady
Mary Murray. " A picture [in another room] by Grandfather
[Lord Carlisle] of the Villa Glori [where the Cairoli brothers
were killed in 1867]."
'See Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XI., p. 182 ff.
3
Here, however, I should like to enter a Caveat. Personally, I believe
that auditory hyperaesthesia, under the conditions observed in these
experiments, is quite as " abnormal " as telepathy would be, and re-
quires for its establishment much more corroborative evidence than I
have been able to find. In fact, the records of the S.P.R. seem to me
to show that telepathy is at least as common as hyperaesthesia.
3
See Appendix, p. 92.
80 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
To this Mrs. Toynbee objected that it would be very
difficult, as she had not the picture in her mind.
2nd Subject also suggested by Lady Mary Murray. " Gari-
baldi with the people in their red shirts in the streets of
Palermo."
Professor Murray. " It's an Italian picture. I've got a
blurred picture—like a picture in Trevelyan's book of the
Cairoli brothers. I've got only this, but I know it
doesn't exist."
The " picture in Trevelyan's book " is no doubt that of
the three Cairoli brothers with their mother (see Mr.
G. M. Trevelyan's Garibaldi and the Making of Italy,
p. 37, where the death of two of the brothers at the Villa
Glori is recorded). It must be admitted that Professor
Murray's subconscious self, whether deriving its information
from hyperesthesia or otherwise, at least masquerades
here as " telepathetic." Omitting all names mentioned in
both selections, and avoiding all direct allusion to either
subject, he presents us with an unmistakeable indirect
allusion to the rejected subject : the picture is " blurred " (it
is not in Mrs. Toynbee's mind) ; it is " like a picture . . .
of the Cairoli brothers " (killed at Villa Glori) ; it " does
not exist " (the subject having been rejected). But
believers in the ingenuity of the " subliminal," and its desire
to claim supernormal powers, will no doubt suppose that the
" telepathic game " was deliberately played, though the
information was derived from auditory hyperesthesia.
But such an explanation cannot be given where one of
the percipient's statements corresponds with an involuntary
and unmentioned thought of the principal agent, or of
some other member of the company. Thus, on September
25, 1910, the subject, that of a lady brushing her hair in a
place named, being correctly given, Professor Murray, before
naming the lady, mentioned the name of another lady
entirely unconnected with the subject, but whose photo-
graph 1
was in the mind of the agent. And, again, what
explanation can be given, other than telepathy, where the
percipient adds to his description of the selected subject
1
See Appendix, p. 97. The photograph was not in the room.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." si
details not known to him but correct, though not named
by the agent ? Thus :
May 18, 1913.1
Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) :
" Belgian Baron getting out
of train at Savanarilla with us, and walking across the sandy
track, and seeing the new train come in."
Professor Murray. " Man getting out of a train and looking
for something. I don't know if he's looking for another
train to come. I think it is a sort of dry hot sort of place.
I get him with a faint impression of waxed moustache
—
a sort of foreign person—but I can't get more."
The " Belgian Baron," never seen by Mr. Murray, had a
waxed moustache, " not mentioned " by Mrs. Toynbee, as
is noted in the contemporary record.
August 24, 19 13.2
Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of Mrs. F. sitting
on the deck, and Grandfather opening the door for her."
Professor Murray. " This is Grandfather. I think it is on
a ship, and I think he is bowing and smiling to some-
body—opening the door."
Mrs. T. " Can't you get the person ?
"
Professor Murray. " I first thought of the Captain, and
afterwards a lady. I get a feeling of a pink head dress."
Mrs. T. "Yes, that is right."
January 13, 1914. 3
Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent): "I think of that funny old
Irishman called Dr. Hunt in the hotel at Jamaica. I'll think
of the race where they wouldn't let him ride with his little
gray mare."
Professor Murray. " Tropics. It's—It must [have] some-
thing to do with Jamaica. I can't get it a bit clear.
I feel as if it were a drunken Irish doctor talking
with a brogue. I can't get it clear."
To this the contemporary note says that Mrs. Toynbee
"did not mention he got drunk, but he did." 4
1
See Appendix, p. 100. 2
See Appendix, p. 101. 3
See Appendix, p. 105.
4 I omit one other case where Professor Murray got an impression not
of the chosen subject, but of something of which Mrs. Toynbee was, in
F
82 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Once, although the subject selected was an actual
incident known to both agent and percipient, an incorrect
impression of the agent's, subsecpiently rectified in her
own mind, was reproduced by the percipient, no mention
having been made of this impression. Thus :
August 11, 1912.
Subject. Lady Mary Murray (agent) :
" A Glasgow class-
room, and the students presenting us with a wedding-present."
Professor Murray. " Oh, it's Glasgow. It's something
going on in the Greek class-room—it's that man, I think
[it] is G ,
presenting us with the Waverley Novels
[as in fact was the case]."
The record notes that the presentation was not in the
Greek class-room, but that Lady Mary Murray first thought
of it as taking place there, but then remembered that this
was wrong. So that here the agent's first impression
seems to have outweighed the actual knowledge of the
percipient.
Once certainly, and perhaps twice, Mr. Murray caught
the thought, not of the principal agent, but of some other
member of the company. Thus, on December 15, 1910,
he reported his impression as " Kangaroos," a subject
entirely unconnected with that selected by Mrs. Toynbee,
but one that had been in the mind of another of the
party, who thereupon reported that she had been thinking
that if she were to select she would choose something like
a kangaroo, or a bear with a visiting- book, like a recent
picture in Punch; 1
and on June 19, 1915, while giving
an almost complete rendering of the scene chosen, Mr.
Murray thought of the principal figure as a soldier,
whereas Mrs. Toynbee, the agent, had thought of a
woman, while the rest of the company thought of a man,
having so interpreted her words " a friend of the R s
who was kicked by a horse and died." In this case, if
hyperesthesia is admitted, the percipient may have
fact, thinking, because as the subject of her involuntary thoughts was
of recent occurrence—a meeting of the evening before—it may havo
emerged independently from among Professor Murray's thoughts.
1
Soo Appendix, p. 98.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." 83
misinterpreted the words also, but in the former case the
kangaroo or bear had not been mentioned, so that over-
hearing cannot account for its introduction.
Here I conclude my presentation to the reader of
typical cases from among the very interesting records of
these experiments. My own conclusion is that, after
making all possible allowance for occasional assistance
from unconscious overhearing by Mr. Murray of voices or
actual words, the greater part of the remarkably successful
" guessing " is to be ascribed to telepathy, to some
process, that is to say, into which the normal senses do
not enter. It is greatly to be hoped that our President
will continue his experiments, and that gradually the
conditions may be so modified as to exclude all possi-
bility of auditory perception, conscious or unconscious,
and of aid or even encouragement from contact with the
principal agent. Already some progress has been made in
varying the conditions without thereby introducing a
disturbing element ; for instance, at first, Mr. Murray was
rarely successful with a new agent, but in the later
experiments he has not been " put off " in this way.
Thus in the last two sets of experiments, December 5 and
December 12, 1915, three times subjects were selected by
" strangers," i.e. by persons never before taking part in
these trials, and in each case there was success, complete
or nearly complete.
In the earlier series, the success was greatest when Mrs.
A. Toynbee was acting as ostensible agent, the percentage
of complete success when this was the case being 35-7
and of failure (including lack of impression) being 38, as
against 33-1 and 39 respectively in the general totals ; and
in the successes and partial successes otherwise obtained
the agent was usually Lady Mary Murray or Miss Agnes
Murray, thus showing that, for whatever reason, familiarity
between agent and percipient was a favourable element.
Various explanations may be offered for this fact, and
among them must certainly be reckoned the mental
attitude of the agent. The topics chosen by these
members of his family have a vividness and actuality,
84 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
a picturesqueness, a detail and often an element of the
fantastic which is lacking in the more sober selections
made by visitors, less acquainted perhaps with the con-
ditions of previous success. For there is no doubt that
the fantastic and the unusual specially lends itself to the
successful guessing of Professor Murray, so that future ex-
perimenters should think of schoolmasters eating female
crabs, 1
of actual persons replacing fictitious characters, and
perhaps especially of Russian novels rather than of actual
incidents, " choses vues," or personal experiences, if they
are to have their impressions divined by this percipient.
This experience is entirely consistent with observations in
other telepathic experiments ; the great difficulty is
always to keep alive the interest of the percipient, and
prevent the deadly boredom which comes from thinking
of cards, or numbers, or diagrams, even in the case of
persons whose scientific curiosity induces them to multiply
experiments capable of " statistical " estimate as to success
or failure. Such estimates are not to be undervalued, but
we must deal with the telepathic faculty as we find it,
and where the subjects selected for transmission are as
varied, as complex and as distinctive, as they are in the
series under consideration, there is little or no practical
difficulty in estimating results, although they cannot be
compared with what would be produced by chance as they
can when selected numbers or playing cards are the chosen
subjects and there is a calculable probability of success.
So far as these experiments go, they seem to show that
the main factor of success, as between agent and per-
cipient, is to be found in the faculty of the percipient.
Several attempts were made by Mrs. Toynbee to transfer
her impressions to various other would-be percipients, but
these in all cases failed. Professor Murray, on the con-
trary, was successful with a considerable number of agents,
though it should be remembered that, even when a
stranger was acting as ostensible agent, Lady Mary
Murray or one of Professor Murray's two daughters was
present and acquainted with the selected subject. But
the presence of no one of these three individuals was
1
See above, p. 61, and Appendix, p. 109.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing." 85
necessary to success, for success was achieved in the
absence of each one of them.
Interesting suggestions have been made by Professor
Murray as to the method by which the subconscious impres-
sion enters his consciousness ; thus he has noted that it is
sometimes by way of a sense-channel (smell, sight, hearing),
sometimes by a specially invented chain of reasoning or
association, more often through an undeterminate sense of
quality. The subjective impressions of the percipient as to
method are always valuable, and Professor Murray has given
us concrete examples of each of the suggested processes.
But a considerable familiarity with this type of phenomena,
both as critic and as percipient, leads me to warn the
reader that, though the subjective impression is no doubt
accurately noted, we must not accept it unchallenged as
an explanation of the process. In other words, while we
may grant, for instance, that the smell of a tarry coal
which fell from the fire was the means of translating a
subconscious impression into a conscious thought of the
burning of pictures,1
it is not safe to infer that such an
incident is a necessary part of the process. In the unusual
condition induced by a deliberate desire to plunge below
the threshold and bring back spoil from the depths, the
mind grasps eagerly after something familiar, and—
I
speak at least of my own sensations—is relieved at
seizing a solid fact, within normal experience, to which it
may attach the half-apprehended object of its search.
The percipient's mind being thus, so to say, on the look-
out for such a link, fastens on the falling coal, but had
the coal not fallen, it is capable of finding some other
link, or even of forging one. Thus in one of his instances
of a fictitious association of ideas, Professor Murray speaks
of hearing a horse in the road outside : "I have a noise of
hoofs. I expect it's the noise of hoofs in the street that
makes me think of it." But in the contemporary record of
the note-taker we read :
" No noise of hoofs in the street." 2
In twelve cases the record shows that Mr. Murray
connected his impression with some external occurrence,
1
See above, p. 59, and Appendix, p. 104.
2
See above, p. 60, and Appendix, p. 92.
86 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
and in all these cases his impression was correct. Some-
times he attributes the emergence of a name to the fact
that it had been mentioned in conversation shortly before
the experiments were made. In one of the most striking
cases, that of the dropping of cigar-ash upon a lady's
umbrella, 1
he began by remarking that he thought of
Dr. So-and-So, " whom I have been talking about," then
passed to the person who dropped the ash, so to the
scene described, and finally to the owner of the umbrella,
who was the daughter of Dr. So-and-So. Sometimes he
connects his impression with some act of his own :
" my
eyes fell on the dictionary " ; and he proceeds, correctly, to
describe the scene in Vanity Fair where Becky Sharp
throws Miss Pinkerton's dictionary out of the window of
the cab. On another occasion, the chosen subject being
" Gorki working as a ship's boy on a Volga steamer," he
says : "It seems Russian. It's some Russian writer.- I
should think it was Gorki," and notes :
" I had a feeling
of some one being dirty ; I trod on a dirty sack outside." 2
Or, again (March 5, 1914), he begins :
" Oh this is
perfectly dreadful—I don't know if it's the cats (cats
were, in fact, screeching outside the house), there's a sort
of feeling of driving along through dead men and wounded
men ; it's the horses screaming—oh it's Lady De Lancey
driving to her husband when he was wounded at Water-
loo," which was, in fact, the subject chosen. Again, the
subject being the appearance to Charles I. of the ghost of
Strafford when John Inglesant was the page in waiting,
Professor Murray approaches the matter by guessing that
"it is a ghost," there being, he notes, a light through the
window which suggested a ghost, and so proceeds to
complete the picture : "I should say a sort of cavalier
ghost appearing in the evening. I should think it is in a
book. Charles I. appearing to anybody—ghost appearing
to Charles I.-—I guess Strafford." 3
In the account which he gave of these experiments in
his Presidential Address, Mr. Murray expressed the opinion 4
1
See above, p. 59.
3
See Appendix, p. 94.
2
See Appendix, p. 104.
4
See above, p. 61.
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing''' 87
that " probably most people could attain the same results
if they practised for a good time and did not get excited
or flurried." This assumption may be too liberal, but it
is not at all improbable that the faculty—whatever it be
—
which Professor Murray displays, is possessed by many people
who are not aware of possessing it. I hope, therefore,
that others will be encouraged by the publication of these
records to experiment on similar lines. As to the con-
ditions under which such experiments should be conducted,
it is not possible to lay down hard and fast rules. In a
general way it may be said that the stricter the con-
ditions can be made the better, but it is of no use to
impose ideal conditions at the cost of totally inhibiting
the desired phenomena. Every experimenter must discover
for himself on what lines he can obtain the best results,
remembering always that these results will have no
scientific value unless some probable, if not certain, con-
clusion can be drawn from them. In the case of Professor
Murray's experiments, I think, as I have tried in this report
to show, that we have good evidence of some supernormal
faculty, probably telepathic, and that the results obtained
are therefore a valuable contribution to psychical research.
APPENDIX.
The original records of about a hundred experiments are
printed here, so that readers may judge for themselves the
kind of evidence upon which Mrs. Verrall based her con-
clusions in the foregoing paper. To some extent the selection
was made at random, but it was influenced by these two
considerations : (a) that it was desirable to 'print such cases
as were most accurately recorded ; and (b) that the selection
should illustrate the various theories and suggestions put
forward in Mrs. VerralVs report, which was based on a
careful study of the whole record. Almost all the experi-
ments to which reference is made either in Professor Murray's
Presidential Address or in Mrs. VerralVs paper are included.
The records have in every case been printed verbatim,
«
88 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
except that names Jiave sometimes been omitted. Statements
in round brackets form part of the original record ; state-
ments in square brackets are editorial additions. A few
corrections and additions have also been made in footnotes.
The Appendix also includes the notes made by Mrs.
Verrall of the experiments which she herself witnessed.
For the general conditions under which the experiments
were conducted, see above, p. 64. Unless there is a statement
to the contrary, the subject was described audibly by the
agent (Professor Murray being out of the room), and there
was contact between the agent and percipient during the
experiment.—Ed.
April 17, 1910.
1. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Dad's little
German hair-dresser cutting Denis's hair." 1
Professor Murray : "A funny little man walking down a
street knocking at doors—he looks foreign—he's just
like my little German hairdresser."
2. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" At Amain,
the Marchese recognising Grandfather [Lord Carlisle] in the
summer-house on the terrace—us there."
Professor Murray :
" It's you at Amain, I think in the
dining-room, or it might be the terrace, and your
Marchese is there."
April 31, 1910.
3. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. D
poking the fire, with the kettle boiling." (In lodgings at
Aldeburgh.)
Professor Murray : "A red-hot poker, a man bending
down poking the fire ; he is smiling—with a beard
—
[correct] it's Mr. D ."
4. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. Newbury
in his Rembrandt hat at a country station."
Professor Murray :
'
The Newbury s walking down the
road at W . Mr. Newbury in his big hat."
1 According to Professor Murray's recollection, the record of this
experiment is incorrect. The agent was Mr. Denis Murray, and the
statement of the subject should run thus :
" Dad's little German
hair-dresser going round canvassing."
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 89
5. 'Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent). Professor Myers
reading Tchekov in that arm-chair (study)—I think it's Pro-
fessor Myers.
Professor Murray :
" Russian—Rosalind [Mrs. Toynbee]
reading The Sea-gull [by Tchekov] in an arm chair—no,
it's a man—a man with a dark beard and a, long face
—
I can't see exactly who it is." [Description correct.]
May 3, 1910.
6. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) : "Us [Professor
Murray, Lady Mary Murray and Miss Agnes Murray] going in
the tram to visit Mr. T f at Christchurch."
Professor Murray :
" I get two separate things—one is
the long bridge from Bournemouth to Christchurch, and
the other is you, Mother [Lady M. Miirray] and me
walking with T f, walking down the lane to the
tram."
(Rosalind [Mrs. Arnold Toynbee] had in her mind the long
bridge.)
7. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) :
" L on his
bicycle running into a motor."
Professor Murray :
" Somebody on a bicycle (on a hill)
—
I think Cousin B ; then the bicycle smashed up."
May 6, 1910.
8. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. Hammond
type-writing."
Professor Murray :
" Hammond in his room at the top
of the Daily News office, sitting at his table writing."
9. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. Brown
and myself playing fives at Castle Howard."
Professor Murray :
" You and Brown and me walking
down the long passage at Castle Howard."
10. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Cecil W
and the N children playing by the windmill at W ."
Professor Murray : (No impression).
11. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Dr. Bell
getting into a dog-cart."
Professor Murray : " Robert Bell driving in Dr. L 's
gig on Hindhead."
90 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
12. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mrs. M
feeding swans in Worcester."
Professor Murray :
" Somebody feeding swans on the pond,
in the park at Glasgow—a woman with a brisk manner
—
I can't be sure who it is —perhaps Miss ."
May 8, 1910.
13. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) : " Mr. B
with a dog in the front Quad at New College."
Professor Murray : " B showing P some old
building in Rome—no, it's not in Rome, he's in the
front Quad at New College, with something like a
dancing-bear."
14. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) : " Mr. M
signing cheques."
Professor Murray. (No impression.)
15. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mrs. A
watering flowers."
Professor Murray. (No impression.)
May —(?), 1910.
16. Subject. Miss F. M. (agent) :
" Mrs. H—— brushing her
hair."
Professor Murray :
" Somebody brushing her hair."
May 13, 1910.
17. Subject i. (Suggested by Lady Mary Murray.) Mr. B
at his trial. (This was rejected as being too obvious.)
ii. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. B skating."
Professor Murray :
" This is something that nobody here
has seen. It seems to be the little room under the
law-courts, where B waited after the trial—he is
there with Mrs. B and McC and me."
18. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Miss Penrose
in a library taking out a book."
Professor Murray :
" Miss Penrose giving away prizes
—
standing—books
. '
'
19. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Grandmother
and Aunt K as girls sitting and sewing in the garden at
A ."
Professor Murray :
" Two people sitting in a garden and
sewing—(looking up at a picture of Grandmother)—it
lxxil] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 91
seems to have some connection with that picture
—
nobody definite—two mid-Victorian ladies." (Afterwards
he said that he had had a distinct impression of Cousin
B [Aunt K.'s son], but had rejected it.
20. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Grandfather
Terence [Professor Murray's father] writing."
Professor Murray :
" Somebody writing with a quill-pen
at an old-fashioned desk —like that one in the cupboard."
(The desk in the cupboard belonged to Grandfather
Terence.)
(When asked who the person could be.) " I should
say from the desk it is my father."
June 5, 1910.
21. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent): "Lady in
black with long black gloves, looking at a picture."
Professor Murray :
" Somebody in long black robes—only
their back."
22. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. 0
of K looking at brasses in the ante-chapel at Merton."
Professor Murray :
" Get no definite person, but somebody
getting squeezes of brasses in a church, perhaps Cumnor."
23. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Lake at Castle
Howard with water-lilies—with reeds. Mrs. M in a boat."
Professor Murray :
" Somebody in a boat on a lake, with
a lot of ducks—lake at Castle Howard—a gentle sort
of person—(guessing) Mrs. M ."
24. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Uncle G
as a little boy looking at a canary in a cage."
Professor Murray :
" Something about Cousin A .
Cousin A—— pushing a bicycle up a hill—an old one."
25. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" That Knight
at Siena—a medieval horseman riding towards a castle—in a
picture at Siena. I mean the person to be a real one."
Professor Murray :
" Something Italian—something like an
old Italian town."
26. Subject (suggested by Lady Mary Murray). Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee (agent) :
" The woman in Boston Harbour who fell
overboard. Mr. M n and Mother [Lady Mary Murray]
watching on their way to the '
Ivernia.'
"
02 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
Professor Murray :
" Something of Mother's [Lady Mary
Murray]—the woman who tried to drown herself in
Boston Harbour."
27. Subject. Lady Mary Murray (agent) :
" Class-room at
Glasgow—Professor Murray lecturing and G R is
there."
Professor Murray :
" Rosalind [Mrs. Arnold Toynbee] in
the dining-room."
(Mrs. Toynbee had said before : " Shall I go into the
dining-room ? ")
June 7, 1910.
28. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" The Bird
Droves Chorus in Hijojwlytus ."
Professor Murray :
" Something about Egypt or the Nile."
29. Subject (suggested by Lady Mary Murray). Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee (agent) :
" Garibaldi with the people in their red
shirts in the streets of Palermo."
(Lady Mary first suggested picture by Grandfather [Lord
Carlisle] of Villa Glori ; Rosalind [Mrs. A. Toynbee] said [it
would be] very difficult, as she hadn't the picture in her mind.)
Professor Murray : "It's an Italian picture—I've got a
blurred picture—like a picture in Trevelyan's book of
the Cairoli brothers. I've got only this, but I know it
doesn't exist."
30. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Bavarian
peasants in a dancing-room drinking beer by a wooden table
in a room full of smoke."
Professor Murray :
" People dancing—in funny costume,
I think—not court dress—rather ugly, rather lumpy
peasant costume. I should only be romancing if I went
on, but I should say they had a lot of coins." (Quite
correct.)
31. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent): "Dr. S
and Cousin B having tea in a restaurant."
Professor Murray :
" No. A dim impression of Cousin
B ."
32. Subject (suggested by Mrs. Arnold Toynbee). Lady Mary
Murray (agent) :
" Mr. Z riding on the sea-shore on a
horse."
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 93
Professor Murray : "Is this a thing of your own ? Let me
try it with Rosalind [Mrs. A. Toynbee]. Well, absurd,
same impression from both. I have Z.'s manuscripts
there—and I have a noise of hoofs. I expect it's the
noise of hoofs in the street that makes me think of
it." 1 (No noise of hoofs in the street.)
33. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) : " Miss N
in the garden at B s with a guinea-pig."
Professor Murray : " It's the H 's house at Churt
(i.e. B s)—it's somebody I don't know—it's U
—it's somebody walking in the garden with Miss N .
Is she feeding goats ?
"
June, 10, 1910.
34. Subject (written, not spoken). Mrs. Arnold Toynbee
(agent) :
" Mrs. S G painting a picture."
Professor Murray :
" PI riding on an elephant."
35. Subject (written, not spoken). Mrs. Arnold Toynbee
(agent) :
" Miss H at Maskelyne & Devant's."
Professor Murray :
" R B calling on J ."
36. Subject {written, not spoken). Mrs. Arnold Toynbee
(agent) :
" Mr. J- gardening."
Professor Murray :
" Mrs. C painting the Acropolis."
37. Subject (suggested by Lady Mary Murray). Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee (agent) :
" Little Mermaid in Andersen's Fairy-Tales
at the bottom of the sea."
Professor Murray :
" Poem or picture to do with the sea
—
it seems like a mermaid sitting on a rock."
38. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Margaret
L bathing."
Professor Murray (without contact) :
" Nothing." (With
contact) :
" Cousin B writing his book."
39. Stibject. Lady Mary Murray (agent) :
" Jane Eyre
finding the fire in Rochester's bedroom."
Professor Murray :
" J. A. Smith moving resolution about
'
Greats.'
"
1 Note by Professor Murray. The record here is not quite complete.
It should end thus : " It is Z riding on a horse. (" Where ? ")
I suppose in Greece."
94 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
40. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Aunt F
and J B with a wheelbarrow in the kitchen-garden at
Barford."
Professor Murray (without contact) :
" The kitchen-garden
at Barford—people who don't belong there [correct]
—
Aunt H—— and some Cambridge young man." [Correct
of J B—.]
June—(?), 1910.
41. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent): " Miss Barbara
Tchaikowsky visiting a political prisoner in the Peter and Paul
[prison]."
Professor Murray :
" Tchaikowsky, but I can't see what
he's doing. No, I've got it blurred. I've got it mixed
up with Miss Tchaikowsky. I've got her knocking at
a front-door."
42. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Paid Sabatier
walking with an alpenstock along a winding road in Savoy."
Professor Murray : "A man like Mr. Irving going up a
mountain—it isn't Mr. Irving, it's a clergyman with an
alpenstock—I should say it was a foreign clergyman."
43. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Ghost of
Strafford coming in to see Charles I., when John Inglesant was
page -in -waiting
. '
'
Professor Murray :
" I think this is wrong. I'm going to
guess it is a ghost. (A light through the window
suggested a ghost.) I should say a sort of Cavalier
ghost appearing in the evening. I should think it is
in a book. Charles I. appearing to anybody—ghost
appearing to Charles I.—(guessing) Strafford."
44. Subject. Lady Mary Murray (agent) :
" The first shot
being fired in the American War of Independence at that little
bridge at Concord."
Professor Murray :
" I can't hear anything but noises."
(Great noises going on.)
45. Subject. Lady Dorothy Henley (agent) :
" Mafeking
night and the turmoil in London."
Professor Murray :
" Nothing but Canadian troops."
40. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" G at a
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 95
show of the Zanzigs, at which they sat behind a screen with
gold storks on it."
Professor Murray. Nothing.
47. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Tolstoi re-
ceiving friends on his eightieth birthday."
Professor Murray : "I had an impression of a road in
New Guinea—like a water-course. Grandfather or Mr.
Cornford."
48. Subject. Lady Mary Murray (agent) :
" Sitting on the
steps of the Museum at Sparta, waiting to see if we could find
the Ephor."
Professor Murray :
" This is something that happened
when you and I were in Greece—when we toured in
the Peloponnese. It's waiting for the Ephor when it
was ploughing."
June 18, 1910.
49. Subject {suggested by Lady Mary Murray). Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee (agent) :
" T A and Grandfather standing
together side by side doing the picture of the Palatine in the
dining-room now."
Professor Murray :
" Is it your own thing ? (" No.")
Mother's ? ("Yes.") Somebody painting a picture—either
painting, or standing looking at a picture. I'm guessing
—Costa—it's something Italian. I get muddled."
50. Subject {suggested by Lady Mary Murray). Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee (agent) :
" Professor Murray taking a walk with
Jowett, when an undergraduate, round by Mansfield, when the
scaffolding was up."
Professor Murray :
" No, I can't get anything. I get a
faint impression of Masefield."
(With Lady Mary Murray as agent.) " No, I can't
get anything."
51. Subject {suggested by Lady Mary Murray). Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee (agent) : " The death of Byron—railway station in
North Italy—Trelawney—the news being brought—Uncle G
is there."
Professor Murray :
" That's Mother's. [Right.] She always
does things in either Italy or Greece. I get a crowd of
96 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
people in consternation at some news or other. I've got
the crowd quite clearly. It's a crowd at a railway
station in France receiving the news of the death of
Napoleon, but that's not right. I've got it quite clear.
I get now the death of Byron."
52. Subject i. (suggested by Lady Mary Murray). Mrs. Arnold
Toynbee (agent) :
" Botha making his inaugural speech as
Prime Minister. No. (Mrs. Toynbets own suggestion.) Mr.
M h and a soldier dressed in red by the side of an ice-
bound pond."
Professor Murray :
" It's M h giving an inaugural
address."
53. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Miss L
dragging her little dog up the hill at Alassio in the heat."
Professor Murray :
" I get the impression of people on the
Riviera going up a hill. Is a dog in it ? (" Yes.")
Road towards the gap at Alassio."
August 7, 1910.
54. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Miss
Neroutsos reading at Cambridge with a reading-lamp."
Professor Murray (coming into the room) [without con-
tact] :
" I believe this is Miss Neroutsos teaching you
German here, reading aloud to you."
55. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. Cornford
as Comus in the theatre at Cambridge, when he first comes in."
Professor Murray (coming into the room) [without con-
tact] :
" I know tin's —Cornford doing Comus. I won-
dered at first if it was Faustus." (Mrs. Toynbee con-
fused it with Faustus.)
August 9, 1910.
[Six failures and one partial success.]
August 20, 1910.
56. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. H
throwing stones into a pond on Hampstead Heath."
Professor Murray :
" Not Denis and me throwing stones
at a notice-board ? Faint impression of throwing
stones."
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 97
September 25, 1910.
57. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" F wash-
ing a blouse in a wash-hand basin."
Professor Murray :
" This is F arranging flowers in a
basin. ("Not quite right.") Then she's washing clothes."
58. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" G K
drawing an anatomical diagram on a desk."
Professor Murray : " Not somebody drawing a map ?
Uncle A 1 Somebody making a diagram—I can't
get who."
59. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" J— R
in his castle in France with the C s in the garden."
Professor Murray : "I get vague impressions of a French
chateau and I should have thought the C——s. The
C s walking in a garden—he's the Frenchman who
was at Bedales." (Right.)
80. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" K L
brushing her hair in the Long Gallery and a looking-glass on
the table."
Professor Murray :
" The Long Gallery at Castle Howard.
I can't get the person-—it seems like somebody with a
fiddle in a dressing-gown brushing her hair—Georgina
the beautiful duchess, Miss J , K L ." (Mrs.
Toynbee was thinking of the photograph of Miss J .)
November 13, 1910.
61. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Forster
writing Hoivard's End in a particular room with a French
window looking out on a lawn."
Professor Murray :
" Someone I don't know. I get a
room—rather pretty with lawn and garden in front
—
with a French window. I get a woman—May Sinclair."
62. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Out of
L'Espion. Evsei finding a fly in his ink."
Professor Murray :
" This is a book—a Russian book.
It's L'Espion. It's a scene I don't remember at all.
I get an impression of the boy squashing a fly, but I
can't remember it at all. I confuse it with Joseph
Vance."
G
98 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
63. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" God Save
the King."
Professor Murray :
" Noise outside."
December 15, 1910.
64. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Cousin B
having his eyes examined by Mr. C ."
Professor Murray : " An oculist, C ,
examining the
eyes of B ." (Suggested by one of the company
moving her spectacles.)
65. Subject (written, not spoken). Mrs. Arnold Toynbee
(agent) :
" Cousin A feeding cats."
Professor Murray :
" I think you've been writing it. No,
I can't do it."
[Three failures followed, the subject being spoken aloud in each
case.]
66. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. L
beating an egg at Siena."
Professor Murray :
" Kangaroos."
(Miss H was thinking that if she were doing it she
would give something like a kangaroo or a bear with a visiting-
book like the picture in Punch. Professor Murray had sheep,
bears, kangaroos in his mind.)
December 13, 1910.
67. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Sir Henry
Lunn at the North Pole."
Professor Murray :
" Is it anything to do with the poll at
an election ? A vague impression of a crowd waiting
at the North Pole."
68. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Forster talk-
ing at the Friday Club."
Professor Murray :
" Somebody reading a paper at an
Essay Society—not in Oxford. A man that's not
Masefield—he reminds me of hirn—it's Forster. A vague
impression of Miss C and G . I feel as if the
subject were something to do with Woman's Suffrage."
(Miss C and G are members of the Friday Club.)
69. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. Barrie
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in" Guessing "
—
Appendix. 99
in our lodgings at Rottingdean playing draughts with Mrs.
H ."
Professor Murray :
" Lots of peojjle in a sea-side lodging.
It's Rottingdean when we were there with F D .
I get an impression of Barrie being there, but I don't
think he ever was."
70. Subject. Mr. Gayter (agent) :
" Choir singing carols
in New College Chapel next Sunday night."
Professor Murray :
" It's something like the Waits—it's
people singing in the street. I'm not sure that they are
in the street. It's people singing Christmas things in
the choir at New College Chapel."
February 4, 1911.
71. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent): " Keir Hardie
blacking boots."
Professor Murray :
" Hunter's shoes. Labour Party with
exceedingly bright boots."
72. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Y look-
ing at Manet's picture of a barmaid at the Post-Impres-
sionists."
Professor Murray :
" Post -Impressionist picture I haven't
seen—I can't get it exactly—an ugly sort of picture of
a woman. A barmaid ? (" That's not the whole thing.")
Somebody looking at it ? Perhaps G ."
73. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" The Mer-
chant picking red roses in Beauty %nd the Beast.'"
Professor Murray : "I seem to get the one word mer-
chant."
74. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. B
pulling a tin bath at the top of a stair-case."
Professor Murray :
" This is Harold B——. I thought he
was looking in at a shop-window, but now I can only
get tin pans."
March 12, 1913.
75. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. Cameron
the planter riding on his chestnut mare up to the bathing-shed,
and I—— and D in their bathing-dresses."
Professor Murray :
" No, I have not the faintest notion.
I should think it was Cannan of the Press."
100 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
May 18, 1913.
76. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I shall think
of the 3rd S brother eating spoil ge -cake and talking to the
other S 's grey dog."
Professor Murray :
" This smells to me like Birmingham.
It's the S family—not Ernest. I rather think it's
Hugh, but there are other S s about, and Hugh's
eating something—a sort of afternoon tea. It's not
Hugh—it's another one I don't know. It's either Hugh
or one I don't know."
77. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of
Mr. Sauter and Albert Rothenstein painting in a studio
—
painting a picture of a flower-girl with a red scarf."
Professor Murray (without contact) :
" It's people painting
in a studio, and they're foreign. It's in England all
right. (With contact) Oh—Mr. Sauter and somebody
else—I can't get him."
78. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Belgian
Baron getting out of the train at Savanilla with us and
walking across the sandy track and seeing the new train
come in."
Professor Murray :
" Man getting out of a train and
looking for something. I don't know if he is looking
for another train to come. I think it is a dry hot
sort of place. I get him with a faint impression of
waxed moustache—a sort of foreign person—but I can't
get more."
(He had a waxed moustache, but Mrs. Toynbee had not
mentioned it.)
79. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) :
" I think of the
man in Under Western Eyes coming out of the house when
his ears were off 1
and getting under the tram-car. No. [2nd
Subject.] Mr. D walking down High Street outside Barber's
that night late and we thinking he was a wraith."
Professor Murray :
" It's the last scene in Under Western
Eyes—when the man goes out-—out deaf—and getting
under the tram-car."
1
Note by Professor Murray. This is a slip on the part of the note-
taker. The record should run :
" When his ear-drums were broken."
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 101
August 14, 1913.
80. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) :
" Mr. Barker
sitting outside a tent over a charcoal fire in the clearing of a
forest."
Professor Murray :
" I think this is an imaginary thing
—
not a real thing. I get an impression of somebody
crouching over a fire. I get Barker dressed as an
Arab."
81. Subject. Lady Mary Murray (agent): "I have the
funeral of Herr Bebel and all the German Socialists going to
his grave."
Professor Murray :
" It isn't a Socialist procession or
something like that ?
"
August 24, 1913.
82. Subject. Mes. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of a
street in Jerusalem and Mrs. Barker with a Moorish woman
walking along it."
Professor Murray :
" This is not airy of your usual
countries—not Italian or Russian. It's Eastern—yes
—
a street in some sort of Oriental town —Jerusalem. I am
now getting my own memories of Jerusalem instead.
But I think it is a European lady shopping—Mrs.
Barker."
83. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of
Mrs. F sitting on the deck and Grandfather opening the
door for her."
Professor Murray :
" This is Grandfather. I think it is
on a ship and I think he is bowing and smiling to
somebody—opening the door. (" Can't you get the
person ? ") I first thought of the Captain and afterwards
a lady. I get a feeling of a pink head-dress." (" Yes,
that is right.")
84. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of
Dr. M in a white coat in his X-ray room examining a
Russian with a red beard."
Professor Murray (entering the room) [without contact] :
" I wonder if this is right, as I have got a vivid picture
of someone with a cough being examined by a doctor,
I think your doctor at Genoa or somewhere—in a white
102 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [PAET
coat, and the patient who is consulting him is rather
like Tolstoi, but it isn't. Ought I to know the person ?
(" You don't know him, but what is he like ? ") He
is a big Russian with a beard." [When Mrs. Toynbee
first pictured the scene, she had Tolstoi in her mind.]
August 25, 1913.
85. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of
Mr. Gladstone making a speech and speaking to a drunk man
who interrupted him."
Professor Murray :
" Oh ! (Long pause.) It's '
I will ask
my friend, notwithstanding the difference of our opinions,
to extend to me the same large measure of indulgence
which were I in his position and he in mine I should
undoubtedly extend to him '
—I got the Gladstonian
rhythm." [Right. It was an anecdote.]
86. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I'll try '
To
be or not to be.'
"
Professor Murray :
" I don't think this is a scene at all
—
it's words. It's—oh ! I think it's just Hamlet's solilo-
quy."
87. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" '
The glories
of our blood and state are shadows, not substantial things.'
"
Professor Murray : "I think this also is not a scene, but
a quotation. Is it a quotation I know, do you think ?
I don't feel that I know it. Has it got the words '
my
little sister '
in it ?
"
August 31, 1913.
88. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) :
" I think of Mr.
Rochester driving round the corner on a white road in the
rain and Jane Eyre waiting very anxious at the other end."
Professor Murray :
" This is out of a book. I think it's
Villette or Jane Eyre. I can't get the scene, although I
have the impression of rain. I know it's a book."
89. Subject. Mr. J. Murray (agent) :
" Bathing this morning
and the tremendous swerve there was towards the groin."
Professor Murray : "I feel something like a stormy sea
—
sea whirling round a light -house."
90. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) :
" Anna Karenina
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 103
and her little black bag and a veil over her face, and throwing
herself under the train at the station."
Professor Murray : "I am full of Miss L catching her
train to-morrow morning. Oh ! it's Tolstoi. It's Anna
sitting in a train. She's coming from Moscow and she's
sitting and opening a little black bag."
September 7, 1913.
91. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent): "I think of
Mary Wilkins writing her American stories in an American
house with French windows."
Professor Murray :
" I get a faint impression of a sort
of literary man writing—I should have thought a man
in India or somewhere."
92. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mrs. X
driving in a taximeter towards Notre Dame and shouting to
the cabman to stop and he's deaf and doesn't hear."
Professor Murray :
" This is something French—Paris. I
get an impression of Notre Dame and somebody driving
towards it and the cab stopping or something—it's not
clear, but I get Notre Dame. A rich stoutish elderly
woman with rather a manner." [The description applies
to Mrs. X.]
93. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Colonel
Smyth and Mr. William Bell sitting in a coffee-house at
Singapore, smoking, and ivy outside."
Professor Murray :
" I think it is two people sitting over
cigarettes and coffee—now there's a funny thing—I was
going to say one was Belloc and then thought of him
as Bellott, and one is a clergyman."
94. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of
'
Hark, hark the lark at Heaven's gate sings.'
"
Professor Murray :
" Can't get anything at all. I tried
for a soene and couldn't get it."
95. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mrs. Carlyle
reading Kubla Khan aloud to John Stuart Mill."
Professor Murray :
" It's a poem again. It's Kubla Khan.
It's somebody reading it aloud. I suppose it's Coleridge
—but it isn't . (" Who is it ? ") Not the Vicar's wife ?
(Her name is Mrs. Carr.)
104 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
September 9, 1913.
96. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Gorki work-
ing as a ship's boy on a Volga steamer."
Professor Murray :
" It seems Russian. It's some Russian
writer. I should say it was Gorki." (I had a feeling of
someone being dirty. I trod on a dirty sack outside.)
97. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Castle at
Nurnberg and Mr. Hammond seeing over it and seeing the
Iron Maiden."
Professor Murray :
" It's a jumbling—it's foreign. It's not
Russian, and it's not Italian. It's some old German
castle—and somebody—it's Hammond—going over it. I
don't think I know the castle. Ought I to know where
it is ? (" Yes.") I should say Nurnberg."
December 8, 1913.
98. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Lord Jim
being tried at Aden in Conrad's book. The scene in the Law
Court."
Professor Murray :
" No, not a glimmer."
99. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Mr. Fisher
and Mr. B drinking beer in a cafe in Berlin."
Professor Murray :
" It's got something to do with a
public-house—no, it's beer. It's Fisher and somebody
else drinking beer—somebody who has nothing to do
with Fisher. I can't be at all sure—I should think
[it's] little B ."
100. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" Savonarola
having the pictures burnt in Florence and standing uj) and a
crowd round."
Professor Murray :
" It's Italian—I think it's something
in a book. Well, this is the merest guess and may have
something to do with the spark that came out of the
fire—I get a smell of burning, the smell of a bonfire
—
I get Savonarola burning the pictures in Florence."
101. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent): "I think of a
scene in a Strindberg play—two people sitting in a round tower
and the man has a fainting-fit and the wife hopes he is dead."
Professor Murray :
" This is a book and a book I haven't
read. No—not Russian—not Italian. It's somebody
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 105
lying in a faint. It's very horrible. I think somebody
is fainting and his wife or some woman is hoping he is
dead. It can't be Maeterlinck—I think I have read
them all—oh ! it's Strindberg. (" Can you get the
place 1 ") I thought of them in a great round tower.
That was why I thought of Maeterlinck."
January 13, 1914.
102. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of
that funny old Irishman called Dr. Hunt in the hotel at
Jamaica. I'll think of the race where they wouldn't let him
ride with his little grey mare."
Professor Murray :
" Tropics. It must be something to do
with Jamaica. I can't get it a bit clear. I feel as if it
were a drunken Irish doctor talking with a brogue. I
can't get it clear." (Mrs. Toynbee did not mention that
he got drunk, but he did.)
?, 1914.
103. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) : " Mrs. C
hitting the Purser with a skipping rope."
Professor Murray (without contact) :
" I think it's Mother
hitting the Purser with a skipping-rope—no, it's your
woman, the over-dressed woman, Mrs. C ."
104. Subject. Mks. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" The little
crocodile on the Captain's trunk and him showing it to Isabel
and me."
Professor Murray (without contact) :
" Where's Denis's
lizard gone ? —because I thought it was Denis's lizard
pursuing you and Isabel-—the lizard on a bed in a
cabin and you and Isabel looking at it."
105. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" I'll do
D S in a dug-out canoe on the Serpentine."
Professor Murray (without contact) : " Is it somebody
walking in Kensington Gardens ? D S walking
in Kensington Gardens. No, I didn't see what else he
was doing—perhaps he was in a boat."
December 16, 1915.
106. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) :
" Shelley when
he's rescued from nearly being drowned in the Mediterranean.
106 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
He says :
'
What a j)ity ! I wanted to see what the next
world was like.'
"
Professor Murray :
" This is Shelley
—' In a little more I
should have known the great secret.'
"
January 2, 1916.
107. Subject. Mrs. Arnold Toynbee (agent) :
" A little
captive fox at Leith Hill on a chain."
Professor Murray :
" It feels like cruelty to animals—is
it ? Little wild animals being eaten or something like
that. I don't think I can get it."
January 12, 1916.
108. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent)-: "I think of
Byron and Leigh Hunt driving over an Italian mountain and
little Italian beggar-boys begging of them."
Professor Murray :
" Italian thing—old-fashioned—an Eng-
lishman driving in a cart and boys begging of him.
Like a sort of Shelley—I should think it was somebody
like that. (" Can't you get the people ? ") No, I can't
get them clearly, but I should say Shelley or Byron or
Trelawney or somebody like that."
109. Subject. Miss Agnes Murray (agent) : " The two
G s sitting in a little dug-out decorated with Persian rugs
and talking to a German officer they have just captured."
Professor Murray :
" These are people killed in the war.
I should think it was G and his brother. They are
in a dug-out which is absurdly furnished like a boudoir
and talking to a German officer they have just cap-
tured."
Notes taken by Mrs. Verrall of the experiments
at which she was present.
February 18, 1914.
Yesterday, February 17, between tea and dinner, I was
present at a series of experiments in thought-transference,
in which Professor Murray acted as percipient and his
daughter, Mrs. Toynbee, as agent. There were present,
in the study, Lady Mary Murray, Miss Blomfield (who
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 107
took notes), Mr. Arnold Toynbee (who left after the first
or second experiment), and myself, besides the two prin-
cipals.
Professor Murray went out of the room, and the door
was shut. Mrs. Toynbee then decided on a subject to
transfer, and described it in a low voice ; Miss Blomfield
recorded it, and no other word was spoken. (Once Lady
Mary Murray asked if the note was made.) Then Lady
Mary Murray opened the door, in silence, and Professor
Murray came in, held Mrs. Toynbee's hand, sometimes
standing, sometimes sitting, and proceeded to describe his
impressions.
Usually nothing was said till he had finished all that he
had to say, but occasionally (as recorded in the notes)
Mrs. Toynbee asked for a further detail.
In the first five experiments the subject was chosen by
Mrs. Toynbee ; in the sixth it was also so chosen, but
after Professor Murray had suggested that I should choose
it ; in the seventh it was chosen by me, and Professor
Murray held my hand.
So far as I observed, and I observed with care, Pro-
fessor Murray never looked at Mrs. Toynbee after he had
taken her hand, nor did she look at him. Any indications
derived from contact must be confined to suggestions—of
course unintentional—of encouragement or discouragement,
and no mere encouragement could, as far as yesterday's
experiments were concerned, account for the success. Pro-
fessor Murray's descriptions were conveyed in a series of
brief sentences, but these sentences were not confined to a
single idea (to which assent or dissent might be given by
an involuntary response on the part of the agent), nor
did they proceed from general to particular, or, so far as
I could analyse them, in any regular or calculable sequence.
The details are as follows :
I. Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) :
" Celia Newbolt under a
gourd-tree at Smyrna."
Professor Murray :
" Modern Greek of some kind—sort of
Asia Minor place—a tree and women sitting under it
—
a particular tree—girl sitting under it—she does not
108 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
belong to the place—she is English—something to do
with a poet—can't be Mrs. Kipling—no, it's a girl—
rather like one of the Oliviers—(I) don't think I can
get her."
In this case, the subject was imagined, not remembered.
II. Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) : " Mr. S playing
Badminton at the Badminton Club at Bogota : Lord Murray
watching, and ladies watching, one with a fan."
Professor Murray :
" This is something to do with your
voyage to Panama—it's South American—it's people in
white playing a game—it's your villain S —he's
playing a game-—the word Bogota is coming to my
mind—I think it is at a games-club."
Mrs. Toynbee :
" What is the game ?
"
Professor Murray : " I think I am only guessing. I
think the game is Badminton, and the Master of Elibank
[Lord Murray] is there."
Here, too, the scene is purely imaginary. Who '
Mr.
S '
is I do not know : Mrs. Toynbee has made a
voyage to Panama ; Lord Murray was, as of course we
all knew, to speak yesterday in the House of Lords.
III. Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) :
" I think of a scene
in Youth, when the ship was smouldering and Marlowe is
tipping up the bench because there is an explosion of gas in
the hold."
Professor Murray :
" This is out of a book—it's Conrad,
so I suppose it's the last Conrad I haven't read—it's a
ship on fire —not exactly on fire but smouldering—
a
sort of stifling feeling, as if there was something under-
neath—it's all straining and the j)eople don't know it
—
I have read it—I think it's an old Conrad—it's the
story in Youth where they go on sailing with the ship
that is burnt."
Mrs. Toynbee :
" Can you get the particular incident ?
"
Professor Murray :
" I think it's somebody thinking some-
body else is making a mistake, or doing something quite
wrong—I think the man who tells the story is thinking
something is being mismanaged."
Mrs. Toynbee : "Yes."
lxxii.] A Series of Experiments in " Guessing "
—
Appendix. 109
I do not know the book in question : Marlowe is also
the teller of the story in Chance, the last Conrad, which
neither Professor Murray nor Mrs. Toynbee have read.
IV. Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) :
" This he hasn't read
—
a book (of) Strindberg, called Marriage about a horrid old
schoolmaster, I think, who goes into a restaurant and asks for
female crabs to eat."
Professor Murray :
" This is a book—I haven't read it,
and it's all nasty—it's a cross, tired sort of man—oh
it must be Strindberg—a cross tired sort of man going
into a restaurant—he seems to be eating crabs and
tearing them up—I mean tearing them malignantly
—
I feel inclined to say that they are female crabs but
—
At this point we laughed at the hesitation which accom-
panied the final success with '
female '
crabs. I have not
read the book, but I understood from Mrs. Toynbee that
no motive is assigned for the eating of female crabs, nor
is the tearing '
malignant.'
V. Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) :
" Dostoievsky writing in
a very bare room, I think in France, and hearing the bailiff
people banging at the door, and pretending he is not in the
house."
Professor Murray :
" I think this is out of a book—it's
Russian—it's a man inside a house—and the people
beating and beating on the door outside—and he's
keeping quite still so that they shan't know he is
there—it's a big sort of bare room and he is a writer
—
seems a mad sort of person—(I) don't somehow feel as
if I was going to get it—I think it is in France—but
he must be Russian—I don't feel as if they were going
to murder him at all—I should think it is a story of
Dostoievsky that I can't get—I have a feeling that I
can't be right—Are they bailiffs ?
"
Mrs. Toynbee said, when the experiment was over, that
this was not anything in a book, but a made-up incident.
VI. Professor Murray then suggested that I should
choose an incident and tell Mrs. Toynbee. But after he
110 Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
had left the room, at an unspoken suggestion, by sign, of
Lady Mary Murray's, we decided to pursue the usual plan.
Subject. Mrs. Toynbee (agent) :
" I'll think (of the) Master
of Trinity—[to me] your Master walking along the Backs and
a gardener with a wheelbarrow sweeping up dead leaves and
getting out of his way."
Professor Murray :
" I don't think this is Mrs. Verrall 's
—
it's the Master of Trinity walking in a garden—and a
gardener sweeping leaves."
Mrs. Toynbee :
" Any special place ?
"
Professor Murray :
" The Backs."
VII. It was arranged that I should think of the next
subject, and act directly as agent.
Subject. Mrs. Verrall (agent) :
" Jean Valjcan walking in
the dark wood and taking the handle of the pail from the
little child (Cosette)."
Professor Murray :
" I had a faint impression of Silver-
locks finding the bears' house in the wood."
Even in this comparative failure there are two points of
contact—the wood and the girl-child. My subject was
from Hugo's Les Miserables.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. Ill
IV.
RECENT EVIDENCE ABOUT PREVISION AND
SURVIVAL.
By Sir Oliver Lodge.
Read at a Private Meeting of the Society on June 23, 1916.
I.
The Faunus Incident.
My son, Raymond, joined the Army, September, 1914.
He trained near Liverpool and Edinburgh with the South
Lancashires, and in March, 1915, was sent to the trenches
in Flanders. In the middle of July he had a few days'
leave at home, and on the 20th returned to the Front.
The first intimation that I had that anything might
be going wrong was a message from MyersP through
Mrs. Piper in America ; communicated apparently by
" Richard Hodgson " at a time when Miss Robbins was
present, on August 8th, 1915, and sent me by Miss Alta
Piper together with the original. A copy of this script
was sent by me to my friend Mr. J. Arthur Hill in the
ordinary course, and returned endorsed by him. Here
follows the extract :
{Extract from Mrs. Piper's Script, August 8th, 1915.
Miss Robbins present.)
Notes by Miss Alta L. Piper.
[Miss Robbins now asked about a trip to California
that she is contemplating taking soon, and when
112 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
they had finished advising her, Hodgson began
abruptly, as follows : A. L. P.]
Now Lodge
while we are not here
[' while we are not here '
repeated because not read
.
A.L.P.]
as of old, i.e.
not
quite, we are here
enough to take
and give messages.
Myers says, you
take the part of
the poet,
and he will
act as
Paunus. FAUNUS.
[' Paunus '
re-written in large letters though correctly
read at first. A. L. P.]
Yes [when we repeated the word '
Faunus.' A. L. P.]
Myers.
Protect.
he will U.D.
[Evidently referring to Lodge. A. L. P.]
What have you to say
Lodge, good work,
ask Verrall, she
will also U.D.
Arthur says so.
[" Arthur " clearly means to us, Arthur W. Verrall.
O. J. L.]
Miss r. Do you mean Arthur Tennyson ?
[Miss P. must have become confused with R. H.'s
previous reference to " poet." She was much amused
about this mistake later. A. L. P.]
No. Myers knows.
So does
—
you got mixed [to Miss R. A. L. P.]
but Myers is
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 113
straight about
Poet and Faunus.
In order to interpret this message, I wrote to Mrs. Verrall
as instructed, asking her :
" Does The Poet and Faunus
mean anything to you? Did one 'protect' the other?"
She replied at once (September 8th, 1915) referring me
to Horace, Ode II. xvii. 27-30, and saying :
The reference is to Horace's account of his narrow escape
from death, from a falling tree, which he ascribes to the
intervention of Faunus. Cf. Hor. Odes n. xiii ; n. xvii. 27 ;
m. iv. 27 ; nr. viii. 8 for references to the subject. The
allusion to Faunus is in Ode n. xvii. 27-30.
Me truncus illapsus cerebro
Sustulerat, nisi Faunus ictum
Dextra levasset, Mercurialium
Custos virorum.
'
Faunus, the guardian of poets '
(' poets '
being the usual
interpretation of '
Mercury's men ').
The passage is a very well-known one to all readers of
Horace, and is perhaps specially familiar from its containing,
in the sentence quoted, an unusual grammatical construction.
It is likely to occur in a detailed work on Latin Grammar.
The passage has no special associations for me other than
as I have described, though it has some interest as forming
part of a chronological sequence among the Odes, not generally
admitted by commentators, but accepted by me.
The Avords quoted are, of course, strictly applicable to the
Horatian passage, which they instantly recalled to me.
I perceived, therefore, from this manifestly correct inter-
pretation of the "Myers" message to me, that the
meaning was that some blow was going to fall, or was
likely to fall, though I didn't know of what kind, and
that Myers would intervene, apparently to protect me
from it. So far as I can recollect my comparatively
trivial thoughts on the subject, I believe that I had
some vague idea that the catastrophe intended was
perhaps of a financial rather than of a personal kind ;
though, as Mr. Piddington has now reminded me, a falling
H
114 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
or fallen tree is a recognised symbol of death—the sym-
bolism being perhaps derived from a misunderstanding of
Eccl. xi. 3.
The above message reached me near the beginning of
September, 1915, in Scotland. Raymond was killed near
Ypres on the 14th September, 1915, and we got the
news by telegram from the War Office on September 17th.
Subsequent Enquiries and Comments.
After the event had happened, I wrote round to several
scholars, putting to them the same bare question as I
had sent to Mrs. Verrall ;
my object in doing so being,
not to obtain additional information, still less to check
Mrs. Verrail's detection of the intended reference, of which
I had no doubt whatever, but to ascertain how familiar
the passage was ;
especially in view of her statement
that it was " likely to occur in a detailed work on Latin
Grammar."
The question I sent in the following form :
Does '
The Poet and Faunus '
suggest any obvious reference
to you ? Did one '
protect '
the other ?
[Kindly write answer on this page and return to 0. J. L.,
Mariemont, Edgbaston. 21 Sept. 1915.]
It may be worth recording that I addressed this question
to : Mi-. Piddington, Sir Alfred Dale, Professor Sonnen-
schein, Mr. George Brewerton, Mr. R. C. Gilson, Dr.
G. H. Rendall, Professor H. A. Strong, C. S. Lodge, and
the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, all of whom replied that the
reference was fairly obvious, and quoted Horace, Ode II. 17.
I sent also to : Gilbert Murray, A. C. Bradley, and
C. C. Cotterill, none of whom happened to think of the
exact passage. Though Professor Murray says it is odd
that he did not, as it was perfectly familiar to him, only
he did not happen to get on the right road ; while
Professor Bradley's reply was that " There is a well-
known Ode (in. xviii.) in which Horace addresses Faunus,
but he is not asking for protection or (I should say)
addressing the god as his protector." He goes on to
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 115
say : "As a matter of fact the name Faunus suggested
to me first a passage in Tennyson's Lucretius 1
(part
beginning '
But who was he,') ; but no hint of protection
here. I suppose the passage is suggested by something
in Lucretius's poem, but I don't remember what."
Soon after this, I informed Mr. Bayfield fully of the
facts, as an interesting S.P.R. incident, and he was good
enough to send me a careful note in reply, concerning
the grammatical peculiarities and exact significance of
the passage :
1. A Grammatical Explanation:
Normal Latin requires two subjunctives in such a conditional
sentence (sustulisset). There are a fair number of exceptions,
however, in passages where we find the indicative (sustulerat)
instead of the subjunctive. It is like Numbers xxii. 33,
" Unless she had turned from me, surely now I had slain
thee." This exceptional use of the indicative is noted in
all school grammars, and this passage of Horace—and one
from Virgil's Georgics, n, '
et, si non alium late iactaret odorem,
laurus erat ' (not esset)—are the two stock examples most
commonly given. Both are given in the only two school
Latin Grammars that I have. But in these grammars the
examples are not translated, and probably would not be in
any grammar.
2. A Detailed Interpretation :
Horace does not, in any reference to his escape, say clearly
whether the tree struck him, but I have always thought
it did. He says Faunus lightened the blow ; he does not
say " turned it aside." As bearing on your terrible loss,
the meaning seems to be that the blow would fall but would
not crush ; it would be " lightened " by the assurance, conveyed
afresh to you by a special message from the still living Myers,
that your boy still lives.
I shall be interested to know what you think of this inter-
pretation. The " protect " I take to mean protect from being
1
[It is perhaps noteworthy that this Tennysonian poem contains
1
the
words " Look ! What is it ? There ? yon arbutus totters," immedi-
ately after a mention of Faunus ; but it does not seem to be an
allusion to the Horatian episode. O. J. L.]
116 Sir Oliver Lodge. [pabt
overwhelmed by the blow, from losing faith and hope, as we are
all in danger of doing when smitten by some crushing personal
calamity. Many a man when so smitten has, like Merlin, lain
" as dead,
And lost to life and use and name and fame."
That seems to me to give a sufficiently precise application
to the word (on which Myers apparently insists) and to the
whole reference to Horace.
In a postscript he adds the following :
In Carm. ill. 8, Horace describes himself as prope funeralus [
arboris ictu, '
well nigh killed by a blow from a tree.' An
artist in expression such as he was woaid not have mentioned
any '
blow '
if there had been none ; he would have said
'
well nigh killed by a falling tree '
—or the like. It is to
be noted that in both passages he uses the word ictus. And
in ii. 13. 11 (the whole ode is addressed to the tree), he
says the man must have been a fellow steeped in every
wickedness " who planted thee, accursed lump of wood, a
thing (meant) to fall (this is the delicate meaning of caducum—
not merely '
falling ') on thine undeserving master's head."
Here again the language implies that he was struck, and
struck on the head.
Indeed the escape must have been a narrow one, and it
is to me impossible to believe that Horace would have been
so deeply impressed by the accident if he had not actually
been struck. He refers to it four times :
Carm. n. 13. (Ode addressed to the tree—40 lines long.)
n. 17. 27.
in. 4. 27. (Here he jDuts the risk he ran on a
parallel with that of the rout at Philipjoi, from
which he escaped.)
in. 8. 8.
I insist on all this as strengthening my interpretation,
and also as strengthening the assignment of the script to
Myers, who would of course be fully alive to all the points
to be found in his reference to Faunus and Horace,—and, as
I have no doubt, believed that Horace did not escape the
actual blow, and that it was a severe one.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 117
Since some of the translators, especially verse trans-
lators, of Horace convey the idea of turning aside or
warding off the blow, it may be well to emphasise the
fact that most of the scholars consulted gave " lightened
"
or " weakened," as the translation. And Professor Strong
says, " no doubt at all that '
levasset '
means '
weakened
'
the blow ; the bough fell and struck the poet, but lightly,
through the action of Faunus. '
Levo '
in this sense
is quite common and classical."
Bryce's prose translation (Bohn) is quite clear :
" a
tree-stem falling on my head had surely been my death,
had not good Faunus eased the blow ". . . . And although
Conington's translation has " check'd the blow in mid
descent," he really means the same thing, because it is
the slaying, not the wounding or striking of the Poet
that is prevented :
"Me the curst trunk, that smote my skull
Had slain ; but Faunus, strong to shield
The friends of Mercury (poets), check'd the blow
In mid descent."
Oilier pieces of Piper Script.
Mr. Bayfield also makes a friendly comment on another
portion of Piper script which I had sent him—a part
purporting to come from Madame Guyon. This comment
is valuable, and I therefore quote it :
I do not understand the last paragraph in your letter,
re the script beginning " Mine. G.", though I can see that
it might be a general reference to the losses of those dear
to us which the war causes, and preparatory to the subsequent
message to yourself. I should rather say, meant to prepare
you personally for some possible trouble. . . .
In the sentence, " for the moment, Lodge, have faith and
wisdom [something verbally wrong here] in all that is highest
and best. Have you all not been profoundly guided and
cared for ?
" I find again a sort of attempt to prepare you
for some personal trouble.
The portion of " Piper " script here referred to by
IIS Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mr. Bayfield, was a bit I had copied in my explanatory
letter to him—a piece of script obtained in America
three days earlier, viz. on August 5th, 1915 ; which
reached me early in September, simultaneously with that
fragment of the sitting on August 8th, 1915, which has
been already quoted verbatim. This script of August 5th
was automatic script, and is tidily written on full pages
and on both sides of each page ; whereas that of August 8th
is trance script, untidy, and a few words on each page,
in the usual old "Rector" manner. The portion extracted
of August 5th is headed, " Mme. G," meaning that Madame
Guyon is the communicator, and she says :
Clouds arise where evil reigns. But for worldly gain
and greed your world would not be now in such a state
of chaos. Listen to this friends of earth, and try to
profit by these terrible losses, look more to spiritual
things, and peace will be your portion. Lodge, Myers
has messages good and clear which are coming through.
Through Willet the message came " This is such a big
thing and is going to be : it is with difficulty we can
act."
A. L. P. This is the message that came through Willett ?
1
Yes. For the moment Lodge have faith and wisdom
in all that is highest and best, have you all not been
profoundly guided and cared for, can you answer No ?
It is by your faith that all is well and has been.
Then follows a bad drawing of the rosary symbolic of
Madame Guyon, with her usual signature.
I remember being a little struck by the wording in
the above script, urging me to admit that we all
—
presumably the family—had " been profoundly guided
and cared for," and " that all is well and has been "
;
because it seemed to indicate that something was not
going to be quite so well. But it was too indefinite
to lead me to make any careful record of it, or to send
it as a prediction to anybody ; and it would no doubt
have evaporated from my mind except for the " Faunus
"
warning, given three clays later though received at the
1
No such message is known. O. J. L.
Lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 119
same time, which seemed to me clearly intended as a
prediction, whether it happened to come off or not.
The two Piper communications, of which parts have
now been quoted, reached me at Gullane, where my
wife (M. F. A. L.) and I were staying for six weeks.
I have not a record of the date when they arrived,
but it must have been at the beginning of September,
for I have the record of my letter of acknowledgment
to Miss Alta Piper, which was written after I had had
time to write to and receive a prompt answer, September
8th, from Mrs. VerraU. My letter to Alta Piper ran
as follows :
The Linga Private Hotel,
Gullane, East Lothian,
12 Sept. 1915.
My Dear Alta,
The reference to the Poet and Fannus in your
mother's last script is quite intelligible, and a good classical
allusion. You might tell the communicator some time if
there is opportunity.
I feel sure that it must convey nothing to you and yours.
That is quite as it should be, as you know, for evidential
reasons.
This was written two days before Raymond's death, and
five days before we heard of it.
It so happens that this letter was returned to me for
some reason through the Dead Letter Office, reaching
me on November 14th, 1915, and being then sent forward
by me again.
I also wrote to Mrs. Piper to know if the message
about Faunus and the Poet meant anything to her or
her daughters, though 1 felt sure it didn't. She replies :
The message to which you refer is quite foreign to me.
I have no recollection of ever having seen it or reading it
in the Proceedings.
She admits, however, having read a good deal of the
Proceedings of the S.P.R., but as far as I know and
have been able to ascertain, no reference to this Ode,
nor even to Faunus, has appeared in the Proceedings.
120 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Hence it seems to me that on the evidential side the
evidence is perfect.
A little later, September 22nd—before I or any member
of the family had had any sitting or attempted com-
munication, and before I knew anything of Myers's assistance
or friendly activity, as described in the sequel—I wrote to
Alta thus :
Whew you next have an opportunity, you might take this
message from me to Myers : namely this
—" that he did not
turn aside the falling trunk with his right hand." You
might further ask him whether he tried to do so, or whether
he was making reference to something still in the future.
This was intended to show " Myers " that the allusion
had been understood, and at the same time to convey
nothing whatever to the Piper family ; for I did not
either explicitly or implicitly associate this sentence
in any way with their " Faunus " message : and, even
if I had, they would not have understood. I sent this
before I had had Mr. Bayfield's more scholarly and
detailed interpretation of the word " levasset," which
signifies " lightened " rather than " warded off."
On February 11th, 1916, I noted that at that date I
had had no reply from America to this message ; and that
many letters had been sunk. But on May 10th, 1916,
the following information concerning the reception in
America of my reply to the Faunus message reached me
from Miss Alta Piper :
(Mrs. Pipers Script, 12th January, 1916. Received
by 0. J. L. 10th May, 1916.)
+ HAIL.
Rector. I come to greet you friend of earth with
peace and joy.
Alta. Hail Rector ! I am glad you have come ! I have a
qiiestion to ask you for Sir Oliver.
Good
.
Alta. May I give it now ? Can you hear me distinctly ?
I U.D. absolutely friend.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 121
(Here I read from Sir Oliver's letter, the passage re-
ferring to the turning aside of a fallen trunk. Doubt-
less Sir Oliver has a copy of that letter. A. L. P.)
[" When you next have an opportunity, you might
take this message from me to Myers : namely this—
'
that he did not turn aside the falling trunk with
his right hand.' You might further ask him whether
he tried to do so, or whether he was making reference
to something still in the future."]
(The following was then written.)
I cannot answer all today but will take influence
away with me and return another day to reply.
Dear friend worry and fear not all is well and
we are sincerely looking after your interests and
those most vital to you on this side U.D. This
may sound blind and incoherent but you will I
am sure understand it all fulty. Grannie sends love
and says she is looking after and taking good care
of the trunk,1
U.D. I wish you could U.D. what
Virus means also Helvetian
Alta. You mean you wish Sir Oliver could U.D. ?
Yes. would get full meaning. This will be all this
time more later.
Farewell,
Rector.
{Extract from Mrs. Pipers Script, 16th January, 1916, but not
received by 0. J. L. till 10th May, 1916.)
(Miss Robbins present, most of the messages to her.)
Alta. Thank you for all you have said. Is there any other
message from or to anyone I can take ?
Myers has some. That had reference to the future
as much as to the past.
Alta. Thank you. You want me to send that to Lodge ?
Yes because there are other trunks which might fall
were they not stayed. Understand ?
1
[This word is either '
work '
with the word '
good '
above it (in
the script) underlined, or it is the word '
trunk '
with the crossing of
the '
t '
gone astray, as it often does. It looks more like '
trunk '
to O. J. L.]
122 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Alta. Yes, I understand. This is in reference to the message ?
Yes. Have you forgotten it ?
Alta. No, I read it to you the other day and you were
unable at that moment to reply to it, and this is
the answer now 1
Yes
Alta. All right, thank you.
—— partly. There will be more later, but for the
moment take this.
Alta. I understand. Now do you wish all this writing to
be sent to Sir Oliver this time ?
Why, yes.
Alta. I just wanted to have it clearly understood.
You understand.
Alta. All right, thank you.
And when you get ready please say I have a friend
here who wishes to speak to Lodge. One message
was ask L if he remembers about screen and if it
has any significance to him. L third. L third. I
used to throw pillows at him.
Alta. All right.
Hodgson says so.
Alta. Yes, you used to throw pillows at Sir Oliver ?
Some one is here who sends message
Alta. Yes, I understood that.
but no names come to me, but L onel L oni
(Miss Robbins says to Miss Piper in an undertone
" Lionel "
?)
(Miss Piper replies in imdertone to the effect that she knew
name but did not wish it to be spoken. The communi-
cators paid no attention, as if they had not heard.)
L o n 1 Screen Never mind I do not care whether
names are correctly given here if they can only
be understood in the very least.
Alta. Can't you try that once more ?
I will listen for it.
Alta. That is better.
First letter sounds like L
Alta. Yes, all right. Now what is the second letter ?
o n d e No L I cannot hear it distinctly.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 123
Alta. All right.
L on e 1 Lone No not quite Oh Li Lionel.
(During writing of the last line there was great thump-
ing of hand on pad and two pencils were broken
before writing continued calmly.)
Alta. All right.
Ask him about screen
Alta. Yes, ask Lionel about screen.
and if to him it signifies anything.
Alta. Yes, I will.
I have given this message as correctly as it can at
the moment be given.
(Miss Piper left table a moment while last was being
written, therefore Miss Robbins replies.)
Miss R. Thank you. I think we have it all right. 1
Then why don't you understand ?
Alta. (Just returned). I understand that this message is
to be sent across the water to Sir Oliver ?
Yes, and ask him for my sake to be calm, quiet and
worry not. Hodgson, Myers. All is well. ALL
ALL.
Alta. Yes, all, all.
The next relevant bit came on 18th January, 1916, thus :
(Mrs. Pipers Script, obtained on ISth January, 1916.)
[The two pages previous to this one were taken up
with advice for Mama. Rector seemed rather
troubled about her health. A. L. P.]
that previous message (answer) was not com-
plete this is why I make the request to hold message
until I return to give it in full.
Alta. Do you mean the message given last Sabbath ?
Yes I mean message given when Miss Robbins was
present as we could not speak out clearly neither
1
That my sons Lionel and Raymond used to throw sofa cushions at each
other, and once certainly knocked a screen over behind which one of
them had dodged, is well remembered ; but the trivial incident can
hardly be considered evidential, because the Pipers when on a visit
to us may perhaps have seen some of this play going on. O. J. L.
124 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
were we prepared to give full and definite reply.
U.D.
Alta. Yes.
1 will return at some future date and complete message.
Alta. You wish me to wait before sending that message to
Sir Oliver till you return again ?
Yes.
+Farewell,
Rector
Mine G.
But as nothing came, Alta sent it at last, and it reached
me 10th May, 1910.
Sequel to the Faunus Message.
It now remains to indicate how far Myers carried
out his implied promise, and what steps he took, or
has been represented as having taken, to lighten the
blow—which it is permissible to say was a terribly severe
one.
For such evidence I must quote from the record of
sittings held here in England with mediums previously
unknown to me and my family, and by sitters who gave
no sort of clue as to identity. I ought to explain here
that the junior members of my family have not hitherto
been interested in any kind of psychical subject, and had
never either been to a medium or thought of going to one.
Their attitude was in fact healthily sceptical ;
they never
read S.P.R. Proceedings, and they for the most part probably
ignored rather than criticised my work in that direction.
It may be objected that my own general appearance
is known or might be guessed. But that does not
apply to members of my family, who went quite anony-
mously to private sittings kindly arranged for in London
either by Mr. J. Arthur Hill or by friends in London, Dr.
and Mrs. Kennedy, whose own personal experience caused
them to be sympathetic and helpful ; and specially careful
about evidence.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survived. 125
The very first sitting of this kind that was held after
Raymond's death was held not explicitly for the purpose
of getting into communication with him, still less with
any remotest notion of finding out anything concerning
Mr. Myers, but mainly because a French widow lady,
who had been kind to our daughters during winters in
Paris, was staying with my wife and was in terrible
distress at the loss of both her beloved sons in the
war, within a week of each other, so that she was left
quite desolate. To comfort her my wife took her up
to London to a sitting kindly arranged for September 24
by Mrs. Kennedy, who knew and recommended a certain
medium, here called Mrs. A. Incidentally I may say that
the two sons of Madame communicated on this and on
another soon following occasion, though with difficulty ;
that one of them gave his name completely, the other
approximately ; and that the mother, who was new to
the whole subject, was partially consoled. Raymond, how-
ever, was represented as coming with them and helping
them, and as sending some messages on his own account
;
but I shall here quote only those messages which bear
upon the subject of Myers or have any possible connexion
with the Faunus message.
Evidential Messages obtained in England, referring
to Raymond and Myers.
As a kind of sequel to the '
Faunus '
episode, it will
be convenient now to quote early references to Myers
which came through in sittings held soon after Raymond's
death, so as to note whether there is any indication,
obtained through entirely distinct channels, that Myers
took an interest in him, and was doing anything to
help him and me, as virtually promised in the '
Faunus '
message sent to me through Mrs. Piper in America, on
8th August, and received early in September, 1915.
I shall only extract here the relevant portions, detached
from the context : the complete record in each case is
kept in its proper place in the series of sittings
arranged according to date. Most of the first two records
12G Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
consisted of messages to or for the French lady from her
sons.
1
We heard first of Raymond's death on 17th September,
1915; and on the 25th September his mother (M. F. A. L.)
who was having her second anonymous sitting for the
French lady mentioned above, had the following spelt out
by tilts of a table, as purporting to come from Raymond :
Tell father I have met some friends of his.
m. f. a. l. Can you give any name ?
Yes Myers
.
That was all on that subject on that occasion.
On Monday, 27th September, 1915, I myself went
to London and had my first sitting, between noon and
one o'clock, with Mrs. A. I went to her house or flat
alone, as a complete stranger for whom an appointment
had been made through Mrs. Kennedy. Before we began,
Mrs. A. informed me that her '
guide '
or '
control '
was
a young girl. I had been told of this before, so I said
that I had heard of this control.
In a short time, a youth was described in terms which
distinctly suggested Raymond, and the control brought
messages. I extract the following :
(From First Sitting of 0. J. L. with Airs. A.
21th September, 1915.)
He finds it difficult, he says, but he has got so
many kind friends helping him. He didn't think
when he waked up first that he was going to be
happy, but now he is, and he says lie is going to
be happier. He knows that as soon as he is a
little more ready, he has got a great deal of work
to do. '
I almost wonder,' he says, '
shall I be
fit and able to do it. They tell me I shall.'
1
As this French lady, hardly ever in England, was obviously a
complete stranger, not only to the medium but to Mrs. Kennedy also,
I now perceive that the messages to her had rather a special evidential
significance, neutralising the forced and unnatural hypothesis of collusion.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 127
o. j. l. Good !
'
I have instructors and teachers with me.' Now he
is trying to build up a letter of some one ; M he
shows me,
A short time later he said :
'
People think I say I am happy in order to make
them happier, but I don't. 1
I have met hundreds
of friends. I don't know them all. I have met
many who tell me that, a little later, they will
explain why they are helping me. I feel I have
got two Fathers now. I don't feel I have lost
one and got another ; I have got both. I have
got my old one and another too—a pro tern father.'
(Here the control ejaculated '
What's that ? Is that
right ?
'
0. J. L., chuckling, replied '
Yes.')
There is a weight gone off his mind the last day or
two ; he feels brighter and lighter and happier
altogether, the last few days. There was confusion
at first. He could not get his bearings, didn't
seem to know where he was. '
But I was not very
long,' he says, '
and I think I was very fortunate ;
it was not very long before it was explained to
me where I was.'
But the most remarkable indirect allusion, or apparent
allusion, to the '
Faunus '
message, came at the end of
the sitting, after " Raymond " had gone, and just before
Mrs. A. came out of trance :
He is gone, but [the control] sees something which is
only symbolic ; she sees a cross falling back on to you ;
very
dark, falling on to you ; dark and heavy looking ; and as it
falls it gets twisted round and the other side seems all light,
and the light is shining all over you. It is a sort of pale
blue, but it is white, and quite light when it touches you.
Yes, that is what [the control] sees. The cross looked dark,
1
This is reminiscent of a sentence in one of his letters home from
the Front :
" As cheerful and well and happy as ever. Don't think
I am having a rotten time—I am not." Date 11th May, 1915 (really
12th). O. J. L.
128 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
and then it suddenly twisted round and became a beautiful
light. The cross is a means of shedding real light. It is
going to help a great deal.
Did you know you had a coloured Guide ? . . . He says
your son is the cross of light ; he is the cross of light, and
he is going to be a light that will help you ; he is going to
help too to prove to the world the Truth. That is why they
built up the dark cross that turned to bright. You know ;
but others, they do so want to know. [The control] is losing
hold ;
goodbye.
{From First Anonymous Sitting of M. F. A. L. ivith
Mr. Z. 21th September, 1915.)
On the afternoon of the same day, 27th September,
1915, that I had this first sitting with Mrs. A., Lady
Lodge had her first sitting as a complete stranger with
Mr. Z., a 23rofessi°nal medium, who had been invited
for the purpose—without any name being given —to
Mrs. Kennedy's house at 3.30 p.m.
Here again Raymond was described with considerable
accuracy fairly early in the sitting, and several identifying
messages were given. Presently Z.'s chief control asked,
" Was he not associated with Chemistry ?
" On which I
may remark that my laboratory has been devoted to
chemical things of late ;
though probably Z would hardly
discriminate between Chemistry and Physics. And the
record continues, copied with annotations as it stands :
Was he not associated with chemistry ? If not, some one
associated with him was, because I see all the things in a
chemical laboratory.
That chemistry thing takes me away from him to a man
in the flesh [O. J. L. presumably] and connected with him
a man, a writer of poetry, on our side, closely connected with
spiritualism. He was very clever—he too passed away out
of England. [This is clearly meant for Myers.]
He has communicated several times. This gentleman who
wrote poetry—I see the letter M—he is helping your son to
communicate.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision mid Survival. 129
[Myers's presence and help were also independently and
almost simultaneously mentioned by Mrs. A. to me, as reported
above. 0. J. L.]
He is built up in the chemical conditions.
If your son didn't know this man, he knew of him. [Yes,
he was only 12 when Myers died. 0. J. L.]
At the back of the gentleman beginning with M and who
wrote poetry is a whole group of people. [The S.P.R. Group
doubtless.] They are very interested. And don't be surprised
if you get messages from them, even if you don't know
them.
(Then [the control] stopped, and said) :
This is so important that is going to be said now, that
I want to go slowly, for you to write clearly every word
(dictating carefully) :
" Not only is the partition so thin that you can hear the
operators on the other side, but a big hole has been made." 1
This message is for the gentleman Avith the chemical labora-
tory.
[The control] continued :
The boy—I call them all boys because I was over a hundred
when I lived here and they are all boys to me—he says,
he is here, but he says,
—
" Hitherto it has been a thing of the head, now I am come
over it is a thing of the heart."
" What is more (here the medium jumped up in his
chair vigorously, snapped his fingers excitedly, and spoke
loudly),—
" Good God, how Father will be able to speak out ; much
firmer than he has ever done, because it will touch our hearts."
(Here ends extract from Mr. Z. Sitting of 27th September.
1915.)
No further reference to Myers seems to have come
until a table sitting with Mrs. A. on the 12th October,
1915, at which 0. J. L. and M. F. A. L. were both
present as well as Mrs. Kennedy ; when " Raymond " was
1
[Considering that my wife was quite unknown to the medium, this
is a remarkably evidential and identifying message. Cf. passage in
my book Survival of Man containing this Tunnel-boring metaphor :
page 337 of large edition, page 234 of shilling edition. O. J. L.]
130 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
spelling words through the table, and I suggested his
taking a message to Myers. My message to Myers was
to the effect that I understood about Faunus and the
Poet, and that Myers might say something more about it
;
and the only point of interest about the reply or
comment is that the two following sentences were spelled
out, as purporting to come either indirectly or directly
from '
Myers,'
—
(1) "He says it meant your sons transition )."
(2)
" Your son shall be mine."
The next " Myers " reference seems to be on the 29th
October, 1915, when I (0. J. L.) had a sitting unexpectedly
and unknown to my family with Mr. Z., a sitting arranged
for me by Mr. J. Arthur Hill as for an anonymous friend.
Mr. Z.'s chief control appeared, and after some com-
munications, gave messages from a youth who was
identified as my son, some of which ran as follows :
(Z. Sitting of 0. J. L. on 29th October, 1915.)
Your commonsense method of approaching the
subject in the family, has been the means of
helping him to come back as he as been able
to do ; and had he not known what you had
told him, then it would have been far more
difficult for him to come back. He is very
deliberate in what he says. He is a young man
that knows what he is saying. Do you know
F W M ?
o. j. l. Yes, I do.
Because I see those three letters.
Now, after them, do you know S T, yes I get S T,
then a dot, and then P ? These are shown me ;
I see them in light ;
your boy shows these things
to me.
o. j. L. Yes, I understand. (Meaning that I recognised the
allusion to F. W. H. Myers's poem St. Paul.
0. J. L.)
Well he says to me :
" He has helped me so much,
more than you think. That is F W M."
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 131
o. j. L. Bless him !
" No," your boy laughs, " he has got an ulterior
motive for it ; don't think it was only for charity's
sake, he has got an ulterior motive, and thinks
that you will be able by the strength of your
personality to do what you want to do now, to
ride over the quibbles of the fools, and to make
the Society, the Society, he says, of some use
to the world ; more than letting a lot of old
cats come together and cackle. Can you under-
stand ?
"
o. J. L. Yes. (Meaning that I supposed it represented a
mood in which he thought poorly of its meetings.
But how much of all this represents a latent
opinion of the medium, need not be discussed).
Now the boy says, "he helped me because, with
me through you, he can break away the dam
that people have set up. Later on, you are
going to speak to them. It is already on the
programme, and you will break down the opposi-
tion because of me." Then he says, "For God's
sake, Father, do it. Because if you only knew,
and could only see what I see ; hundreds of
men and women heart-broken. And if you could
only see the boys on our side shut out, you
would throw the whole strength of yourself into
this work. But you can do it." He is very
earnest. Oh, and he wants— No, I must stop
him, I must prevent him, I don't want him to
control the medium.—Don't think me unkind, but
I must protect my medium, he would not be
able to do the work he has to do ; the medium
would be ill from it, I must protect him, the
emotion would be too great, too great for both
of you, so I must prevent him from controlling.
He understands, but he wants me to tell you this :
The feeling on going over was one of intense dis-
appointment, he had no idea of death. The
second too was grief. (Pause.)
132 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
This is a time when men and women have had
the crust broken off them ; —a crust of convention,
of—of indifference has been smashed, and every-
body thinks, though some selfishly.
Now, returning to him, how patient he is ! He
was not always so patient. After the grief, there
was a glimmering of hope, because he realised
that he could get back to you ; and because
his Grandmother came to him. Then his brother
was introduced to him. Then, he says, other
people. My-erse, '
Myerse,' it sounds like—do
you know what he means ? —came to him, and then
he knew he could get back. He knew. [?
'
he,'
but my note has '
we.' O. J. L.]
Now he wants me to tell you this : That from
his death, which is only one of thousands, that
the work which he (I have to translate his ideas
into words, I don't get them verbatum [sic])
the work which he volunteered to be able to
succeed in. No, that's not it. The work which
he enlisted for, that is what he says, only he
was only a unit and seemingly lost,—yet the
very fact of his death will be the means of pushing
it on. Now I have got it. By his passing
away, many hundreds will be benefitted.
II.
The Group Photograph Incident.
It will be understood, I hope, that the above extracts
from sittings have been reproduced here in order to show
that, if we take the incidents at their face value, Myers
had redeemed his Faunus promise and had lightened the
blow by looking after and helping my son on '
the other
side.' I now propose to make some further extracts
—
of a more evidential character—tending to establish
the survival of my son's own personality and memory.
There have been several of these evidential episodes,
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 133
making strongly in this direction ; but I select, for
description here, one relating to a certain group photo-
graph which we were told of through two mediums, but of
which we normally knew nothing till afterwards.
Raymond was killed on the 14th of September, 1915.
The first reference to a photograph taken of him with
other men was made by Mr. Z. at M. F. A. L.'s first
sitting with Z. in Mrs. Kennedy's house, on 27th Septem-
ber, 1915, thus :
(Extract from M. F. A. L.'s Anonymous Sitting with
Mr. Z. on September 21th, 1915.)
You have several portraits of this boy. Before he went
away you had got a good portrait of him—two—no, three.
Two where he is alone and one where he is in a group of
other men. He is particular that I should tell you of this.
In one you see his walking-stick— (The control here put
an imaginary stick under his arm.)
We had single photographs of him of course, and in
uniform, but we did not know of the existence of a
photograph in which he was one of a group, and M. F. A. L.
was sceptical about it, thinking that it might well be
only a shot or guess on the part of the medium at some-
thing probable. But Mrs. Kennedy (as Note-taker) had
written down most of what was said, and this record was
kept, copied, and sent to Mr. Hill in the ordinary course
at the time. M. F. A. L. describes herself as feeling
somewhat '
ashamed '
of what seemed palpably a mere
guess.
I was myself, however, rather impressed with the
emphasis laid on it
—" he is particular that I should tell
you of this " —and accordingly made a half-hearted enquiry
or two ; but nothing more was heard on the subject
for two months. On Monday, November 29th, however,
a letter came from Mrs. Cheves, a stranger to us, mother
of Captain Cheves of the R.A.M.C., who had known
Raymond and had reported to us concerning the nature
of his wound, and who, I hope, is still continuing good
134 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
work at the Front. Mrs. Cheves' welcome letter, dated
November 28th, 1915, ran as follows :
My son, who is M.O. to the 2nd South Lanes, has sent
us a group of officers taken in August, and I wondered whether
you knew of this photo and had had a copy. If not may
I send you one, as we have half a dozen and also a key ?
I hope you will forgive my writing to ask this, but I have
often thought of you and felt so much for you in your great
sorrow.
M. F. A. L. at once wrote, enthusiastically thanking
her, and asking for it ; but fortunately it was not sent
then.
Before it came I (0. J. L.) was having a sitting with
Mrs. A. alone at her house on December 3rd, and on
this occasion, among other questions, I asked carefully
concerning the photograph, wishing to get more detailed
information about it before it was seen. And the answers
were thus reported and recorded at the time—the typing
out of the sitting being all done before the photograph
arrived. By this time my identity was well known to
Mrs. A.
(Extract from the Record of 0. J. L.'s Sitting with
Mrs. A., December '3rd, 1915.)
[The Control.] Now ask him some more.
o. J. l. Well, he said something about having a photo-
graph taken with some other men. We
haven't seen that photograph yet. Does he
want to say anything more about it ? He
spoke about a photograph.
Yes. but he thinks it wasn't here. He looks
at [the control], and he says, it wasn't to you.
o. J. l. No, he's cpiite right. It wasn't. Can he say
where he spoke of it ?
He says it wasn't through the table,
o. J. l. No, it wasn't.
It wasn't here at all. He didn't know the
person that he said it through. The con-
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 135
ditions were strange there—a strange house.
[Quite true, it was said through Mr. Z. in
Mrs. Kennedy's house.]
o. j. l. Do you recollect the photograph at all ?
He thinks there were several others taken with
him, not one or two, but several.
o. J. l. Were they friends of yours ?
Some of them, he says. He didn't know them
all, not very well. But he knew some ; he
heard of some ;
they were not all friends.
o. j. l. Does he remember how he looked in the photo-
graph 1
No, he doesn't remember how he looked,
o. J. l. No, no, I mean was he standing up ?
No, he doesn't seem to think so. Some were
raised up round, he was sitting down, and
some were raised up at the back of him.
Some were standing, and some were sitting, he
thinks.
o. J. L. Were they soldiers ?
He says yes—a mixed lot. Somebody called
C was on it with him ; and somebody called
R,—not his own name, but another R.
K, K, K,—he says something about K.
He also mentions a man beginning with B
—
(indistinct muttering something like Berry,
Burney—then clearly) but put down B.
o. J. l. I am asking about the photograph because we
haven't seen it yet. Somebody is going to
send it to us. We have heard that it exists,
and that's all.
[While this is being written out, the above
remains true. The photograph has not yet
come.]
He has the impression of about a dozen on it.
A dozen, he says, if not more. [The control]
thinks it must be a big photograph.
No, he doesn't think so, he says they were grouped
close together,
o. J. l. Did he have a stick ?
13G Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
He doesn't remember that. He remembers that
somebody wanted to lean on him, but he is
not sure if he was taken with some one
leaning on him. But somebody wanted to
lean on him he remembers. The last what
he gave you, what were a B, will be rather
prominent in that photograph. It wasn't taken
in a photographer's place.
Was it out of doors ?
Yes, practically.
(The control sotto voce): What you mean, 'yes
practically '
; must have been out of doors or
not out of doors. You mean 'yes,' don't you ?
[The control] thinks he means 'yes,' because
he says '
practically.'
It may have been a shelter.
It might have been. Try to show [the control].
At the back he shoAvs me lines going down.
It looks like a black back-ground, with lines
at the back of them. (The control here kept
drawing vertical lines in the air.)
There was, for some reason, considerable delay in the
arrival of the photograph ; it did not arrive till the
afternoon of December 7th. Meanwhile, on December
6th, Lady Lodge had been looking up Raymond's Diary,
which had been returned from the Front with his kit, and
found an entry on August 24th, " Photo taken." (A
statement will follow to this effect.)
Now Raymond had only had one "leave" home since
going to the Front, and this leave was from July 16th
to the 20th ; hence the photograph had not been taken
then, and so he could not have told us anything about
it, nor did he make any mention of it in letters. The
exposure was only made 21 days before his death, and
some days may have elapsed before he saw a print,
if he ever saw one. He certainly never mentioned it
in his letters. We were therefore in complete ignorance
concerning it ; and only recently had we normally become
aware of its existence.
o. J. L.
o. J. L.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 137
On the morning of December 7th, another note came
from Mrs. Cheves, in answer to a question about the
delay ; and this letter said that the photograph was
being sent off. Accordingly 0. J. L., thinking that the
photograph might be coming at once, dictated a letter
to Mr. Hill, recording roughly his impression of what the
photograph would be like, on the strength of the com-
munication received by him through Mrs. A. ; and this
was posted by A. E. Briscoe about lunch-time on the
same day. (See statement by Mr. Briscoe at the end.)
The statement by 0. J. L. to Mr. Hill ran thus :
Concerning that photograph which Raymond mentioned
through Z. [saying this :
" One where he is in a group of
other men. He is particular that I should tell you of this.
In one you see his walking stick." 1
], he has said some more
about it through Mrs. A. But he is doubtful about the
stick. What he says is that there is a considerable number
of men in the photograph ; that the front row is sitting, and
that there is a back row, or some of the people, grouped and
set up at the back ; also that there are a dozen or more
people in the photograph, and that some of them he hardly
knew ; that a B is prominent in the photograph, and that
there is also a C ; that he himself is sitting down, and that
there are people behind him, one of whom either leant on his
shoulder, or tried to.
The photograph has not come yet, but it may come any
day now ; so I send this off before I get it.
The actual record of what was said in the sitting is being
typed, but the above represents my impression of it.
The photograph was delivered at Mariemont between
3 and 4 p.m. on the afternoon of December 7th. It was
a wet afternoon, and the package was received by my
daughter Rosalynde, who took the wet wrapper off it.
Her mother, to whom it was addressed, was resting, and
did not see it till after tea, after Mrs. Isaac Thompson
had arrived on a visit. About 7 o'clock, M. F. A. L.
brought it into the study to show me, together with
1
This bit not written to J. A. H., but is copied from Z.'s sitting for con-
venience.
138 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
the " key " which Mrs. Cheves had sent showing who
the different people were. I deferred its examination
till later in the evening, after I had done my letters.
Considered as a photograph of Raymond it is bad,
but considered from the point of view of evidence it is
good. For on examining the photograph, we found that
every peculiarity mentioned by Raymond, unaided by the
medium, was strikingly correct. The walking-stick is
there, but Z. had put a stick under his arm (which is
not correct), and in connection with the back-ground
Mrs. A.'s control had, by gesture, emphasised vertical
lines. There are six prominent nearly vertical lines on
the roof of the shed, but the horizontal lines in the back-
ground generally are equally conspicuous.
By " a mixed lot," we understood members of different
Companies—not all belonging to Raymond's Company, but
a collection from several. This must be correct, as they
are too numerous for one Company. It is probable that they
all belong to one Regiment, except perhaps one, whose cap
seems to have a thistle badge instead of three feathers.
As to " prominence," I have asked several people
which member of the group seemed to them the most
prominent, and except as regards central position, a well-
lighted standing figure on the right has usually been pointed
to as most prominent. This one is a " B " as stated.
Some of the officers must have been barely known to
Raymond, while some were his friends. Officers whose
names begin with B, with C, and with R, were among
them ; there was not any name beginning with K,
but there is a name beginning with a hard C.
Some of the group are sitting while others are standing
behind. Raymond is one of the sitting, and his walking-
stick or regulation cane is lying across his feet.
The back-ground is dark, and is conspicuously lined.
It is out of doors, close in front of a shed or military
hut, pretty much as suggested to me by the statements
made in the Mrs. A. Sitting—what I called a " shelter."
But by far the most striking piece of evidence, is
the fact that some one sitting behind Raymond is leaning
or resting a hand on his shoulder. The photograph
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 130
fortunately shows the actual occurrence, and almost indi-
cates that Raymond was rather annoyed with it ;
for
his face is a little screwed up, and his head has been
slightly bent to one side out of the way of the man's
arm. It is the only case in the photograph where one
man is leaning or resting his hand on the shoulder of
another, and I judge that it is a thing not unlikely to
be remembered by the one to whom it occurred.
[Added later] : In answer to an enquiry, Mrs. Cheves
wrote to us on December 10th saying that she was
unable to tell us anything about that photograph, that
her son had ordered them to be sent to her just as they
were, and that she did not have it enlarged ; also that
she would write and ask him to tell us all he knew
about it. I wrote at the same time to Gale & Polden,
of Aldershot, the photographers whose name is printed
at the foot of the photograph, asking them to send me
further particulars, and, if possible, extra copies.
I thus obtained prints of all the accessible photographs
which had been taken at the same time. The size of
these prints was 5 by 7.
I found that the group had been repeated, with slight
variations, three times —the officers all in the same relative
positions but not in identically the same attitudes.
One of them is the same as the one we had seen, with
Captain S.'s hand resting on Raymond's shoulder, and
Raymond's head leaning a little on one side, as if rather
annoyed.
In another the hand had been removed, being supported
by Captain S.'s stick ; and in that one Raymond's head
is upright. This corresponds to his uncertainty as to
whether he was actually taken with the man leaning on
him or not.
In a third variation, however, Captain S.'s leg rests
on or touches Raymond's shoulder, and the slant of
the head and slight look of annoyance have returned.
As to the evidential value of the whole communication,
it will be observed that there is something of the nature
140 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
of cross-correspondence, of a simple kind, in the fact
that a reference to the photograph was made by one
medium, and details given by another in answer to
a question which I asked about it : the communicator
showing that he was aware that the previous reference
had been made through another channel. (See report
above, page 134.)
And the elimination of ordinary telepathy from the
living, except under the far-fetched hypothesis of the
unconscious influence of complete strangers, was excep-
tionally complete ; inasmuch as the whole of the infor-
mation was recorded before any of us had seen the
photograph.
Chronological Summary.
July 20th, 1915.
August 24th, 1915.
September 14th, 1915.
September 21th, 1915.
October 15th, 1915.
November 29th, 1915.
December 3rd, 1915.
December 6th, 1915.
Raymond's last visit home.
Photograph taken at the Front
(as shown by Raymond's pri-
vate diary) but not men-
tioned by him.
Raymond's death.
Mr. Z.'s control's mention of
the photograph.
Negatives sent from France
to Gale & Polden for re-
production.
Mrs. Cheves wrote spon-
taneously, saying that she
had a group-photograph of
some 2nd South Lancashire
Officers, which she could send
if desired.
Mrs. A.'s control's further de-
scription of a photograph
which had been mentioned
through another medium.
M. F. A. L. found an entry
in Raymond's Diary showing
that a photogi-aph had been
taken on August 24th.
lxxti.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 141
Morning of Dec. 1th, 1915. To make sure, 0. J. L. wrote
to J. A. H. his impression of
the photograph before it came.
Afternoon of Dec. 1th, 1915. Arrival of the photograph.
Evenings of Dec. 1 and 8, 1915. The photograph was shown to
the home members of the
family.
Appendix to the Group Photograph Incident.
Statement by Raymond's mother (M. F. A. L.)
Four days ago (December 6th), I was looking through my
son Raymond's Diary which had been returned with his kit
from the Front. (The edges are soaked, and some of the
leaves stuck together, with his blood.) I was struck by
finding an entry " Photo taken " under the date August 24th,
and I entered the fact in my own Diary at once, thus :
December Gth. " Read Raymond's Diary for first time, saw
record of photo taken August 24th."
(Signed) Mary F. A. Lodge.
10th December, 1915.
Statement by A. E. Briscoe.
The letter dictated to Mr. Hill, recording roughly Sir Oliver's
impression of what the photograph would be like, was written
out by me on the morning of Tuesday, December 7th, at
Mariemont ; it was signed by Sir Oliver at about noon, and
shortly afterwards I started for the University, taking that and
other letters with me for posting in town. I went straight
to the University, and at lunch-time (about 1.30) posted the
packet to Mr. Hill at the General Post Office.
(In the packet, I remember, there was also a letter on
another subject, and a printed document from Mr. Gow, the
Editor of " Light.")
(Signed) A. E. Briscoe.
8th December, 1915.
142 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Statement by Eosalynde Lodge.
I was sitting in the library at Mariemont about 3.45 on
Tuesday afternoon the 7th December, 1915, when Harrison
came in with a flat cardboard parcel addressed to Mother.
Mother was resting ; and as the paper, wrapping up what I
took to be the photograph, was wet from the rain, I undid
it and left the photograph in tissue paper on a table, having
just glanced at it to see if it was the one we'd been waiting
for.
No one saw it or was shown it till after tea when I showed
it to Mother. That would be about 6.0. Mrs. Thompson,
Lorna, and Barbara, now also saw it. Honor was not at
home and did not see it till later.
(Signed) R. V. Lodge.
8th December, 1915.
Mr. Alfred Cresswell, of the Edgbaston Meteorological
Observatory, has now kindly supplied me with the record
of his automatic rain gauge for the day on which the
photograph arrived—Tuesday, 7th December, 1915.
The curve shows that at 1.30 p.m. rainfall began, that
by 2 p.m., three-hundredths of an inch had fallen, and
that rain continued without ceasing till 9 p.m. ;
by
which time four-tenths of an inch had fallen.
So it was clearly a wet afternoon, in accordance with
the above testimony on pages 137 and 142.
Remarks on the Photographs by J. A. H.
Thank you very much for sight of the 3 photographs.
The vertical lines at the back struck me at once, and, remem-
bering that one man was said to be " prominent," but with
no recollection further, I looked for the man who seemed
most so, and at once fixed on the man standing up on the
extreme right, probably because of the strong light on his
shoulder. Then re-reading the account I find that this is
Capt. Boast, fitting in with the prominent man whose name
begins with B. The whole case is excellent.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 143
Normal Information about the Photograph.
Extract from a letter by Captain Sydney T. Boast from the
Trenches, dated 7 May, 1916, to Mrs. Case, and lent me to see.
Some months ago (last summer) the Officers of our Battalion
had their photo taken. . . . You see the photographer who
took us was a man who had been shelled out of house and
home, and as he had no means of doing the photos for us,
we bought the negatives, and sent them along to be finished
in England.
Letter to 0. J. L. from the Photographers to whom the
Negatives had been sent by Captain Boast.
Aldershot, 1 July, 1916.
" With further reference to your letter, we have looked
into this matter and we find that we received the negatives
from Captain Boast on the 15th October, 1915. We did not
send any set of prints out to the Front to Captain Boast,
although we had a great many orders sent in to us by the
various Officers for copies to be sent to addresses in England.
We think, however, that they must have seen prints of these
before the negatives were sent to us."
(Signed) Gale & Polden.
Letter from Captain Boast to 0. J. L.
In answer to a special enquiry addressed to Captain
Boast at the Front, he has been good enough to favour
me with the following letter :
10 July, 1916.
Dear Sir,
Your letter of the 4th July has just reached me.
The proofs of the photographs referred to were received by
me from the photographer at Reninghelst, two or three days
after being taken. To the best of my belief your son saw
the proofs, but I cannot now say positively. I obtained
particulars of recpiirements from the officers forming the
144 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
group, but the photographer then found he was unable to
obtain paper for printing. I therefore bought the negatives
and sent them home to Gale and Poklen. In view of the
fact that your son did not go back to the trenches till 12 Sept.
1915, it is highly probable that he saw the proofs, but he
certainly did not see the negatives.
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Sydney T. Boast.
We thus learn :
(a) That the photographs were developed in France and
a proof shown to some officers ;
though whether Raymond
was one who saw the proofs is uncertain. Captain Boast
thinks that he probably saw a proof, but could not
possibly have had a print to send home.
(b) That the date on which the negatives were bought
and sent home for reproduction was such that they did
not reach the firm in England till October 15th, which
was long after the date (September 27th) when a group
photograph was mentioned to me through the medium
Mr. Z.
The photographs are only shown here because of their
evidential interest. Considered as likenesses of Raymond,
they are exceptionally bad ; he appears shrunk into an
uncomfortable position.
Concluding Note.
Note that the establishment of a date in August for
the taking of the photograph, as mentioned first in Mrs.
Cheves' letter and now confirmed, is important, because
the last time we ever saw Raymond was in July.
To my mind the whole incident is rather exceptionally
good as a piece of evidence ; and that " Raymond "
expected it to be good evidence, is plain from Z.'s con-
trol's statement, at that first reference to a photograph
on 27th September, viz. "He is particular that I should
tell you of this." This sentence it probably was which
made me look out for such a photograph, and take pains
to get records soundly made beforehand.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 145
In most evidence there is some flaw. There may be
one in this, but I have not yet discovered it. Our com-
plete ignorance, even of the existence of the photograph,
in the first place, and secondly the gradual manner in
which the details normally came to our knowledge,
so that we were able to make provision for getting
the supernormally acquired details definitely noted
beforehand, seem to me to make it a first class case.
While as to the amount of coincidence between the
description and the actual photograph, that surely is quite
beyond chance or guess-work. For not only are many
things right, but practically nothing is wrong.
Additional Note about the Photographs.
The admittedly unlikely suggestion has been made
that one or other of the mediums may possibly have
seen these photographs before anything was said about
them to us. In the case of Mr. Z. the information
given definitely negatives this suggestion ; for the negatives
did not arrive in this country till October 15th, while
Z.'s first mention of such a photograph was on September
27th.
In the case of Mrs. A. I have seen her and catechised
both her and her control. The answers, very honestly
given, are as follows :
First from Mrs. A. in ordinary state and quite normal.
Second from Mrs. A.'s control, i.e. from Mrs. A.
in the entranced condition, when the control
appears to have knowledge and memory separate
from her own.
Catechising of Mrs. A. by O. J. L. Ylth July, 1916.
Question. Do you remember in any of your sittings having seen
photographs of Officers ?
Answer. Yes, a lady called W brought a photograph
of her husband,—I think it was a head and
shoulders. She comes from Birmingham. Quite
a young lady.
K
146 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Question. Did anyone bring a group photograph ?
Answee. No, I don't think they have. No, I don't remember
anyone bringing a group photograph. No, I can't
recollect having seen one at all.
Question. I don't mean from Birmingham ?
Answer. No, I don't remember anybody bringing a group.
Sometimes people bring little parcels, and keep
them on their knee, but they don't often show
them to me.
Question. Have you seen a group of officers at all ?
Answer. No, I don't think so—I don't remember any group.
As a rule, people don't show me their photo-
graphs, they have one wrapped up sometimes,
but they very seldom show them to me.
Question. Do you ever hear of Papers read at meetings of
the S.P.R. ?
Answer. Oh, you mean the Psychical Society ? Yes, a Mrs.
[B.] told me that she had just come from one
where you mentioned me and [my control]. She
only told me the fact, and not any particulars
—
she knew I should be pleased.
Catechising of Mrs. A.'s Control by O. J. L.
\<dth July, 1916.
[Speaking to the control] When people sit with you,
do they ever bring photographs to show you ?
Yes, they do, sometimes. But [I] can't see them.
[I] don't want them to bring them, it doesn't
help a bit. It's foolish to bring them, not many
people do.
Do they ever bring a photograph of a group of
people ?
No, they bring photograph of one person, the one
they want to talk to. Sometimes it's a big one
of the people they want to get at. But [I] can't
see it, and it doesn't help.
But do they ever bring a group photograph, and
ask you to pick the one out ?
No, 1
1 |
can't remember that they have ever done that.
O. J. L.
O. J. L.
O. J. L.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 147
No, [I've] never seen a photograph of a lot of
people. It's just one they bring, and it's silly
to bring them, 'cos [I] can't see them,
o. J. l. Very well, Raymond will understand why I ask this.
Yes, he says he understands perfectly,
o. j. l. Ask him did he ever see a print of the photograph ?
He says he didn't. He can't remember that he did.
o. J. L. Were they developed out there ?
No, he doesn't even think they were developed. He
doesn't remember,
o. J. l. But if he never saw the prints, how did he know
what they looked like 1
He says, only because he knew how they was taken,
o. j. l. Yes, but he said something about a dark background
with lines ?
Yes, he means he knew exactly what it would look
like, because he see'd it himself,
o. j. l. And then he said that one would come out prominent.
([The control, sotto voce] : it wasn't you.)
No, he says, it wasn't him. No, he says, he didn't
see it. He can't remember seeing any print
at all.
o. j. l. Well, Raymond, the photographer seems to have
been shelled out of house and home, perhaps
that's why he couldn't do them.
Oh, he didn't know that till after.
He knows it's all very important, because it does
away with telepathy. But he can't remember
seeing even a proof,
o. j. l. Was it a captain that had the photographs taken ?
Yes, he says. Somebody else was keener than ho_
was, but he had the most say about it. [Meaning
the captain.]
o. j. l. Was he the prominent man ?
Yes.
o. j. l. Did he arrange things, and then go and stick himself
there ?
He's not sure. He says, I don't want to spoil a
good thing by trying to remember something when
I'm hazy about it.
148 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
I have no reason to suppose that Mrs. A. in her normal
consciousness knows anything about the photograph.
I have not told her of it, nor have I shown it her.
Nor have I mentioned the matter any further to her
control. When this is published, if she ever reads the
Proceedings S.P.R., it will be the first time that she
becomes aware of the incident, unless some member or
associate of the S.P.R. tells her about it.
III.
The '
Horace and 0. L.' Episode.
{A side issue of evidential interest.)
Mr. J. Arthur Hill, of Thornton, near Bradford, on the
3rd of March, 1916, was having a sitting with the
medium, Mr. Z., in his house at Thornton (only his sister,
Miss Hill (M. H.), being present to take notes), and had
handed to the medium a scrap of my writing from
which everything identifying had been cut off. The
medium didn't look at it, but crushed the paper in
his hand. But it seemed to put him into touch
with me, and with Myers. I judge this because " Human
Personality " was mentioned ; the " tunnel " simile was
mentioned ;
many of the S.P.R. Group were referred to
like a kind of composite portrait, without any attempt
at sejiaration or individual identification. And presently
the medium said, slowly and emphatically :
"Tell Hill, tell Hill—that's you—I want this transcribed
and sent to 0. L., because it is for him more than for Hill."
Then a special message came through for me—a general
message of stimulus and encouragement. Note that this
was the first mention of 0. L.
Communications about the S.P.R. Group continued, and
presently Mr. Hill, still feeling the influence of "Myers"
present, and thinking that he might get a cross-corre-
spondence about the '
Faunus '
message which had come
Lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 140
last year to me through Mrs. Piper—as reported above
—
said in a definite manner :
" Does Horace remind you of anything in connexion with
0. L. ?
"
The answer of the medium is recorded as follows :
Medium. (After pause.) Can't get his answer.
(Pause.)
Very curious. I see verses. Too indefinite. Verses
in English language. '
Oh had I a little farm !
'
What's this mean ? I get a picture of two mice.
M. h. Two what %
j. a. h. Mice.
Medium. One mouse is very smooth, and nice : hair brushed
prettily ; fat. The other is rough and not so
pretty. A little laugh. Somebody is laughing.
I am in contact with some one who hasn't for-
gotten how to laugh.
What has that to do with a book ? A little book,
covered with leather. Curious title page, much
worn. Dear to you through age. It is held up
to me. That's all.
Mr. Hill adds a note as follows :
March 7, 1916.
The sentence about the farm recalls nothing to me. Nor
did the " mice " at the time. Since, I have remembered
that there is some fable about a town mouse and a country
mouse, but I remember no more about it, and I do not know
whether it is in Horace or not. I have read or skipped
Horace in translations, but remember practically nothing. I
have purposely not yet looked it up. J. A. H.
Later, after the medium had gone, Mr. Hill wrote to
him and asked if he knew where '
The Town and Country
Mouse '
occurred in literature. He replied—to the best
of his belief, in Prior. Mr. Hill also asked him whether
he had ever read Horace. He replied—hardly at all.
He had read translations of Virgil and Homer, but had
found the translations of Horace too bad to be readable.
[See Appendix for his full statement on the subject.]
150 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
Mr. Hill soon found out that the " Town and Country
Mouse " fable occurred in one of Horace's Satires, though
of course it is quoted or transcribed in many places in
literature. And when I read the above sitting to the
family, I read them also a translation of Horace's Satire
n. G, about his home life and his little farm, and his
preference for country to town, where there were too
many interruptions and distractions. They were struck
—
as I had not been—by a close resemblance between the
description of Horace's farm and a more prosaic description
which had been given in a letter by my eldest son,
Oliver W. F. Lodge, of his very recently acquired little
farm ; and this letter of Oliver's was hunted up. It is
a letter to his mother, dated 6th January, 1916, and
part of it is here quoted :
The farm is glorious, and we have a little wood, and springs.
The house is not very big, but it will be good when I have
got the new drains in. (Signed) Oliver.
He had only just gone out from a town (Cardiff) to
live in the country ;
having effected the move and entered
the farm at Christmas.
And the following is Dr. Hamilton Bryce's translation
of the beginning of the 6th Satire, Book II., of Horace
—
the one which ends with the fable of the Town and
Country Mouse :
This was a wish of mine ; —a piece of land not very large
in which there was a garden, and near the house a spring of
never-failing water, and, over and above, a little wood. The
gods have dealt by me more liberally, and better than I hoped.
I am content.
It would be quite characteristic of Myers's intelligence
and vein of humour, if he had by any means been
informed of Oliver's unexpected and rather surprising
farm enterprise, to bethink him of the Horace passage ;
and subsequently, when suddenly asked a question con-
necting Horace with 0. L., that he should switch from
the O. L. intended, and give an answer appropriate
to 0. L. Junior. Thinking that thereby he could give
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 151
something which would ultimately be understood, and
which, when understood, would prove more evidential —
more completely eliminating telepathy for instance. For
telepathy would not have been eliminated by a communica-
tion about Faunus, since Mr. Hill had been privately told
of that incident. But nothing about Oliver's farm could
possibly be in his knowledge, nor in that of the medium ;
nor did it happen that there was any conscious knowledge
of this particular portion of Horace. The only normal
explanation seems to be, coincidence. And the question
how far coincidence can be considered sufficient to cover
details of agreement in this CctSG, IS <3j matter of judgment.
Added June 27th, 1916.
[When I read this paper at the meeting of the S.P.R.,
Mr. Piddington urged that the reference to Horace's farm
was really, after all, another allusion to Faunus and the
tree trunk, because the accident had happened in the
wood on Horace's Sabine Farm. I admit the fact,
though I had not recognised it before, 1
but I think the
reference is too far-fetched and indistinct to be considered
a '
Faunus '
allusion ; and for my own part I adhere to
the other 0. L. explanation, though I admit that the
switch from one 0. L. to another is curious, for in the
earlier part of Z.'s utterance I was certainly the 0. L.
intended.
I pay great deference to Mr. Piddington's opinion in
such matters, and it will be instructive to a reader to
have the matter argued before him. In favour of Mr.
Piddington's interpretation is the fact that the question
referred to me, and that the questioner expected a Faunus-
tree-trunk answer. Against that interpretation I call
attention to the medium's mention of " verses in the
English language," and to the migration from Town to
Country represented by the fable of the two mice. These
are very appropriate to my son, 0. L. Junior, who has
published a volume of poetry, and quite inappropriate to
1
Since the episode I have read Sir Archibald Geikie's article in
the Quarterly for April, 1916, called " Horace and his Sabine Farm."
152 Sir Oliver Lodge. [paet
myself : though it is true that they were not definitely
applied to either of us by the utterance of the Z control.
Adhering for the present to my own view, I argue in its
favour thus : Mr. Myers knew my son Oliver as a boy, and
was kindly interested in his literary ability and early
poetic faculty. On hearing that he had just gone to live
in the country on a little farm, he would be not unlikely
to think of Horace. If so, it is quite in accordance
with his methods that he should give the reference by
an allusion to two mice ; for he would know that thus,
before long, it would be identified. If this is the true
interjiretation, it is a case where ordinary telepathy
is excluded to the uttermost. Mr. Piddington's inter-
pretation, however, is of even greater interest, and he
has expressed his views in a careful Note (see below,
p. 1G0).
Appendix.
Enquiries concerning Normal Knowledge.
To ascertain how far it was familiar to a literary
scholar not specially classical that the " Town and Country
Mouse " fable occurred in Horace (I seemed to have
an indistinct recollection of having heard the fact long
ago but had quite forgotten it—I thought it was probabh'
in Aesop), I wrote, without giving any reason, to my son
Oliver, asking him if, without looking up, he would
tell me where the fable occurred in literature. He replies
this morning (16th March) :
Before looking up I thought the fable of the Town and
Country Mice had been told by the following :
Aesop (?).
Phaedrus (?).
Henryson. The Burger Mouse and the Upland Mouse.
La Fontaine. Le Rat Civile et le Rat de Camyaqne.
Gay (?).
If you want the order in which the names came to me, it
was : La Fontaine, Henryson, Aesop, Phaedrus, Gay.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 153
On looking up I find that Horace is the chief Latin
source.
I have not an Aesop, Phaedrus, or Gay handy, and these I
am doubtful of.
La Fontaine, who otherwise followed Horace, called them rats.
Hcnryson's is the most interesting version I know of in English,
and 1 should say that Horace is the locus classicus. If this
is not what you want I am delighted to send more.
(Note by J. A. H., March 9th, 1916.)
I have found the " two mice," I think. It is in the fable
of the City Mouse and the Country Mouse, and the Horatian
account is in Book II. of the Satires : No. 6. And the sentence
" 0 had I a little farm !
" well expresses the idea of this
Satire, and indeed what I now remember to have been Horace's
often repeated preference for country life.
All this, however, is common knowledge, or at least cannot
safely be assumed to be unknown to a reader like Z. ;
though,
as said in the comments, it was not known to me supra-
liminally. I have almost certainly read that Satire, years
ago, but had evidently almost forgotten its contents. If anyone
had asked me, unexpectedly,—as I practically asked the
control—to produce a Horatian reference, I could have pro-
duced nothing but the Faunus incident, which I had read up
recently in Odes, Book 2, Nos. 13 and 17. Further, in my
question I did not indicate that it was the poet Horace I
was meaning ; so far as anything I said was concerned, it
might have been a reference to some deceased (or living)
relative or friend of "0. L." named Horace. If I were asked
at a time when classical matters were not in my mind, what
" Horace " reminded me of, I should probably say " Horace
Duckett, the old International Rugby football player "
—
for I knew him well, his parents and himself happening to
live in a house belonging to me.
For the sake of interest, and not because it is evidence,
I will try to get Z.'s statement of what he knows about
Horace. I will take a copy of anything I may write to
him about it
154 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
{Letter from J. A. H. to Mr. Z.)
March 9, 1916
I want to ask you, in consequence of some things which
came through in the trance, one or two questions. I shall
be extremely obliged to you if you will be so kind as to
answer them, briefly but as comprehensively as you have time
for. I will write them at the head of accompanying sheets,
and then you can write answers underneath and can send
me the sheets back—with this letter also, unless you wish
to keep it—just as you like.
(Signed) J. Arthur Hill.
{Questions of J. A. H. Answers of Mr. Z.)
Q. Are you acquainted with the works of the Roman
poet Horace ? If I said, " What do you remember
in, or of, Horace, what would you say ?," [Don't
look anything tip before answering !
]
Answer. Alas I know very little of Horace as I cannot read
Latin and he is not well translated. He is not
one of my pet books I know only a scrap about
him being the son of a free man and that he
wrote odes to Augustus and one of his patrons was
a man whose name commenced with M . I
cannot remember any thing particular to quoth as
I never remember quotations.
q. Do you know the fable of the Town Mouse and
the City Mouse, or have you any recollection of it,
or of where it occurs in literature ?
Answer. Yes certainly it is one of those fables that is uni-
versal I believe it is in Prior the English poet
of the time of Queen Ann and as I have not
Prior at hand cannot verify the fact.
{Letter from Mr. Z to J. A. H.)
[Pveceived March 11, 1916. J. A. H.]
[This letter is quoted to show that Mr. Z. is not an unread
man. Long residence abroad may partly account for
spelling peculiarities.]
Dear Mr. Hill am returning the sheets as you desire I
hope I have answered rightly I tried to read Horace years
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 155
ago but some how or the other failed, as he has suffered
from translators more than any of the classic poets. Homer
had Pope Virgil had Dryden but Horace had Frances & it
is vile stuff. I have recently in fact while in Scotland bought
a copy of Chapmans Homer which I am reading for the
1st time for when I read Homer I was 17 & that in Bones
translation Drydens Virgil followed and I have not re-read
them since I tried Frances Horace but alas—even I could
not stick it. I give you the details of course I see scraps
of him quothed everywhere but to know him as I know
Browning Shakespere & Rosseti no I do not. How cold it
is here hi London to day Thurs it is bitterly cold the wmd
cuts you like a knife & one longs for the sunshine I feel
very depressed here the psychical condition of London is
awful every one is jumpy & depressed I went to a Theatre
on Monday & was sorry I went nothing but women & old
men I just hate the war conditions but I suppose I must
wait for its my Karma all kind regards from [Z.].
Summary by 0. J. L.
Concerning the. evidential value of this little bye-episode,
I will add some comments.
Whatever Z. knew or did not know of Horace, there
was nothing in Mr. Hill's question to signify necessarily the
classical poet. Nor was there anything to bring me into
the business normally ; because the mention of 0. L.
had been made by Z. himself, when switched clairvoyantly
on to me and Myers by having a bit of paper in my
writing—which, however, was unknown to Z. as I had
never written to him—put into his hand. This bit of
paper was not even looked at, but it would have showed
no connexion with me even if it had been read, for it
related only to the meaning of a few Greek words on
which Mr. Hill had asked my opinion. However, Z.,
by its aid, got on to 0. L. somehow, and on to Mr. Myers.
But when Mr. Hill asked the question about Horace
and 0. L., no further reference to me was made by the
communicator—at least on my interpretation of the
episode ; but instead of that he showed intimate know-
ledge by switching ingeniously on to my eldest son, who
had never been thought of in connexion with the subject,
who had never been near Z., had probably never heard
156 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
of him,—who is not known personally to Mr. Hill, and who
for some time was not miderstood by any one to be the
0. L. intended, until later when I read the supernormally
indicated Horace Satire to the family. A letter of my
son Oliver's was then hunted up, and found to correspond.
It was just like Myers to manage this, when a question
about Horace and 0. L. Avas sprung upon him, but I do
not know any one else who would have the requisite
knowledge and quickness. The communicator through Z.
had to know about Oliver's farm, and about his recent
transition to the country ;
" Myers " could presumably
know this through Raymond. He would also know the
initials 0. L.—which are not the whole of my son's
initials indeed, but the only ones likely to be remembered
or even known by Mr. Myers. He had a mind steeped
in classical lore, so that directly a question was asked
about Horace and 0. L., a little farm episode in relation
to both might jump to utterance ; the passage being
identified for us sufficiently by the easily found quotation
about Town and Country Mice. As to the 0. L., Mr.
Hill, of course, thought it meant me, for he knew next
to nothing about any other O. L.
IV.
Some Recent Piper Script Forming a Concealed
Sequel to the '
Faunus '
Message.
Long after the '
Horace 0. L.' episode, but before I read
about it to the S.P.R., I received from America, on the
7th June, 1916, two short pieces of Piper script, which,
as possibly throwing some light upon the question whether
or not the '
Horace 0. L.' message was in any way con-
nected with the '
Faunus '
message, are reproduced here.
They were sent with the following accompanying note :
Letter from Alta Pij>er to O. J. L.
20th May, 1916.
The enclosed script was written spontaneously on the 17th
aud 18th of this month. Mama was alone at the time of
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 157
writing. She made no comments before, during, or after
the writing, but allowed it to proceed as it would. The
message is wholly unintelligible to us, but I hope it will prove
to have some meaning for you.
{Piper Script of llth May, 1916.)
+ HAIL
I am Rector
Mme G returns with me and F. W. H. M.
To greet friend Lodge You shall bear these hardships
with such resolve as befitteth stalwart men J you shall not
altogether die but a mighty part of xa& you will escape the
death goddess Gladly will I take the gifs of the present
and abandon [?] other things. Had I the power of Bacchus
I would preserve a home in the island of the blessed for
the [sic] for the [sic] oh friend of other days I do not
wander oer the earth an unlaid Ghost but on the wing or
fleet of foot I wander to find an earthly friend to whom I
can give cheer & try truth [?
" by " instead of " & try "].
Farewell it will be mentioned elsewhere wait for this
F. W. H. M.
-J- -f- Farewell R
Mme G
[The sketch looks as if it might be a mountain, possibly
associated with the F. W. H. M. signature. The rosary-
cross on its left is the characteristic symbol of Mme G.
Mr. J. Arthur Hill suggests that iEacus may be meant
above instead of Bacchus, and it certainly seems to make
more obvious sense, but in the original script the writing
158 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
is certainly Bacchus, whatever was intended by the com-
municator. 1
Mr. Piddington, by scrutiny of the original, lias detected
that the word " you " which occurs twice was originally
written " I " and " me " respectively, and then written
over and converted into " you." This will be perceived,
on consideration, to be really an excellent point. (See a
footnote to Mr. Piddington's Note below.) 0. J. L.]
{Supplementary Piper Script of May 18th, 1916.)
HAIL.
Friend of earth I greet you Rector
Tell Mrs Verrall I have answered her question of long ago,
Myers.
+ R
To these scripts I have been favoured with a Note by
Mr. Bayfield, here reproduced :
Note by Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
The Rectory, Hertingfordbttry,
Hertford, 6 July, 1916.
Piper Script of May 17, 1916.
" Gladly will I take the gifts of the present " is a clear
reference to Horace, Carm. in. 8. 27, of some words of which
it is in fact a translation. The passage is,
Dona praesentis cape laetus horae et
Linque severa,
'
Take gladly the gifts of the present hour, and lay cares of
state aside.'
The poem is addressed to Horace's patron Maecenas, who on
the day on which it is ostensibly composed, the 1st of March,
is apparently dining with him at his Sabine villa. It may
be summarised as follows : You wonder to find me, a bachelor,
1 See below, moreover, near the end of Mr. Piddington's important Note ;
where it is made quite clear that Bacchus (Liber) was intended.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 159
making preparations for sacrifice on the day of the Matronalia
[a festival for married women]. It is in fulfilment of a vow
I made to keep holy every year the day on which I narrowly
escaped death from the blow I received from the falling tree.
I swore I would make an annual sacrifice to Bacchus on this
day. Forget public affairs for a while, Maecenas ;
join in
my thanksgiving, and drink my health as often as you will
before the night is over. Take gladly the gifts of the present
hour, and banish all cares of state.
In Carm. n. 17. 27, Horace attributes his escape to the
lightening of the blow by Faunus, but there need be no
inconsistency in his making his yearly thanksgiving to Bacchus,
who, as one of the gods of poetry, might be assumed to have
been the prime mover in the matter, possibly employing
Faunus as his agent.
It is impossible not to connect these words of the script with
the Faunus message ; and the manner of it seems to me to
give it extraordinary value, to make it indeed one of our
best.
For firstly, it is most improbable that Mrs. Piper should be
capable, consciously or subliminally, of making a quotation
from Horace at all ;
secondly, it is difficult to suppose that
any living person communicated it to her telepathically ; and
thirdly, the connexion of the words with the Faunus message
could hardly have been more effectively concealed without
becoming irrecoverable. As I read the script, Horace's words
dona praesentis cape laetus horae happened to flash across
my mind, but they might well not have done so ; for the
line is in no way striking, since it merely expresses a common-
place of the poet's philosophy which he frequently repeats
in varying language. When I had recalled the line it took
me some time to discover in what ode it occurred, and so
little did I dream it had anything to do with the falling tree,
that the fact came as a pleasant surprise.
The sentence in the script, " wander o'er the earth an
unlaid ghost," suggests poetry, and we must try to track it
down if it is a quotation. „
H
M. A. B.
160 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PART
NOTE ON THE ALLUSION TO HORACE, Sat. n. 6,
IN MR. Z.'s SITTING WITH MR. J. ARTHUR
HILL.
BY J. G. PlDDINGTON.
On August 8, 1915, there came a message from MyersP
to Sir Oliver Lodge about " Faunus and the Poet."
This message reached Sir Oliver a day or two before
September 8, 1915.
On October 12, 1915, Sir Oliver sent the following
message to "Myers " through Mrs. A. :
Tell him I understand about '
Faunus and the Poet
'
... he may like to say something. ... Of course he
may, if he chooses, say something more through Mrs.
Piper.
On Jan. 12, 1916, the following conversation between Miss
Alta Piper and Rector took place :
Alta. Hail Rector ! I am glad you have come ! I have a
question to ask you for Sir Oliver.
Good.
Alta. May I give it now ? Can you hear me distinctly ?
I U.D. absolutely friend.
(Here I read from Sir Oliver's letter, the passage re-
ferring to the turning aside of a fallen trunk. Doubt-
less Sir Oliver has a copy of that letter. A. L. P.)
[" When you next have an opportunity, you might
take this message from me to Myers : namely this
—
'
that he did not turn aside the falling trunk with
his right hand.' You might further ask him whether
he tried to do so, or whether he was making reference
to something still in the future."]
(The following was then written.)
I cannot answer all today but will take influence
away with me and rctmn another day to repty.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 161
On Jan. 16, 1916, the following occurred during Mrs.
Piper's automatic writing :
Alta. Is there any other message from or to anyone I can
take ?
Myers has some. That had reference to the future
as much as to the past.
Alta. Thank you. You want me to send that to Lodge ?
Yes because there are other trunks which might fall
were they not stayed. . . . There will be more
later, but for the moment take this.
On March 3, 1916, Mr. J. Arthur Hill had a sitting
with a medium, Mr. Z., hi the course of which he put
this question to Mr. Z.'s control :
Does Horace remind you of anything in connexion
with O. L. ?
The answer received was :
Very curious. I see verses. Too indefinite. Verses
in English language. '
Oh had I a little farm !
'
What's
this mean ? I get a picture of two mice. One mouse
is very smooth and nice : hair brushed prettily ; fat.
The other is rough and not so pretty.
On May 17, 1916, Mrs. Piper wrote the following
script :
+HAIL
I am Rector
M™6
G[uyon] returns with me and F. W. H. M.
To greet friend Lodge You shall bear these hardships
with such resolve as befitteth stalwart men you 1
shall
not altogether die but a mighty part of you 2
will escape
the death goddess Gladly will I take the gif[t]s of
the present and (undeciphered word) 3
other things. Had
I the power of Bacchus I would preserve a home in
the island [sic] of the blessed for the [sic] for the [sic]
1 " I " was first written, and then was turned into "you."
2 " Me " was first written, and then " you " was written over it.
3
1 am almost certain that the undeciphered word is "abandon,"'
written " aandon," the "b" being afterwards inserted.
L
162 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PART
oh friend of other days. I do not wander oer the earth
an unlaid Ghost but on the wing or fleet of foot I wander
to find an earthly friend to whom I can give cheer by 1
truth.
Farewell it will be mentioned elsewhere wait for this
F. W. H. M.
Farewell R
Mme
G
(For drawings accompanying the signatures see p. 157
above.)
On May 18, 1916, Mrs. Piper wrote the following script:
HAIL.
Friend of earth I greet you Rector
Tell Mrs
Verrall I have answered her question of long
&
Myers.
+R
With Sir Oliver's interpretation of the " Faunus and
the Poet " message in Mrs. Piper's script of August 8,
1915, I entirely agree. Where I disagree with him is
over his interpretation of Mr. Z.'s answer, given on
March 3, 1916, to Mr. Hill's question :
" Does Horace
remind you of anything in connexion with 0. L. ?
"
We both agree, and, I think, every one will agree, that
Mr. Z.'s answer refers to Horace's little farm and to the
fable of the Town and Country Mouse, as described and
told in Hor. Sat. n. 6. But here we part company. Sir
Oliver considers that the point of this literary reference
is to show supernormally acquired knowledge of the fact
that his eldest son, Mr. 0. W. F. Lodge, had recently
moved from a town and gone to live at a little farm,
which he had described in a letter to his mother in
terms recalling Horace's description of his little farm. I
consider that Mr. Z.'s reference to Hor. Sat. II. 6 is a
continuation of the previous reference through Mrs. Piper
to Hor. C. II. 17 (" Faunus and the Poet ").
1
Originally deciphered as " & try " ; but I think the true reading
is " by," what was taken to be an ampersand and a cross to a t
being merely scrawls.
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 163
What the connexion between Hor. Sat. II. 6 and Hor.
C. ii. 17 is I will show later.
Meanwhile, I had first better deal with the only reason
(except, of course, the admitted coincidence between the farm
of Hor. Sat. n. 6 and Mr. Oliver W. Lodge's farm) which
Sir Oliver gives for referring Mr. Z.'s answer to his son
Oliver. He maintains that " I see verses . . . Verses in
English language " is a way of alluding to the fact
that his son has written and published poems. In my
view " I see verses . . . Verses in English language " is
simply and solely the medium's description of how the
ideas which he is attempting to convey are reaching
him. 1
The phenomena of Mrs. Piper and of Mrs. Thompson
—
to name only two automatists—exhibit instances in pro-
fusion of the same sort of process. So common, indeed,
are they, that anyone who wishes to verify my statement
will have to read but few records of Mrs. Piper's or Mrs.
Thompson's sittings before coming across plenty.
It is, of course, a disadvantage that in Mr. Z.'s case
no series of detailed records of his trance-utterances
has been published—if, indeed, one exists. One cannot,
therefore, determine with certainty whether it is likely
that Mr. Z. would see, and would describe seeing, a
picture of English verses just before he was going to
utter the words " Oh had I a little farm !
" 2
But even
in the very exiguous records of Mr. Z.'s trance-phenomena
accessible to me, I find a passage that supports my
contention to some extent. It is in Mr. Z.'s sitting of
Oct. 29, 1915 (p. 130) :
Do you know F W M ?
o. j. l. Yes, I do.
Because I see those three letters.
Now, after them, do you know S. T., yes I get
1
1 am disposed to agree. O. J. L.
2
I understand " Oh had I a little farm !
" to be one of the " Verses
in English language " seen by Mr. Z., and to be a paraphrase in English
verse of the opening lines of Hor. Sat. n. 0 :
" Hoc erat in votis : modus agri non ita magnus," etc.
There are, of course, several versions in English poetry of this Satire ;
the best known being, perhaps, that begun by Swift and finished by Pope.
164 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
S T, then a dot, and then P ? These are shown ;
I see them in light ;
your boy shows these things
to me. 1
Moreover, when Mr. Z.'s control wants to refer to a
writer of poetry, he seems to have no difficulty in doing
so quite straightforwardly. See Mr. Z.'s sitting of Sep-
tember 27, 1915 :
" a man, a writer of poetry. . . . This
gentleman who wrote poetry . . . the gentleman beginning
with M and who wrote poetry "
(p. 128).
I will now give my own interpretation of Mr. Z.'s
answer to Mr. Hill's question.
Mr. Hill, knowing of the Piper " Faunus and the
Poet " message, and with that in his mind, asked
Mr. Z.'s control :
" Does Horace remind you of anything
in connexion with 0. L. ?
" In reply, allusion was
made, as Sir Oliver Lodge agrees, to the little farm and
to the Fable of the Two Mice of Hor. Sat. n. 6. In
this Satire, Horace contrasts the happiness of his placid
life at his country home with the vexations of his town
life at Rome. He enlarges at considerable length (11.
29-58) on the desagrements that beset him at Rome in
consequence of his intimacy with Maecenas ; and describes
how he is pestered by people who either beg him to
use his influence with the great man for their benefit, or
who, feeling sure that so close a friend of Maecenas'
must be "in the know," plague him with such questions
as "Is there any news about the Dacians ?
" The result,
says Horace, is that when he's in town he is longing to
be back again in the country in the company of his
neighbours, with whom he can discuss, not silly topics
of the town, but such questions as whether it is wealth
or virtue that makes a man happy ; and listen to his
friend Cervius telling one of his old-wives' tales, like
the one about the Town-mouse and the Country-mouse.
But why, it may be asked, does a reference to this
Satire furnish an appropriate answer to Mr. Hill's question ?
1
Cf. " Now he is trying to build up a letter of some one ; M. he
shows me " ; and " That is why they built up the dark cross " in
Mrs. A.s sitting of September 27, 1915 (p. 126).
LXxn.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 165
The reason is that the tree that nearly killed Horace
stood in the little country place, Horace's Sabine Farm,
which figures so largely in Sat. II. 6.
This interpretation seems to me to be very strongly
confirmed by Mrs. Piper's script of May 17, 1916. 1
The script opens by exhorting Sir Oliver to " bear
these hardships with such resolve as befitteth stalwart
men " ; and by " these hardships " it is hardly open to
doubt that his son's death is meant.
Next it refers to Hor. C. in: 30, 6-7 :
" Non omnis moriar, multaque pars mei
Vitabit Libitinam,"
which means
" I shall not all die, and a great part of me will
escape Libitina (goddess of funerals)." 2
Then follows the cardinal allusion :
" Gladly will I take the gifts of the present."
This is a rendering, with a change of tense and person,
of Hor. C. in. 8. 27 :
" Dona praesentis cape laetus horae,"
which means
" Take gladly the gifts of the present hour."
If the reading "abandon" is right, then "and abandon
other things " represents the words " et Linque severa
"
(" and abandon serious things "), which immediately
follow " laetus horae."
1
This interpretation first struck me when Sir Oliver Lodge was
reading his paper at a Private Meeting of the Society ; and was suggested
solely by Mr. Z.'s trance-utterances. I had at the time seen Mrs.
Piper's script of May 17, 1916, but I had not read it carefully, and
I had not recognised the allusion in it to one of the Odes in which
Horace speaks of his narrow escape from being killed by the tree.
2
As the "I" turned into "you," and the "me" written over "you,"
show, the intelligence responsible for the script knew the quotation in
its original form, and deliberately substituted the second person for the
first in order to make it apply to Sir Oliver Lodge.
166 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
The whole Ode is so essential to my case that I must
give the English of the greater part of it. It is addressed
to Maecenas, and Horace is the speaker throughout.
You wonder what I, a bachelor, am doing on the
Kalends of March [the day of the Matronalia, a festival
celebrated by married women], what mean the flowers,
and the box full of incense, and the charcoal placed upon
the living turf, you that are learned in the literature
of either tongue [i.e. Maecenas].
I had vowed to Liber a pleasant feast and a white
he -goat, when almost done to death by the blow of
the falling tree. This day of festival, as the year comes
round, shall remove the pitch-bound cork from a wine-jar
which was trained to drink the smoke in Tullus' con-
sulate .
Take, Maecenas, a hundred cups in honour of your
friend's deliverance, and prolong till break of day the
wakeful lamps ; let all clamour and passion be far away.
Dismiss your politic cares for the City's weal ; the
host of Dacian Cotiso has fallen ; the Mede ... is dis-
tracted by a woeful warfare ; our ancient enemy of the
Spanish coast, the Cantabrian, is our slave . . . ; now
the Scythians . . . are resolving to withdraw from the
plains.
Carelessly, as a man not in place, refrain from guarding
overmuch that the people in no way suffer ; snatch
joyfully the gifts of the present hour, and abandon serious
thoughts (et Linque severa).
(Lonsdale and Lee's Translation.)
As Mr. Bayfield—to whom I owe the identification of
" Gladly will I take the gifts of the present "—observes,
the whole Ode turns on the tree accident. And, moreover,
it presents analogies to Sat. II. 6 so marked and obvious
that it is not necessary to mention them in detail, except,
perhaps, the " Numcpud de Dacis audisti ?
" of the Satire
and the " Occidit Daci Cotisonis agmen " of the Ode.
Further points in connexion with Mrs. Piper's scripts
of May 17 and 18, 1916, are these. "I do not wander
o'er the earth an unlaid Ghost " may be an allusion to
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 167
the lines in the '
Archytas '
Ode (Hor. C. I. 28. 23-25),
where the spirit of a shipwrecked man appeals to a
passing sailor to scatter a particle of sand upon his
unburied bones and head. 1
If this is so, it will serve to
explain the reference in the script of May 18, 1916,
to Mrs. Verrall's " question of long ago." Mrs. Verrall
put two questions to MyersP : and one of the two
was about an Ode of Horace, viz. the '
Archytas '
Ode.
In view of the fact that the script of May 17, 1916,
contains two certain allusions to Horace's Odes, and a
possible allusion also to the '
Archytas '
Ode, it seems
reasonable to take Mrs. Verrall's " question of long ago
"
to mean her question about the '
Archytas '
Ode. But
why this reference to the " question of long ago " ?
I suggest that it was the best approach that MyersP
could make towards saying something of this kind :
" Long ago Mrs. Verrall put me a question about an Ode
of Horace, and this question I answered partly through
Mrs. Piper and partly in Mrs. Verrall's own script. Quite
recently another question about Horace has been put
by Mr. Hill ; and I have answered it partly through
Mr. Z. and partly through Mrs. Piper."
I think there may have been more than one reason
for introducing the allusion to Hor. G. rn. 30. 7 :
" You
shall not altogether die but a mighty part of you will
escape the death goddess." It gives, in the first place,
a reason why the hardship of a son's death should be
borne with courage ; in the second place, by pointing
unmistakeably to Horace, it gives a hint of the source
of " Gladly will I take the gifts of the present," which,
but for the hint, might have escaped detection ; and
in the third place it may serve as a link with Sat. n. 6.
Libitina (" the death goddess ") is mentioned thrice
only in Horace : in C. in. 30. 7 (the passage referred
to in Mrs. Piper's script), in Ep. n. 1. 49 (a passage
dealing with the immortality of poets, and so analogous
to C. in. 30, where Horace speaks of his own immortality
1 Unless this duty to the dead were performed, the ghost would wander
about unhappily and find no rest.
168 Sir Oliver Lodge. [PAET
as a poet), and in Hor. Sat. n. 6. 19, where Horace says
that when he has retired to his farm in the hills, he is
safe from the evil effects of the leaden sirocco and of
the unhealthy autumn that enriches Libitina.
Moreover, it will be noticed that on each occasion it is
a question of poets escaping Libitina, and, on two out
of the three occasions, of Horace escaping her. Now in
Mrs. Piper's script of August 8, 1915, MyersP had said :
" Now Lodge . . . you take the part of the poet," i.e.
of Horace ; and I suspect that that is why when on
May 17, 1916, Lodge is assured that a " mighty part
of him will escape the death goddess," the assurance
is given in the words in which Horace proclaims how
he will balk Libitina of her prey.
The sentence beginning " Had I the power of Bacchus
"
contains, I suggest, an allusion to Hor. G. IV. 8. 34 :
" Liber vota bonos ducit ad exitus."
The context is as follows :
" What would the son of Mars and Ilia be, if jealous
silence suppressed the deserts of Romulus ? Aeacus,
rescued from the Stygian waves, the genius and goodwill
and tongue of mighty poets commit enshrined to the
Isles of Wealth [divitibus insulis, i.e. the Islands of the
Blessed]. 'Tis the Muse who forbids to die the man
that is worthy of renown ; 'tis the Muse that blesses
him with a place in heaven. Thus the vigorous Hercules
is a guest at the coveted bancpiets of Jove. The sons
of Tyndarus [i.e. Castor and Pollux] . . . rescue from
the depth of the waters the shattered ships ;
Liber, with
fresh vine-leaves decked, to happy issues brings the vows
of Men." (Lonsdale and Lee's Translation.)
If the allusion is to this passage, then the meaning is :
" Had I the power that Liber (Bacchus) has of bringing
vows (or prayers, or desires) to happy issues, I should
preserve a home in the Islands of the Blessed for thee." 1
1
Two different associations of ideas may have been responsible for
the allusion to Hor. C. iv. 8. 34 :
(1) The " Voveram . . . album Libcro caprum prope funeratus Arboris
lxxii.] Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. 169
The closing words of the script :
" Farewell it will
be mentioned elsewhere wait for this " may, in spite of
the tense, refer to Mr. Z.'s " Oh had I a little farm !
"
etc. More than once claims made by communicators to
have achieved a cross-correspondence have proved correct
except for mis-statements as to the time of its occurrence.
" If you wait, you will find that this has been mentioned
elsewhere " may have been what was meant.
On October 12, 1915 (see p. 129), Sir Oliver, like his
famous namesake, had " asked for more." When, as I
contend, more was meted out to him, he gave it such
a twist (if the pun be allowed) that he failed to recognise
it as a second helping, and mistook it for something else.
ictu " of Hor. C. m. 8.6-8, may have recalled the " Liber vota bonos
ducit ad exitus " of C. TV. 8. 34 ;
(2) In C. ii. 13, Horace mentions, for the first time, his narrow escape
from being killed by the falling tree. After abusing the man who
planted it on his Sabine farm, he goes on to say :
" How nearly have we beheld the realms of dusky Proserpine,
and Aeacus on his judgement-seat and the abodes set apart for
the good {i.e. the Islands of the Blessed)."
These lines may have recalled the reference to Aeacus and the Islands
of the Blessed in C. iv. 8, which forms part of the context of " Liber
vota bonos ducit ad exitus."
170 Obituary Notice: Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
V.
MRS. A. W. VERRALL.
The short announcement in the July Journal of the
death of Mrs. Verrall, on July 2, in her fifty-ninth year,
could not do justice to one to whom the Society owes so
much, and its members will desire that at least an attempt
should be made to commemorate more adequately in
the Proceedings what she was and what we owe her.
Mrs. Margaret de Gaudrion Verrall was the daughter of
Mr. Frederic Merrifield of Brighton, till recently clerk to the
County Councils of East and West Sussex, and her mother
was a daughter of Colonel V. P. J. de Gaudrion, a member
of an old French family. She was among the early
women students at Newnham College, Cambridge, and was
placed by the examiners for the Classical Tripos in the
honours list in 1880. Immediately afterwards she was
appointed Lecturer in Classics at her College, and she
continued to take part in the classical teaching there
till very recently ; for her marriage with Dr. A. W.
Verrall, the well-known classical scholar, in 1882, did
not take her away from Cambridge. Her classical studies
naturally enabled her to take an intelligent interest in
her husband's work, and she herself translated and colla-
borated in the commentary on the text of Pausanias for
The Mythology and Monuments of Ancient Athens,
which she published jointly with Miss Jane Harrison
in 1890. In English and French literature she was also
widely read. After her husband's death in June, 1912,
she edited his lectures on Dryden, a fruit of his short
tenure of the new King Edward VII. chair of English
Literature. She, like her husband, was an inspiring
LXxn.] Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Verrall. 171
teacher, and one who could enter readily into the minds
and feelings of younger people.
Mrs. Verrall's practical ability was as marked as her
literary taste. She was for many years a valued member
of the Council of Newnham College, and since May, 1901, of
the Council of the Society for Psychical Research, the
meetings of which, until her illness began, she attended
with great regularity. In 1914—15 she took an active part
in work in connexion with the Belgian refugees, serv-
ing as secretary to the Cambridge University Hospitality
Committee, whose function was to make arrangements
for students from Belgian Universities to continue their
studies, largely with their own professors, at Cambridge.
In this work, which practically came to an end when
most of the students were drafted off into the Belgian
army or into other work, her command of the French
language was naturally of great value to her, but it
would have served little had it not been accompanied
by tact and sympathy as well as by organising power
and businesslike qualities, which won the cordial apprecia-
tion of all with whom the work brought her in contact.
I have purposely dealt so far with aspects of Mrs.
Verrall's life outside Psychical Research, but must now
turn to what concerns us most here—her work in our
own subject ; and this was the work in which she was
most interested of late years.
Mrs. Verrall joined the Society for Psychical Research
in January, 1889—seven years after its foundation—and at
once became an active member.- Indeed she had been
interested in its work earlier. We have in the Journal
for March, 1889, an account—anonymous, but written by
Mrs. Verrall—of experiments in thought-transference she
had tried a year previously with her little daughter
(now Mrs. W. H. Salter), and which she had recorded
carefully at the time. Incidentally she mentions a still
earlier case, similarly recorded, of what appeared to be
spontaneous telepathy between them when her little girl
could only speak very imperfectly. In Proceedings, Vol.
VIII., is an account of experiments in crystal-gazing,
carried out from 1889 to 1892 at F. W. H. Myers' request.
172 Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
In connexion with these he speaks of her in his Human
Personality as " among our best observers," an opinion
in which all who have worked with her in Psychical
Research will agree. Because of this and because of
her own psychical powers Mrs. Verrall was invited by
Myers to sit on three occasions with Mrs. Piper when
the latter first visited England in 1889, and for the same
reasons she was asked to take part as a sitter when
Mrs. Piper was again in this country in 1907-8.
In 1895 Mrs Verrall read her first paper to the Society.1
It was on " Some experiments in the supernormal acquisi-
tion of knowledge," and gave an account of experiments
conducted by herself during the five previous years in
the guessing of unperceived cards. The experiments
were arranged to test various possible causes of success—as
delicate sense of touch, telepathy, hyperaesthesia, telaes-
thesia.
It is curious that notwithstanding Mrs. Verrall's various
psychical experiences, spontaneous and experimental, all
attempts at automatic writing, or at table-tilting by
herself, failed for a long time. This must have been a
disappointment to Myers, who was always in search of
successful automatists. After his death in January, 1901,
she made more persistent and persevering efforts in this
direction, and at length on March 5th, 1901, obtained
what she regarded as the first successful result.
2
Since
then she has continued to have numerous scripts—amount-
ing to many hundreds ; these were produced from time
to time till within a week or two of her death. Her
scripts, as readers of the Proceedings know, have often
contained matter of apparently supernormal interest, as
in cross-correspondence with other automatists and other-
wise. Naturally, much that is or may be of psychical
interest in the scripts cannot be published as it is of
too private or personal a nature. Naturally, also, her
scripts like those of other automatists contain a large
admixture—at least she always thought so—of matter of
probably purely subliminal and even of supraliminal origin.
1
Published in Proceedings, Vol. XI., p. 176.
2
See Proceedings, Vol. XX., p. 8.
lxxii.] Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Verrall. 173
An account and analysis of her scripts from March, 1901,
to the end of 1904 was written by Mrs. Verrall herself,
and published in Proceedings, Vol. XX., in 1906. This
able and careful paper excited very considerable interest,
both on account of the evidential matter it contains, and
on account of the light it throws on the psychology of
automatic writing and, to some extent, on the psychology
of telepathy. It formed the starting-point of a series
of studies on cross-correspondence which have appeared
in our Proceedings—cross-correspondences observed among
various automatists : Mrs. "Forbes," Mrs. "Holland," the
"Macs," Mrs. "Willett," Mrs. Salter (Miss Verrall), Mrs.
"King," and some others, and also Mrs. Piper. It also helped
in the building up of evidence for communication from those
who have left this world. Not that it definitely proved that
such communication occurs. Proof is from the nature of
the case, as those engaged in Psychical Research well
know, very difficult to obtain. But careful readers of
Mrs. Verrall's paper will agree that though most of the
script does not claim to come from identifiable individuals,
incidents are there recorded which can be more simply
interpreted on the hypothesis that the dead, and
especially F. W. H. Myers,1
communicated—granting that
hypothesis to be admissible—than on any other. And
it is on accumulation of evidence of this description that
we shall, I think, in the main have to rely, in obtaining
conviction of the reality of communication from the
other world. It is not always remembered to what
extent accepted scientific theories rest on the test of
simplicity. We accept an hypothesis largely because it
is the simplest among possible ones. I am not, however,
claiming that sufficient evidence of communication from
the dead has been obtained to give it position as a
scientifically established theory. What I do think
is that little by little the necessary evidence is being
built up. Mrs. Verrall's paper in Proceedings, Vol. XX.,
1
Myers as communicator is usually designated by the letter H. in
Mrs. Verrall's paper. In the case of one incident—the sphere-spear
cross-correspondence, pp. 212-218, the name of Mrs. Piper's communi-
cator, who professed to be Myers, is omitted altogether.
174 Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
was a notable contribution to this building up, though
little was said about it in the paper itself. And sub-
sequent scripts of different automatists have added their
quota, not only through cross-correspondences, but in
more direct ways, as e.g. in the Lethe case (Proceedings,
Vol. XXV., p. 113 et seq.), and in the Statius case
(Proceedings, Vol. XXVII., p. 221 et seq.).
One very important effect of the publication of Mrs.
Verrall's paper in 1906 was the encouragement it gave
to other automatists. I do not know how far it led
to first attempts at automatic writing. On most of the
automatists whose work has been dealt with in our
Proceedings, Myers' book on Human Personality has had
a more powerful initial influence. But Mrs. Verrall
became known as a person who could be applied to
for sympathy and help by all who felt indications in
themselves of automatic powers worth cultivating ; and to
her wise sympathy we undoubtedly owe much of the
evidence accumulated. Thus, it was to her that the
" Macs " first wrote about their experiences with a plan-
chette, and to her that Mrs. " Willett " first turned in
her early efforts. And others have turned to her who
though they have contributed but little to available
evidence for supernormal faculty have yet added to Mrs.
Verrall's own knowledge and experience.
What made her so valuable as an investigator was the
combination in a high degree of two qualities —sympathy
and the critical faculty. This does not need illustration to
those who have read her papers in the Proceedings, whether
dealing with her own script or that of others ; or dealing
with phenomena of a different kind, as in the paper on
our President's experiments which appears in the present
number of Proceedings, and which was read for her at the
meeting of the Society on the 23rd of last February, when
she was already too ill to read it herself. Her critical faculty
was indeed sometimes too active, and tended too much
to scepticism in the case of her own scripts. She was
almost too ready to seek and find a normal origin for
any particular script utterance. This is, of course, a
fault on the right side, but in the case of an automatist
lxxii.] Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Yerrall. 175
it is apt to interfere with the spontaneous flow of the script,
and conduce to the intrusion of the supraliminal intelli-
gence in the writing. This supraliminal interference occurs
to some extent with all automatists—at least when not
in trance—and may take the form of adding guesswork
additions to what the subliminal self is trying to say,
or the form of inhibiting topics, e.g. the names of known
individuals. Or it may act in an intermediate way by
modifying the script into what seems to the supraliminal
self to make sense and by introducing supraliminal and
irrelevant associations of ideas. Criticism applied to
scripts after they have been written cannot of course
affect them in any of these ways, but it may create an
atmosphere unfavourable to the spontaneity of future
scripts, and there can be little doubt that it did
sometimes do this with Mrs. Verrall. She used to say,
moreover, that prolonged critical study of scripts, her own
and others, tended to check her production of automatic
scripts, and leave her for considerable periods without
any. Criticise she did, however, and no one need fear that
she did not apply to her own scripts in full measure
the critical examination which she applied to those of other
automatists, and to psychical phenomena generaUy.
Both Mrs. Verrall's sympathy and her critical faculty
have been of immense value to most of those engaged in
active work for the Society. All the papers that have
appeared in the Proceedings of recent years have passed
in proof through her hands as a member of the Com-
mittee of Reference, on which she has served since
1894. Her function on this Committee was never
treated by her as a matter of form, and in a large pro-
portion of cases the authors of papers have received
from her valuable criticisms and suggestions. But it
was even more in earlier stages of their work that her
friends have been able to rely on her help. She was
an ideal fellow-worker, for there was never anything of
self-seeking or desire to put herself forward in her atti-
tude, and her sympathy was a constant stimulus. Her
co-operation in psychical research will long be greatly
missed.
176 Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Verrall. [part
This memorial, brief as it is, should not go out to
the world without a few words about Mrs. Verrall as a
woman, lest any should imagine that this private side
of her life was submerged in the activities already referred
to. This was far from being the case. As a wife, a
mother, and the mistress of a house, she was admir-
able, as her intimate friends well know, and home
duties were not postponed to other undertakings. Her
intellectual attainments were her servants not her masters ;
they were never obtruded, and to many women it must
have been her domestic interests that were most apparent.
The unselfishness, sympathy, and understanding of others,
which as I have already implied, added so greatly to
her value as a fellow-worker in psychical research and
affairs outside her own home, also made her a woman
to whom others readily turned for help in their own
lives and work, a true and staunch friend.
E. M. S.
LXXII.J Review. 177
SUPPLEMENT.
REVIEWS.
On the Cosmic Relations. By Henry Holt. Two volumes (paged
continuously). (Boston and New York : Houghton Mifflin
Co., 1914. London: Williams & Norgate. Pp. xii, 989.
Price 21s. net )
1
An American audience would need no introduction to Mr. Holt,
but the members of our Society, dispersed over the entire
surface of the earth, will be glad to know a little of the
author of this book.
He has been for nearly fifty years one of the foremost
citizens of New York, not only actively, engaged in practical
affairs, but also in constant touch with the intellectual interests
of the age, as indeed the founder and head of the publishing
house of Henry Holt & Company could not fail to be. But
the influences incidental to his business are not those of chief
importance to the understanding of his work in psychic re-
search. After graduating from Yale University, he took his
degree in law from Columbia University, Nsw York1 He never
practised, but the discipline of that study has proved of value
to him when called upon to appreciate the relative weight of
different types of evidence for psychic phenomena. Rebelling
against the Calvinistic form of Christianity then prevailing at
Yale (p. 3), he early came under the influence of Herbert
Spencer, with whom he had considerable personal relations,
He speaks (p 77) with warm appreciation of Spencer's influence
upon contemporary thought, and many traces of that influence
1
Some of the ideas here expressed will also be found in a review of
this book which I wrote for the New York Nation of Jan. 14, 1915.
M
178 Professor W. B. Newbold. [past
are discernible in Mr. Holt's thinking ;
indeed, he might still
be accounted a Spencerian were it not that he goes far beyond
his master in his interpretation of the significance of the
Unknowable. Of this I shall have more to say later. Before
the appearance of this book Mr. Holt had written three others
which had gone through numerous editions ; he had also
founded and still edits The Unpopular Review, a quarterly
journal designed for the expression of such unpopular views
upon popular topics as the editor thinks worth expressing, and
well expressed. In this journal, no doubt because so unpopular
with a majority of its readers, psychic research has an honoured
place.
Mr. Holt's first experience with supernormal phenomena dates
back to his school-days. One of his schoolmates, a boy of
sixteen or seventeen years, by placing the tips of his fingers
upon a stoutly built music-stand, caused it first to tip towards
him, and, after removing his hands altogether, held it so
firmly in an inclined position that the utmost efforts of two
of the strongest boys present, of whom Henry Holt was one,
availed only to break the heavy wooden base from the upright
shaft (pp. 94-6). Later in life he encountered a supposed
medium, Charles H. Foster, who convinced him that he (Foster)
possessed at least telepathic powers (Chap. XVI.). In 1894
Mr. Holt had a sitting with Mrs. Piper, a fairly good one, but
he saw in it nothing more than telepathy ;
But my attitude regarding spiritism—-that it was nothing but
telepathy from the sitter, having been fixed in my interview
with Foster, and considerable reading and intimate association
with Hodgson and some other members of the S.P.R. not
having changed it ; and finding, at the time, in my seance
with Mrs. Piper nothing but telepathy, I felt no interest in
farther personal investigation.
I went away from the sitting with the conviction :
" She
gave me nothing which was not in my own mind : it's the
same old story " ; and I have not been near a medium since,
and do not care to go (p. 395).
But later reflection showed him seven distinct and significant
items of information which he got from her. He specifies them
on pp. 397-99, and with regard to going to mediums he says :
After this confession, my venturing to write upon the subject
may seem to others, as it often does to me, presumptuous.
LXXII.] Review. 179
That view, however, would have silenced most of the his
torians : for hardly any one of them, or even any editor,
witnesses the events or hears the debates that he generalizes
upon ; nor often does any philosopher discover or even witness
most of the facts that he correlates, nor (T hope I am not
wearying you) any scientist most of the facts upon Avhich he
bases his discoveries (p. 395).
Mr. Holt's convictions seem, nevertheless, to have been
affected more by personal experience than by observation of
psychic phenomena in others. Throughout his life he has had
from time to time the mystic's apprehension of the reality
behind phenomena, which he, with Dr. Bucke, calls " cosmic
consciousness " :
I cannot remember when I did not have the rudiments of
it before great scenery and great music, and it culminated in
me ten years before the usual period (35-45) he (Dr. Bucke)
assigns. It came with the blaze of light, but the light was
from the natural sunset which, however , seemed that evening
not confined to the far-off clouds, bat to pervade the whole
atmosphere and all other things, including me, and to be
pervaded by energy and mind and sympathy (p. 87).
The same consciousness inspires not a few striking passages :
But the powers of mystery are lovely as well as awful. The
mists and mountains and dark shadows opposite me as I
write, are both. I do not read their meaning, as I read the
meaning of a2
+ 2ab+b2
, but they lift and expand and deepen
the soul as do no meanings that I can read ; and while they
raise the most terrible questions, they answer them with :
" Peace ! Wait ! Work ! Earn the rest that you feel is in Us !
All will be well !
"
(pp. 65-6).
There was certainly something prophetic, though not neces-
sarily prophetic of my personal experience, in the exaltation
brought me before sunrise this morning in the pearl-gray sky
holding one throbbing planet over dark Mount Mansfield—there
was something beyond my eyes, as surely as there was beyond
those of the tadpole in my pond (pp. 58-9).
In his dreams, also, of which Mr. Holt gives a tantalizingly
brief account in Chapters LIV. and LV., he feels that he sees
the operations of a something not himself. From childhood he
has seen in dreams magnificent buildings, often wandering
among them and returning repeatedly to the same spot ; long
suites of rooms exquisitely furnished and decorated ;
tableaux,
pantomimes, costumes ; and all these creations display an
m2
180 Professor W. R. Newbold. [part
originality of conception and delicacy of taste surpassing
anything within his experience :
. . . never in my dreams have I seen or heard anything
extraordinary in the arts where I have some trifling capacity
;
while in some arts where I have no capacity at all, I have from
childhood seen things more beautiful than any human being has
ever made (p. 892 ; italics Mr. Holt's).
Mr. Holt bases his belief in the fact of survival primarily
upon three dreams, in each of which a person deceased appeared
to him under such circumstances that no other explanation
seems to him admissible (pp. 920-23). Unfortunately, a detailed
narrative of these experiences would reveal facts of too intimate
a nature to be made public, and Mr. Holt's outline is too
vague to enable outsiders to appreciate the weight of the
evidence for survival which they afford.
With these tentative convictions in mind he began, about
1908, to read the Proceedings of the S.P.R. consecutively
through, and found his convictions strengthened by the evidence
there accumulated. This suggested the writing of On the Cosmic
Relations.
... I have found the change from a disbelief in the sur-
vival of bodily death, so fruitful, intellectually as well as
emotionally, that I am prompted to do what I can to share it
with others (p. 39G).
His estimate of his own contribution is modest :
There exist better books on this department of my subject
(possession) than I dare hope this is going to be, but most of
the good ones appeal principally to students who have held
many sittings ; and were begun to support theses, while I
write for lay readers, and at least began with the intention of
letting the theses regarding this part of my subject form
themselves as I should go along. Moreover my long experience
as a publisher has taught me that intermediaries are needed
between experts and lay readers. I have habitually said to
experts to whom I have suggested non-technical books :
" The
right point of view must cover both knowledge and ignorance ;
I can trust you for the knowledge, and I can supply the
ignorance." 1 am doing that here (p. 395).
The deprecatory tone here is of course humorous, although
it not unfairly represents Mr. Holt's uniformly modest attitude
towards his own work. His detestation of pretence prompts
him frequently to call the reader's attention to his own short-
LXXII.] Review. 181
comings—his bias in favour of survival, his occasional incon-
sistency and obscurity, his inability to remove serious diffi-
culties—in brief there is little in the way of criticism which
Mr. Holt has not himself anticipated. This abhorrence of
pretence, indeed, sometimes carries him further than all readers
will follow him with pleasure. He seems to include in it the
customary forms of our literary dialect and writes " colloquial
American " much as William James used to do, not scrupling
to use a slang word or to coin a new one in order the better
to express his thought. But let those who would take offence
beware ;
possibly Mr. Holt and his fellow-rebels are the
precursors of a change in the canons of style.
But all this does not mean that Mr. Holt has no higher aim
in view than that of awakening popular interest in psychic
research. The points upon which he places the chief emphasis
are these :
(1) He would strengthen the inference from what we know of
our powers of apprehending the material universe to a pre-
sumably much greater universe outside it, which will, we may
hope, prove knowable, to some extent through the further
evolution of our powers of apprehending Reality, but more
fully after the sloughing off of the body.
(2) He gives a more careful and systematic classification of
the phenomena than has hitherto been proposed.
(3) He recognizes that ordinary dreams and visions are feeble
examples of the same phenomena that have been classed as
cases of possession, and that both afford glimpses of the
spiritual world.
The " cosmic relations " are the " interactions between soul
and uni verse "
(p. 6), and they are treated under three captions.
Book I., on " Correlated Knowledge "
(pp. 1-80), expounds the
outlines of the author's system of philosophy. A sketch of the
evolution of body, soul and universe, following in general Mr.
Spencer's fines, results in the inference that the evolution of the
senses warrants anticipation of the appearance of new modes
of perception, which anticipation is realized in psychical pheno-
mena, correlated to the aspect of reality which Spencer called
Unknowable, but which should rather be called Unknown.
This, as later appears, is to be identified with the spiritual
world or Cosmic Soul. Book II. (pp. 81-829) is entitled
182 Professor W. R. Newbold. [part
" Uncorrelated Knowledge," and is devoted to a review of the
leading types of supernormal, or as Mr. Holt prefers to call
them, superusual phenomena, both physical and psychical,
classified under a new and rather elaborate technical ter-
minology. Most of this material is drawn from the publications
of the S.P.R., and it is accompanied by a running commentary
and discussion designed to correlate it with the author's
philosophical system. In four chapters, XX. to XXIII., pp.
294-328, he digresses from the main topic in order to develop
that system more fully. He first introduces, with due credit
to Myers, James and others, the conception of the Cosmic Soul
(Chap. XX.), of which (Chap. XXI.) the individual soul is but
a portion, and which is identical with the transcendental ego
or subliminal self :
The discovery, if discovery it be, that the subliminal self is
the Cosmic Soul, may impress some readers as belonging in the
same class with the immortal discovery in Natural History,
made after so much investigation and reflection, that a snark
is a boojum. Argument against such an impression would be
wasted. The subliminal self is as much a part of accepted
knowledge as is the law of association of ideas, and the
Cosmic Soul is at least an intiiition of most of the minds
whose intuitions have been among the most important of
humanity's guiding lights. The conception that the subliminal self
and the Cosmic Soul are the same, may yet be demonstrated
to a clearness that will place it among those beacons (p. 311.)
In Chap. XXII., Mind, seemingly the Cosmic Soul, is con-
ceived, after the analogy of Spencer's " mind-stuff," as :
... a redistribution, into combinations ever growing higher,
of a primordial element like force and matter—an element
inherent in each atom of our structure, and also, like force
and matter, constantly flowing into us from the external
universe, and constantly going out (p. 314).
As such it is termed " mind-jjotential " because " each
product of mind becomes mind potential for further products
"
(p. 315), as the suggestions of experience provide the material
for the artist's creations. And, last of all, in Chap. XXIII., the
Cosmic Soul is the seat of the Ideas described by Plato ; each
one of us is such an Idea, and of it the material bodies, portraits,
dream-images, etc., representing us are but copies (pp. 320-7) :
Do not our latest knowledge and best thinking result in the
idea—old in many forms—that we are but expressions of a
LXXII.] Review. 183
measureless force which is ourselves and also behind ourselves ?
Would any person given to the old phraseology be very
fantastic in calling us thoughts of the divine mind ? (pp. 163.)
Book III., under the title " Attempts at Correlation," takes
up the subject of dreams and aims to prove that it is im-
possible to explain such trances as those of Mrs. Piper by
subsuming them under the notion of " dreams " ; rather must
we invert the relation and explain all dreams as being, what
these trances also are, more or less imperfect apprehensions of
the spiritual world :
Now if Mrs. Piper's dream state is really one of communi-
cation with souls who have passed into a new life, dream
states generally may not extravagantly be supposed to be
foretastes of that life. . . . The dream life is free from the
trammels of our waking environment and powers. In it we
experience unlimited histories in an instant ; roam over un-
limited spaces ;
see, hear, feel, touch, taste, smell, enjoy
unlimited things ;
walk, swim, fly, change things with unlimited
speed ; do things with unlimited power ; make what we will
—
music, poetry, objects of art, situations, dramas, with un-
limited faculty, and enjoy unlimited society (pp. 925-6).
The suggestion has come to more than one student, and to
me very strongly, that when we enter into life—as spermatozoa,
or star-dust, if you please—we enter into the eternal life, but
that the physical conditions essential to our development into
appreciating it are a sort of veil between it and our conscious-
ness. In our waking life we know it only through the veil ;
but when in sleep or trance, the material environment is
removed from consciousness, the veil becomes that much
thinner, and we get better glimpses of the transcendent reality.
Notwithstanding its Spencerian colouring, then, Mr. Holt's
philosophy is a form of Idealism or Spiritualism closely akin to
that of Mr. Myers. Indeed, the only really important departure
from Myers' point of view is the abandonment of the sub-
liminal self as an intermediary between the individual empirical
self and the Cosmic Soul, from which results a much freer use
of the conception of the Cosmic Soul as an explanatory prin-
ciple and the substitution of the telepathic " inflow " from the
Cosmic Soul for Myers' " subliminal uprush " :
The idea of a transcendent ego seems to have come from
the idea of a transcendent universe. But the transcendent
universe is virtually demonstrable, while the transcendent ego,
as a purely individual quality independent of the cosmic soul,
184 Professor W. R. Newbold. [part
seems far from demonstrable, and indeed counter to the indi-
cations of evolution ; for evolution apparently produces only
the known ego resulting from interactions between the known
self and the known environment. Anything more must appar-
ently be an inflow from outside the known universe (p. 309).
To the phenomena of the Piper trance Mr. Holt devotes
nearly one-half of his book (pp. 380-829), and those of us to
whom they have been a standing puzzle for years—and to
whom have they not ? —will probably be especially interested
in the solution which he would propose for them.
He accepts as genuine in the main, although not without
repugnance, the communicators of the period when Plhnuit and
G. P. 1
were in control, and in his running commentary on the
sittings emphasizes more than any one else has done the
importance of the " dramatic element " as rendering any other
interpretation unacceptable.
But when Mr. Holt comes to the period in which W. S.
Moses, George Eliot, Imperator and their associates are supreme,
he is sorely perplexed. He is inclined to put faith in the
genuineness of G. P. and his friends ;
they guarantee the
existence and character of the Imperator Band, yet he cannot
bring himself to accept the guarantee.
On p. 547 he suggests, although seemingly without much
conviction, that, since the evidence of the Piper-Moses con-
1
Since Mr. Holt is one of the few now living who was well acquainted
with G. P. in the flesh, his characterization of him may be of interest to
the many who know the G. P. of Mrs. Piper's trance :
" I have often
wondered why, of all people who have died since G. P. reached maturity,
he should have been the [most prominent ?] one to show up through, or
be shown up by, Mrs. Piper. In habits and appearance he was an
exceptionally unobtrusive personality. In a roomful of people he was
perhaps the last one to impress a stranger or be engaged with a friend,
except as his presence became noticed through his ingenious and tena-
cious support of some theory opposed to the convictions of the majority.
If the room were not full, but shared with him by only a few congenial
persons, his presence would at once be felt as of value. Had he lived
longer, his literary and philosophical tastes might have made him
widely known. He had a few close and warm friends in intellectual
circles in both New York and Boston, but to the world in general he
died unknown, and to the average members of the more intelligent
polite world who were friends of his exceptionally prominent family
—
historic on both sides, he was the retiring, somewhat eccentric, com-
paratively unknown member " (p. 540).
LXXII.] Review. 185
tradicts in certain points the evidence of Moses in the flesh,
both should be ignored as nullifying each other and the case
decided on the remaining evidence.
Elsewhere (pp. 579-81) he proposes the tentative theory that
the Pi^er-Moses originated in a telepathic impression, or,
rather, from both oral and telepathic suggestions received from
sitters (myself and, later, Hodgson) ; this dream-Moses then
attracted the hypothetic spirit-Moses, who at first blended with
and later virtually absorbed and obliterated the dream. The
Imperator Band were, possibly, originated in the same way by
Hodgson's conveying telepathically to Mrs. Piper his impres-
sions from W. S. Moses, " with perhaps some involuntary
initiative and assistance from Professor Newbold "
(p. 579), but,
of course, could not attract the spirits in question because the
latter do not exist at all. The evidence of the possibly genuine
spirits for the reality of the spurious spirits is dismissed (pp.
586-7) as simply unreliable. They met them " in the medium's
mind " and mistook them for spirits like themselves.
But G. P., and Hodgson later as control, profess to be
seeing and talking with these people constantly ! So did Moses
when he was here, and he was genuine enough here. He may
have been fooled, but if he was, he lost none of his own
actuality. And if the controls G. P. and Hodgson are fooled
in the same way, I don't see how it affects their genuineness,
any more than it affected the genuineness of Moses incarnate
(p. 587).
I do not think, nor does Mr. Holt think, that he has solved
the Piper problem, although I believe him to be right in many
of his contentions, but he has nevertheless given us a valuable
book, in my opinion indeed the best survey of the evidence
that has appeared since Myers' epoch-making Human Per-
sonality and its Survival of Bodily Death. Not, of course, that
it is a rival of the latter as a work of philosophical synthesis
—
Mr. Holt would be the first to pooh-pooh such a claim. If he
would admit any rivalry it would probably be in analysis, for
he has offered a classification which includes both the kinetic
and psychic phenomena, while Myers deals with the latter only.
But the book is especially well adapted to bring home to the
reader the force of the empirical evidence for psychic pheno-
mena, and especially for those which indicate survival of death,
and to point out to him one way in which the neAv knowledge
186 Professor W. R. Newbold. [part
may be incorporated into the Avorld-view now current. And
although Mr. Holt frankly pleads a cause, he does not ignore
the difficulties which attend it. Indeed, if I am not mistaken,
he is the first writer who, while concerned to maintain the
spiritistic origin of the Piper communcations, has grappled in
the open with the formidable difficulties raised by the appear-
ance of Sir Walter Scott, George Eliot and the Imperator Band
as communicators. The very traits which are usually accounted
faults in a book—unconventional diction, diffuseness, occasional
acknowledged inconsistency and inconclusiveness—will make its
appeal the stronger to the average reader. They deepen his
appreciation of the frankness with which Mr. Holt, a man of
trained judgment, ripe experience and strong convictions, reveals
how he has been converted from lifelong scepticism to a belief
not the less sincere because commingled with perplexity, and,
as the reader watches the struggle in Mr. Holt's mind between
the old disbelief, which is probably his own state of mind as
well, and the new evidence, he can scarcely fail to be drawn
into the contest himself. He may not be led to accept Mr.
Holt's conclusions but he will be impressed with the reality of
the problems and feel more sympathy with those who are
endeavouring to solve them. TTT _ , T
W. Romaine Newbold.
2
The Foundations of Normal and Abnormal Psychology. By Boris
Sidis. (London : Duckworth & Co. Pp. vii, 416. Price
7s. 6d. net.)
All who realize the value of cross-fertilization in advancing the
sciences must long have wondered why no one has ever set
himself to correlate systematically the results of normal with
those of abnormal psychology. For though it seems a (pardon-
able) exaggeration when Dr. Sidis declares (p. 48) that " Know-
ledge of the normal arises out of knowledge of the abnormal "
and that " we may even say that the normal itself originates
in the abnormal," it must be admitted that abnormal psycho-
logy has at its command a distinct method, that of clinical
experiment, which is quite as definite as those of normal
psychology, introspection and laboratory experimentation, which
LXXII.] Review. 187
has certain advantages and is free from certain defects which
beset the latter. The results of the psychologist's self-inspection
are apt to be disappointing and to reveal little that is enlightening,
so long as he looks at random and without knowing what to
look for, while if he looks merely to find confirmation of bis
theory of psychology, his results may easily be misleading.
Again the relatively exact control which is possible in the
laboratory experiment is more than counterbalanced by the
drawbacks of setting the mind functioning under artificial and
unnatural conditions and for trivial objects. On the other hand,
the fact that the students of abnormal psychology are mostly
professional men who have a definite therapeutic aim and have
to apply their theories, is a valuable guarantee that they will
be properly and severely tested. Medical men cannot afford to
entertain theories which are meaningless or devoid of appli-
cation and are merely futile exercises in academic ingenuity.
Their theories have got to work, and are discarded if they do
not. Not, of course, that it is prudent to conclude from the
mere fact that a theory works that it is absolutely and inde-
feasibly true ; it may be obscure, inherently improbable,
incoherent and even self-contradictory, and yet work better
than any alternative that has yet occurred to any one. It
may, however, safely be inferred that a theory that works must
contain some truth and is somehow built on the right lines.
It was then a happy thought of Dr. Sidis's to develop his
psychological theories in connexion with his psychiatric prac-
tice : moreover, his remarkable work on Multiple Personality,
which he wrote a dozen years ago in conjunction with Dr.
Goodhart and which described the classic case of the Rev. Mr.
Hanna, justified the highest expectations. These the present
work can hardly be said to fulfil, nor does it supersede Mul-
tiple Personality. It has not the concrete interest given to the
former volume by the narration of illustrative cases ; it
contains practically no stories and not even references. The
first half is devoted to a discussion of the fundamental prin-
ciples of psychology which is more ambitious than successful.
For it is probably impossible to cover so much difficult and
disputed ground in two hundred pages without giving an
impression of dogmatism, and without doing apparent injustice
to many theories which are dealt with too briefly.
188 Dr. F. C. 8. Schiller. [part
For example, in spite of Dr. Sidis's admiration for William
James, which is once more attested in his dedication, he
hardly treats the '
transmission '
theory of the relation between
body and mind at all fairly, nor appreciates its logical im-
portance. He has not seen that its mere formulation invali-
dates the whole of the evidence to which the materialist
theory had been wont to appeal. Materialism had always
interpreted the apparent conditioning of mental process by
physical as meaning that the latter is productive of the former.
But so soon as the transmission theory suggests an alternative
interpretation, the whole of this argument breaks down.
Instead of assuming that the correlation of the physical and
the psychical proves that the physical process produces the
phenomena of consciousness, we can now just as well say that
it merely transmits consciousness and conditions only its modes
of manifestation. No facts, therefore, remain to which
materialism can lay exclusive claim ; no coercive proof of
materialism therefore remains possible, while there is no similar
difficulty in conceiving evidence which would be positively
incompatible with the truth of materialism. The transmission
theory therefore involves a great weakening of materialism
which puts it permanently on the defensive, while it is not
itself exposed to attack. For the charges which Dr. Sidis
brings against it seem all to rest on misapprehensions. He
accuses it of postulating an additional world of disembodied
consciousness which " cannot be drawn into the circle of
exjierience " and exists " from all eternity in a region outside
and totally independent of the brain "
(p. 62), and so of
gratuitously multiplying entities. All this is erroneous. The
question is quite empirical and is simply whether it is more
convenient to regard the correlation of body and mind in one
way or in another. Both ways are thinkable, and no facts
that can possibly be discovered about the relations between the
two sides of the psycho -physical individual can possibly decide
between them. But if a psychic entity should show itself
capable of manifesting through other bodies than the one called
its own, this would yield a decision in favour of the trans-
mission theory. Not that it would prove a '
disembodied '
consciousness ; it would establish only that consciousness was
capable of manifesting through more than one '
body.' Nor
LXXII.] Review. 189
would it, as such, convey any information about any tran-
scendent world ; it would be concerned with nothing but facts
of experience and their interpretation.
Of course the failure to dispose of the transmission theory
very seriously affects the subsequent discussion of '
volun-
taristic '
psychology, which Dr. Sidis strangely treats as an
attempt " to make of psychology a science independent of all
physiology " and to do without physiological '
cement '
to
fasten up the psychological material (p. 86), and the form of
psycho -physical parallelism he himself adopts. For Dr. Sidis
also, like all who conceive parallelism as more than a methodo-
logical convenience, fails to keep up the parallelism. He
declares (p. 81) that "every psychic change must 1
have its
physiological concomitant" but will only concede that " every
physiological process may 1
have its psychic accompaniment."
In the absence of any transmission theory this inconsistency
forces him back into the materialism he had tried to disavow.
The analysis of the abnormal mind which fills the second
half of Dr. Sidis's book is built up on what he calls the theory
of the moment-consciousness. This theory had already made
its appearance in Multiple Personality ; its present restatement
has been complicated and rendered more technical in its
terminology, but not otherwise improved. The notion of
'
moment-consciousness '
or '
moment '
is defined (p. 231) in
terms of '
the synthetic unity of consciousness,' and plainly
rests on the assumption that the problem of mental life is
essentially one of synthesis, i.e. of explaining how a discrete
plurality of psychic states can ever be fused into a unity or
whole. Dr. Sidis is clearly aware of the difficulty J. S. Mill
got himself into by analysing the mind into a series of events
and then conceiving its unity as a superadded event (p. 231).
But he hardly seems to be aware, how antique this philosophic
difficulty is, or that Hume's analysis of the self had failed at
exactly the same point, and that Kant's elaborate system was
entirely necessitated by the need of devising machinery for the
synthesis of the discrete sensations he had accepted from
Hume. And it is very remarkable that Dr. Sidis has not seen
that this whole putting of the problem has been completely
antiquated by William James. By declaring that mental life
1
Italics mine.
190 Dr. F. C. 8. Schiller. [part
forms a continuum or '
stream,' he rejected on principle the
common assumption of previous psychology that it had to be
compacted out of separate events, '
states,' '
sensations,' or
'impressions,' and rendered superfluous all the traditional
devices for unifying them into a consciousness. For it follows
that the problem of psychology is no longer '
synthesis '
but
'
analysis.' How and why, that is, is the continuous flow of
experience broken up into a plurality of perceptions, things,
and ideas ? The answer comes easily. We analyse our ex-
perience in the ways indicated by our interests, purposes and
biological needs of adaptation to the conditions of life. But
the plural things we distinguish are not really separated from
the continuum in which they occur, and relapse into it when
we have done with them. Nor is it incompatible with this
description of psychic process to observe the apparently for-
tuitous character of much that comes up in the mind (cf.
pp. 99-100). For purposiveness is shown in selection, and
selection implies a superabundance of material, some of which
is rejected. Only we must not infer with Dr. Sidis that " not
purpose, but chance is at the heart of mental life." For there
is no reason to regard the raw materials as more valuable and
characteristic than the finished product.
The notion of the '
moment -consciousness '
then does not
seem to be consistent with Dr. Sidis's acceptance of James's
notion of the '
stream of consciousness.' And I fail to see also
that it develops any descriptive advantages in dealing with the
complex phenomena of multiple personality. It appears to
require vast amounts of unverified (and largely unverifiable)
hypothesis in rising from the elementary form it is supposed to
take in the amoeba to the '
synthetic recognitive moment '
of a
self-conscious person and not a little uncritical metaphor. Dr.
Sidis's reader is continually tempted to inquire e.g. what is really
meant by a psychic '
element '
(p. 317), by the '
identity '
of
'
recurrence '
of psychic '
states '
(p. 370), and by their '
copy-
ing,'
1
reproducing '
and '
representing '
each other. Dr. Sidis
seems blissfully unaware of the troubles philosophers have had
with all these popular notions, and it is hard to believe that
the technique and success of his method of '
l^pnoidization
'
can really depend on any association with such very dubious
psychology. On the other hand, it is a pleasure to recognize
LXXII.] Review. 191
that Dr. Sidis is very clear that there is no difference in
psychological nature between percepts and hallucinations (pp.
149-50). For one great reason why psychologists have failed
so often to devise a tenable theory of perception is that
they have failed to connect true perception with false, and to
see that the difference between a perception of reality and a
hallucination does not lie in the psychological experience, but
is essentially one in the value of the product.
P. C. S. Schiller.
3
Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology. By C. G. Jung,
M.D., LL.D. Authorised translation edited by Dr. Con-
stance E. Long. (Bailliere, Tind?U and Cox. London.
1916. Pp. xvi + 392. Price 12s. 6d. net.)
This volume consists of a collection of articles and pamphlets
written by Dr. Jung of Zurich during the past fourteen years.
The majority of these papers deal with various aspects of
psycho (analysis, and by bringing them together in book form
Dr. Constance Long has earned the gratitude of all students
of this subject. They are printed in chronological order,
and we can thus trace the gradual growth of some of the
doctrines which are especially characteristic of the Zurich
school.
Hitherto judgments of the value of psycho-analysis as a
method of psychological investigation and as a mode of therapy
have been based mainly on the writings of Freud and his
followers, and, as is well known, the views put forward by
them have met with much opposition and protest from many
quarters. In some respects Jung's teaching will appear less
objectionable than that of the Vienna school, and Dr. Long,
in her preface, says,
lt
It will be a relief to many students
of the Unconscious to see in it another aspect than that of '
a
wild beast couched, waiting its hour to spring.' " But Dr.
Long would be the first to admit that the question as to
which view is the less objectionable is a small matter compared
with the question as to which view is the more true.
192 Dr. T. W. Mitchell. [part
Dr. Jung tells us that it is not his intention to give a
presentation of the fundamental concepts of analytical psycho-
logy in this book. It will indeed appeal chiefly to those
who already have some knowledge of the subject and have
followed the development of psycho-analytic theory and practice
in recent years. On the whole it is supplementary to and
corroborative of the work of the Vienna school, and the
criticisms that may legitimately be levelled against Freud's
views are equally applicable to much of what Jung has written.
Nevertheless, there are in this book several new points of
view so fundamentally important and so opposed to what
has been hitherto taught that they have led to a schism
in the psycho-analytic world. The main points of difference
between the two schools are most clearly revealed in Jung's
conclusions regarding the aetiology of the neuroses and in
his views on the significance and interpretation of dream
symbolism. It is perhaps in his treatment of symbolism
that he breaks away most fundamentally from Freud and
his disciples.
From the very beginning of the psycho-analytic movement
the importance of dreams has been insisted upon. Freud
declared the interpretation of dreams to be " the via regia
to the interpretation of the unconscious, the surest ground
of psycho-analysis, and a field in which every worker must
win his convictions and gain his education." According to
him every dream is the disguised fulfilment of an unconscious
wish. The wish is unconscious because it has been repressed.
It has been repressed because it is the outcome of some
primitive craving whose realization is incompatible with the
ethical and cultural standards of the individual. In the
waking state it is prevented from entering consciousness by a
sort of censorship which is always at work during waking
hours. But in sleep this censorship is relaxed to some extent,
and the unconscious wishes get a chance of showing themselves.
They are not allowed, however, to appear in undisguised
form. Did they do so, the sleeper would awake. The function
of the dream is to protect sleep by so distorting these insistent
thoughts of the unconscious that their true significance is
unrecognizable, and the dreamer may therefore continue to
sleep. In bringing about the necessary distortion of the
LXXII.] Review. 193
true dream thoughts, the unconscious makes use of a sort
of symbolism, especially, Freud says, in the presentation of
sexual complexes.
Now one of the most important features of Jung's work
is his exposition of the conception of the dream which his
experience has forced upon him—a conception fundamentally
different in many respects from that put forward by Freud.
And this difference in the two rival conceptions of the dream
seems mainly to depend on a difference hi the interpretation
of the significance and value of psychological symbols. Jung
says (p. 222), " According to Freud, the dream is in its essence
a symbolic veil for repressed desires which are in conflict with
the ideals of personality. I am obliged to regard the dream
structure from a different point of view. The dream for me
is, in the first instance, the subliminal picture of the psycho-
logical condition of the individual in his waking state. It
presents a resume of the subliminal associative material which
is brought together by the momentary psychological situation."
Thus for Freud the dream symbol is merely a sign or
token representing primitive psycho-sexual tendencies, and
is dependent wholly on historical causes. For Jung the
symbol has a positive value. It has a meaning for the
actual present and for the future. It is an attempt at com-
prehension by means of analogy, and an '
endeavour to solve
the actual problems of the dreamer's life. As Jung says,
in his preface, " To the Zurich school the symbol is not merely
a sign of something repressed and concealed, but is at the
same time an attempt to comprehend and to point out
the way of the further psychological development of the
individual."
Although Jung thus teaches that we must regard the funda-
mental thoughts and impulses of the unconscious as symbols
indicative of a definite line of future development, he feels
compelled to make the somewhat startling admission that
there is " no scientific justification for such a procedure,
because our present day science is based as a whole upon
causality." He defends himself, however, by maintaining
that " causality is only one principle, and psychology essentially
cannot be exhausted by causal methods oidy, because the
mind lives by aims as well "
(p. ix). He seems to realize
194 Dr. T. W. Mitchell. [part
that he is here entering upon very debatable territory, and
that any real attempt to justify the position he takes up
would entail a disquisition on certain philosophical topics
which would carry him far from the immediate purpose of
his work. It is only in isolated sentences or paragraphs
that he even hints at the difficulties inherent in the views
he holds. It may be that the real ground of dispute is
the old battle-ground of freedom and necessity. Jung disputes
the completeness of Freud's view as a scientific explanation
of dream psychology, because " the psyche cannot be con-
ceived merely from the causal aspect ; but necessitates also
a final view-point." But, the determinist says, if the end is
determined it can be dealt with from the causal aspect
;
if the end is not determined no science of man is possible.
There would seem to be a fundamental difference between
Jung and Freud in their attitude towards human personality.
According to Freud the unconscious motive of every human
activity is a desire for pleasure, and the ends or aims of
the unconscious are always the immediate gratification of
its desires. Thus the aim of the dream is attained in the
symbolised realization of the unconscious wish, and the inter-
pretation of the dream consists in finding the true dream
thoughts in the associative material which groups itself round
the different parts of the dream. In the last analysis these
thoughts are always the expression of infantile, primitive
cravings and are unacceptable to the conscious personality.
They are of a universal and elementary character, but they
may be disguised in the dream under manifold forms.
This, Jung says, is the result of applying only the principle
of " causality " to the material associated with the dream ;
" we reduce the manifest dream content to certain fundamental
tendencies or ideas." But if we use the principle of " finality,"
the dream may be shown to have quite another significance.
We may ask of the dream, as of any other psychic activity :
What is its purpose ? And Jung sees in the dream not
merely the fulfilment of an unconscious wish but an attempt
at the solution of some unsolved problem, the settling of
some unconscious conflict. Jung would have us believe that
there is in man a " psyche " whose purposes are not abrogated
even in sleep, though its activities may be obscured, and
Lxxn.] Review. 195
that in dream the primordial tendencies of the unconscious
are utilized as a means of siibconscious expression of the
ways by which these purposes may be achieved. Thus the
symbol of the dream may play a part in the moral education
of the individual similar to that which the religious symbol
has played in the history of civilization.
T. W. Mitchell.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXXIII.
March, 1917.
THE EAR OF DIONYSIUS :
Further Scripts affording Evidence of Personal
Survival. 1
By The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour.
On the 26th of August, 1910, the automatist who is
already well known to members of the Society under
the name of Mrs. Willett sat for script with Mrs. VerralJ.
The script produced on this occasion, partly written
and partly dictated—I use the word script for con-
venience' sake to include the spoken as well as the
written word—contained the phrase " Dionysius' Ear
the lobe." The phrase occurred in the dictated part
of the script, and the name Dionysius was pronounced
as in Italian. It has no obvious relevance to the
context, and this first appearance of it in Willett Script
remains even now without any satisfactory explanation.
1
This Paper was read at a meeting of the Society on November 9th,
1916, substantially in the form in which it is now published, except
that considerable additions have been made to the argumentative
portion.
19 S The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
To Mrs. Verrall herself, as we shall see presently,
the words conveyed at the time no meaning whatever.
As a good many of my audience may be in like case
with her, I had best explain at the outset that the
Ear of Dionysius is a kind of grotto hewn in the solid
rock at Syracuse and opening on one of the stone
quarries which served as a place of captivity for the
Athenian prisoners of war who fell into the hands
of the victorious Syracusans after the failure of the
famous siege so graphically described by Thucydides.
A few years later these quarries were again used as
prisons by the elder Dionysius, Tyrant of Syracuse.
The grotto of which I have spoken has the peculiar
acoustic properties of a whispering gallery, and is tradi-
tionally believed to have been constructed or utilised
by the Tyrant in order to overhear, himself unseen,
the conversations of his prisoners. Partly for this
reason, and partly from a fancied resemblance to the
interior of a donkey's ear, it came to be called TJOrecchio
di Dionisio, or the Ear of Dionysius ; but the name
only dates from the sixteenth century. The grotto is
still one of the objects of interest which every visitor to
Syracuse is taken to see.
No further reference was made in any Willett Script
to the Ear of Dionysius until more than three years
later. The subject was first revived in a script written
in the presence of Sir' Oliver Lodge on the 10th of
January, 1914. The sitting was a very long one;
and
in the course of it occurred the following passage.
A.
(Extract from Script of Jan. 10, 1914.)
Do you remember you did not know and I complained of
your classical ignorance ignorance
It concerned a place where slaves were kept—and Audition
belongs, also Acoustics
Think of the Whispering Gaily
LXXIH.] The Ear of Dionysius. 199
To toil, a slave, the Tyrant—and it was called Orecchio
—
that's near
One Ear, a one eared place, not a one horsed dawn [here
the automatist laughed slightly], a one eared place—You did
not know (or remember) about it when it came up in con-
versation, and I said Well what is the use of a classical
education
—
Where were the fields of Enna
[Drawing of an ear.]
an ear ly pipe could be heard
To sail for Syracuse
Who beat the loud-sounding wave, who smote the moving
furrows
The heel of the Boot
Dy Dy . and then you think of Diana Dimorphism
To fly to find Euripides
not the Pauline Philemon
This sort of thing is more difficult to do than it looked.
There are several interesting points to be noted in
connection with this passage. Earlier in the script it
was stated that a message was to be sent to Mrs. Verrall ;
but at the point where the extract commences, Mrs.
Verrall is directly addressed in the second person, although
she was not herself present. The communication must
be taken as purporting to come from Dr. A. W. Verrall,
the incident recalled in the extract having actually
happened very much as described. I will relate it in the
words of Mrs. Verrall's own note, written on Jan. 19, 1914,
after this portion of the script had been shown to her.
My typed note on the Willett Script of Aug. 26,
1910, is as follows :
'" ;
Dionysius' Ear the lobe ' is un-
intelligible to me. A. W. V. says it is the name of a
place at Syracuse where D. could overhear conversations."
This makes clear what was instantly recalled to me on
hearing the Willett Script of Jan. 10, that I did not
know, or had forgotten, what the Ear of Dionysius was,
and that I asked A. W. V. to explain it. I cannot say
whether on that occasion he asked " What is the use
of a classical education ?
" but he expressed considerable
200 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
surprise at my ignorance, and the phrase of the script
recalls—though it does not, I think, reproduce—similar
remarks of his on like occasions.
The incident to me is very striking. I am quite
sure that Mrs. Willett was not present when I asked
A. W. V. about the Ear of Dionysius ; no one was
present except A. W. V. and myself. . . . She therefore
had no reason to suppose that on this particular subject,
of the Ear of Dionysius, my information had been
obtained from A. W. V. On the other hand, the form
given to my contemporary note
—" A. W. V. says etc."
—
confirms my own vivid recollection of the incident above
described. It is not easy, I think, to devise a more
convincing single incident.
The incident is certainly striking ; bat I have to
confess that its evidential force is weakened by a dim
though haunting recollection on my part of a conversa-
tion having taken place between Mrs. Willett and me
sometime previously on this very subject of Dionysius'
Ear. She has no memory of it herself ; but I still
think she told me one day that the words " Ear of
Dionysius " had been running in her head, and asked
me what they meant ;
whereupon I explained, adding
that they had come in one of her own scripts several
years before. I do not believe I referred to Mrs. Verrall,
or to Dr. Verrall's having rallied her upon her ignorance.
But as I had been told of the incident by Mrs. Verrall
herself shortly after it occurred, it is just possible I may
have done so ; and this possibility spoils what would
otherwise have been a good piece of evidence.
Returning now to the extract from the Willett Script of
Jan. 10, 1914, I proceed to apply a running commentary to
the other allusions, certain or probable, which it contains.
The " place where slaves were kept " refers of course
to the stone quarries where the Athenian captives were
imprisoned. The words that follow describe the Ear of
Dionysius, with its peculiar acoustic properties. Dionysius
himself is not named either in this cr in the succeeding
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 201
scripts to which I shall presently call attention ;
though
the syllables " Dy Dy " towards the end of the extract
probably represent an attempt at the name. The use
of the Italian for Ear, Orecchio, is noteworthy, and recalls
the Italian pronunciation of " Dionysius " in the earlier
script. I may say that Mrs. Willett knows Italian
and has spent some time in Italy, though she has never
been in Sicily. Much play is made later on with the
phrase " a one-eared place." It seems to have little
point in the j)resent extract save to bring in our old
friend the " one-horsed dawn "—an appropriate reminis-
cence for Dr. Verrall, as readers of the Proceedings will
not require to be told. 1
Sir Oliver Lodge's record tells
us that the automatist laughed as she wrote " not a one-
horsed dawn." From my experience of Willett Script I
have no doubt that the laugb represents amusement on
the part of the communicator, not on that of the auto-
matist herself. It is Dr. Verrall—or the personality pur-
porting to be Dr. Verrall —who laughs as he transmits the
words ; the laughter of the automatist is but an echo.
The meadows of Enna, a town in Sicily, were famous
in antiquity as the scene of the Rape of Proserpine.
They are introduced here either to indicate Sicily as the
country with which the message is concerned, or, more
probably, to add to the various literary and historical
associations which are piled up in this and the immedi-
ately succeeding scripts.
Another such association, and a strangely far-fetched
one, seems to be dragged in in the next line " An
ear ly pipe could be heard." The allusion here is appar-
ently to the lines in Tennyson's well-known poem " Tears,
idle tears " :
2
" The earliest pipe of half-awaken'd birds
To dying ears."
1
The words " a one-horsed dawn" refer to a telepathic experiment
tried by Dr. Verrall in his life-time on Mrs. Verrall, of which a full
account was published by her in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XX., pp. 156-
167. See also Proceedings, Vol. XXVII., pp. 237-238.
2
Since this Paper was written it has been suggested to me that the
" pip0 " is the shepherd's pipe, and that the allusion is to Theocritus,
202 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
The bringing of this poem into forced connection with
the Ear of Dionysius, and that by means of an abomin-
able pun, is certainly not characteristic of the automatist.
I doubt however whether Dr. Verrall's intimates would
scout it as a sally impossible to his more pla}^ful mom-
ents. Indeed, there may even be an evidential point
about the jest ; for Mrs. Verrall writes in her contempor-
ary note :
" The non-serious or parody-like introduction of
this poem is consistent with the feeling of the supposed
communicator ; A. W. V. always considered the senti-
ment of the poem somewhat overstrained, and maintained
that that view was warranted by Tennyson's own descrip-
tion of Ida's reception of it '
with some disdain,' as
a fancy '
hatched in silken folded idleness.'
"
The next reference in the script is almost certainly
to the ill-fated Athenian expedition against Syracuse.
The words " who beat the loud sounding wave, who
smote the moving furrows " are probably reminiscent
of Tennyson's Ulysses :
" Sitting well in order smite
The sounding furrows,"
though I do not think that any allusion to Ulysses
is intended here, in spite of the fact that he plays,
as we shall see, an important part in subsequent develop-
ments. " The heel of the Boot " may be taken to
indicate the route followed by the Athenian fleet, which
passed from Corcyra to Tarentum in the heel of Italy,
thence coasted along to the toe, and so reached Sicily.
" Dy Dy " I have already explained as probably an
attempt at the name Dionysius. The communicator
fails to get the whole name through, and then address-
ing the automatist, who repeats his language, reproaches
her with thinking of words beginning with Di which
are not what he wants.
The final allusion in the extract calls for a somewhat
longer comment. A script written by Mrs. Holland
the famous Sicilian bucolic poet. Theocritus is said to have imitated
the Cyclops of Philoxenus in his eleventh idyll.
I am still inclined to prefer the explanation given in the text.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 203
m 1907 contains the words "To fly to find Euripides
Philemon." The script is quoted by Mr. Piddington
in Volume XXII. of the Proceedings (p. 215), and the
source of the reference to Euripides and Philemon
given—namely, Browning's Aristophanes' Apology or the
Last Adventure of Balaustion.
In Aristophanes' Apology [writes Mr. Piddington]
Balaustion tells to Philemon the story of how, on the
night on which news of the death of Euripides reached
Athens, Aristophanes, flushed with wine and with the
success of his Thesrnophoriazousm came to her house and
there justified his attacks on the dead poet ; and of
how, the apology ended, Balaustion read to Aristophanes
and the assembled company the Hercules Furens, the
original tablets of which Euripides had presented to her
as a parting gift. The poem ends by Balaustion telling
Philemon that she sent the original tablets to Dionysius,
tyrant of Sicily, who placed them in a temple of Apollo
with this inscription :
'
' I also loved
The poet, Free Athenai cheaply prized
—
King Dionusios,—Archelaos like."
Balaustion then asks Philemon
"If he too have not made a votive verse !
" and
Philemon replies :
" Grant, in good sooth, our great dead, all the same,
Retain their sense, as certain wise men say,
I'd hang myself—to see Euripides."
Mrs. Willett has not read Aristophanes' Apology. She
had, however, seen the Holland Script, and recognised
at the time that her own script had borrowed from
it. She had also read parts of Vol. XXII. of the
Proceedings, and may have seen the passage I have
just quoted. From the evidential point of view we
must assume that she had seen it, and that she may
thus have become aware of a connection between Brown-
ing's Philemon and the tyrant Dionysius. On the
other hand, it would not be legitimate to infer that
this literary contribution to the subject in hand must
204 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
have proceeded from her own mental activities un-
prompted by any external influence. Whatever view we
take of the genuineness or otherwise of the supposed
communicators and communications, it is clear that
what is already in the mind, conscious or subconscious,
of the automatist, will also be that which will most
easily emerge in automatic speech or writing.
In any case the reference to Browning's poem is
aptly chosen. Not only does it bring in Dionysius
the Tyrant in the manner described, but also, though
indirectly, the two other mam topics alluded to in
the script, namely, the Athenian expedition against
Syracuse, and the stone-quarries where the Athenian
prisoners worked until they were sold as slaves or re-
leased because they were able to recite Euripides. The
second " Adventure " of Balaustion inevitably recalls
the first, related in the companion poem ; and the first
adventure starts from the defeat of the Athenian Ex-
pedition, and ends with Balaustion seeking safety for
herself and her whole ship's company from the threatened
hostility of the Syracusans by the exercise of a similar
gift of recitation.
One other point is perhaps worthy of mention. Brown-
ing's line 1
" I'd hang myself—to see Euripides
"
is misquoted by Mrs. Holland, and after her by Mrs.
Willett in the form "To fly to find Euripides." I owe
to Mrs. Verrall the suggestion that the remark in the
Willett Script, about " this sort of thing " being " more
difficult to do than it looked," is due to a recognition
by the communicator of the misquotation—a misquota-
tion which in his life-time Dr. Verrall, " who was much
interested in Mrs. Holland's allusion to Lucus and
Philemon, never failed to note and regret."
So far all is plain sailing. The reproduction of what
Dr. Verrall said to Mrs. Verrall anent the Ear of
Dionysius it is possible to explain in the manner I have
1 This line is an almost literal translation from a fragment of Philemon
which has come down to us.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 205
suggested. The other allusions, historical, geographical
and literary, have a natural connection ; and all of
them might be supposed, without any rude violation
of probability, to have been at one time or another
within the normal knowledge of the automatist. But
up to now we have only been laying foundations for
what is to follow. In the succeeding scripts the plot
begins to thicken.
Before I enter upon these further developments it
will not be out of place to make a brief statement
concerning the conditions in which the Willett Scripts
are produced. Many of these are written when the
automatist is alone, awake, and fully aware of her
surroundings. The remainder, produced in the presence
of a " sitter," 1
fall mainly into two classes. Either
the automatist is in a normal or nearly normal state
of consciousness, much as when she writes scripts by
herself, or else she is in a condition of trance. There
have been a few intermediate cases, when it is hard to
say whether the sensitive is in trance or not. But these
are a very small number : in general there is no diffi-
culty whatever in distinguishing. Scripts obtained in
a normal state of consciousness, whether in presence
of a sitter or alone, are always annotated by Mrs.
Willett shortly after they have been produced. The
originals are carefully preserved in the custody of the
investigating group ; but she keeps copies to which
she can at any time refer. Of scripts produced in
trance, on the other hand, she remembers nothing,
even immediately after waking ; and the contents are
carefully kept from her knowledge. The script of Aug.
26, 1910, in which the first reference to the Ear of
Dionysius occurred, was a trance-script. That of Jan.
10, 1914, from which Extract A has been taken, was
written in normal conditions of consciousness. All the
1
A few of Mrs. Willett 's scripts have been produced in the presence
of some member of her family, and two in the presence of a friend
who does not belong to the investigating group. Apart from these
rare occasions, she has never sat for automatic writing save with Mrs.
Verrall, Sir Oliver Lodge, or myself ; and never at any time in the
presence of more than one person.
206 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
remaining scripts I shall have occasion to quote in
this Paper were trance-scripts. Until May of this year
(1916), Mrs. Willett had never been shown any of them
or any portion of anj' of them : there is no doubt
in my own mind that in a normal state of con-
sciousness she was totally ignorant of their contents.
In that month I allowed her to see, not the entire
scripts, but just those passages which I am about to
cite, and which have been printed for distribution among
the audience. The date of the last of these scripts
was August 19, 1915. It is clear, therefore, that Mrs.
Willett 's having been shown the extracts nine months
later could in no way weaken any " evidential " value
which the episode they relate to may be thought to
possess.
I now proceed to read and comment on Extract B
from the Willett sitting of Feb. 28, 1914, at which I
was myself present.
Some confusion may appear in the matter transmitted but
there is now being started an experiment not a new experi-
ment but a new subject and not exactly that but a new
line which joins with a subject already got through
a little anatomy if you please
Add one to one
One Ear x [sic] one eye
B.
(Extracts from Sitting oj Feh. 28, 1914.)
(Present: G. W. B.)
the one eyed Kingdom
No, in the K of the Blind the 1 eyed man is King
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 207
It is about a 1 eyed man 1
1 eyed
The entrance to the Cave Arethusa
Arethusa is only to indicate it does not belong to the 1 eyed
A Fountain on the Hill Side
What about Baulastion [sic]
[Laughs] Supposed to be a Wellington Boot
12 little nigger boys thinking not of Styx
Some were eaten up and then there were Six Six.
[At this point Mrs. Willett ceased to write and began
dictating to the Sitter.]
Some one said—Oh I'll try, I'll try. Oh ! Some one's
showing me a picture and talking at the same time.
Some one said to me, Homer—and some one said—I'm so
confused, I'm all with things flitting past me ; I don't seem
to catch them. Oh dear !
Nor sights nor sounds diurnal.
Here where all winds are quiet. 2
Oh !
Edmund says, Powder first and jam afterwards. You see it
seems a long time since I was here with them—and I want
to talk to them and enjoy myself. And I've all the time to
1 " man " crossed out in the original.
2
Swinburne : The Garden of Proserpine.
208 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
keep on working, and seeing and listening to such boring
old—
Oh, ugh ! [Expression of great disgust.]
Somebody said, Give her time, Give her time . . . Oh, if
I could only say it quickly and get done with it. It's about
a cave, and a group of men. Somebody then—a trident,
rather like a toasting fork / think.
Poseidon, Poseidon.
Who was it said, It may be that the gulfs will wash us
down—find the great Achilles that we knew ?
1
He's got a
naming torch in his hand. And then some one said to me,
Can't you think of Noah and the grapes ?
Optics—Oh ! that, you know [putting a finger to her eye].
Oh, if I could only say what I hear ! Oh, I will try, I
will try.
Somebody said to me, Don't forget about Henry Sidgwick,
that he pleased not himself. Do you know he used to work
when he hated working. I mean sometimes he had to grind
along without enjoying what he was doing. That's what I'm
trying to do now.
Do you know that man with the glittering eyes I once
saw % He hit me with one word now. [Here Mrs. Willett
traced a word with one finger along the margin of the paper.
I failed to make it out, and handed the pencil to her, where-
upon she wrote]
Aristotle
[Dictation resumed] And Poetry, the language of the Gods.
Somebody killed a President once and called out—something
hi Latin, and I only heard one word of it, Tironus, Tiranus,
Tiranius—something about sic.
2
What is a tyrant 1
Lots of wars
—
A Siege [spoken loud and with emphasis].
I hear the sound of chipping [Here Mrs. W. struck the
fingers of one hand repeatedly against the palm of the other].
It's on stone. Now, wait a minute. Oh, if I could only get
that word.
1
Tennyson : Ulysses.
2
Sic semper tyrannis—uttered by Booth when he murdered President
Lincoln. The phrase had already appeared in Mrs. Piper's trance
of Apr. 17, 1907. See Proceedings, Vol. XXIV., p. 30.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 209
Fin and something gleba. Find [pronounced as in the Latin
finditur] —oh ! it's got to do with the serf. It's about that
man who said it was better—oh ! a shade among the shades.
Better to be a slave among the living, he said. 1
Oh, the toil—Woe to the vanquished.
That one eye has got something to do with the one ear.
[Sighs] That's what they wanted me to say. There's such a
mass of things, you see, rushing through my mind that I can't
catch anything.
[A pause and then sobbing] He was turned into a fountain
that sort of Stephen man, he was turned into a fountain.
Why ? that's the point : Why ? . . .
Oh, dear me ! Now I seem to be walking about a school,
and I meet a dark boy, and—it's the name of a Field Marshall
I'm trying to get, a German name. And then something
says, All this is only memories revived : it's got nothing to
do with the purely literary— There are two people in that
literary thing, chiefly concerned in it. They're very close
friends—thej^'ve thought it all out together.
Somebody said something about Father Cam walking arm
in arm—with the Canongate ? ! What does that mean ?
Oh ! [sniffing] what a delicious scent !
No rosebud yet by dew empearled.
I'll try and say it. Hold me tight now while I try and
say it. [Pause.]
It may take some considerable time to get the necessary
references through. But let us peg away ; and keep your
provisional impressions to yourself. May 2
is to hear nothing
of all this at present ; because this is something good and worth
doing, and my Aristotelian friend
—
[At this point the subject is abruptly broken off and not
referred to again until the very end, when E. G. (Gurney)
intervenes to close the sitting.]
Enough for this time. There is sense in that which has
been got through though some disentanglement is needed. A
Literary Association of ideas pointing to the influence of two
discarnate minds.
1
Spoken by the shade of Achilles to Ulysses in Hades.
2 " May " =Mrs. Verrall.
210 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
You will doubtless have noticed the recurrence in
this extract of most if not all of the topics already
found in Extract A. I will briefly enumerate but need
not dwell on them further. References are once more
made to
The Ear of Dionysius ;
The stone quarries in which the vanquished Athenians
worked ;
Enna (by means of a quotation from The Garden
of Proserpine) ;
Syracuse (" Wars—a Siege," and " Arethusa ") ;
The heel of Italy (Wellington Boot).
The Adventures of Balaustion.
There is also, however, much in the Extract that
is new.
We are now told that an " experiment " is being
attempted ; and that this experiment consists in '
a
literary association of ideas," some of which have already
appeared, while others are now being introduced for
the first time. Much importance is attached to the
experiment : it is " something good and worth doing."
There are additional references yet to come, which
may take a " considerable time " to " get through."
Meanwhile Mrs. Verrall (" May ") is not to be told
about it : any provisional impressions the other investi-
gators may form are to be kept to themselves.
The literary riddle—for such it proves ultimately to
be—which is thus in the course of being propounded
is the work, we are told, of two intimate friends no
longer in the flesh. It is intended to be characteristic
of them, and to serve as evidence of their personal
survival.
The identity of the two friends, indicated without
disguise in the later extracts, is made sufficiently clear
even in the present one to anybody acquainted with
previous Willett Scripts. They are Professor S. H. Butcher
and Dr. A. W. Verrall.1
The " man with the glittering eyes I once saw,"
1
Professor Butcher died in December, 1910, and Dr. Verrall in June. 1912.
Lxxni.] The Ear of Dionysius. 211
from whom proceeds the word Aristotle, is Professor
Butcher. The incident referred to is a vision of Pro-
fessor Butcher seen by Mrs. Willett on the night
of Jan. 21, 1911,. a few weeks after his death. I quote
the record of it made by Mrs. Willett on the day
following :
" Last night after I had blown out my candle and
was just going to sleep I became aware of the presence
of a man, a stranger, and—almost at the same moment
—knew it was Henry Butcher. I felt his personality
very living, clear, strong, sweetness and strength com-
bined. A piercing glance. He made no introduction,
and said nothing. So I said to him :
'
Are you Henry
Butcher ?
'
He said '
No, I am Henry Butcher's ghost.'
I was rather shocked at his saying this, and said, '
Oh,
very well, I'm not at all afraid of ghosts or of the
dead.' He said, '
Ask Verrall if he remembers our
last conversation, and say the word to him :
Ek e tee.'
"
A more detailed reference to this vision will be found
in Extract D. I do not discuss it here further than
to say that the name of the goddess Hecate—for that
is apparently what is meant
—
has a significance in con-
nection with Dr. Verrall which would have been known
to Professor Butcher. In the present context the in-
cident is apparently recalled only to serve as a clue
to the identity of the man who says '
Aristotle.' The
word '
Aristotle,' combined with '
Poetry,' is itself an
additional clue ; for Butcher wrote a work upon Aristotle's
Poetics which is well known to all classical scholars.
Hence the description of him as " my Aristotelian friend
"
given later on in the extract.
Two other symbolic references to Prof. Butcher are
contained in Extract B. " Father Cam walking arm
in arm with the Canongate " signifies the association,
in the persons of Verrall and Butcher, of the Universities
of Cambridge and Edinburgh. Butcher was himself a
highly distinguished Cambridge man, and in later life
represented his University in the House of Commons ;
212 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
but he was also for many years Professor of Greek afc
Edinburgh.
The Rose, and the -perfume of the Rose are repeatedly
used in Willett Scripts as symbols of Prof. Butcher,
for a reason which his personal friends will readily
understand. We shall come across the same symbols
again in Extract D. Note that here the automatisfc
seems to become conscious of the scent before she con-
nects it with the -floiver.
" No rosebuds yet by dew
impearled " is a quotation from Swinburne's Etude
Realiste, with the substitution of " dew " for " dawn."
Mrs. Willett, it may be as well to say, had never
met Professor Butcher. She knew him, however, by
name, and knew that he was a close friend of the
Verralls.
As regards Dr. Verrall, there is only one direct allusion
to him in Extract B apart from the Father Cam refer-
ence already mentioned ; but that one is unmistakable.
The automatist says she seems to be walking about
a school and to meet a dark boy. She tries to get
the name of a German Field Marshal. " Then something
says, All this is only memories revived ; it has nothing
to do with the purely literary thing " in which the
two friends are closely concerned.
The school is Wellington ; the dark boy is Verrall ;
the memories revived are his memories. The German
Field Marshal is Bliicher, whose name was given to
one of the college dormitories. Mrs. Willett probably
knew that Verrall was educated at Wellington ; and
she certainly had had the opportunity of knowing that
one of the College dormitories was named after Bliicher,
as this circumstance was mentioned in the notes to a
script of Mrs. Verrall's which she had seen. The passage
gives no ground for inferring a knowledge supernormally
imparted, though it effectively serves its purpose of
designating a particular individual.
To resume : We have now learnt that the subjects
associated together in Extract A and reproduced in
Extract B are intended to find their place in some
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 213
kind of literary scheme carefully thought out and devised
by two friends who in their lifetime were eminent classical
scholars. They are, as it were, pieces which have to
be fitted into a single whole more or less after the manner
of a jig-saw puzzle. The tale of pieces, however, is
not yet complete. Two additional subjects of great
importance lie embedded in Extract B, and my next
task must be to disengage them. They are the stories
of Polyphemus and Ulysses, and of Acis and Galatea—
the first derived from Homer's Odyssey, the second from
Ovid's Metamorphoses 1
though best known to most people
through the famous musical setting of the tale by Handel.
In the story told by Homer, Ulysses is overtaken by
a storm on his voyage home from Troy, and driven
to the country of the Lotus Eaters. He reaches next
the land of the Cyclopes,2
a race of one-eyed giants
to whom the laws of hospitality are unknown. Going
ashore with twelve of his companions he enters the
cave where dwells one of the giants, by name Poly-
phemus, a son of the sea-god Poseidon. Polyphemus
is away tending his flocks and herds, but returns towards
evening, and, discovering the strangers, imprisons them
in his cave, and proceeds to devour them two at a time
in three successive meals. But Ulysses and his six
remaining companions have devised a terrible revenge.
They prepare a stake of olive wood with its end sharp-
ened to a point ; and having made the Cyclops dead
drunk with wine they had brought from the ship, plunge
the end of the stake into the embers, and bore out
the monster's single eye with its glowing point. Next
morning when the blinded giant rolls away the stone
from the mouth of the cave to let his flock pass out
himself remaining in the doorway to catch his tormentors,
Ulysses and his companions escape from his clutches
concealed beneath the bellies of the sheep and clinging
to their fleeces.
1
Book xiii. 738 ff.
- Ancient tradition placed the Cyclopes in Sicily. Homer himself is silent
on the point.
o
214 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
The allusions to this story are scattered in a fine
confusion through the script ; but once we have the
key in our hand there is no difficulty in detecting
them. The one eye, the "12 little nigger hoys think-
ing not of Styx, Some were eaten up and then there
were six," the reference to Homer, to a cave and a
group of men, to Poseidon with his trident, to the flam-
ing torch, to Noah and the grapes—all fall into place
once we realize that they belong to the story of Ulysses
and Polyphemus.
The allusion to the meeting of Ulysses in the
Underworld with " the great Achilles whom we knew
"
seems at first sight irrelevant. I suspect it is only
a roundabout way of suggesting Ulysses himself. The
actual names of the two principal characters in the
story are never mentioned ; and the same remark applies
to the story of Acis and Galatea. In this tale, as
in the other, the one-eyed Cyclops plays the part of
villain of the piece. Acis, a shepherd dwelling at the
foot of Mount Etna, and Galatea the sea nymph, are
lovers. Unfortunately for them, Galatea is also beloved
of the " monster Polypheme," as Handel's libretto calls
him. Rejected by the nymph, and mad with jealousy,
he hurls a mighty rock at his rival and crushes him
to death. Galatea cannot save her lover, but she gives
him a kind of immortality by changing him into the
stream which bears his name and has its source in
a fountain issuing from the rock beneath which he
was overwhelmed
.
Two passages in Extract B refer to this story. The
first speaks of "a Fountain on the hill side," followed
by a rough drawing intended for a volcano. The second
occurs towards the end of the Extract :
" He was turned
into a fountam that sort of Stephen man, he was turned
into a fountain. Why ? that's the point : Why ?
"
" That sort of Stephen man " describes, of course, the man-
ner in which Acis came by his death. To the question
Why ? an answer is given in Extract C. There is a
point in it, but a point which only becomes intelligible
when the whole of the riddle has been read.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 215
Up to this stage the riddle remains a riddle still. At
all events, it did so for me. We are told to join the
one ear to the one eye ; but I doubt if any one in
this room can say how the Ear of Dionysius and the
stone quarries of Syracuse are connected with the stories
of Polyphemus and Ulysses and of Acis and Galatea
except by the geographical accident of then all belong-
ing to Sicily. Such a mere geographical unity would
hardly justify the communicators in describing their
scheme as " something good and worth doing " which
it had taken the united industry of two distinguished
scholars to think out.
Let us see what assistance we can get from the next
script
.
The Aristotelian to the Hegelian friend greeting. Also the
Rationalist to the Hegelian friend greeting. 1
These twain be
about a particular task and now proceed with it.
a Zither that belongs the sound also stones, the toil of
prisoners and captives beneath the Tyrant's rod
The Stag not Stag, do go on
Sfcagyr write rite
[Here Mrs. W. ceased writing and proceeded to dictate.]
Somebody said to me Mousike.
Do you know, it's an odd thing, I can see Edmund as if
he were working something ; and the thing he is working is
1 " The Aristotelian friend " is S. H. Batcher. " The Rationalist
friend is A. W. Verrall, possibly with allusion to his book Euripides
the Rationalist. " The Hegelian friend " is myself. It would have
been natural for Butcher and Verrall so to describe me in old Cambridge
days.
c
(Extract from Script of March 2, 1914.)
(Present: G. W. B.)
21G The Right Hon G. W. Balfour. [part
me. It isn't really me, you know ; it's only a sort of asleep
me that I can look at. He's very intent—and those two men
I don't know. One's very big and tall, with a black beard.
The other man I don't see so well. But he holds up a book
to me.
Oh ! Somehody wrote a book about something, and this
man, who's holding up the book, wrote a book about him.
And the reference he wants isn't just now to what he wrote,
but to what this person he wrote about wrote.
What does Ars Poetica mean ?
Edmund said to me Juvenal also wrote satires—and then
he laughed and said, Good shot.
The pen is mightier than the sword. Oh, it's so confusing
—
stones belong, and so does a pen. Oh !
Somebody said, Try her with the David story. She might
get it that way. The man he sent to battle hoping he'd get
killed, because he wanted him out of the way.
A green-eyed monster.
Now, all of a sudden I had it. Jealousy, that first infirmity
of petty minds.
What does Sicilian Artemis 1
mean ? [Pause.]
Such an odd old human story of long ago
He that hath an ear to hear, let him hear.
What is an ear made for ?
Oh, this old bothersome rubbish is so tiresome.
[As she said this Mrs. W. banged her arms down on the
table as if hi disgust. Presently she seized my pencil and
drew the same figure as in the previous sitting, of an ear
and the oval of a face. From this point onwards she wrote
instead of dictating.]
Find the centre [Here she added the eye.]
1
Perhaps a reference to Artemis Alphaea (or Alpheia), who had a
temple at Syracuse, and was associated with the story of the nymph
Arethusa. See under Alpheus in the Dictionary of Greek and Roman
Biography and J\fijtliology.
Lxxin.j The Ear of Dionysius. 2]
7
Not to you to Golden numbers golden numbers, 1
but add
I to 1 two singles, dissimilar things, but both found normally
in pairs in human anatomy— Good.
Gurney says she has done enough now but there is more,
much more, later Until the effort is completed the portions'
as they come are not to be seen by any other atttomatist.
E. G.
^
After what has already been said there is compara-
tively little in this extract that requires further explana-
tion. Nevertheless some important additions are made
in it to the stock of materials at our disposal.
First, an answer has been given to the emphatic
question asked in the previous script concerning the
cause which led to Acis having been changed into a
fountain. The cause was Jealousy—a lover's jealousy,
like that which sent Uriah to perish in the forefront
of battle. Jealousy, then, is one of the pieces which
have to be fitted into the finished picture of our jig-
saw puzzle.
Next, mention is made for the first time of a Zither
—the sound of which instrument, we are told, " belongs
"
—also of Mousike, the Greek word for the Art of Music.
Further, the references to Aristotle seem to carry with
them a significance beyond what they possessed in the
previous script. There they appeared to serve merely
as a symbol of S. H. Butcher. Here they are appar-
ently introduced on their own account as well. "The
Stagirite " is a correct description of Aristotle, who
was born at Stageira, a sea-port in Macedonia. It
would seem, however, an odd title to use in this place
unless with the deliberate purpose of inviting attention.
Again, a few sentences later it is explicitly stated that
a reference is wanted not to what Butcher wrote about
Aristotle, but to something which Aristotle himself
wrote ;
and we are left to infer from the words Ars
Poetica which follow that this something is to be found
in Aristotle's Treatise on Poetry.
'From Dekker's Patient Grissel : "To add to golden numbers golden
numbers." There seems to be no special point in the quotation here.
218 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
Lastly, a rather quaint transition leads up to yet
another new subject. The Latin words Ars Poetica
to a classical scholar suggest Horace more readily than
Aristotle. Horace is not actually named ; but the
thought of him is clearly implied in the interpolated
remark attributed to Edmund Gurney, " Juvenal also
wrote Satires." "Juvenal also'' must mean "Juvenal
as well as Horace." Aristotle, J need hardly say. did
not write satires.
We have here, I think, one of those subtle touches
not uncommon in Mrs. Willett's automatic productions,
and making strongly for their genuineness. The idea
which the communicator wants to " get through " is
that of Satire. The name of Juvenal, the Satirist
par excellence—a name which has previously occurred
in Willett Script—serves as a stepping-stone, by means
of an association familiar to any educated person. On
the other hand, the train of association which leads from
Aristotle's Poetics to Juvenal, using Horace as an un-
expressed middle term, seems to me altogether foreign
to Mrs. Willett, and outside the scope of any knowledge
with which she can reasonably be credited.
At the risk of over-refining I venture further to suggest
that the transition to Juvenal was an impromptu one
for the communicator himself. It occurs to him on the
spur of the moment as a "happy thought"; and it
is this as well as its success in eliciting the required
idea of satire that makes him laughingly describe it as
a "good shot."
The notion of satire is continued in the words
that immediately follow :
" The pen is mightier than
the sword. . . . stones belong and so does a pen."
As they stand these words are rather obscure ; but
the sequel shows that the " stones " are the stones
of the quarry-prisons, and the pen is the pen of a
satirist.
Let me now recapitulate. The scripts have furnished
us with a number of disjointed topics : the problem
is to combine them into a literary unity.
lxxiji.] The Ear of Dionysius. 219
Here is List of the leading topics so far given :
The Ear of Dionysius.
The stone-quarries of Syracuse in which prisoners
were confined.
The story of Polyphemus and Ulysses.
The story of Acis and Galatea.
Jealousy.
Music and the sound of a musical instrument.
Something to be found in Aristotle's Poetics.
Satire.
I have already compared these topics to the separate
pieces in a jig-saw puzzle. They might perhaps be
still more aptly likened to the letters in a letter-game.
Each letter has a significance of its own ;
their joint
significance is only realised when the word they together
spell has been discovered. The whole is more than the
sum of its parts.
Now obviously, if one or more of the parts are miss-
ing the difficulty of divining the whole is progressively
increased. Extract C, you will notice, ends with an
intimation that more is to come, and repeats the in-
junction, already given as respects Mrs. Verrall, but now
made general, that the portions as they come are not
to be shewn to any other automatist until the effort
is completed. Mr. Piddmgton and I, who were study-
ing the scripts, were accordingly content to wait without
troubling our heads overmuch about an answer to the
conundrum, until more light should be vouchsafed,
either by further scripts from Mrs. Willett, or by means
of cross-correspondences elsewhere.
Eor a long time we waited in vain. There is, indeed,
reason to think that some attempts were made to pro-
duce a cross-correspondence in the script of one of our
automatists, whom we call Mrs. King—especially by
means of references to the story of Acis and Galatea.1
Otherwise the whole subject seemed to be unaccountably
dropped ; and it was not until nearly a year and a half
later, in August, 1915, that a return to it was made.
1
See Appendix to this Paper.
220 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
The " sitter " on this occasion was Mrs. Verrall, who,
it must be remembered, had not been allowed to see
either of the scripts from which Extracts B and C have
been taken.
The relevant passages in this new script are contained
in Extract D.
D.
(Extract from Script of Aug. 2, 1915.)
(Present : Mrs. Verrall.)
Someone speaks a tall broad figure with a dark beard &
eyes that emit light with him stands the man who said
I am Henry Butcher's ghost do you remember %
Ecate
(Mrs. V. Yes.)
not the one who holds a Rose in his hand. His hand is
resting on the shoulder of the younger man & it is he who
calls.
The Aural instruction was I think understood Aural apper-
taining to the Ear
(Mrs. V. Yes.)
and now he asks HAS the Satire satire been identified
(Mrs. V. I don't know.)
Surely you have had my messages concerning it [it] belongs
to the Ear & comes in
(Mrs. V. I have not had any messages.)
It has a thread. Did they not tell you of references to a
Cave
(Mrs. V. No, not in comiection with the Ef>r of Dionysius.)
The mild eyed melancholy Lotus Eaters came.
That belongs to the passage 1
immediately before the one I
am now trying to speak of. men in a cave herds
(At this point Mrs. V. repeated, half aloud, the last two
words.)
listen don't talk, herds & a great load of firewood &
the eye
1
I.e. to the passage in the Odyssey preceding that which tells the
story of Polyphemus.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 221
olive wood staff
Ai 1
the man clung to the fleece of a Earn & so passed out
surely that is plain
(Mrs. V. Yes.)
well conjoin that with Cythera & the Ear-man
The Roseman said Aristotle then Poetics The incident was
chosen as being evidential of identity & it arose out of the
Ear train of thought.
There is a Satire
write Cyclopean Masonry, why do you say masonry I said
Cyclopean
PhiJox He laboured in the stone quarries and drew upon
the earlier writer for material for his Satire Jealousy
The story is quite clear to me & I think it should be
identified
a musical instrument comes in something like a mandoline
6
thrumming thrumming that is the sense of the word 2
He wrote in those stone quarries belonging to the Tyrant
Is any of this clear ?
(Mrs. V. Yes, a great deal, and when I know some things
I have not been told, probably all.)
[Drawing of an Ear.]
1
" Ai," perhaps an expression of pain, representing the Greek aiac.
2
What word is here meant ? It would seem to be a word—perhaps
a Greek word—which the communicator has been unable to get the
automatist to write. I suspect an allusion to a passage in the Plutus of
Aristophanes (1. 290), which parodies the Cyclops of Philoxenus, and per-
haps actually quotes from the poem. In this passage the made-up word
8peTTai>e\6 (threttanelo) is used to imitate the sound of the cithara.
The mysterious figure, or letter, which precedes " thrumming " in the
script may be the beginning of an attempt to write this word.
222 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
You have to put Homer with another 1
& the Ear theme
is in it too The pen dipped in vitriol that is what resulted
& S H 2
knows the passage in Aristotle which also comes
in There's a fine tangle for your unravelling & he of the
impatience 3
will
Let her wait try again Edmund
Sicily
He says when you have identified the classical allusions he
would like to be told.
(Mrs. V. Yes.)
In this Extract, again, there is little with which we
are not already familiar. But that little contains the
key to the puzzle.
" Cythera " :
" Cyclopean, Philox, He laboured in the
stone quarries and drew upon the earlier writer for
material for his Satire, Jealousy
: "
—in these words I will
not say that he who runs may read the riddle, but
he will certainly have a fair inkling of it if he first
takes the trouble to read up the account given of a
1 " You have to put Homer with another." Who is this " other " ?
Perhaps Philoxenus himself is meant, though this interpretation does
not consist very well with the statement which immediately follows,
that what resulted was " the pen dipped in vitriol." The more natural
meaning would seem to be that the " other " who is to be put with
Homer is a second writer from whom Philoxenus had borrowed in
constructing the plot of his Cyclops. Can the intention have been
to refer to the unknown Greek original from which Ovid derived the
story of Acis and Galatea ? Ovid is our earliest extant authority for
this story ; but there can be little doubt that he took it from a Greek
literary source, though we do not know what that source was. " The
earlier writer " from whom, according to the script, Philoxenus drew
the materials of his satire, might on this supposition be, not Homer,
but the Greek predecessor from whom Ovid borrowed.
1 by no means dismiss this conjecture, which has come to me from
a scholar of repute. It is a pity, indeed, that the evidence for it is
not stronger. An allusion to the original source of the tale of Acis
and Galatea, like the allusion suggested in a previous note to a passage
from the Plutus of Aristophanes, would come naturally enough from
Verrall, but could never have proceeded from the unaided resources
of Mrs. Willett,
2
Professor Butcher was familiarly known among his old friends by the
two first initials of his name.
3
See footnote on p. 230.
LXXIII ]
The Ear of Dionysius. 223
certain Philoxenus of Cythera in Smith's Dictionary of
Greek and Roman Biography and Mythology, or in the
Encyclopedia Britannica.
Those of us who are not specialists in classical literature
need not blush to confess ignorance of the very name
of Philoxenus. He was nevertheless a poet of consider-
able repute in antiquity., though only a few lines from
his works have actually come down to us.
Philoxenus was a writer of dithyrambs, a species of
irregular lyric poetry which combined music with verse,
the musical instrument most generally employed being
the Kithara or Zither, a kind of lyre. He was a native
of Cythera, and at the height of his reputation spent
some time in Sicily at the Court of Dionysius the Tyrant
of Syracuse. He ultimately quarrelled with his patron
and was sent to prison in one of the stone-quarries.
So far the accounts that have come down to us agree ;
but thejr differ as to the cause of the quarrel. Most
writers, according to the Dictionary of Greek and Roman
Biography and Mythology, ascribe the oppressive action
of Dionysius " to the wounded vanity of the tyrant,
whose poems Philoxenus not only refused to praise,
but, on being asked to revise one of them, said the
best way of correcting it would be to draw a black
line through the whole paper." This version of the
quarrel is also followed by the writer in the Ency-
clopedia Britannica, and by Grote in his History of
Greece.1
There was, however, another account, mentioned
in the Dictionary of Biography and Mythology only to
be rejected, which ascribed the disgrace of the poet
" to too close an intimacy with the tyrant's mistress
Galateia."
I now come to the heart of the mystery which has
hitherto baffled us. The most famous of the dithyrambic
poems of Philoxenus was a piece entitled Cyclops or Galatea.
Of this poem only two or three lines have been preserved ;
and any attempt to reconstruct its plot must depend on
other sources of information. The Encyclopedia Britannica
says of it :
" His masterpiece was the Cyclops, a pastoral
l
Yo\. X. 303.
224 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
burlesque on the love of the Cyclops for the fair Galatea,
written to avenge himself upon Dionysius, who was
wholly or partially blind of one eye." This falls in
well with the references in the scripts to Satire ; but
does not provide much of a foundation for the references
to the stories of Ulysses and Polyphemus and of Acis
and Galatea, and to the topic of jealousy. The Dic-
tionary of Biography and Mythology helps even less. More-
over, it states that the poem was composed in the
poet's native island ; whereas the script affirms that
it was written in the stone-quarries.
I have searched through various other English authori-
ties and books of reference as well as a few foreign
ones, in order to discover, if possible, whether there was
any single modern source from which the story told
or implied in the scripts could be supposed to be derived.
Apart from works in German or Latin—languages which
Mrs. Willett does not understand—there are only two
books, so far as I have been able to discover, which
can fairly be said to fulfil this condition. One of
these is Lempriere's Classical Dictionary. Lempriere's
account is as follows : "A dithyrambic poet of Cythera,
who enjoyed the favour of Dionysius tyrant of Syracuse
for some time, till he offended him by seducing one
of his female singers. During his confinement Philoxenus
composed an allegorical poem, called Cyclops, in
which he had delineated the character of the tyrant
under the name of Polyphemus, and represented his
mistress under the name of Galatea, and himself under
that of Ulysses." The other is a work on the Greek
Melic Poets by Dr. Herbert Weir Smyth, Professor of
Greek at Bryn Mawr College, Pennsylvania, obviously
intended for scholars, and not in the least likely to
attract attention from the general public. The copy
I have seen was a presentation copy sent by the pub-
lishers to the late Dr. Verrall, who thought well of the
book and used it (so Mrs. Verrall told me) as a text-
book in connection with some of his lectures.
" Like Simonides," writes Professor Smyth, " Philox-
enus was a man of the world, a friend of princes,
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 225
and many stories are told of his nimble wit at the
Syracusan Court. His friendship with Dionysios the
Elder was finally broken either by his frank criticism
of the tragedies of the tyrant or in consequence of
his passion for Galateia, a beautiful flute-player, who
was the mistress of Dionysios. Released from prison
by the prince to pass judgment on his verse, the poet
exclaimed : airaye fxe els Xaro/mlas [take me back to the
quarries]. In his confinement he revenged himself by com-
posing his famous dithyramb entitled either Kyldops or
Galateia, in which the poet represented himself as Odys-
seus, who, to take vengeance on Polyphemus (Dionysios),
estranged the affections of the nymph Galateia, of whom
the Kyklops was enamoured."
Here evidently is the literary unity of which we were in
search and which was to collect the scattered parts of the
puzzle devised by the two friends on the other side into a
single whole. It is to be found in the version just given of
the plot of the Cyclops of Philoxenus. Dionysius and his
" Ear," the stone- quarries of Syracuse, Ulysses and Poly-
phemus, Acis and Galatea, Jealousy, and Satire—all these
topics fall naturally and easily into place in relation
to this account of the poem.1
Music and the thrumming
of a musical instrument can be fitted in without much
difficulty, as belonging to the characteristics of dithyrambic
poetry. It only remains to trace the passage in Aristotle
which " comes in " and which " S. H. knows."
There are two passages occurring within a page of
each other in the first and second chapters of Aristotle's
Poetics, either of which might be the passage referred
to. One of these is general, and classes the dithyramb
with those kinds of poetry which depend for their effects
not only upon rhythm and metre, but also upon melody.
The other distinguishes between the poetry which aims
at representing men as worse, and that which aims
at representing them as better, than they really are ;
1
The ancient authority followed by both Lempriere and Prof. Smyth
is AthenEeus, a late Greek writer, whose work may well have
been known to Butcher or Verrall, but could not possibly be known
to Mrs. Willett.
226 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
and mentions the Cyclops of Philoxenus as a specimen
of the former—that is to say, as a Satirical poem. This
second passage is referred to by Professor Smyth in the
paragraph following the one I have already quoted.1
The
same paragraph lays stress upon the essentially musical
character of the dithyramb, and upon the fame of
Philoxenus as musical composer no less than as poet.
It quotes the comic poet Antiphanes, who spoke of
him as "a god among men, cunning in the true art
of music "
—
ei$w? t'V a\}]6o3(; [xovcriKriv.
Extract D closes with a request from Gurney that
he should be told as soon as the classical allusions
had been identified. This request was complied with
about a fortnight later, as will be seen from Extract
E, the last with which I shall have to trouble you.
E.
{Extract from Script of Aug. 19, 1915.)
(Present : G. W. B.)
(G. W. B. First of all, Gurney, I want to tell you that all
the classical allusions recently given to Mrs. Verrall are now
completely understood.)
Good—at last !
(G. W. B. We think the whole combination extremehy
ingenious and successful.)
& A W ish—
(G. W. B. What is the word after "A. W. "?)
A W-ish
(G. W. B. Yes.)
Also S H-ish
(G. W. B. Yes.)
The communicator hints that a little more expedition
1
Professor Smyth's words are :
" Aristotle says that Philoxenus was
realistic in distinction to the idealistic Timotheos." This interpretation
gives a somewhat different shade of meaning to Aristotle's language
from that which I have adopted above.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 227
might have been shown in solving the problem set
to us. He apparently forgets that in March, 1914,
he himself informed us that there was much more to
be got through, and that we had waited for a year
and a half before any additional light was forthcoming.
The surprise shown in Extract D that no message con-
cerning a Satire and the Ear of Dionysius and the
Cave of the Cyclops had been handed on to Mrs. Verrall
shows an even more marked forgetfulness ; for we had
been expressly warned to tell her nothing. Such forget-
fulness is very rare in our experience. I doubt whether
a parallel instance could be found in the scripts of
any of our group of automatists. I have no explana-
tion to offer of it.
Eoi' the rest, the extract I have just read is chiefly
interesting for its insistence upon the claim that the
whole scheme is characteristic of the two friends who
have devised it, and therefore points to the survival
of their distinctive personalities.
That the case described in this Paper is an extremely
remarkable one, few, I think, will be disposed to deny.
Mrs. Willett is in no sense a " learned " lady. She
has a taste for poetry, and a good knowledge of certain
English poets ; but with classical subjects she is as
little familiar as the average of educated women. This
I can affirm with confidence, and I have had good
opportunity of judging.
In order to test her knowledge of the particular topics
referred to in this series of scripts I prepared six ques-
tions, writing them out on separate pieces of paper,
and asked her to answer them then and there as each
question was handed to her. This was on the 27th
of May last when I was setting to work on the present
paper. Questions and answers were as follows. (You
will of course bear in mind that all the scripts, except
that from which Extract A is taken, were obtained
when the automatist was in trance, and that no memory
of what she writes or speaks in trance is carried on
into her waking consciousness.)
228 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
Qu. 1. Please say what you know about tbe Ear of
Dionvsius ?
Ans. I have heard this expression, but do not know
what is the meaning of it.
Qu. 2. (a) Did you know that Aristotle had written
a Treatise on Poetry ?
Ans. No.
(&) Were you aware that S. H. Butcher had
written a hook on the subject of this Treatise ?
Ans. No.
Qu. 3. Does the name Cythera convey any meaning
to you ?
Ans. Yes, it conveys to me the Greek name of one
of the winds—I believe mentioned in In Memoriam.
Qu. 4. Do you know anything about the stoxy of
Acis and Galatea ?
Ans. Of Acis I know nothing ; of Galatea I loiow the
story cf the statue that comes to life.
Qu. 5. Does the name Polyphemus convey any idea
to you ?
Ans. I seem to have heard the name, but it has no
associations for me.
Qu. 6. Does the name Philoxenus convey any idea
to you ?
Ans. None whatever.
Having obtained these answers I decided to show Mrs.
Willett the extracts which I have read to you to-day,
and explain to her the scheme and its denouement. This
involved a departure from our usual practice of with-
holding from the automatist any written or spoken
utterances produced by her in a state of trance. No
harm, however, was likely to result in the present case,
seeing that the experiment had evidently reached its
conclusion and that no further amplifications from " the
other side " were to be looked for. My object was to
ascertain whether perusal of the extracts would awaken
any memories that had remained dormant when the
automatist was answering the questions put to her
a few hours before. As a matter of fact, nothing of
the kind occurred. The nearest approach to a revival
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysvus. 229
of memory was upon my mentioning Handel's Acis
and Galatea. She then said that Handel and Acis
and Galatea seemed to go together in her mind ; but
she was certain she had never either heard the music
or read the story. On the other hand, her ignorance
of matters referred to in the extracts went even beyond
what her answers to the questions indicated ; for instance,
she could not recall ever having heard of the Expedition
of the Athenians against Syracuse. Her surprise and
almost excitement were quite interesting to watch as
the elements of the literary puzzle were gradually made
clear and finally brought to a unity in the Satire of
Philoxenus. It was abundantly evident that both the
elements themselves and the final solution were entirely
outside any conscious knowledge she possessed.
In March, 1914, I read a Paper to the Society giving
an account of an earlier case derived from Willett Scripts
in which the principal agent purported to be Dr. Verrall.
This Paper was subsequently published in Volume XXVII.
of the Proceedings under the title " Some recent scripts
affording evidence of personal survival." The facts of
the case, which I shall refer to as " the Statius Case,"
were briefly these : A passage was to be searched for
which described a traveller looking across a river and
wishing himself on the other side, but hesitating to
battle with the current. If it were possible to identify
the passage, " the matter," so we were told, " would
prove interesting." No passage satisfactorily answer-
ing the required conditions could be found by those
who were studying the Willett Scripts, and the subject
was almost forgotten until the scripts suddenly returned to
it more than a year later. Two new lights were then
thrown upon the problem. In the first place, Dr. Verrall
was unmistakably designated as the propouuder of it ;
in the second place, a sign-post was provided by the
statement "Dante makes it clear." Guided by these
indications we ultimately traced the required passage
to an Essay by Dr. Verrall entitled " Dante on the
Baptism of Statius," which it was practically certain
that Mrs. Willett had never seen. Thus the promise,
p
230 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
that if the passage could be identified the matter would
prove interesting, was amply fulfilled, and a valuable
addition made to the evidences hitherto furnished by
automatic writings in favour of personal survival.1
Between the Statius Case and that described in the
1
It is only fair to say that criticisms of my Paper on the Statius
Case have appeared in the Proceedings (Vol. XXVII., pp. 458-574),
attacking my interpretation of the scripts on the double ground that
I had shown no sufficient reason for connecting Dr. Verrall with the
case at all, nor for selecting the River of Baptism which Statius
hesitated to cross as the particular river referred to, when the River
of Death in the Pilgrim's Progress, or the Rubicon, or any other
river on the brink of which anyone had ever paused might have
served the purpose equally well.
As regards the connection of Dr. Verrall with the case, this was
to my mind clearly given by the reference to the communicator who-
" Swears he will not here exercise any patience whatever, not even
about Lavender and Lub," and by the plain allusions (as it seemed
to me) to Dr. Verrall's recently delivered Lectures on Dryden. That
the scripts meant to indicate Dr. Verrall as the communicator it did
not occur to me that anyone would question, else I would have
laboured the point more. Of course it does not follow that he actu-
ally was the communicator ; and though I fancy my critics have
confused the one thing with the other, I am sure no such confusion
can be found in my Paper.
As if to remove any possible uncertainty as to who was meant,
the phrase " He of the little patience," which had already been em-
ployed to describe the communicator in the earlier scripts, is again
repeated in the Dionysius Case (see Extract D " he of the impatience "),
and this time beyond all cavil as a synonym for Dr. Verrall.
The identification of the passage describing the timid traveller is,
I admit, more conjectural. I have, however, little or no doubt that
it is right. It explains (1) the special interest attached to the dis-
covery of the passage ; (2) the statement that " Dante makes it
clear " ; and (3) the paraphrase of the lines in the Purgatorio which
Dante puts into the mouth of Statius and which Dr. Verrall's Essay
quotes. The rivers suggested by my critics do none of these things.
It also gives a point and significance to the whole incident, which
would otherwise be wanting, by making it into a problem with a
solution. Additional corroboration is, I think, furnished by the
circumstance that another problem with a solution, similar though
much more complicated, follows so soon afterwards. The Dionysius
Case throws light on the Statius Case that preceded it. In this con-
nection it may be of interest to note that the scripts had already
begun on the former before my Paper on the latter had been pub-
lished, and therefore before anything had been done which could put
Mrs. Willctt on the track of our interpretation.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 231
present Paper, which I may call the Dionysius Case,
there is obviously a strong family likeness. The method
employed, the object proposed, and the chief professed agent
are the same in both.
The method is to propound a literary problem the
construction and solution of which are outside the range
of the automatisms normal knowledge. The solution is at
first kept purposely obscure, and it is left to the industry
of the interpreters of the script to discover it. When
they have failed to do so after ample time given additional
indications are doled out in successive scripts until at
last the riddle is read.
The chief ostensible agent in each case is Dr. Verrall,
though in the Dionysius case he is associated with
S. H. Butcher.
The object in each case is to furnish ground for be-
lieving that the ostensible agent or agents are also
the real ones, continuing to exist as individuals after
bodily death.
How far has this object been achieved in the case
now before us ?
There are two ways in which this question may be
approached. The hypothesis that the ostensible are also
the actual communicators is one of several possible
alternative explanations. If we can test these alternatives
in relation to the facts of the case, and find ourselves
compelled to reject all but one, that one must be
regarded as holding the field. This negative method
of procedure is to my mind likely to prove the most
fruitful ; but we shall also have to consider how far
the facts afford positive grounds for accepting the identity
claimed in the scripts.
In my Paper on the Statius Case I analysed with
some care the various alternative explanations which
appear, I will not say probable, but at all events j)ossible.
What I have said there applies mutatis mutandis here
also ; and therefore I may be the more brief on the
present occasion.
In all such cases four main questions have to be asked.
232 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [PART
The first two relate to the knowledge exhibited in the
scripts :
(1) . Did this knowledge reach the automatist normally ?
(2) . If not normally, is there anybody living from whose
mind it can be plausibly supposed to have been supplied ?
The third and fourth questions relate to the use
made of the knowledge, however acquired—in other words,
to the design exhibited in the scripts. Design implies
a planning or constructing intelligence. Accordingly :
(3) . Can the planning intelligence responsible for the
design—in the Dionysius Case the extremely elaborate
design—which the scripts reveal be plausibly supposed
to have been that of the automatist herself whether
conscious or subconscious ?
(4) . Can it plausibly be supposed to have been the mind
of some living person actively impressing its thoughts
upon the mind of the automatist ?
In the Dionysius Case, if we are willing to follow where
the evidence actually before us leads, instead of attaching
ourselves immoveably to preconceived ideas of what is
possible or impossible, our answer to all these questions
must, I think, be in the negative.
(1). The evidence goes to show that knowledge concern-
ing Philoxenus of Cythera, his relations with Dionysius,
and his poem Cyclops or Galatea, was not normally acquired
by the automatist.
On this point we have first of all her own declaration
of complete ignorance. Mrs. Willett is a lady of good
social position, personally well known to all the members
of the investigating group, every one of whom has the
most absolute confidence in her integrity and bona fides.
8he is herself keenly alive to the importance of noting
and recording anything that can help to throw light upon
the contents of her scripts and the possible sources which
may have been drawn upon in their production. In this
respect she has, on many occasions, been of material
assistance to the investigators. When Mrs. Willett says
she is totally ignorant of a particular topic, no one
who knows her as we do would for a moment question
her word.
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 233
No doubt it is possible for knowledge once possessed
to be forgotten, and yet to persist as a dormant memory
in the subconscious mind. But this possibility must
not be pressed too far. It is pressing it very far indeed
to suppose that at some time or other Mrs. Willett
either read or heard the story of Philoxenus, that she
then forgot it completely so far as her normal conscious-
ness was concerned, but was nevertheless able subcon-
sciously to retain and use it in the concoction of an
elaborate puzzle such as we are now considering.
Nor is this all. It is not merely of Philoxenus and
his poem that Mrs. Willett declares herself ignorant, but
also of other main elements in the puzzle, the story
of Ulysses and Polyphemus for instance, and that of
Acis and Galatea, to say nothing of the " passage from
Aristotle." The intelligence that constructed the puzzle
was certainly aware of the details of these stories, and
also knew that the adventure of the Cyclops' Cave immedi-
ately follows the tale of the Lotus Eaters in the Homeric
narrative. It is not easy to believe that the various
threads so cunningly woven together all belong to the
category of latent memories which the subconscious
self can utilize for its own purposes while the normal
self remains blissfully unconscious of them.
Again : Let us suppose for argument's sake that the
knowledge of the story of Philoxenus exhibited in the
scripts was normally acquired. From what source was it
in that case derived ? It might be conjectured that Mrs.
Willett, having in one way or another had her attention
called to the name of Philoxenus, proceeded to study
a variety of authorities, and from their different accounts
pieced together the story as it appears in the scripts.
I am not suggesting that such a conjecture has any
plausibility. Mrs. Willett's knowledge of things classical
is small, and her interest in them but slight. That she
should have undertaken the labour involved in this
research is very unlikely. But that, having undertaken
it, the whole subject should then pass out of her conscious
memory is, to me at least, incredible.
The alternative (and less improbable) conjecture is
234 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
that she took the story bodily either from Lempriere's
Classical Dictionary or from Professor Smyth's Greek
Melic Poets, and then forgot that she had ever known it.
1
As regards the Greelc Melic Poets, I think it on general
grounds very unlikely that she ever had the volume
in her hands, much more that she read any page of it
with care. The book itself is, as I have already indi-
cated, of an extremely technical character. Merely to open
it at random would repel anybody but an expert. One
would certainly be surprised to come across it anywhere
outside a scholar's library. It is true that Mrs. Willett
has once or twice stayed for a short visit with Mrs.
Verrall at Cambridge, and may conceivably have seen
the book on one of these occasions. But as its place
was on one of the many shelves in Dr. Verrall's study,
a room rarely entered by visitors unless they were taken
there specially, the chances of such a thing having
happened seem to me very remote. Lempriere's Classical
Dictionary is no doubt a more accessible work. On the
other hand, it is decidedly more difficult to suppose it
the sole or main source of the puzzle as a whole. Even
Professor Smyth's account of Philoxenus by no means
covers all the elements employed in the puzzle. It
does no more than allude to the story of Ulysses and
Polyphemus, it refers to the stone-quarries only by their
Greek name which Mrs. Willett would not have under-
stood, and it makes no mention whatever of Acis and
Galatea. Lempriere's Dictionary not only makes no
mention of Acis and Galatea, but is silent also upon the
very important topics of Aristotle and of mnsic. The
1 On this point Mrs. Willett writes to me as follows :
" Lempriere's
Classical Dictionary is quite unknown to me. I am as certain as I
am of anything that I never saw or heard of Prof. Smyth's book. I
have never taken a single volume from the shelves of Dr. Verrall's
study. To the best of my belief, I have never been in that room
alone. During Dr. Verrall's life it was not entered by visitors
staying in the house unless they were taken to see him. After his
death I stayed, I believe, only once with Mrs. Verrall, and I have
sat in the room with her, but I believe I never was in the room alone
at any time." This confirms a similar statement made to me verbally
by Mrs. Verrall herself.
LXXIII ] The Ear of Dionysius. 235
old difficulty is thus still with us. All the topics asso-
ciated in the scripts must be assumed, on the supposition
that the knowledge shown therein was normally acquired,
to have been at one time or another consciously known
to the automatist. There is no single source from which
they could all be derived. Of nearly every one of them
she now professes total ignorance. Can she have really
forgotten them so completely that no memory of them
is recalled even when the scripts are shown to her and
the whole scheme explained ? To my mind this is
most difficult to believe. But, if we insist upon regarding
the knowledge shown in the scripts to have been normally
acquired, then we must either believe this or believe
that Mrs. Willett's statements are deliberately false.
Deliberately false I am sure they are not.
(2). There is no living person from whose mind the
more essential materials utilized in the construction of the
puzzle can plausibly be supposed to have been supplied.
The members of the group who were engaged in studying
the Willett scripts were six in number, namely, Sir Oliver
Lodge, Mr. Piddington, Mrs. Sidgwick, Miss Johnson,
Mrs. Verrall and myself. No one outside the group
had seen the scripts. Mrs. Verrall herself had not seen
the scripts from which Extracts B and C are taken
until after the script containing Extract D had been
written. None of us—and in this statement I expressly
include Mrs. Verrall—knew anything about Philoxenus
or his poem until the mention of " Philox " in the script
of Aug. 2, 1915, led Mrs. Verrall to look up the name
in the Dictionary of Biography and Mythology. The auto-
matists who were collaborating with us were equally
ignorant. The number even of professed classical scholars
able to supply the required knowledge without consulting
books of reference is, I venture to think, an extremely
limited one.
Perhaps it will be urged that, limited as the number
may be, there are assuredly some few individuals in
possession of the necessary information. May it not have
passed telepathically from one or more of these to the
automatist ?
236 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
This supposition appears to me to be one of those
which it is impossible to disprove, but which have practi-
cally nothing to support them.
How are we to conceive of the process taking place ?
Are we to imagine Mrs. Willett's mind, conscious or
subconscious, reaching out at large to an unknown x
(or to unknown x, y, and ~), and gathering in knowledge
of the various subjects out of which the puzzle is woven ?
That seems a somewhat fantastic notion ; and moreover
it implies at least a nucleus of knowledge, if not some
general conception of the puzzle itself, round which the
rest of the otherwise miscellaneous information could
crystallize. Not less fantastic is the suggestion that
an unknown a- has been engaged in impressing his own
thoughts upon Mrs. Willett's mind after the fashion
of a hypnotiser trying to act upon his patient from
a distance. If such an x exists let enquiry be made
and let him be produced. Or finally, has there been
no activity on either side, but only an automatic infiltra-
tion from mind to mind, unaccompanied by any con-
sciousness on either side that such a process was taking
place ? This last supposition is, I think, even less
plausible than the others, as it entirely fails to account
for the fact that the ideas which have thus been uncon-
sciously communicated are not haphazard ideas, but
such as have evidently been selected in order to serve
a purpose. There must be conscious agency somewhere,
else this selection remains unexplained.
There is no warrant, so far as I am aware, in an j
facts hitherto observed in connection with the phenomena
of telepathy for believing that particular and detailed
knowledge of the kind involved in this case is ever tele-
pathically transmitted or received where no link already
exists between the minds concerned in the process.
(3) and (4). I believe the instinctive judgment of trained
soldiers will be that the Dionysius puzzle could not have
been invented, and elaborated without slip or blunder, except
by somebody who was himself a scholar, and a ripe and good
one. Mrs. Willett herself cannot reasonably be credited
with its authorship. This point is raised in question (3),
LXXTII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 237
but need not be further insisted on here. For the answers
to questions (1) and (2) being in the negative, the
answers to question (3) and (4) must be in the negative
also. As regards question (3), this conclusion can only
be escaped by supposing the mind of the automatist
to have constructed the puzzle out of materials super-
normally derived from some non-living source—a sup-
position which not only has little to recommend it
in itself, but also practically gives away the case against
communication from the dead. And as regards question (4),
if there was no living person from whom the materials
could plausibly be supposed to have been derived, still
less could there be any living person responsible for the
weaving of these materials into a design.
If these conclusions be accepted, the only alternative
left would seem to be that the communications have their
source in some intelligence or intelligences not in the body.
It does not even then follow that they proceed from
the disembodied spirits of the individuals whom we
knew in life as A. W. Verrall and S. H. Butcher. Those,
however, who have got so far as to ascribe them to
intelligences not in the body are not likely to find
any additional difficulty in the personal identity claimed
for the communicators. To do so would be to strain
at a gnat after swallowing a camel.
Independently of the negative grounds we have
just been considering, are there any positive ones that
may fairly be urged for accepting Verrall and Butcher
as the real authors of this curious literary puzzle ?
I think there are, though it is not easy to estimate
their exact value.
The reminder to Mrs. Verrall of the surprise expressed
by her husband at her not knowing what was meant
by the Ear of Dionysius, would be a very striking
incident if it were certain that I had not mentioned
it to Mrs. Willett. As I said before, I do not believe
I did mention it. But I cannot be absolutely sure,
and the doubt precludes me from laying stress upon it as
evidence of identity.
238 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
Extract E claims for the scheme as a whole that it
is "A. W. ish" and " S. H. ish." I think this is
true. The ingenuity of the combination, the unexpected-
ness of the solution, and the out-of-the-way knowledge
utilized in it are eminently Verrallian. In constructing
the puzzle Verrall appears to be the leading spirit. Butcher
helps with his contribution from the Poetics of Aristotle.
But he is content in such a matter to play the second
part ; and this too is not uncharacteristic.
The personal traits and mannerisms which impressed
Mr. Bayfield so strongly in the Statius Scripts, and
which he dealt with so hajapily in his Note appended
to my former Paper, are perhaps not quite so marked
in the present case. But I think old friends of Verrall'
s
will agree with me that they are not wholly absent,
however difficult it may be to enable others to realize
them.1
Finally—and this I think is a point of some impor-
tance—we have the remarkable circumstance that the
only account of the contents of the Cyclops of Philoxenus
which at all closely resembles that followed in the scripts,
and at the same time includes references to Aristotle
and the art of music (moiisike), is to be found, so far
as my researches extend, in a book which we know
Verrall to have been familiar with and to have used as
a text-book for lectures. If this is a chance coincidence
it is at least a curious one. It may well be that the
communicator had this very circumstance in mind when
he made the statement (to be found in Extract D), " The
incident was chosen as being evidential of identity, and
it arose out of the Ear train of thought."
1
Note, for instance, the characteristic Verrallian impatience, eagerness,
and emphasis in such phrases as " not Stag, do go on " in Extract
C, and " HAS the Satire been identified ? " and " listen, don't talk
"
in Extract D.
XXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 239
APPENDIX.
Containing extracts from the Scripts of Mrs. King referred
to at p. 219 of the foregoing Paper.
In Mrs. Willett's Script of March 2, 1914 (vide Extract
C, above), instruction was given that until the " effort
"
was completed, the portions of it as they came were
not to be shewn to any other automatist. This was
almost equivalent to saying that a cross-correspondence
with the script of some other automatist belonging to
the group was about to be attempted. I believe some
attempt of the kind was made in certain passages from
scripts produced by " Mrs. King." I have not included
these in the text of my Paper on the Ear of Dionysius,
partly because I was unwilling to break the narrative,
partly because the cross-correspondences themselves are
not so clear and unmistakable as to carry unquestion-
ing conviction. That Mrs. King's scripts taken as
a whole exhibit manifold connections with those of certain
other automatists, of whom Mrs. Willett is one, I have
no doubt at all. But what may well be in their origin
genuine " messages " seem in her case peculiarly liable
to get blurred and sophisticated in transmission, and
therefore difficult to interpret. My readers must judge
for themselves how far the interpretations which I
tentatively put forward of the passages here collected are
justified. In support of the view that a cross-corre-
spondence is being attempted, it should be noticed that
the first three passages all belong to March, 1914; that
is to say, that they were all produced within a few
weeks of the Willett scripts from which Extracts B
and C in the Paper are taken. The dates of the Willett
scripts are Feb. 28 and March 2. The first passage I quote
from Mrs. King was written on the intervening day, March 1.
[a) (Extract from King Script of March 1, 1914.)
Floating on the waters. People in glass houses should
not throw stones. Very good. Go on like this and it will
240 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
be famous. The flames are fanned. The green leaves in
the merry ring time. . . .
Protoplasm and poly—Something like polyphera, cannot
quite get it.
Note here the following ideas :
(1) Waters, (2) throwing stones, (3) fanning of flames
(cf . Acis and Galatea :
" Hush ye pretty warbling choir,
Your thrilling strains awake my pains And kindle fierce
desire " ; and again, " No grace no charm is wanting
To set the heart on fire " ; and again, " I rage—I melt
—
I burn—The feeble god has stabbed me to the heart "),.
(4) Life in the country in spring time (cf. opening chorus
in Acis and Galatea).
" Polyphera
:
'
may possibly be an attempt at Polyphemus,
or Polypheme.
(b) (Extract from King Script of March 13, 1914.)
The living water—the foam of the torrent. Margaret,
Margaret. Just a stone's throw. The prick in the finger.
Love lies bleeding. The merry merry ring time, Sweet
lovers love the spring. The folded hands. Now write this,
that many words are missing, but the sense is there—it
is a part of something else.
Here we have, repeated from the former script :
(1) Water, (2) throwing of a stone, (3) the spring
and lovers' motif.
The " waters " of the former script have, however,
now become more distinctively a stream ; and the phrase
" living water " seems specially appropriate as applied
to the fountain and river into which the dead Acis
was changed, becoming thereby immortal. " Margaret,
Margaret " (from Arnold's " Forsaken Merman "), may be
intended to suggest the sea-nymph Galatea ; while " Love
lies bleeding " is an apt description of the fate of
Acis.
Note that a cross-correspondence is claimed in the
last words of the extract.
XXXIII.] The Ear of Dionysius. 241
(c) (Extract from King Script of March 24, 1914.)
Hark hark the lark at Heaven's gate sings
And morn begins to rise.
The happy happy lovers.
Now comes the storm, the whispered warning of their
fate. Say this that the stones in the pool are round—the
doctored sense.
The first part of Acis and Galatea ends with a duet
between the lovers " Happy ! happy ! happy we." The
second part begins with a chorus of Nymphs and Shep-
herds, pianissimo at first (cf .
" whispered warning of
their fate "), but finishing fortissimo (cf. " the storm ").
The words are as follows :
" Wretched lovers ! Fate has past
This sad decree,—no joy shall last.
Wretched lovers ! quit your dream,
Behold the monster Polypheme !
See what ample strides he takes !
The mountain nods ! the forest shakes !
The waves run frightened to the shores !
Hark how the thundering giant roars !
"
Note again the connection in the Script of stones and
"water.
For " the doctored sense " see under Extract [d).
(d) [Extract from King Script of April 1, 1915.)
Dionysius . . . Arethusa . . .
Stones in the market place—crying
—
the filtered sense . . .
The Sicilian Ode. Blest pair of Sirens.
The meaning is cpiite clear—Do you understand it . . .
Arethusa occurs in connection with Dionysius' Ear
in the Willett Script of Feb. 28, 1914 (Extract B in
the Paper), where it is apparently used to indicate the
locality, viz. Syracuse.
" Stones in the market place—crying
—" though more
^naturally reminiscent of Luke xix. 40, may possibly
242 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
be an allusion to the stoning of Stephen. Cf. Acts
vii. 59 and 60 :
" And they stoned Stephen, calling upon
God, and saying. Lord Jesus receive my spirit ! And
he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord,
lay not this sin to their charge."' In the same Willett
Script (Feb. 28, 1914) Acis is referred to as "that
sort of Stephen man."
With "the filtered sense" compare "the doctored
sense " in Extract (c). So far as I am aware there
is no similar phrase to be found anywhere in King script.
The meaning is obscure ; but possibly a reference to
the acoustic properties of the Ear of Dionjsius may
be intended. In any case " the doctored sense " in
Extract (c) must be taken to refer back to " the
filtered sense " in Extract (cl).
The words " Sicilian Ode—Blest pair of Sirens " sug-
gested to me that " Sicilian " must be a mistake for
" Cecilian," and that the "Ode" must be Dryden's
Ode for St. Cecilia's Day. On my asking Mrs. King,
however, immediately after the script was finished, in
what sense she had understood the adjective, she at
once replied " Sicilian, not Cecilian, was what I saw
—
difficult to say whether seen or heard first." This is
confirmed by her contemporaneous note on Arethusa :
" Impression of river in Sicily—I have been there."
It seems to me not unlikely that in " The Sicilian
Ode " we have an allusion either to the Cyclops or
Galatea of Philoxenus, or to the Acis and Galatea
of Handel—perhaps to both. An essential feature in
both is the combination of music with verse : and this
is, I think, the point of the reference to Milton's " Blest
Pair of Sirens " which follows :
" Blest pair of Sirens, pledges of Heaven's joy,
Sphere-born harmonious Sisters, Voice and Verse,
Wed your divine sounds and mixed power employ. . .
."
Aristotle's Poetics, I. 10, has already been referred
to as probably the passage (or one of the passages }•
in Aristotle " known to S.H." (see Willett Script of
Aug. 2. 1915, Extract D in the Paper). The following
LXXIII.] The Ear of Dionyskis. 243
is Butcher's own translation :
" There are again certain
kinds of poetry which employ all the means above
mentioned—namely rhythm, melody and metre. Such
are the dithyrambic and nomic poetry, and also Tragedy
and Ccmedy ; but between them the difference is that
in the first two cases these means are all employed
at the same time, in the latter separately."
(e) {Extract from King Script of October 3, 1915.)
Handel and the berries.
I take this to refer to the famous Air in Handel's Acis
and Galatea :
" 0 ruddier than the cherry, 0 sweeter
than the berry !
" etc. in which Polyphemus declares
his love for Galatea.
Mrs. King told me that she did not know this air,
nor indeed to the best of her knowledge had ever heard
of it, and that Handel's Acis and Galatea conveyed no
idea to her mind.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXXIV.
December, 1917.
I.
ON THE DEVELOPMENT OF DIFFERENT TYPES
OF EVIDENCE FOR SURVIVAL LN THE WORK
OF THE SOCIETY.
A Paper Read to the Society at a Private Meeting
on April 26, 1917.
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
In their annual report in January last, the Council of
the Society remarked that in the last ten years there
has been an increase in the amount of evidence for
survival presented by the Society and deserving serious
consideration, as compared to what was obtained in the
first twenty-five years of the Society's existence.
I have thought that some amplification and justifica-
tion of this statement might be interesting to members
of the Society, together with some classification of the
kinds of evidence for survival that have been obtained.
The two—that is development and classification—are
rather closely connected, for the increase of evidence is
Q
246 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
due to new developments from 1901 onwards, first brought
prominently forward through Mrs. Verrall's report on
her own automatic script, published in 1906 {Proceedings,.
Vol. XX.). I must, however, make it clear at once
that I have nothing original to say and neither new
evidence to bring forward nor fresh explanations to offer.
Nor do I intend to appraise in detail the evidence already
brought forwaid or to estimate how much more may be
required before scientific certainty that our spirits survive
bodily death, and can sometimes and to some extent
communicate with the living, is generally accepted as
established. That there is a great deal of plodding work
before us ere this point is attained few members of the
Society will doubt, but in the meanwhile a brief survey
of the route so far traversed, and the noting of some
important landmarks on it may be of use.
The question whether good scientific evidence of sur-
vival—as distinct of course from philosophical or theo-
logical reasons for believing in it —could be obtained, is
probably one which from the foundation of the Society
in 1882 has interested the majority of the members more
than any other branch of our enquiries, because of the
far-reaching consequences its solution would carry with
it. One consequence would be a decisive argument
against materialism, and it is this that leads some of
those who hold dogmatically a materialistic view of the
universe to oppose, not only any conclusion that survival
can be proved, but any enquiry into the subject, with a
virulence resembling that of medieval theologians.
Notwithstanding the interest of the subject, however,
and any bias which this may be supposed to have created
in the investigators, the evidence that came in during the
early years of the Society, and the progress made in
interpreting it, seemed at first to lead us backwards in
a certain sense as regards proof of survival. The two
departments in which real steps forward were made in
the work the Society had set before itself, were telepathy
and knowledge about the subliminal working of the mind.
An unexpectedly large amount of evidence, both experi-
mental and spontaneous, flowed in for the existence of
lxxiv.] Different Types of Evidence for Survival. 247
telepathy—that is for communication between mind and
mind otherwise than through the known channels of
sense. And also much light was obtained—partly through
hypnotism and automatic writing, but also through spon-
taneous cases—on the subconscious working of the mind.
Neither telepathy nor subconscious mentation was of
course a new idea,
1
but as regards both much new evi-
dence was obtained, and as regards the latter it was
obtained both inside and outside the Society. Everyone
now knows that a subconscious part of us may carry
on, not only habitual and mechanical actions, but trains
of thought and reasoning processes, and in certain cases
even act on them ; and that all this may happen while
our normal consciousness is also active and without its
participation 01 knowledge.
The two lines of investigation—those into telepathy
and into the working of the subliminal consciousness-
were found to be more or less closely connected ; for
there is good reason to think that it is largely—perhaps
chiefly—through the subliminal strata that telepathy
operates.
When I say that our investigations seemed at first
to lead us in the negative direction as regards proof cf
survival, I do not mean that either telepathy between
the living or the existence of the subliminal con-
sciousness furnishes arguments against survival—very much
the contrary. Telepathy, if a purely psychical pro-
cess, —and the reasons for thinking it so increase
—
indicates that the mind can work independently of the
body, and thus adds to the probability that it can sur-
vive it. Increased knowledge about the subliminal self,
by giving glimpses of extension of human faculty and
showing that there is more of us than we are normally
aware of, similarly suggests that the limitations imposed
by our bodies and our material surroundings are tem-
porary 1 imitations
.
But though the quest for scientific proof of sur-
1
As is well known, Sir William Barrett, afterwards one of the founders
of our Society, brought the subject of thought-transference or telepathy
before the British Association in 1876.
248 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
vival was thus in one way made more hopeful by the
early work of the Society, it was in another way made
more difficult. Unexpected obstacles presented them-
selves. Things that at first sight looked like evidence
for communication from the dead were discounted as such
because they could be explained by telepathy from the
living. This applies, for instance, to all communications
purporting to come from the dead where the matter
communicated is known to any living person directly
or indirectly in touch with the medium ; but matters
unknown to any living person can seldom be verified.
Again the mere claim to come from the dead is invali-
dated, because the subliminal consciousness concerned in
automatic writing and trance speaking has been found
liable to claim more knowledge and power than it pos-
sesses, to say things which are not true, and to offer
false excuses when the untruth is discovered. This sub-
liminal trickiness may be found in the case of persons
who in their normal life are upright and honourable ;
—
just as in dreams we may behave in a way that would
shock us in our waking life. Another embarrassing
circumstance from the evidential point of view is that
the subliminal memory does not coincide with the supra-
liminal, and can draw upon a store not accessible to the
normal consciousness. And further, things may be sub-
liminally taken note of, which do not enter, or scarcely
enter the normal consciousness at all.
Then again the evidence from what are popularly
called ghosts was greatly reduced because, though there
were numerous and well authenticated instances of
apparitions at or about the time of death of the person
seen, it became necessary, provisionally at least, to class
them as due to telepathic influence, before death, of the
dying person. There remained cases of post-mortem
apparitions, but well-evidenced cases in which there is
something to show that the experience is not of purely
subjective origin are comparatively few, though there
are no doubt some which are striking. Even among
these, if the apparition occurred before the fact of the
death was known and within a few hours of it, the
lxxiv.] Different Types of Evidence for Survival. 249
possibility of the telepathic impression having been
received earlier and remaining latent in the subcon-
scious had to be allowed for ; for of such deferred
emergence into consciousness there was in certain cases
distinct evidence. It is noteworthy, however, that in
a statistical enquiry undertaken by the Society, of which
the results were published in 1894 (in our Proceedings,
Vol. X.), a tendency was found for apparitions to
cluster about the time- of death of the persons seen in
a way suggesting at any rate that death involves no
sudden transition from a state in which communication
with the living is possible to a state in which it is not.
If we call the person seen the agent, they occur during
the agent's fatal illness, whether this is known or
unknown to the percipient, in increasing frequency as
death approaches, the largest number occurring at
or about the time of the death itself. And they
continue to occur after the death whether the fact of
death is known or unknown to the percipient, becoming
rarer as the death recedes into the distance. As far as
it goes this points to continued influence of the agent
after death, and must be reckoned as contributing some-
thing to the evidence whose development I am trying
to trace.
Fully aware of all the difficulties I have spoken of,
by which possible evidence for survival is hemmed in
and restricted, we began investigations with Mrs. Piper.
Reports of her powers had reached the English workers
from Dr. Hodgson and Professor William James in
America, and in the winter of 1889-90 she was brought
to England and gave sittings under the management
of Mr. Myers, Dr. Leaf, and Sir Oliver Lodge, with
results reported in Proceedings, Vol. VI. Striking evidence
was obtained at least of telepathic communication with
the living, and some distinctly pointing to communication
with the dead. There was, however, also evidence of
false personation, false statements, attempts by the
trance personalities to get information from the sitter,
or to cover up error, and so forth. The results of the
American enquiry—1887 to 1891—on which Dr. Hodgson
250 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
reported in 1892 (in our Proceedings, Vol. VIII.) were
very similar. Hodgson's summing up was that the evi-
dence so far obtained was very far from sufficient to
establish the conclusion that Mrs. Piper's control—Phinuit
—was in direct communication with deceased persons
or was a deceased person himself as he alleged. He
adds (p. 57) that
" the failures in answering test questions and the apparent
ignorance displayed in other ways by the alleged '
communi-
cators,' . . . constitute almost insuperable objections to the
supposition that the '
deceased '
persons concerned were in
direct communication with Phinuit, at least in anything like
the fulness, so to speak, of their personality."
He thought, however, that there might perhaps be some
indirect communication of a partial and fragmentary kind.
That is where we had got to in 1892, ten years after
the formation of the Society. But in that year, while
Hodgson's report was going through the press, evidence
was obtained through Mrs. Piper, which greatly modified
Hodgson's view. A young man known in our Proceedings
by the jDseudonym George Pelham, commonly abbreviated
into G. P., died early in 1892, and shortly afterwards
appeared to communicate through, and to " control,"
Mrs. Piper. His communications, though by no means
free from confusion and error, were fuller and more con-
vincing than most of the previous ones had been ;
and,
moreover, under his supposed influence, Mrs. Piper's
trance communications generally became in various ways
better. By the time Hodgson published his second report
on her, in 1898, he had become convinced that the
spiritualistic hypothesis was the one that best fitted the
facts. He believed that the chief " communicators
"
to whom he had referred in his report
" are " (to use his own words) " veritably the personalities
that they claim to be, that they have survived the change
we call death, and that they have directly communicated
with us whom we call living " (Proceedings, XIII., p. 405).
Of course Hodgson did not carry us all with him
There was much discussion of his conclusion. But though
ixxiv.] Different Types of Evidence for Survival. 251
all did not agree that the evidence for survival was yet
conclusive, all who studied the subject felt, I think,
that at any rate there was evidence that had to be taken
account of.
This conclusion was well put at the time by Professor
Romaine Newbold in a paper on evidence obtained
through Mrs. Piper published in Proceedings, Vol. XIV.
He says (p. 10) :
' :
From such inconsistent material one can draw no fixed
conclusions. But there is one result which I think the in-
vestigation into Mrs. Piper's and kindred cases should achieve.
Por any theory some intrinsically strong evidence must be
adduced, even if there be but little of it, before the theory
can be given any standing in court at all. Until within
very recent years the scientific world has tacitly rejected a
large number of important philosophical conceptions on the
ground that there is absolutely no evidence in their favour
whatever. Among those popular conceptions are those of
the essential independence of the mind and the body, of
the existence of a supersensible world, and of the possibility
of occasional communication between that world and this.
We have here, as it seems to me, evidence that is worthy
of consideration for all these points. It was well expressed
by a friend of mine, a scholar who has been known for his
uncompromising opposition to every form of supernaturalism.
He had had a sitting with Mrs. Piper, at which very re-
markable disclosures were made, and shortly afterwards said
to me, in effect, '
Scientific men cannot say much longer
that there is no evidence for a future life. I have said it,
but I shall say it no longer ; I know now that there is
evidence, for I have seen it. I do not believe in a future
life. I regard it as one of the most improbable of theories.
The evidence is scanty and ambiguous and insufficient, but
it is evidence and it must be reckoned with.'
"
One obvious weakness in the position at this stage
was that the evidence depended so largely on a single
medium. Late in the nineties, however, Mr. Myers
became acquainted with Mrs. Thompson, a lady with
mediumistic powers, who, like Mrs. Piper, went into
252 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
trance, but who was not a professional medium. He
gave some account of her mediumship to the International
Congress of Psychology, which met at Paris in 1900,
in a paper reprinted from the Compte Rendu of the
Congress in our Proceedings, Vol. XVII. He there says
(p. 73)
:
" I believe, then, that I have good reason for ascribing many
of these messages to definite surviving personalities, known
while on earth to friends of mine whose presence with Mrs.
Thompson has evoked the messages, or to myself."
Mr. Myers, who died, it will be remembered, on January
17, 1901, did not publish the evidence collected by him-
self concerning Mrs. Thompson ; but there are interesting
papers about her by Mr. Piddington and others in Pro-
ceedings, Vols. XVII. and XVIII. The evidence for
supernormally acquired knowledge is, I think, clear, in
spite of the usual mixture of irrelevant and erroneous
matter ; but evidence through hei, quite distinctively
making for communication from the dead, is not large
in amount. This is also true of another lady through
whose automatic writing Mr. Myers got some evidence
—the lady whom we call Mrs. Forbes, and whose writing
purports to come from her son.
In 1900 therefore evidence of survival, convincing to
some investigators, had been obtained through the trance
speech or the automatic writing of at least three sensitives.
Mr. Myers reviewing the work done by the Society in
his Presidential address in that year, says, speaking of
course for himself alone :
I
" Knowledge not attainable in any normal fashion ... is
shown in telepathic messages between living men, and in
apparitions of men dying, and in evidential messages from
men whom we call dead. All this —in Phantasms of the Living
and in fourteen volumes of the Proceedings—I claim that
we have adequately shown, and of late years we have ad-
vanced and consolidated these fragmentary and fugitive
indications of the spirit's survival, by certain records of
trance-phenomena and spirit-possession —records as yet inchoate
lxxiv.] Different Types of Evidence for Survival. 253
and imperfect, yet which must needs be faced and
dealt with by all serious men " (Proceedings, Vol. XV., p.
119.)
1
Up to this point the evidence for survival obtained
by the Society was of two types. In the first appari-
tions, or trance communications, or automatic script,
conveyed true facts connected with a deceased person
which were not previously known to the recipients of
the message. Sir Oliver Lodge's interesting case about
the group photograph (Proceedings XXIX., p. 132) is of
course a recent instance of this class. The characteristic
of the second type is dramatic representation,
—
e.g. the
exhibition in the trance state of details so full, or per-
sonation of the deceased so life-like, that it is difficult
to suppose that telepathy from the living alone can
account for it. A good deal of the best evidence con-
cerning G. P. and others through Mrs. Piper was of this
type. Evidence of this kind can be very impressive,
but unfoitunately it is almost necessarily more impressive
to the person who receives it, and who feels as if he
were really talking to his friend, than it can be to other
people. A personal equation comes in to an extent
that makes it generally very difficult to judge of the
objective value of the evidence. Investigators have
therefore made special efforts to obtain from the dead
evidence of the first type—verifiable information un-
known to the living.
With this end in view was devised the plan of writing
a message before death and sealing it up in an envelope
deposited with a trustworthy person. The contents of
the envelope were to be communicated after death
by the deceased person. Unfortunately this experi-
ment has so far failed. Two or three envelopes
have been deposited to our knowledge by persons since
dead, but either no communication has come con-
cerning them, or what was taken to be a statement
1 Mr. Myers' own book, Human Personality and its Survival of Bodily
Death, was, it will be remembered, not published till after his death ;.
a good deal of it had, however, appeared in substance in papers in our
Proceedings.
254 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
of their contents has proved erroneous. This, it will be
remembered, is what happened in the case of an en-
velope deposited by Mr. Myers with Sir Oliver Lodge.
Success in such an experiment must necessarily be very
doubtful, for there are obviously many difficulties. The
depositor may forget his message. (I am sure I should.)
Or he may be unable to communicate at all. Or his
medium may fail to receive or to deliver his message
as given. But a more important reason for questioning
whether the experiment is worth repeating is an evi-
dential weakness in it. It is difficult to see how, in case
of success, the objection can be met that the message
might have been learnt telepathically from the depositor
before his death.
Since the beginning of 1901 two other types of evi-
dence have been obtained : namely (1) Cioss-correspon-
dences and ^2) communications of which those discussed
in Mi'. Gerald Balfour's recent paper (The Ear of
Dionysius) are specimens. When independent references
to the same topic occur at about the same time in
the scripts of two or more automatists, we call it a
cross-correspondence. One of the earliest, if not the
earliest, recorded case of this took place on January 11,
1901, and is a good specimen of a simple cross-corre-
spondence. On that day a Sidgwick control—Dr. Sidgwick
had died a few months earlier—made its appearance
for the first time at a sitting with Mrs. Thompson in
England, and at one with Miss Rawson in the South
of France ; and through each, messages for me were
given which, though not in themselves evidential or
specially appropriate, showed similarity in the choice
of a by no means obvious topic. This correspondence,
which was not discovered till some three years later,
because the records of what passed at the sittings of the
two ladies were not compared, is described, together
with some others of about the same date, in Mr.
Piddington's paper on Mrs. Thompson in Proceedings,
Vol. XVIII. (p. 295).
Since this early specimen there has been, as we all
know, a great development in cross -correspondences, and
IjXXTV.] Different Types of Evidence for Survival. 255
they have been described and commented on in many
papers in the Proceedings. Before very long it was
noticed—Miss Johnson was the first to observe it I
think—that some of them were not of the simple type
of the sample just given, but of what has been called
a complementary type—one part or one aspect of an
idea being given by one automatist, and the idea
completed or another aspect of it given by another auto-
matist, and this in such a way as to indicate a purposive
distribution of the parts, or in other words intelligent
design. The evidence for design in any particular case
must be judged by the student. I think in some of the
published cases it is strong. Granted design we have
to seek the designer. It cannot be the supraliminal
intelligence of either automatist since ex hypothesi neither
of them is aware of the design till it is completed.
Nor, for a similar reason, can it be attributed to some
other living person since, so far as can be ascertained,
no other living person had any knowledge of what was
going on. It is extremely difficult to suppose that the
design is an elaborate plot of the subliminal intelligence
of either or both automatists acting independently and
without any knowledge on the part of the supraliminal
consciousness ; and the only remaining hypothesis seems
to be that the designer is an external intelligence not
in the body. It is clear, as has often been said before,
that we have here in any case what may more and
more prove a very fruitful line of experiment. The
scripts claim that the designers are persons —at first
especially Myers and Gurney—who when in the body
were interested in us and in the work we are doing,
and who are now co-operating with us from the other
side of the veil.
This claim is supported by the second kind of evi-
dence which I mentioned as having been obtained of
late years—namely scripts exhibiting literary knowledge
or propounding literary puzzles beyond the range of
what the automatist could produce, but appropriate
to the alleged communicator. Of this kind of evidence
there has been a good deal ; sometimes combined with
256 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
cross-correspondences and sometimes not. " The Ear of
Dionysius case " is I think the most striking.
I must admit that the general effect of the evidence
on my own mind is that there is co-operation with us
by friends and former fellow-workers no longer in the
body. But whether this is true or not, the increase
in the amount of evidence that has to be considered
is undoubted ; and I want to call attention to the
fact that this increase has been accompanied and greatly
helped by a notable increase since 1900 in co-operation
on this side—especially in the number of persons with
automatic powers who have been themselves interested
in the phenomena and able and willing to keep full
records, to place their scripts at once in the charge of
some responsible person, and in every way to aid in the
investigation. I may briefly recall these workers to your
minds. We have had Mrs. Verrall, who developed her
power of automatic writing in the early months of 1901,
and continued until her death last year ; and Miss
Verrall (Mrs. Salter) who began writing occasionally
under her mother's influence in 1903 and took it up
more regularly in 1906. Mrs. Holland, who had previously
written automatically from time to time, put herself
in communication with Mss Johnson in 1903 after
reading Mi'. Myers' book Human Personality and its
Survival of Bodily Death, and continued for many years
to send her script to her. Miss Johnson has published
three interesting reports on it in our Proceedings.
The first of these, immediately after its publication
in 1908, was read by the lady we call Miss Mac.
She and her brother had already tried for and
obtained automatic writing with a planchette after read-
ing Human Personality, but the reading of Miss Johnson's
paper on Mrs. Holland seems to have brought them
into psychical relation with the S.P.R. group of investi-
gators to whom they weie complete strangers. They
developed a Sidgwick control, and their script told them
to send what they had written to Mrs. Verrall. When
they did so interesting cross-correspondences were found.
Mrs. Willett, who knew a little about the work of the
lxxiv.] Different Types of Evidence for Survival. 257
Society, also began to write automatically towards the
end of 1908, and communicated on the subject with Mrs.
Verrall, then a stranger to her ; and since then Mrs.
King and Mrs. Wilson have been added to the workers
and have contributed to cross -correspondence evidence.
An interesting point about these two last coadjutors is
that their automatism is different in type from that of
the others. This is especially true of Mrs. Wilson, one
of our most promising workers, as most of her impressions
come to her in the form of pictures or scenes of which
she afterwards writes down the description.
Some results with all these ladies have been laid before
the Society, but naturally there is a good deal which
is of too private a nature for publication. This is all
the more so because in the case of some of them emotional
considerations and a desire to get into communication
with particular deceased individuals, have been motives
stimulating to the effort to write automatically. Intellec-
tual interest and the wish to help in the investigation
appear, however, in most cases to have been the grounds
for the trouble taken.
To the seven ladies just named we must add, as also
concerned with cross-correspondences, Mrs. Forbes, Mrs.
Thompson and Mrs. Piper, who were working before
1900 ; and three other sensitives—Miss Rawson, already
mentioned, Mrs. Frith and Mrs. Home, who have come
into touch at one or two points, but who, though they
have produced a good deal of automatic writing or trance-
speaking, have not in the main worked with us nor,
so far as our own investigations are concerned, furnished
much of evidential value.
The valuable results obtained naturally make all who
are interested in the advance of knowledge in this diffi-
cult region anxious for more workers. The power of
writing automatically is not very rare, and in many
cases it may be developed by practice and perseverance.
Apparently, however, only a small proportion of auto-
matists get results showing evidence of any supernormal
acquisition of knowledge. The content of most automatic
script, like that of most dreams, seems to originate in
258 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part.
the subliminal strata of consciousness, working only
on ideas normally acquired through the senses. Much
that is produced even by those who, from our point
of view, are the best automatists, is apparently of this
kind. Communications giving evidence of supernormal
origin must be sought for like grains of gold among
sand, and even with the same automatist the gold
may sometimes predominate and sometimes the sand,,
or sometimes there may be no gold at all. But
all material where there is hope of finding gold must
be examined, for we have much to learn. Before we
can convince the world we not only want more cases
giving evidence of the fact of personal survival, but
we want them solidly based on more knowledge of the
subliminal self and the way it works, more knowledge
of the conditions and process of telepathy, more under-
standing of the limitations under which communication
with the dead occurs. All this will no doubt require
prolonged and careful research and much patience.
Asking for automatists brings me to an aspect of
the matter which we know sometimes troubles people.
They want to know whether the practice of automatic
writing is harmful. I think all the automatists I have
named—and I have named twelve—-besides Mrs. Piper,
who differed fiom the others in being a professional
medium—would say it was not harmful. But of course
the faculty should be exercised with due caution and
common-sense. In the first place its exercise is, to some
people at least, fatiguing, and should therefore not be
continued too long at a time or attempted too frequently.
In the second place absorption in communications to
the exclusion of other interests is not likely to be whole-
some. Thirdly, any tendency for the subliminal to get
the upper hand should be carefully checked. If an
automatist found the impulse to write beginning to be
irresistible, or if the content of the script tended to be
habitually such as his or her normal judgment dis-
approved of, I should certainly advise desisting altogether
from exercising the faculty. No one ought to let his
reason abdicate in favour of the untrustworthy and ill-
lxxiv.] Different Types of Evidence for Survival. 259*
regulated mental stratum that the subliminal left to itself
is liable to be.
For similar reasons no one should treat his own
automatic writing, and still less communications through
other mediums, whether private or professional, as oracles.
Perhaps it is hardly necessary to say this to members
of our Society. But there are people who seem too
ready to accept mediumistic utterances uncritically at
their face value, and to regard them as revelations from
spirits with better means of judging than themselves.
Assuming, however, that through a medium, or through
our own script, we are really in touch with the supposed
communicator, we have no guarantee that the communi-
cation reaches us as he desired to send it. Oui evidence,,
indeed, goes to show that it is often, if not always,
much adulterated by the automatist's own mind.
This want of clearness and purity in the stream of
communication makes attempts at intimate converse
with the dead doubtful and difficult, and to some people
painful ; and I think there are many who would get
more comfort from dwelling on the hope that those who
have loved us and gone are in touch with us subliminally,
even when we are not consciously aware of it. This
hope, it will be observed, is greatly justified and sup-
ported by scientific evidence that the soul survives bodily
death and can, under whatever limited conditions, at
times communicate with the living.
260 Miss F. Melian Stawell. [part
II.
THE EAR OF DIONYSIUS : A DISCUSSION OF
THE EVIDENCE.
A Paper Read to the Society at a Private Meeting
on April 26, 1917.
By Miss F. Melian Stawell.
To my mind the most striking single piece of evidence
pointing towards survival that has appeared lately in our
records is that furnished by the cluster of scripts comiected
with the " Ear of Dionysius," and it is to these that I
wish to devote my paper. I choose them instead of the
evidence in " Raymond," partly because they are more
within my compass, and partly because it seems to me
that the possibility of chance-coincidence is less great here
than in "Raymond." The most remarkable incident in
" Raymond " is that of the photograph, unknown to the
medium or the sitters, but in which the general features of
the background and the relation of two figures—one
leaning on the other—were correctly described. Can we
say confidently that this coincidence, remarkable as it is,
is yet beyond the reach of chance ? I could not myself,
though no doubt answers will vary. For it is extremely
difficult to collect enough evidence about chance-coincidence.
All I can say is that I have been impressed by the
amount of chance-coincidence that has come under my
own observation. For instance, the experiment of artificial
scripts made by the S.P.R. in 1911 showed, I thought, a
surprising amount of cross-correspondence, entirely due to
chance. You may remember that six persons, none of
whom possessed any supernormal powers, were asked, each
on six several occasions, to open at random some book
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : Discussion of Evidence. 261
of English literature, choose a passage, and write
down the thoughts suggested. In comparing the thirty-six
writings, at least one distinct " cross correspondence," that
on "Moonlight," was to be observed. I myself, who happened
to be one of the experimenters, found to my astonishment
that the casual script of another possessed for me personally
the greatest significance. In fact so astonished was I that
I thought some telepathic agency must be at work. The
phrases in this script, which to an ordinary reader had no
obvious connection, could all be interpreted, and very easily,
as connected with a friend of mine who had lately died.
"Moonlight" also had a special significance for me in
the same connection. Miss Johnson then pointed out that
to test the matter we should ask the writer, another lady,
if she could remember how the phrases came into her mind,
and that we should also make experiments to see if there
was, in fact, the possibility of telepathy between us. What
was the result ? No thought-transference took place in
our experiments, and the writer had a complete and satisfac-
tory explanation of how the phrases, so significant to me,
had come into her own script, carrying for her quite other
associations than they did for myself.
Again, I have noticed for the last few years an absurd
frequency with which either the number 11 or a multiple of
it is associated with some date, place, or topic, in which I
am interested, so much so that it would be easy to make
out a case for a mysterious connection between myself and
the number 11.
I mention this topic of chance, partly to urge the need
for further investigation and partly because of its bearing
on the " Ear of Dionysius." It is obvious, I think, that
all the statements in the scripts we have to consider cannot
be due to chance, though some of them may be.
Mr. Balfour has stated and analysed the incident in a
masterly fashion. His argument that the communicator
was really Dr. Verrall's discarnate mind is certainly extremely
cogent. But I do not feel it entirely convincing. There is a
difficulty, and, apart from this, another hypothesis is possible.
Of course, if there were no general reason to doubt survival
after death there would be less reason to trouble about another
R
262 Miss F. Melian Stawell. [part
hypothesis. But there is plenty of reason for doubt, because
of all the negative evidence that exists, some of it collected
by the S.P.R. itself, e.g. the failure of test-questions, or the
inability, shown on more than one occasion, to state the
contents of a sealed envelope written before the communi-
cator's death.
The positive evidence, however, furnished by the " Ear
of Dionysius " seems, as I said, very considerable, and may
be summarised thus, though the summary cannot do justice
to its intricacy and fullness. In two scripts of Mrs. Willett's,
herself no classical scholar, there appeared a number of classical
allusions, some of them recondite, and all said to be connected
with the "Ear of Dionysius" (a whispering-gallery constructed
by the tyrant and opening on the stone-quarries of Syracuse
which were used as a prison). Further, the allusions were
given in such a way that their connection was a regular
puzzle, even to trained scholars, e.g. the " One Ear " (of
Dionysius) was, the script indicated, to be connected with the
" One Eye," evidently the one eye of the Cyclops Poly-
phemus. But how ? At last, in a later sitting, the clue
was suddenly revealed by the half-word " Philox," indi-
cating the name of Philoxenus, a Greek poet, closely
associated with Dionysius, whom he satirised as Poly-
phemus. The story of Philoxenus, according to one version,,
a somewhat peculiar one, made all the allusions and
connections perfectly clear. The communicator purported
to be Dr. Verrall, aided by his friend Prof. Butcher, and the
style in which the references were given strongly resembled
his. Finally, after all the scripts were written, it was
discovered that the story of Philoxenus in the appropriate
version happened to be told with some detail in a book,
Smyth's Greek Melic Poets, that Dr. Verrall used and had
in his library.
I said there was a difficulty in the hypothesis that
Dr. Verrall was communicating. It is this. In the two
leading scripts (Feb. 28, Mar. 2, 1914, Scripts B and C) r
the communicator said that Mrs. Verrall was to hear
nothing of the matter, and that there was much more to
be got through. Yet, abruptly, immediately after this, all
communication on the topic ceased, so far as Mrs. Willett
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : Discussion of Evidence. 263
was concerned, for a whole year and a half, until suddenly,
at a sitting where Mrs. Verrall herself was present, the subject
was re-opened, the clue given, and great surprise expressed
that Mrs. Verrall had received no message on the matter.
This implies a very strange lapse of memory on the part
of the communicator, so strange that one is forced to ask,
Can it be explained satisfactorily on the hypothesis that
there really was a deliberate conscious personality controlling
the communications ? I find it hard to think so.
And another hypothesis is at least plausible. We may, I
think, rule out pretty confidently the suggestion that Mrs.
Willett herself had ever known the whole story of Philox-
enus and all the references involved. For we are told that
she is not a classical scholar, and a non-classical reader
could hardly have acquired the knowledge necessary
without deliberately hunting through classical books for
the purpose. If Mrs. Willett had done this, she could
scarcely have forgotten it. But if she did not forget it,
she must have acted in bad faith. And not only is her
good faith vouched for by our investigators, but no one
acting in bad faith would have left the communications
with the inconsequent ending I have described. The
messages could so easily have been neatly rounded off
long before the sitting with Mrs. Verrall, and so gained
greatly in impressiveness. But it by no means follows that
Mrs. Willett, acting in perfect good faith, did not have a
fair amount of relevant knowledge latent in her mind
which would help to build up the script. It is plain that
Mrs. Willett's conscious mind does forget very easily.
When asked by Mr. Balfour (27 May, 1916) what she knew
about the " Ear of Dionysius," she said she had heard the
expression, but did not know the meaning of it. Yet only
two years before she had written, in her normal conscious-
ness, script containing a fairly full account of the " Ear,"
a script of which she had kept an annotated copy to which,
as Mr. Balfour tells us, she could refer at any time
(p. 205). I feel, therefore, considerable hesitation in thinking
that she had really never known that Prof. Butcher had
written on Aristotle's Poetics. For she was interested in
Prof. Butcher, and she was a friend of Mrs. Verrall. She
264 Miss F. Melian Stawell. [part
must have had many opportunities of seeing or hearing
some reference to his most important work. Nor can I
feel sure that an educated woman " with a taste for
poetry " had never come across the story of Ulysses
and the Cyclops Polyphemus ;
though I can readily believe
that she had forgotten the name Polyphemus and the
fact of Prof. Butcher's connection with the Poetics, the
knowledge remaining dormant even in her sub-conscious
mind until stimulated by some outside influence.
That influence, I suggest, was the sub-conscious mind of
Mrs. Verrall. It does seem to me that Mr. Balfour dismisses
this possibility far too lightly. In the first place, I think
it not only possible, but probable, that Mrs. Verrall had at
the bottom of her mind all the classical references required.
It is true she thought she knew nothing about Philoxenus
and never had known. But so did I, when I heard Mr.
Balfour's paper, and yet I must have known something, and
very likely all, that was needed. I have read the Poetics, the
Politics, and Grote's History, and they all refer to Philoxenus.
I think it highly probable that I had read the article in
Lempriere's Classical Dictionary that gives the very version of
his quarrel with Dionysius mentioned in the notes to the
Greek Melic Poets, and followed in the script. I cannot
be sure but this is my reason. There are a very con-
siderable number of allusions to Philoxenus, conjectural
or certain, scattered up and down Greek literature—how
many the non-classical reader may judge by consulting
Smith's Dictionary of Classical Biography . Three of these occur
in Aristophanes' Frogs, Clouds, and Plutus (Frogs, 1506
;
Clouds, 332 ;
Plutus, 290) . I have read all three plays
with some care, and it is the usual practice of a student
in such cases to look up the names of classical authors
referred to in the text, or the notes, if otherwise unfamiliar. 1
Now I cannot doubt that Mrs. Verrall had read at
least as much as I and studied as carefully. Further,
before the evidential scripts occurred, there was a good
1
Since writing the above I see that in Rogers' edition of the Plutus (pub-
lished 1904) the relevant version of the Philoxenus story is given with con-
siderable detail in the notes, ad versum 290. It would be interesting to
know if Mrs. Verrall had seen this excellent edition.
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : Discussion of Evidence. 265
deal to attract her attention to the whole topic of Diony-
sius and his prisoners, Philoxenus included. On 26 Aug.,
1910, before Dr. Verrall's death, Mrs. Willett. when sitting
for script with her, dictated the phrase " Dionysius' Ear
—
the lobe." Mrs. Verrall did not understand the phrase
and talked it over with her husband, who twitted her with
her ignorance or forgetfulness. Now, is it not natural to
suppose that, after this, she looked up the subject or got
Dr. Verrall to tell her all he could about it ? Surely any
classical student would have done so much. And then,
either in her own reading or in the course of conversation,
she might easily have come upon the story of Philoxenus,
closely connected as he is with Dionysius.
Moreover, the whole story, as we have said—including
one express reference to Aristotle and to music, Mousike
—a word expressly dictated in Mrs. Willett's script—is
compactly given in a page of Prof. Smyth's Greek Melic
Poets. Dr. Verrall had a presentation copy of this work
and thought well of it. It is certainly not far-fetched to
suppose that Mrs. Verrall at some time or other had at
least glanced through the pages. The book is full of
interesting bits of information very useful for a classical
teacher.1
If Mrs. Verrall had once read p. 461 of this
handy little volume she would, "with the rest of her normal
classical knowledge, have been, at one time or other, in
possession of all the facts necessary to build up the scheme
of associated ideas that seemed so complicated to an
outsider.
This "odd old human story of long ago," as the Willett
script calls the tale of Philoxenus, is just the kind to catch
an imaginative student's imagination. Indeed it is doubt-
1 It contains, by the way, a special reference to the Sicilian worship of
Artemis and her connection with Arethusa and the Alpheus (p. 301 ). " Sicilian
Artemis," it may be remembered, appears in the Willett script for no apparent
reason.
I have since been told by my friend, Miss Matthaei of Newnham College,
that Smyth's book is the standard edition of the Greek lyric poets now in
use at Cambridge, and that almost every classical student at Newnham has a
copy on her shelves, no other edition having such helpful notes. Miss
Matthaei said she could scarcely imagine that Mrs. Verrall had not read the
book.
266 Miss F. Melian Stawell. [part
less just the kind to have interested and amused Dr.
Verrall himself, but then, if so, he would have been likely
to mention it to other scholars, especially to his wife. It
may be said in objection that it would be very strange
for Mrs. Verrall to have known this story and then for-
gotten it so completely. But I cannot agree. I forget too
much myself. And it is surely at least equally strange
that the " Ear of Dionysius " should have conveyed nothing
to her either. That is much better known, and must, I
should think, often have been matter of her conscious
knowledge.
I can see no real difficulty, therefore, in assuming that
the knowledge required may have been latent in Mrs.
Verrall's mind and that her subconscious self could weave
the associations together, much as it might in a fairly
coherent dream.1
On this hypothesis I should proceed to
explain what happened somewhat as follows. Rapport
between Mrs. Willett and Mrs. Verrall on the subject of
the " Ear of Dionysius " had already been established
before Dr. Verrall's death. Afterwards, 10 Jan., 1914,
there appeared a fairly long piece of Willett script (script
A) written in normal consciousness and sending messages
to Mrs. Verrall about the Ear of Dionysius, the stone
quarries, Sicily, and poetry. All the allusions, as Mr.
Balfour himself points out, " might be supposed ... to
have been at one time or other within the normal know-
ledge of the automatist." But further, all the allusions are
of such a kind that they would, if seen by Mrs. Verrall
—
and they were both seen and studied by her (19 Jan.,
1914)—stimulate any latent memories she might have about
Dionysius and Philoxenus. I assume that they did in fact
so stimulate them, just enough to make them active, but
subconsciously, not consciously.
Owing to this activity, about five weeks later (28 Feb.
2 Mar., 1914), when Mrs. Willett sits for script with
Mr. Balfour (scripts B and C), the topics in question
leak through, in an obscure and fragmentary fashion,
1 1 note that this comparison to the modus operandi of our minds when
dreaming has been made independently by Miss May Sinclair in an acute
letter printed in the S.P.R. Journal (May-June, 1917).
Lxxrv.] The Ear of Dionysius : Discussion of Evidence. 267
from Mrs. Verrall's mind into Mrs. Willett's. Here they
find congenial soil, for Mrs. Willett herself had already
been thinking about the Ear of Dionysius, Sicily, poetry,
Dr. Verrall, Prof. Butcher, and their joint interest in
classical literature, (script A, 10 Jan., 1914, and compare
her vision of Prof. Butcher and his classical message to
Verrall, 21 Jan., 1911).
Unconscious leakage from mind to mind is not a new
hypothesis. We have good evidence for it {e.g. the leakage
of the idea " seven " from Mr. Piddington's sealed letter :
the leakage of the passage about " moly " in the " one-
horse-dawn " experiment).
But, it may be said, the Willett scripts show an elabo-
rate design in the way the facts are communicated. Can
we suppose this design was not due to conscious agency ?
I answer by another question : Is the elaborate design of
a kind that forces us to assume purpose ? There is
certainly what might fairly be called an elaborate associa-
tion of ideas, and this is reflected in the scripts, but I have
shown, I think, that this association might have been in
Mrs. Verrall's subconscious mind. Of design in communi-
cation the evidence is much less clear. Much is made of
the fact that the allusions are given in a scholar-like form,
that they are veiled and fragmentary, and that the clue
seems purposely withheld. But the scholar-like form would
be natural to Mrs. Verrall, and we know that telepathic
messages do often come through in a veiled and frag-
mentary form. They did when Dr. Verrall made his
famous " one-horse dawn " experiment, and yet the veiling
was no part of his plan. And if the clue was purposely
withheld, why was it given in the end to the very person,
Mrs. Verrall, from whom it ought to have been kept till
all was complete ?
I suggest therefore that the effect of purposive design
is accidental, due to the chance that Mi's. Verrall's
subconscious mind, owing to her sight of Willett script A,
was working in Jan. -Mar., 1914, on the Dionysius-Philox-
enus cycle of ideas and that Mrs. Willett's mind could
at first receive fragments of them, but only fragments, as
her own insistence on her difficulty in catching the ideas
268 Miss F. Melian Stawell. [part
indicates. I suggest also that she wove round them fancies
of her own, e.g. that Mrs. Verrall was not to be told, and
that there was an important experiment on foot, etc.
Then Mrs. Verrall's mind, I assume, drifted away from the
subject, and nothing further appears for a long while
in the Willett scripts. But when Mrs. Verrall sits for
script with Mrs. Willett, a year and a half later, the con-
tact of the two minds happens to revive subconsciously
the dormant memories of the Dionysius-Philoxenus story and
this time it emerges in a form that is practically complete,
just as we often do find that telepathic impressions are much
more clearly received when the communicator is in the room.
(It would be of great interest, by the way, to know if this
was the first time that Mrs. Verrall sat for script with Mrs.
Willett since the writing of the evidential scripts B and C.)
Once more, I suggest that Mrs. Willett 's subconscious mind
wove fancies of its own, but this time fancies that do not
tally with the earlier ones, e.g. they now assume that Mrs.
Verrall ought to have been told. Thus we have, I submit,,
a hypothesis with certain merits of its own to put against
the hypothesis of Dr. Verrall communicating. I do not
claim it as more plausible. Apart from the fact that there
are other reasons to doubt survival I do not think it as
plausible. Both hypotheses have weak points : one involves
an astonishing lapse of memory on Dr. Verrall's part,
the other a remarkable extension of unconscious leakage.
And what I want to urge now is the imperative need
both for further observation and further experiment to
help us to decide. I admit that I cannot conceive any
one experiment as decisive. The evidence, from the nature
of the case, cannot, so far as I can see, ever be demon-
strative : it can only be cumulative. We have no
demonstrative evidence even of the existence of individual
incarnate minds other than our own. But that is all the
more reason for making as many experiments as possible.
And with some hesitation, for I have no claim whatever to
speak as an investigator, I would ask first if more test-
questions and more exploratory questions could not be put
to the automatists. For instance, has any attempt been
made to find out from the automatist in trance any
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : Discussion of Evidence. 269
explanation of that strange lapse of memory ? If so, with
what result ? Test-questions were put, I believe, through
Mrs. Piper to the supposed communicator Myers. Could
not similar questions be put through Mrs. Willett to
Verrall ? If they have been put, what has been the
result ? And further, I would urge that every possible
opportunity should be taken to repeat the experiment of
sealed letters. It is true, of course, as Mrs. Sidgwick
says, that these experiments are not crucial. My own paper
indicates that the contents might leak from one mind to
the other while the writer was still alive. But if a large
number were written, if, in a large proportion of cases,
the contents were not disclosed till after death and then
were disclosed, should we not all feel, in spite of loopholes
for doubt, that the positive evidence had gained enormously ?
Failure in the experiment would, of course, add a certain
amount of weight to the negative side. But that seems
to me exactly the reason for making it. If the evidence
must be cumulative, and it seems to me that it must,
we cannot test its weight unless we take full account of
negative as well as positive results.
Note. Reading Mr. Balfour's most courteous and interesting
answer to my paper, I notice that,—entirely through my own
looseness of phrasing,—I may have given the impression
that I doubt survival after death. On the contrary, I believe
in survival ; what I doubt is the possibility of direct purposeful
communication with minds still incarnate. I ought to have
made this clear and I wish to do so now, since all these
matters are important, although this special point does not
affect the actual discussion between Mr. Balfour and myself.
.270 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [rART
in.
THE EAR OF DIONYSIUS: A REPLY.
By the Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour.
By the courtesy of the Editor of the Proceedings I have
been allowed to see the foregoing paper by Miss Stawell
in manuscript, and invited to comment upon it. I accept
the invitation all the more readily inasmuch as I was
unfortunately prevented by illness from being present at
the meeting at which the paper was read.
Miss Stawell's criticism of the argument for survival put
forward in " The Ear of Dionysius " is of that serious and
thoughtful kind that helps to throw light upon a problem
even where one cannot agree with it. The alternative
hypothesis which she suggests is not one that commends
itself to my judgement. But it touches upon points of
real interest, and the care and acumen with which she
has handled the subject deserve respectful consideration.
The point of view from which Miss Stawell starts is not
quite the same as that which I took up in my paper.
Let me quote her own words :
" [Mr. Balfour's] argument
that the communicator was really Dr. Verrall's discarnate
mind is certainly extremely cogent. But I do not feel it
entirely convincing. There is a difficulty, and apart from
this another hypothesis is possible. Of course, if there
were no general reason to doubt survival after death, then
there would be less reason to trouble about another hypo-
thesis. But there is plenty of reason for doubt because of
all the negative evidence that exists, some of it collected by
the S.P.R. itself, e.g. the failure of test-questions, or the
inability, shown on more than one occasion, to state the con-
tents of a sealed envelope written before the communicator's
death."
Again, after saving her own alternative explanation, Miss
ixxrv.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 271
Stawell sums up the case as follows :
" We have, I submit,
a, hypothesis with certain merits of its own to put against
the hypothesis of Dr. Verrall communicating. I do not claim
it as more plausible. Apart from the fact that there is other
reason to doubt survival, I do not think it as plausible. Both
hypotheses have weak points : one involves an astonishing
lapse of memory on Dr. Verrall's part, the other a remark-
able extension of unconscious leakage."
It is evident from these passages that Miss Stawell
avowedly starts from the assumption that survival is ante-
cedently improbable on general grounds, that is to say, on
grounds independent of any considerations that are to be
drawn from the facts of the particular case under review.
Were it not for these external grounds of objection she would
prefer my explanation to her own.
No doubt the attitude of any of us towards this or that
suggested explanation of a particular case must inevitably
depend on the presuppositions or predispositions which we
bring to the study of it. Those who disbelieve in the possi-
bility of survival will prefer any explanation to one that
rests on survival. Those who disbelieve in the possibility
of telepathy—and they are still probably the majority among
scientific men—will be equally emphatic in also rejecting
the explanation offered by Miss Stawell. On the other hand,
those who on general grounds have already come to regard
survival as probable will be prepossessed in favour of spirit
communication as against elaborate and complicated hypo-
theses of subliminal agency.
In these circumstances it seems to me that in a paper pro-
fessing to deal with only a single case of what purports to
be spirit communication, the proper course is to start from
the assumption that survival and spirit communication are
open questions ; and this is what I tried to do. Once we
begin to weight the scales, as Miss Stawell has done, with
considerations of a general character, it is difficult to see
how there can be any logical halting place short of a
discussion extending beyond the particular case to all
the pros and cons by which our final conclusions will be
determined. At that rate a paper would quickly swell to
a volume.
272 The Right Han. G. W. Balfour. [PART
An obvious corollary from what has just been said is
that no single case should be treated as crucial and
decisive. Here I am entirely at one with Miss Stawell,
and I may add with all serious students of the subject.
The evidence must be cumulative. In the end, the hypo-
thesis which offers the simplest explanation of all the
observed facts bearing on the question at issue will doubt-
less become generally accepted. But we are far from having
reached that end as yet. I do not claim for the " Dionysius
Case " more than that it is an important contribution to the
evidence, and that it tells strongly in favour of survival and
of the actuality of communication from "the other side."
Miss Stawell herself, it appears, is inclined towards a similar
view, though much more doubtingly and waveringly.
This brings me to the main substance of her paper. Miss
Stawell finds in the facts of the case as narrated a difficulty
which militates against the supposition that the communi-
cations really proceed from Dr. Verrall. Further, she offers
an alternative explanation which, even if less plausible on
the whole, and considered by itself, than that which I have
advocated, is nevertheless regarded by her as sufficiently
plausible to come into serious competition with it.
Miss Stawell states her " difficulty " thus :
" In the two
leading scripts (Feb. 28, Mar. 2, 1914, Scripts B and C) the
communicator said that Mrs. Verrall was to hear nothing
of the matter, and that there was much more to be got through.
Yet, abruptly, after this all communication on the topic
ceased, so far as Mrs. Willett was concerned, for a year and a
half, until suddenly at a sitting where Mrs. Verrall herself
was present, the subject was re-opened, the clue given, and
great surprise expressed that Mrs. Verrall had received no
message on the matter. This implies a strange lapse of
memory on the part of the communicator, so strange that
one is forced to ask, Can it be explained satisfactorily on
the hypothesis that there was a deliberate conscious person-
ality controlling the communications ? I find it hard to
think so."
That the surprise expressed in the later scripts is incon-
sistent with the instructions given in the earlier ones is clear ;
and undoubtedly the most natural account to be given of this
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 273
inconsistency is to ascribe it, as I have done in my paper,
to a lapse of memory on the part of the communicators. Miss
Stawell's alternative hypothesis explains the inconsistency by
arbitrarily transferring the responsibility for it to the auto-
matist herself. On this point let me note that the incon-
sistency requires to be not merely explained but explained
away, if the incident is to lose the highly exceptional and
perhaps unprecedented character which I assigned to it.
What is so rare is that scripts written by the same automatist
should contain statements startlingly at variance with each
other. The question whether the true origin of the state-
ments is external or subliminal is from this point of view
irrelevant. It is what may be called in a non-committal
phrase " the script memory " which in our experience is
so seldom found to be seriously at fault.
When I treated the inconsistency in the scripts as due to
forgetfulness on the part of the communicators and added
that I had no explanation to offer, I meant that I had no
explanation to offer which seemed to me preferable to the
assumption that a lapse of memory had taken place. But
I must candidly own that when I wrote my paper I attached
no particular significance to the incident, though I noted
it as being very unusual. The use made of it by Miss Stawell
was entirely unforeseen by me. I still think that she has
greatly overrated her " difficulty," and that such a lapse
of memory after a year and a half, during which the subject
was dropped so far as communications through Mrs. Willett
were concerned, is not inconsistent with the control of the
communications by a " deliberate conscious personality."
But for those who attach more importance to her objection
than I do, I venture to suggest an explanation of this dis-
crepancy in the scripts which I think well within the bounds
of possibility, though I refrained from offering it in my
paper.
Let us see just how the case stands. Script B tells us that
Mrs. Verrall is to hear nothing of the matter at present.
Script C says there is much more to follow, and that until
the effort is completed the portions as they come are not
to be seen by any other automatist.
Script D, returning to the subject a year and a half later,
274 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
asks if the Satire has been identified, and finding Mrs. Verrall
unable to give a reply, expresses surprise that the messages
concerning it and references to a Cave have not been passed
on to her.
Finally, in Script E, a fortnight later, Gurney, upon being
informed that all the classical allusions are now understood
by the investigators, exclaims " Good—At last !
"
In the long interval between C and D a complete change
has taken place in the attitude of the communicators. Can
anything have occurred during this period to account for the
change ?
It is certain that the expectation held out in C of further
contributions to the problem was not fulfilled in any scripts
produced by Mrs. Willett between the dates of C and D. Of
these there were about a dozen altogether. They dealt
almost exclusively with a single subject of a private nature
which had no connection whatever with the Dionysius case,,
nor with either of the two principal communicators concerned
in it. It does not, however, follow from this that the Diony-
sius topic had been wholly lost sight of by the group on the
other side. The statements in B and C do indeed strongly
suggest, if they do not directly assert, that a return to it
would shortly be made in subsequent Willett scripts. But
in C there is also something very like an intimation that
attempts would be made to produce cross-correspondences
on the subject in the scripts of other automatists. That
at all events is the meaning I attached at the time to the
instruction that " until the effort is completed the portions
as they come are not to be seen by any other automatist " ;.
so much so that from then onwards I began to look out very
carefully for any signs of such cross-correspondences.
The suggestion I have to make is this. For some undis-
closed reason the intention to send additional matter on
the Dionysius topic through Mrs. Willett was not carried
out. Possibly Gurney, who appears to take chief charge
of arrangements on the other side, was unwilling to allow
the important series of scripts, occupied with a totally
different subject, that began shortly after the date of
Script C, to be interrupted. In the meantime attempts
were made to refer to the Dionysius case elsewhere. There
Lxxrv.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 275
is good ground for believing that these attempts met with
at least a partial measure of success in the scripts of
Mrs. King. (See Appendix to my original paper, Proc.
S.P.B., Vol. XXIX., p. 239.) It is quite possible that
the communicators may have thought that they had
succeeded in " getting through " more than they actually
had. Uncertainty as to what has and what has not been
effectively transmitted and duly recorded by automatists
is frequently admitted in the scripts, and perhaps rather
specially so in Mrs. King's script. As time passed the group
on the other side may have thought that sufficient lights
had been given, and have assumed that the investigators
had discovered the solution of the puzzle. Had we really
discovered it the instructions that Mrs. Verrall "is to hear
nothing of this at present " and that " until the effort is com-
pleted the portions as they come are not to be seen by any
other automatist " would have ceased to be applicable ; and
Mrs. Verrall would have been taken into our counsel and
been shown the scripts.
If this is really what happened, the surprise expressed in
D becomes intelligible. It is inconsistent with the instruc-
tions given in B and C, but would not be inconsistent with
the impressions subsequently formed by the communicators
during the long interval that followed. The exclamation
"At last !
" used by Gurney on hearing that the classical
allusions were now all understood, would also be not
only intelligible but natural, if he took the view that the
information supplied to us before Script D was produced
had been sufficient, or ought to have been sufficient, to
give us the solution of the problem.
I offer this explanation for what it may be worth. There
is too much of the conjectural element in it to satisfy me.
But in any case I should prefer it to the explanation given
by Miss Stawell's alternative hypothesis, in which conjecture
seems to me to play at least as prominent a part.
To that alternative hypothesis I now turn. It may be
summed in three main propositions :
(1) That Mrs. Verrall possessed, consciously or subcon-
ciously, all the classical knowledge implied in the scripts.
(2) That after receiving the message in Script A she sub-
276 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
consciously wove together a number of topics, not for the
most part connected with one another by any obvious associ-
ations, into a coherent whole, the separate items of which,
by reason of this subconscious activity, "leaked " from her
subconscious mind into that of Mrs. Willett and emerged in
the successive scripts, Mrs. Willett's own latent memories
co-operating in the process.
(3) That the collocation of the ideas thus brought together
may be said to exhibit " design " ; but that of " purpose in
communication " as distinguished from " design " the scripts
furnish no sufficient evidence.
This account of the matter is ingenious and carefully thought
out ; but I am unable to accept it as probable.
As regards (1), everything turns upon whether Mrs. Verrall
had at some period before the production of the evidential
scripts (B, C and D) become acquainted with the story of
Philoxenus, and more especially with the veision of that
story implied in the scripts. If she had not, cadit quaestio :
the alternative hypothesis falls, to the ground.
Miss Stawell thinks I have dismissed too easily the possi-
bility that the scripts had their source of inspiration in Mrs.
Verrall 's subconscious mind. I admit that when stating that
Mrs. Verrall " knew nothing about Philoxenus or his poem,"
I took it too much for granted that she never had known
anything. Present ignorance, however complete, cannot
wholly exclude the possibility of knowledge once possessed
but since forgotten. But there are cases—and this, I think,
is one of them—where it may go far towards doing so ;
especially where there is really nothing to be set on the other
side except pure conjecture. I can readily believe that at
some time or other in the course of her classical studies Mrs
.
Verrall had come across a mention of the poet Philoxenus
and afterwards forgotten about him. But we have to suppose
far more than that in order to account for the distinctly re-
condite knowledge concerning the plot of the Cyclops exhibited
in the scripts. Miss Stawell 's own suggestion is that Mrs.
Verrall was led to look up the associations connected with
the Ear of Dionysius by her conversation on the subject
with Dr. Verrall in 1910, and in this manner acquired the
necessary information. Conjectures of this kind are plausible
LXXIV.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 277
enough in themselves. But they are not easy to reconcile
with the fact that in January, 1914, the message which (ac-
cording to Miss Stawell) produced such very remarkable
results in Mrs. Verrall's subconscious mind, found no
appropriate response in her normal memories ; and that
in August, 1915, even a study of the reference books on
the subject failed to recall to her that she had ever heard
of Philoxenus. Again, Miss Stawell thinks it " not un-
natural to suppose that Mrs. Verrall at some time or other
had at least glanced through the pages of Professor
Smyth's Greek Melic Poets.'' Perhaps not ; but what
evidence we have is in the other direction. My strong
impression is—though I cannot absolutely vouch for the
fact—that Mrs. Verrall told me she believed she had never
looked into the book until she had recourse to it in con-
nection with the references in Script D ; and Mrs. Salter
(Miss Helen Verrall) informs me that she is sure her mother
never had any previous occasion to use it. Unfortunately
Mrs. Verrall is no longer with us to appeal to on points
like this. As things are, it is perhaps hardly possible to
carry the controversy further. I can only say that my
personal opinion remains unshaken. Mrs. Verrall herself
was convinced that the Philoxenus story which contains
the key to the puzzle was entirely new to her. I continue
to believe that she was right. 1
(2) Coming next to Miss Stawell's account of the genesis
1
Miss Stawell credits not only Mrs. Verrall, but also Mrs. Willett, with
a more extensive subconscious knowledge than I should be prepared to allow
probable. The more or less of Mrs. Willett 's knowledge is in no way essential
to Miss Stawell's main contention, and therefore I have not thought it worth
while to discuss it. I must, however, take exception to the argument by
which she supports her opinion. " It is plain," she writes, " that Mrs.
Willett 's conscious mind does forget very easily. When asked by Mr. Balfour
(27 May, 1916) what she knew about the ''Ear of Dionysius,'' she said she
had heard the expression but did not know the meaning of it. Yet only two
years before she had written, in her normal consciousness, script containing
a fairly full account of the Ear, a script of which she had kept an annotated
copy to which, as Mr. Balfour tells us, she could refer at any time." Surely
there is a fallacy here. It is true that Script A contains a description of
the Ear of Dionysius. But it does not describe it by name. Unless
Mrs. Willett already knew that the description applied to the Ear of
Dionysius, she might have read and re-read Script A without ever dis-
covering the fact.
s
278 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
of the scripts, let me begin by noting a point of detail. The
order of events is supposed to be as follows : Mrs. Verrail
(who is credited, as we have seen, with a complete, though
latent knowledge of all the classical references in the scripts)
receives the message contained in Script A. Her latent
memories are thereby stimulated " just enough to make
them active, but subconsciously not consciously." This
subconscious activity in its turn produces a " leakage " of
ideas from Mrs. Verrail to Mrs. Willett, and is thus the true
source and origin of the " evidential scripts."
What remains unexplained in this account is the origin
of the message in Script A. Miss Stawell, of course, assumes
that all the topics in this message had at one time or another
been within Mrs. Willett's normal knowledge, and might,
therefore, have emerged in her script without anj. external
prompting. But even granting this, why did they emerge
at all ? On Miss Stawell's hypothesis no answer to this
question is forthcoming. On the hypothesis that Dr. Verrail
was the real as well as the ostensible communicator, the
answer is plain. Evidently the message was sent in
preparation for what was to follow.
This, however, is, after all, a point of minor importance,,
though not, I think, without some interest.
A much more serious objection to Miss Stawell's account
of how the scripts originated is one of which she is sensible
herself, though I doubt whether she has realized the full force
of it. The essential basis of her explanation is " unconscious
leakage " of ideas from mind to mind. Miss Stawell has
not told us exactly what she means by " unconscious leakage."
The term may signify much or little. If A represents the
mind from which, and B the mind to which the leakage is
assumed to take place, are both A and B to be regarded as
unconscious of what is happening, or only A ? And further,
when we speak of A, do we mean supraliminal A only, or
subliminal A also, and similarly of B ? I am not quite
sure, but I think Miss Stawell uses the term in its widest
significance, which excludes any kind of awareness or
intention either on the one side or the other, and either
supraliminal or subliminal. In other words the whole process
is to be taken as involuntary and automatic. It is in this.
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 279
sense that the term is to be understood in the discussion
which follows.
Miss Stawell tells us that unconscious leakage is not a new
hypothesis, and that we have good evidence of it. Certainly
it is not a new hypothesis ; on the other hand, the actual
evidence in support of it is singularly scanty. The reason
of this may be, at least in part, that such evidence is, from
the nature of the case, difficult to obtain. But it may also
be owing to the rarity of the phenomenon itself.
Two supposed examples are cited by Miss Stawell—the case
of Mr. Piddington's sealed letter, and the leakage of the passage
about " moly " in the " one-horse dawn " experiment. Neither
of these can be regarded as conclusive, even if we ignore the
possibility of chance-coincidence. The incident of Mr. Pid-
dington's letter forms part of a complicated cross-correspon-
dence. Miss Johnson, to whom we owe a careful review of
all the circumstances (see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXIV., pp. 222 ff.),
finds in them strong evidence of a single external directing
intelligence ; and though she thinks that this intelligence
may have utilised telepathic communication between the
automatists concerned and Mr. Piddington, it is obvious
that the introduction on the stage of such a dens ex
machina, while not negativing the hypothesis of unconscious
leakage, does render it superfluous.
As to the passage about " the herb moly " in the " one-horse
dawn " experiment, it is true that the appearance of it in
Mrs. Verrall's script could not be directly due to any con-
scious mental activity on Dr. Verrall's part. But we know
that he was trying to transmit certain words to Mrs. Verrall,
and we cannot be sure that this conscious effort on his part was
not a conditio sine qua non of the transmission of certain other
words of the connection of which with the subject of the experi-
ment he was only subconsciously aware. For a fuller dis-
cussion of this question, perhaps I may refer to an article of
mine published in Proc, Vol. XXV., in which I pointed out
that no proof of purely subconscious telepathy can ever be
obtained from experiments. All experiments necessarily start
from supraliminal activity ; and having once started from
supraliminal activity it is impossible to be certain that one
is justified in eliminating it from results.
280 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
If proof is to be obtained of unconscious leakage it is among
cases of spontaneous (i.e. non-experimental) telepathy that
we must look for it. Veridical phantasms of the living that
have appeared to persons unknown to the presumed agent,
collective hallucinations, and the psychological character-
istics of crowds, will perhaps be found to afford the best
examples—in other words, cases where nothing more com-
plex is in question than sensory impressions or emotional
states.
Whether even single mental concepts are ever transmitted
by unconscious leakage is doubtful. What we have in the
Dionysius case is a series of mental concepts, apparently
unconnected, or only loosely connected, but ultimately found
to be cunningly linked together by a central idea that unites
all the rest into a single whole. The transmission of a com-
bined scheme of concepts in the way suggested has, I feel
confident, no soit of warrant from experience. Miss Stawell
may well call such an extension of unconscious leakage
" remarkable."
Can we say that the hypothesis, even though unwarranted
by experience, is nevertheless intrinsically plausible ? I do
not think so. Unconscious leakage must from the nature
of the case be in large measure at the mercy of chance. It
would be unreasonable to expect from it the unity and coher-
ence that might be looked for in a message deliberately sent
by an intelligent communicator. Yet it is just such unity
and coherence which are exceptionally manifest in these
Willett scripts. What we see in them is not chance but
design. Moreover, they show a noticeable absence of any-
thing like surplusage or extraneous matter. There is hardly
an idea to be found in them that does not contribute to the
building up of the scheme as a whole. Even granting for a
moment that the design itself originated in Mrs. Verrall's
subconscious mind, how can mere leakage account for the fact
that practically no ideas emerged in the scripts except such
as were relevant to the design ? It seems to me that this is
a real difficulty, and that neither the rapport which may
fairly be taken to have existed between Mrs. Verrall and Mrs.
Willett, nor any aid which the dormant memories of the
latter may be supposed to have rendered, suffice to meet it.
LXXIV.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 281
Indeed I see no way of meeting it fully except to suppose
that Mrs. Verrall's subconscious mind was at the time occupied
with these ideas and with no others. If the leakage occurred
contemporaneously with the emergence of the ideas in the
scripts of Feb. 28 and March 2 (Scripts B and C), the coin-
cidence must be ascribed to a happy accident. If it extended
over a period antecedent to the emergence, are we to suppose
that Mrs. Verrall's subliminal concentration on the Ear of
Dionysius extended over the whole of the period ? This is
possible, but is it also plausible ?
Other difficulties suggest themselves which I can only
briefly indicate. Mrs. Willett's automatic productions are
incomparably more striking than Mrs. Verrall's, and the
Dionysius case is among the most striking of all. Yet we
are asked to suppose that the true source both of materials
and of plan in this case was Mrs. Verrall's subconscious
mind, whence they leaked into that of Mrs. Willett. If so,
how comes it that nothing remotely similar to these scripts
appeared in Mrs. Verrall's own automatic writings 1 And
again, if the influence of Mrs. Verrall's subliminal mind on
Mrs. Willett's scripts is so powerful as the hypothesis
implies, how comes it that that influence has not left
a more conspicuous impress on the Willett scripts
generally ? Perhaps the Statius case may be cited
in reply to this question. I agree that the Statius
case and the Dionysius case must stand or fall to-
gether, and that to explain the one is almost certainly
to explain the other also. But they foim only a small
fraction of the total volume of Willett scripts. It is
true that cross -correspondences occur from time to time
between Mrs. Verrall's scripts and Mis. Willett's, and
may, from Miss Stawell's standpoint, be held to indicate
telepathic leakage from one writer to the other. None
of these cro^s-correspondences, however, are at all on
the scale of leakage required to explain the Dionysius
case ; nor do they, so far as I can judge, markedly
surpass either in number or quality the cross-corre-
spondences to be found between Mis. Willett's scripts
and those of other members of our group of automatists.
Considerations like this cannot, of course, be properly
282 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [PART
appreciated without a full knowledge of all the scripts. I
will not dwell on them further, but will pass on to the
last of the three propositions which summarize Miss
Stawell's alternative hypothesis.
Miss Stawell draws a sharp distinction between "design"
and " purpose in communication." " Design," in the sense
of " an elaborate association of ideas," she admits and
ascribes to Mrs. Verrall's subconscious mind. " Purpose in
communication " she disputes, and the appearance of it she
ascribes to the subconscious mind of the automatist.
The distinction between design and purpose, and the
separation of roles between Mrs. Verrall and Mrs. Willett,
were inevitably forced on Miss Stawell by the premises
from which she starts. She rejects—I believe quite rightly
—the supposition that Mrs. Willett had ever known
the story of Philoxenus. It follows that Mrs. Willett
could not have originated the "design." The hypothesis
of spirit communication being excluded, responsibility for
the design is fixed upon Mrs. Verrall. But Miss Stawell
insists that the associated ideas passed from Mrs. Verrall
to Mrs. Willett by " unconscious leakage." Now, uncon-
scious leakage is clearly incompatible with " purpose in
communication." In fact it is the very opposite of it.
Hence any appearance of purpose must either be explained
away as illusory, or it is upon Mrs. Willett that the responsi-
bility for it must be thrown.
To my mind this treatment of the matter is forced and
unnatural. I look upon the " elaborate association of
ideas " (or, as I should prefer to describe it, the skilful
construction of a problem) as forming part and parcel of
the manifestation of purpose in the scripts, and as practi-
cally inseparable from it. Miss Stawell herself seems
tacitly to admit the closeness of the relation between the
two. For she allows that " the way in which the facts
are communicated " might be evidence of purpose. In
particular she mentions the withholding of the clue all
through Scripts B and C, and its final revelation in D.
Is not this the very attitude of one who propounds a
riddle, and deliberately waits before producing the answer
to it ? And, on the other hand, if the materials of
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 283
the problem found their way into the scripts through
the operation of unconscious leakage, should we not
expect the central and dominating idea of the com-
bination to leak out early instead of late in the history
of the case ? Miss Stawell, however, has her counter-
question read3;
'. "If," she asks, "the clue was purposely
withheld, why was it given in the end to the very
person, Mrs. Verrall, from whom it ought to have been
kept till all was complete ?
"
The argument in support of purposiveness is not really
met by raising a difficulty on the other side, even if that
difficulty was a formidable one. But is it so formidable ?
Surely there may have been good reasons in February and
March, 1914, for asking that the scripts should be kept
from Mrs. Verrall " for the present," and yet those reasons
might have lost their weight a year and a half later. My
own view is that the communicators had forgotten that
the injunction had ever been laid. But whether they had
forgotten this or not, they may well have thought that, the
investigators having failed to solve the problem, the time
had now come to bring matters to a conclusion by sup-
plying the key to the enigma themselves. The analogy of
the Statius case deserves to be considered in this con-
nection. 1
Evidence of purpose is, however, by no means confined
to that indirectly furnished by the construction of the
problem and the manner of its presentment, but is to be
found scattered in plenty throughout the scripts.
The communicators tell us they are trying " an experi-
ment " ; it is " something good and worth doing," which
takes the form of "a literary association of ideas pointing
to the influence of two discarnate minds." The " Aristo-
telian " and the " Rationalist " (S.H.B. and A.W.V) are
described as being engaged in "a particular task," an
" effort " which still awaits completion. " The incident,"
we are informed, " was chosen as being evidential of
identity " ; and it is claimed that the combination is
characteristic of its authors—that it is " A.W.ish " and
"S.H.ish."
1
See note at the end of this paper.
284 The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour. [part
Statements like these plainly imply purpose. How does
Miss Stawell deal with them ? By the simple expedient
of sweeping them aside as " fancies " woven by Mrs.
Willett round the ideas received by her from Mrs. Verrall.
We unfortunately possess no general criterion by which
genuine messages ab extra can be distinguished from the
imaginations and embroideries of the automatist. I am,
therefore, far from asserting that the peculiar distribution
of subconscious activities assumed by Miss Stawell is
inadmissible. But this, I think, may fairly be said ; that
so far from affording support to her alternative hypothesis
it is an additional difficulty in the way of that hypothesis
being accepted.
Why Miss Stawell should be so wedded to the idea of
" unconscious leakage " I own I do not fully understand.
If I were seeking some way of escape from the hypothesis
of spirit communication, and was willing to believe that
Mrs. Verrall, possessing, though partly in the form of
latent memories, all the raw material required, had evolved
out of them the complicated design presented in the scripts,
I shoidd see no advantage in trying to discredit the clear
evidence of purpose which those same scripts exhibit. On
the contrary, I should be inclined to ascribe both design
and purpose to the same source, namely Mrs. Verrall's
subconscious mind. The difficulties which this explanation
of the case involves are serious enough, no doubt. That
the subconscious mind of a living person, herself an auto-
matist, should elaborate such a puzzle and communicate it
telepathically to another automatist in order to manu-
facture fictitious evidence for survival, the normal self of
the communicator remaining the while entirely innocent
of what was taking place, is a hypothesis with as little
support from experience as the " unconscious leakage
"
which finds favour with Miss Stawell. But at least it
avoids some of the objections to which I cannot but hold
the latter to be open ; and among them the artificial
separation of the construction of the puzzle from the use
to which it is put.
Let me in conclusion repeat once more that though I
am unable to agree with Miss Stawell, I nevertheless regard
lxxiv.] The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. 285
her paper as a valuable contribution to the study of the
subject. It raises questions which ought to be raised ;
and
I frankly admit that she has directed the lance of her
criticism against what is probably the least protected point
in the armour of her adversary. May I on my side hope
that the considerations I have urged in reply will go at
least some way towards reconciling her to a view of the
case which already, as it would seem, she only half-
heartedly opposes ?
Note on the Analogies between the Statitjs
Case and the Dionysius Case.
In my original paper I called attention to certain features
which were common to the Dionysius case and to the Statius
case which preceded it.
Both present a literary problem the solution of which
appears to be purposely withheld at first, and is finally revealed
only after the lapse of a considerable interval of time.
In both the part of principal communicator is assigned to
Dr. Verrall, though in the Dionysius case he is associated
with his friend S. H. Butcher.
Both purport to furnish evidence of the continued existence
after death of their presumptive author or authors.
A careful comparison of the two cases shews that there
are other points of resemblance, as well as some points of
difference, which it may be worth while to note.
The two cases are similar in that :
(1) Both open with a message to Mrs. Verrall.
(2) In both the final clue is given in Mrs1
. Verrall's pre-
sence.
(3) In both the sitting at which Mrs. Verrall was present
was her only sitting with Mrs. Willett during the
periods covered by the two sets of scripts respectively.
(4) In both the interval of silence, during which the
subject appeared to be ignored, was occupied with
scripts relating to matters of a private nature.
The cases differ in that
:
(1) The Statius case is started in a trance-script, but
developed and concluded in three scripts written
286 The Right Hon,. G. W. Balfour. [PART
in a state of normal consciousness ; whereas the
Dionysius case is started in a script produced in
a normal state, but developed and concluded in
three trance-scripts.
(2) The interval of silence occurred in the Statius case
between the first and second scripts, in the Dionysius
case between the third and fourth. In the Statius
case the sitter present when the subject was resumed
was myself, in the Dionysius case Mrs. Verrall.
While I think these points of similarity and difference
may be worth noting, and, in some instances, not without
interest as bearing on the present controversy, it does not
appear to me that any important argument can be drawn
from them in support of either one side or the other. Miss
Stawell asks whether Mrs. Verrall had any sitting with Mrs.
Willett during the interval between scripts C and D. The
answer, as may be gathered from the above statement, is
in the negative. In fact up to the date of script D Mrs.
Verrall had not sat with Mrs. Willett since Sept. 8, 1913,
the date on which the final clue to the Statius problem was
given. I cannot see, however, that this circumstance is in
any way inconsistent with Dr. Verrall's being the real com-
municator ;
while, on the other hand, the fact that in the
Statius case the return to the subject occurred in two scripts
produced not in Mrs. Verrall's presence but with myself as
sitter, tells, so far as it goes, against the supposition that in
the Dionysius case the resumption of the subject was dependent
upon Mrs. Verrall's attention being once more directed to it.
1XXIV.] Presidential Address. 287
IV.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on June 28, 1917.
By L. P. Jacks, LL.D.
THE THEORY OF SURVIVAL IN THE LIGHT OF ITS
CONTEXT.
We are working in a region densely populated with the
hopes and fears of men ; and not only with hopes and
fears but with superstitions, obsessions, preconceptions and
fixed ideas innumerable. These things swarm round the
incpiirer like the evil spirits which beset the path of Bun-
yan's Pilgrim when he passed through the Valley of
Humiliation. They threaten at every turn to drive us off
from the strait and narrow road of strict scientific inquiry ;
they are immensely active ; and nowhere are they more
active than in the criticisms and the occasional contempt
which are poured upon the work of this Society by those
who hold aloof from it. My plea is that we should turn
our back upon them all ;
upon the hopes and fears and
all the other emotional interests that are at stake as well
as upon the superstitions and fixed ideas. That is easy
to say but difficult to carry out. It requires an almost
fanatical wariness.
All these forces may be seen at work in the charge
which is frequently made about the triviality and unim-
portance of the evidence which the Society is investi-
gating. " Your evidence," it is said, " is nothing but a
mass of trumpery information about pocket-knives and
hat-pins and photographs and obscure passages in Greek
poets. There is nothing to lift the veil which hangs over
288 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [PART
the mysteries of life ;
nothing which helps us in the re-
construction of society ;
nothing that throws light on any
problem of morals or philosophy ;
nothing that is of the
least importance, but always this rigmarole of trivialities."
Such is the charge ; and I venture to say it betrays a
complete misunderstanding of the business in which we
are engaged. Strictly speaking we have nothing to do
with the problems of morals and religion, save in the sense
that everything in this world is connected with everything
else. We are under no obligation to provide anybody with
a key to the mysteries of life. We are trying to find out
the meaning of certain obscure and challenging pheno-
mena ; we are trying in the first instance to get these
phenomena correctly reported, instead of getting them
coloured and distorted by our desire to believe in the
immortality of the soul, or in anything else of equal
importance. For this purpose a lost hat-pin may be as
significant to us as the falling apple was to Newton ;
while on the other hand what is most important to the
philosopher, such as a key to the mysteries of life sent
down from another world, is precisely the kind of evi-
dence that would help us least, and would be open to
the gravest suspicion even if we got it.
The main problem now before the Society is one of
identification. This problem has two forms, which I will
distinguish as the more and the less popular. The more
popular relates to the communications which come through
mediums. These plainly come from somebody, and the
question is, can we identify these " somebodies " with the
persons whose names they assume, persons who were once
among the living. The less popular form relates to the
phenomena of dreams. This, though far the less sensa-
tional of the two, is at least equally important, and may
conceivably, when it has been more profoundly studied,
give us the key to the other. Here, too, the problem is
one of identification. In dreams we apparently encounter
ourselves, as well as other people, in unwonted surround-
ings, and the question arises whether the self dreamt about
can really be identified with the dreamer. This question,
which is immensely entangled, I shall leave aside and
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 289
confine myself to the problem of identification in its
more popular form.
Among the clangers and the difficulties of psychical
research, not the least are those which arise from the use
of the common words " spirit," " spiritual," and " spiritual-
ism " ; and the suggestion I have to make is, that as a
temporary measure we should be well advised to drop these
words from our working vocabulary and pursue our inves-
tigations for the time being as though they did not exist.
Everyone who has thought out the problem of proving
the identity of those who are alleged to communicate from
beyond the grave must have experienced both the danger
and the difficulty that lurk in these words. To prove
identity, to prove that the person who was here and the
person who is there are really one and the same, you
want as much resemblance and as much continuity as
possible. Difference and discontinuity, on the other hand,
are always obstacles to identification. But what greater
difference, what wider breach, could be conceived than
that between an embodied and a disembodied being
—
between a man and a ghost ? No two beings that I can
think of could be more unlike one another than myself in
my body and myself out of my body. What it may be
to see without an eye, to speak without a tongue, to
think without a brain, or to move about without limbs
I find myself wholly unable to conceive. I cannot deny
that such things are possible ; but I am certain that
they are very different from seeing witn an eye, speaking
with a tongue, thinking with a brain, and moving about
with the aid of my bodily limbs. The difference is so great
and the discontinuity so startling that I cannot recognise
myself under those conditions as one with the person T
now am, nor do I understand how anybody else could
possibly identify me.
We are apt to thrust this difficulty aside by saying that
the true self of a man consists of his moral characteristics,
and, if these are found in existence after death, then, body
or no body, you have the real essential man. That I do
not question as an abstract proposition. It is a profound
truth of moral philosophy ; but it has no relevance to the
290 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [part
business of psychical research. Moral characteristics are of
the highest importance ; but they are not easy to distin-
guish, they are elusive and difficult to define, and are of
little use as identification marks. I imagine that a man
would have some difficulty in picking out his wife from
a crowd of ten thousand women if he had nothing but
her moral characteristics to go by, however admirable
these might be. The sound of her voice or the colour
of her dress would be much more to the purpose. Nor
would it be easy to get one's passport vise in a foreign
city, or to persuade an American banker to cash one's
letter of credit, if our moral characteristics were all we
could adduce to prove our identity. Now, the problem
which the theory of survival has to solve is closely
analogous to that of a man looking for his wife in an
enormous crowd, or to that of the American banker who
has to satisfy himself that his would-be client is really
the person he professes to be. Moral characteristics will
not suffice unless they are backed up by evidence in
detail, of which the most trivial may be the most impor-
tant. Speaking for myself, I am by no means sure what
my moral characteristics really are ; if called upon to
enumerate them I should certainly fail, not from modesty,
nor, I hope, from vanity, but from sheer ignorance ; nor
would I trust their enumeration by another person. I
would much rather be asked for my weight or my height.
On the whole I am inclined to think that my moral
characteristics are of such a kind that there must be
millions of men in the world for any one of whom I
might readily be mistaken if there was nothing else to
go by.
But now I venture to say that as scientific investigators
we have no right, and we have certainly no need, to start
our inquiries from the common distinction between " bodies
' J
whose characteristics are all physical and " spirits " whose
characteristics are all moral ; and if we assume that right
from the outset, we shall pay the penalty of endless con-
fusion which properly falls to those who beg the question
at issue. The distinction between body and spirit belongs
to a metaphysical theory which has filtered down into
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 291
popular thought and got itself fixed in popular phraseology.
It may be a sound theory—I do not question that ;
but
it is a theory all the same, and must not be allowed for
a moment to prejudice the minds of those who are in-
quiring into matters of fact. Our business and duty
is to be guided solely by the evidence before us ; not to
assume that the beings with whom we are in contact are
this or that, but precisely to find out from the evidence
what they are. By jumping to the conclusion that they
are disembodied spirits we not only saddle ourselves with
a tremendous difficulty, which makes the problem of
identification next to impossible, but we are interpreting
facts ahead of the evidence, or imposing a theory on the
facts—the most serious of all scientific errors.
If I am saying something which is not clear, let my
hearer ask himself the plain question, How does he know
that these beings are disembodied spirits ? He may answer,
They must be disembodied, because they left their bodies
behind them. But that is begging the question, for the
very point at issue is to prove that they are the people
who left their bodies behind. Or he may say, " I know
they are spirits, because there is nothing else they can
be." That is metaphysics. In this way psychical research,
which is research into the nature of the soul, begins with
a metaphysical theory as to the nature of the soul, thereby
foreclosing the most important part of the inquiry. It
behoves the psychical investigator of all men to be per-
fectly open-minded, and especially to be open-minded to
the question as to what kind of beings they are who
appear to be communicating with him. They may be
disembodied spirits ; but if they are, it is for them to
prove themselves so, and not for him to assume it. If
he assumes it rashly, he may find that he has misinter-
preted the whole body of evidence before him.
Another preconception, closely connected with that of
disembodied spirits, and deeply entangled with the whole
discussion, is the idea of two worlds, which we distinguish
as "this world" and "the next." This distinction is
otherwise expressed by the words " departure " and " sur-
vival." We speak of the dead as the departed ; which
292 L. P. Jacks. LL.D. [PART
means that they have left this world ; and when evidence
arrives which suggests that they are still in existence, we
assume that they have arrived in another. Now all this
may be true. On the other hand, it is conceivably false.
To prove that the dead survive it is not necessary to
assume that they are in another Avorld. They may sur-
vive in this world. They may even remain organic
members of the human race. Like the notion of dis-
embodied spirit, the idea of the two worlds is one we
have inherited from other sources ; and again our duty
is not to accept it as a key to the evidence, but to bring
it to the test of the evidence itself. Here also we need
to be quite open-minded. We may find—I do not say
positively that we shall—that the upshot of psychical
research is not to give us another world, supplementary
or successive to this one, or of another nature than this,
but to extend the boundaries and deepen the significance
of the one world in which we and the so-called " departed
"
are all living together under a unitary system of Jaw.
At all events, let the matter be decided by the evidence,
and not by our preconceptions of what the evidence
ought to mean. For my part I should be glad to hear
no more about " the other side," unless it be used as a
metaphor or as a concession to the poverty of language,
though even so I think it confusing and dangerous. If
you take it for granted that communications must come
from another world, or from " another side," you will find
yourself at every step putting meanings into the evidence
that it does not actually bear ;
you will read it in the
light of a theory formed in advance, which theory, if the
evidence were impartially taken, might be found untenable.
Indeed, our minds are so deeply entangled in meta-
physics, there is so much unconscious metaphysics in
current language, especially in the distinction between two
worlds, this and the next, that the greatest care is needed
to prevent ourselves falling into a trap. We are often
caught unawares, and find ourselves reporting as evidence
what is not really evidence, but something which we have
already twisted and forced into the mould of one or other
of these unconscious theories. Even in so simple a matter
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 293
as reporting a dream, unless we are exceptionally alert we
fall into the trap at every turn. We say, "I dreamt that
I did so and so " ;
and in so saying we beg the most
important question at issue. For the main problem which
the student of dreams has to solve is precisely a problem
of identity ; he has to determine whether the dreamer and
the person dreamed about are really one and the same
;
which question you Avill observe he settles in advance by
saying, " / dreamt that / did so and so." Here again the
notion of two worlds dogs the inquiry at every step. We
speak of "the world of dreams" and "the world of
waking realities," and we think of ourselves as passing
fiom the one to the other during sleep, just as we do in
the parallel case of death, and we begin to construct
hypothetical bridges which may link the two worlds
together. In all this we are simply suffering ourselves to
be bound hand and foot by popular metaphysics. Instead
of taking the two worlds for granted and assuming
a " passage " from one to the other, whether in sleep
or in death, we ought rather to consult the evidence on
this very point. Perhaps we should then find that the
notion of two worlds, or even two sides to the one world, is
entirely without warrant, and that no passage takes place
at all. We might find something more surprising still ;
namely, that the number of worlds is much greater than
two, and may possibly extend into millions. In any case
the number two is nothing but an obsession, and as such
has no right to intrude itself for a moment into inquiries
which profess to start without prejudice.
These warnings are not new. Long ago they were
uttered by William James and Professor Bergson, my
great predecessors in the position I occupy to-day. Both
these thinkers have pointed out the confusion which has
befallen the whole science of psychology through the pre-
sence of subconscious theories formed in advance of the
facts to be examined. Perhaps the most valuable part of
Professor Bergson's work is the exposure he has given us
of the havoc wrought by this habit. Take, for example,
the fundamental question of the relation between the
mind and the body. When this question is raised we
294 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [part
immediately take it for granted that we are dealing with
two distinct orders of fact, the material and the mental ;
just as in psychical research we assume the distinction
between embodied and disembodied spirits, or between two
worlds, this and the next. That, we think, is the common-
sense view of the matter. What can be more obvious
than the truth that the mind is one thing, and the body
another ? Taking that as our starting-point, all our sub-
sequent thinking has to follow suit and uphold the dis-
tinction with which we have started out. But Bergson
has shown us that the notion of mind being one thing
and body another is not commonsense at all, and by no
means obvious. It is a highly elaborated metaphysical
doctrine, with a long history behind it, which has got
itself so deeply entrenched in current thought and speech
that we have come to treat it as self-evident and imagined
that nothing else is possible. To take it for granted is,
once again, to beg the question at issue. Our business
as psychologists is not to assume that mind and body are
two things, but precisely to find out whether they are so
or not. They may be so ; but that is a matter for the
evidence to decide. Let the evidence therefore decide it.
Let this and every other theory be dismissed from the
mind. Get, if you can, at the immediate data of con-
sciousness ; that is, get at the evidence before it has been
warped and twisted by subconscious metaphysical theories.
Such is the important plea of Professor Bergson in regard
to psychology in general. It is not easy to act upon,
because very few of us are aware of the extent to which
our minds are unconsciously pledged to these notions. It
requires long training to detect the intruders ; and even
when they have been detected in one form they often
assume another, as a well-known personage is said to do in
the moral world, reappearing at points where we are off
our guard.
But since the work of psychical research is relatively
new, it ought to be easier to rid our minds of these pre-
conceptions than it is in the older branches of psychology,
where the force of habit is more deeply entrenched. What
we have to do is to seek for the immediate data : that is,
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 295
to take the evidence as it occurs, before it has been
translated by some reporter into the terms of a theory
about disembodied spirits, or about another world, or about
anything else.
I freely confess that in what I am about to say I shall
not be able to do this thoroughly and consistently. To
do it thoroughly one would have to be at the very source
of the phenomena : that is, in the position of an actual
observer at the moment when a cross -correspondence, or
some other manifestation, is taking place. Standing at one
remove from the evidence, I cannot do this, for I have
to take it in the form in which it has been reported, and
it is almost impossible to get any report which has not
undergone some process of translation in the mind of the
reporter. The best I can do is to tap the evidence as
high up as I can reach it.
I propose, then, to take it at the point where some
person of known credibility comes forward with the state-
ment that he has received what is called a communication,
but before any theory has been formed as to where the
communication comes from or as to the kind of being
who is communicating. Such evidence can be found in
plenty by anybody who will look for it in the records of
this Society—especially in the carefully sifted records of
the cross-correspondences. I well know that even in this
I am giving something more than the immediate data
—
the word " communications " shows that ; but it is the
nearest approach to immediacy which the circumstances
afford me.
We will assume, then, that communications, genuine
communications, are taking place ;
and, dismissing from
our minds the notion that they are coming from dis-
embodied spirits or from another world, we will let the
communications themselves tell us where they are coming
from, and what kind of beings they are who are making
them. Especially will we be on our guard against letting
the words " spiritual," or " supernatural," or " super-
normal " intrude themselves on our observation. These
words imply that we have already made up our minds
as to what the communications mean, which is the very
296 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [PART
thing we want to find out. We will not use these
adjectives unless the evidence itself convinces that they
and no other are the adjectives we ought to use. These
precautions taken, we shall find that certain facts now
start into prominence which escaped us altogether while
we were under the malign influence of our preconceptions ;
while others which we previously thought unimportant
become very important indeed.
To begin with, these communicating beings, wherever
they are, and whoever they may be, quite obviously retain
the distinction of sex. They make use of the personal
pronouns masculine and feminine ;
they speak of one
another as " he " and " she " ; and they employ the
distinction with no discernible difference of meaning from
that with which we are all familiar. This suggests at
once that the communicating beings stand with ourselves
on a common biological ground ; and since biological
facts, like all other facts, are not isolated, but form part
of a context in which the whole order of nature is in-
volved, we could from this one fact alone build out a
whole system to correspond, just as the palaeontologist
when he discovers the bone of an extinct animal can
reconstruct the whole animal to which it belonged. This,
I say, we could do ; and the only thing that has pre-
vented us doing it hitherto is the notion that everything
we are going to discover must bear a " spiritual " sense,
must mean something other than it would mean if it
occurred in the known order—that is, may mean any-
thing we choose to make it mean. Dismissing that notion,
we find ourselves in the presence of a fact enormously
rich in implications. These beings retain the distinction of
sex.
Next, and almost equally striking, is their use of lan-
guage, both in the spoken and the written form. They
use it for addressing one another and for addressing us
through the medium, and they express by it ideas which
are intelligible to human beings. Moreover, the language
spoken is plain English, or plain French, as the case may
be, with its grammatical forms and constructions on the
whole well preserved. Nothing is more surprising to me in
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 297
the history of psychical research than the little attention
that has been paid to this remarkable aspect of the
evidence. I can only account for it, as before, by the
obstinate prejudice that everything is occurring in a
spiritual realm where nothing means what it seems to
mean. But for that we should have brought this fact
—the use of language—into the full light of our philo-
logical knowledge and drawn from it exactly the same
kind of inferences that would follow if we were to learn
that French and English were spoken on the planet Mars.
In that case we should at once conclude that the in-
habitants of Mars are human beings ; that its ethnology
is a counterpart to our own ; that its history, even its
social history, is, in part at least, parallel to that of the
earth ; for every language is an embodied memory, and
nobody can speak English or French as his native tongue
without being English or French in many other respects
—
in respect of his present, his future, as well as of his
past.
How is it that there has been so little scrutiny of the
evidence on these lines ? How is it, I cannot help asking
myself, that a fact which would throw a flood of light
on any world, or sphere, or planet where it was discovered
has so far thrown hardly any light at all on the world
which these communicating beings are supposed to inhabit ?
Is it because we have made two compartments in our
thinking, just as we have made two worlds in the uni-
verse, in one of which every fact has its intelligible con-
text, while in the other each fact can be treated as
though it had no context at all ?
But the internal evidence is not exhausted by the two
facts I have mentioned ;
indeed, it is so rich that I can
do no more than select a small portion of it. At every
point these beings are incidentally betraying something of
importance. For example, they are evidently in time :
they look before and after, and even pine for what is not ;
they can measure time by our intervals ;
they speak of
yesterday, to-day, to-morrow and next week—distinctions
which refer to astronomical conditions and would be mean-
ingless without them. They even make appointments for
298 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [part
the future, a strange proceeding if we had to do with the
timeless self or transcendental ego of Immanuel Kant.
Memory and expectation are theirs. They constantly bid
the sitter to wait for future developments. They become
fatigued under exertion and desist when fatigue comes on.
They move from place to place, and distinguish places
that are near from those that are far off. They hear and
they see ; and though I can find no distinct references to
an atmosphere which carries the vibrations of sound, I
find many references to the light which is necessary for
seeing, and to the colours which light produces. They
are acquainted with each other's appearance, and describe
it, sometimes in detail. There is hardly a case of alleged
communication in which you do not find one or more of
these striking characteristics ; and if there were only one
of them—for example, the power of seeing,—that alone
might suggest to science a whole context of necessary
relations and natural laws, and enable us to reconstruct
with general accuracy the kind of world in which the
alleged seeing took place.
Let us pause at this last item of evidence, which is of
great interest, and consider the various ways in which it
may be taken. We are in communication, let us assume,
with beings who by their own account are acquainted
with the phenomenon called light. Now, let us suppose
that in reading this evidence we do what I have been
urging we should not do, namely, bring with us the
notions or beliefs inherited from popular metaphysics or
from religion. In particular, we are all familiar with the
notion of a heavenly city where the light is not that of
the sun or the moon or the stars, but comes, as we say,
from a spiritual source. I have no word to say against
this belief ; but I do say that it has no business here,
and that if we introduce it at this point we are perform-
ing the operation which is known as " queering the pitch."
However, suppose we introduce it and jump to the con-
clusion that the light mentioned must be the light of
that city which has neither sun nor moon. What follows ?
Why, that scientific inquiry comes to a dead stop. Science
if left to herself would at once follow up the clue ; she
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 299
would say : If light, then a luminary which produces the
light, a medium through which the light is transmitted,
an eye sensitive to action of light, an optic nerve, an
appropriate sense organisation, and so forth. But no !
This is mystic light, this is spiritual light, light that never
was on land or sea : light that has nothing to do with
heat ; that requires no luminary to produce it ; that has
no laws of refraction, no rate of transmission ;
light that
never waxes nor wanes, and knows no alternation of day
and night. Now, all that may be wholesome mysticism ;
it may be good religion ; it may be sound metaphysics ;
but its introduction at this point is simply fatal to
scientific inquiry. By suddenly changing the meaning of
" light " to fit your preconceptions of the spiritual world,
you tear out of the hand of science the clue she was
just beginning to grasp, and a piece of evidence which is
full of significance and might have led to most important
conclusions leads to nothing at all.
Let me illustrate my meaning by one of those far-
fetched suppositions which, just because they are far-
fetched, are the less likely to encounter our prejudice.
Suppose we were credibly informed by any means you
choose to imagine, that a rose, a single flower fully formed,
had been discovered on the planet Mars. How Science
would leap to her feet on receiving the information !
From that single fact she could reconstruct the general
characteristics of the flora of Mars, with the greatest ease
and almost infallible certainty. A planet which can pro-
duce a rose must be able to produce ten thousand other
things from the same conditions, and science could tell
us in general what they are. Not the flora alone but the
fauna would be involved. And beyond all that the fact
would expand into a mine of information concerning the
climate, the soil, the atmosphere, the seasons, and what
not. We may say, with little exaggeration, that the whole
planet would give itself away by letting out the single
secret that it contained a rose. But now suppose that
just as this reconstruction was about to begin we were
suddenly confronted with a new and unexpected piece of
information. " This rose of Mars," we will imagine our
300 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [part
informant to say, " is not what is commonly meant by
the word. It is a mystic rose, a spiritual rose of dawn,
a rose that grows on no tree, and is planted in no garden :
a rose that flourished without the light of the sun ; about
whose roots no man has digged ; a rose that was never
born from a bud ; a rose that neither grows nor withers
nor dies." What would Science say to that ? Needless
to say, she would have nothing to answer. She would be
stopped on the threshold. The question would pass out
of her hands altogether, and it would now be for the
metaphysicians, the poets, the mythologists, the mysta-
gogues to make what they could of the new information.
And even they could not make much of it. Now that,
I make bold to say, is the position in which psychical
research is often placed by the habit we all have of
translating the evidence into what we call " spiritual
terms " before we have given ourselves time to consider
what the evidence really means.
But now what does it mean ? What information does
it convey as to the kind of beings with whom we are
communicating ? Instead of answering the question by
means of an idea which is quite external to the facts,
let us consult the internal witness of the evidence itself
and be content for the time being with that.
All the characteristics I have named—sex, language,
sight, hearing, mental equipment, and the rest—are well-
known human characteristics. Following the clue they
place in our hands, and arguing strictly from effects to
causes, we are led immediately to the conclusion that these
are human beings. Nothing else is suggested by the bare
evidence, and, so far as we are guided by the evidence,
nothing else is conceivable. Whatever other conclusion we
might be tempted to draw in deference to metaphysics,
to moral philosophy, or to religion, this and this only is
the internal witness of the evidence itself.
But, you will say, these people have died, they have
passed from this life, they have left their bodies behind
them, they are invisible : it is right to assume, therefore,
that they are living under conditions so different from
those of earth that they cannot be human beings as we
lxxiv.] Presidential Address. 301
understand the terms. They are at least disembodied
—
for yonder are their bodies in the grave.
Again it seems to me you are leaping to conclusions :
you are importing foreign matter ;
you are going beyond
the evidence. To begin with, we must not take it for
granted that they are the dead. That is one of the
questions at issue : a question which the evidence must
decide, and not a known fact which decides the meaning
of the evidence. But even if the question were not open,
even if it were a proved truth that they are the dead, you
are still forcing the pace. No doubt it is natural to
think that the world in which these beings now find
themselves is very different from the world they have
left. But that notion is not in the evidence ; it is in
your mind. What the evidence reveals is not the differ-
ence between the two worlds, but their extraordinary
likeness, a likeness so close that it is hard to resist the
conclusion that they are one and the same. A world in
which sex is maintained and language used in the verna-
cular, not to speak of a score of suchlike things, must
not be set down offhand as a world that is wholly different
from this. To say of one of these beings that it is " he
"
or " she," that it speaks its native language, and so on,
does not suggest that it is disembodied, but strongly
suggests the contrary.
There is no such thing as an isolated fact in science ;
every fact has a necessary context, and carries with it. the
whole context of which it is an organic part. If you find
a rose you know there was a tree that bore it ;
you know
there was soil in which the tree was rooted ; that there
were sun, air, moisture to nourish its growth. In the
same way, if you get one of the essential characteristics
of a human being you get the lot. If you find sex you
find much more than sex, namely, a whole biological
system ; if you find vision you find light ; and if the light,
then everything that goes with the light ; and this gradu-
ally expands into wider and wider contexts until you get
the whole order of nature as we know it here and now.
Science cannot reason otherwise. To forbid her so to
reason is to take the question out of her hands and pass
302 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [part
it to imagination or to faith. No man honours imagina-
tion and faith more than I do ; but this Society is a
scientific body.
Here, then, we are confronted with a most important
consideration which, unless I speak in ignorance, has not
been sufficiently weighed. To science—not to metaphysics
alone, but to positive science in its severest form—every
individual carries with it the world to which it belongs.
It is the representative of a world ; it is the summary of
a world. Its full context is nothing less than the whole
system of things, of laws and relations in which it stands,
and without which it cannot be, and cannot even be
thought of. Whenever you get an individual thing you
get at the same time the world that goes with it, the
world in which it has come to be what it is ; if you get
the rose you get also the tree, the soil, the sun, the solar
system—in fact, the natural universe. Each of us in like
manner is what he is, is in fact himself, in and through
the world to which he belongs ; he and his world are so
inextricably bound together that you cannot have the first
without having also the second. Strip him of his world
and you destroy his identity, you destroy everything that
makes him what he is. A rose which survives in another
world without a tree, without air, and without sun, is
not a rose at all, but something else called by the same
name ; still less can it be the identical rose that grew in
my garden yesterday.
If you remind me that the rose of the next world once
had the soil, the air, and the light of this, and that,
having had them once while it was on this earth, that
suffices to maintain it as a rose in its new sphere of
being, so that it can now get on without them—if you
tell me this, I must say with all respect that though you
have made a delightful fairy tale, to science it is nothing
but nonsense. My rose, the one that grew in my garden
yesterday, was precisely the sort of thing that could never
get on without sun, air, and soil in any sphere of being,
and which lost all the characteristics of a rose very soon
after it was deprived of them. Your rose, which can now
get on without them for ever, is another kind of article
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 303
altogether, and nothing that you can say will ever per-
suade me to identify it with the flower whose ways I
knew so well, whose nurture I tended, and at whose
withering I shed a tear or composed a melody.
If, then, it is true—and I think it unquestionably is
true—that you cannot separate the individual from his
world, that you cannot tear him out of his known context
without destroying his identity—what follows ? It follows
that the theory of human survival involves far more than
it seems to do at first sight. It means that the individual
carries his world with him and cannot survive on any
other condition. In other words, when we are proving
the survival of A, B, and C, we are proving also the.
survival of the world of relations in which their individual-
ities are rooted, and which is the necessary background to
each one of them, being the man he is. Such is the load
which the theory of survival, so far as it is based on scientific
evidence, will ultimately have to sustain.
Some may be tempted to say that the burden is too
great, that no theory could ever sustain such a load. But
why not ? I do not see that the survival of the whole
order of nature is one whit harder to understand or
believe in than the survival of any individual who belongs
to that order. And truly it does survive, for it dies and
lives again incessantly, enacting before our eyes the very
thing of which we are in search. At all events, I should
insist that the evidence, taken at its best, points unmis-
takably in that direction ; for it indicates human beings,
and thereby indicates the whole order of nature which is
involved in their existence. It may be that our present
notions of the order of nature are too narrow—merely
jjarochial ; and that our right course is to exjDand our
conceptions of nature to fit the evidence, instead of
forcing the evidence into the narrow mould of our existing
ideas. Survival, if proved, cannot stand alone as an
isolated fact. It will react upon the whole body of our
knowledge, as every new discovery inevitably does. It
will compel readjustment all round. Its effect in know-
ledge might even be revolutionary.
But why talk about " survival " at all ? Is not that
304 L. P. Jacks, LL.D. [part
also a question-begging term ? Assuming these beings to
be the persons they seem to be. are we quite sure they
have " survived "—that that is the proper term to apply
to their condition ? Do we know for certain that they
have made a passage, that they have left a familiar port
and arrived at a strange one ? We know, indeed, that
they died. But were we present in the article of their
death, and did we see the departing soul making its
exit to " another world " ? Did they ? Do either they
or we know what happened ? Does their " survival
"
stand in the evidence ? No, it does not. What stands
in the evidence is their existence where they are. There
is no evidence—at least, none that I can credit
—
of hoiv
they got there.
In past ages the nightly disappearance of the sun gave
rise to the belief that the sun had gone away, which is
precisely what it seems to do, and a cosmogony was
constructed to account for the departure and for the
subsequent arrival. Even the idea of "survival" was
introduced to account for the strange doings of the sun.
We now know that the sun has never moved at all :
there has been no departure and no arrival : or rather,
it is we who have departed and arrived, and not the
sun. May it not be that we are here in presence of a
similar problem ? May it not be that where these beings
now are, there they have been all along ; that we have
simply found them in one of their many homes ?
It is a question which opens out into fields of speculation
too vast for me to attempt their exploration now. But
perhaps the notion of multiple personality may have some
light to throw on this matter. No man knows how many
men he is. Which means that no man knows how many
lives he lives, and how many worlds he inhabits here and
now. The many in the one ! We take that as meaning
many atoms of dust combined into one world. But why
not many lives in one life, many selves in one self, many
worlds in one world ? But that is an abyss on the edge
of which it becomes me to pause.
I will only say, in conclusion, that in this inquiry we
are all too ready to " take the cash and let the credit
LXXIV.] Presidential Address. 305
go." The cash is the particular fact we are in search of
—to wit, the fate of some individual whom we have lost
and who was dear to us. The credit is the whole system
of other facts with which this one stands in necessary
relation. To these we give little attention. The emotional
stress is often so great that the particular fact we are
in search of stands out completely isolated in the mind,
and nothing else is of any importance. So Ave take the
cash and let the credit go. But Science cannot look at
the matter in this way. Her main interest is with the
credit ; with the bearing of this thing on all other things.
I am afraid we have sometimes forgotten that. It is not
easy to remember, especially at the present time, when so
many millions are held fast in the grip of their private
sorrows. But we must try to remember it. After all,
the S.P.R., high as its functions are, cannot claim the
highest function of all, which is that of administering
consolation amid the tragedies of life. If that follows
from our labours—well and good ! But it is not for us
to make it our object.
306 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PART
V.
SOME EXPERIMENTS WITH A NEW AUTOMATIST.
A Paper Read to the Society on April 24, 1916.
By Mrs. W. H. Salter.
In the Journal for February, 1915, a notice was inserted
asking members of the Society and their friends to
offer themselves as subjects for experiments in thought-
transference, either with or without hypnotism. Amongst
those who answered this appeal was Mrs. Stuart Wilson,
the new automatist to whom reference is made in the
title of this paper. Mrs. Wilson, who is an American
by birth and the wife of Brigadier-General Charles
Stuart Wilson, C.B., of the Royal Engineers, has been
for many years an associate of the S.P.R., and is known
personally to several members of the Council. I should
like to take this opportunity of thanking Mrs. Wilson
for the trouble to which she has allowed herself to
be put in complying with the various conditions which
I have from time to time suggested in the conduct
of these experiments, and also in providing me with
prompt and detailed records of her own experiences.
Mrs. Wilson and I met each other for the first time
on April 12, 1915, at the Rooms of the Society. Our
original scheme was to carry out a series of experiments
in thought-transference on the same lines as those which
had been canied out with the Misses Tipping (see Proceed-
ings S.P.R., Vol. XXVII.), Mrs. Wilson being the percipient
and I the agent. But we decided in this case to try
the effect of hypnotising the percipient, and accordingly
Dr. Gilbert Scott kindly undertook to be present at
the experiments and to act as hypnotist. Mrs. Wilson
proved a good subject as regards the lighter stages
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 307
of the trance, but Dr. Scott was never able to induce
somnambulism.
We tried seven experiments of this kind, the subjects
chosen for transmission including numbers, playing cards,
simple diagrams, etc. Sometimes I sat in the same room
as the percipient behind a screen, and sometimes in the
passage outside, the door of the room being closed.
A certain amount of success was obtained, especially in
the case of the diagrams, but it seemed doubtful whether
the proportion of successful results was greater than
might be expected from chance-coincidence.
About this time Mrs. Wilson found that when lying
on her bed in the evening she was able by self-suggestion
to put herself into a condition resembling a light hyp-
notic trance, and I therefore proposed that we should
see whether we could obtain a greater degree of success
in experiments at a distance. Accordingly we tried
five experiments under these new conditions between
April 26 and May 16, 1915, Mrs. Wilson again acting
as percipient and I as agent. The times at which
these experiments took place were pre-ai ranged, Mrs.
Wilson being always in London, and I sometimes in
another part of London, and sometimes at Cambridge.
The subjects which I chose for transmission were articles
of various kinds (in two cases pictures) which I held
in my hands or placed in front of me, concentrating
my attention upon them as much as possible. In no
case did Mrs. Wilson get any clear impression of the
subject of the experiment, but she did on several occa-
sions display what appeared to be abnormal knowledge
of my surroundings, and from the reports which she
sent me I formed the opinion that she was likely to
prove a good percipient, if the right conditions could
be devised.
I therefore proposed to Mrs. Wilson that instead of
deliberately trying to convey certain thoughts to her,
I should write automatically at the time of our experi-
ments, with the idea that if thoughts are transmitted
by the subconscious rather than the conscious mind,
Mrs. (Wilson might in this way get into touch with my
308 Mrs, W. H. Salter. [part
subconscious thoughts as expressed in automatic writing.
It is with this third series of experiments that I am
here concerned, and I will begin by describing in greater
detail the conditions under which they were carried out.
As to my own part, I did not in any way modify
the course which I generally follow in regard to my
automatic writing, having come to the conclusion that
better results are likely to be obtained when I leave
my mind entirely free and do not try to direct it
towards any particular subject or person.
Mrs. Wilson's procedure is as follows : having provided
herself with pencil and paper, she lies down in the
dark and lapses almost at once into a light stage of
hypnosis. In this condition a series of very vivid mental
pictures present themselves to her, amounting sometimes
to visual hallucinations. Not infrequently she hears a
voice, it may be her own voice or the voice of some
other unknown person. On some occasions the voice
also has been completely externalised as an auditory
hallucination.
Mrs. Wilson makes brief notes of her impressions
at the conclusion of the experiment ;
sometimes, after
she thinks the experiment is over, she has some further
impressions, which are duly noted. Once or twice it
has happened that the impressions have taken the form
of a vivid dream during ordinary sleep of which Mrs.
Wilson has noted as much as she could remember on
waking. The detailed records which she sent to me
were based on her own contemporary notes, and were
usually written out on the day following the experi-
ment. These records have all been preserved, together
with the postmarks showing the dates upon which they
were despatched.
My own scripts were as usual sent to Mi. Piddington
immediately after they had been written, and before
I had received any statement from Mrs. Wilson as to
her contemporary impressions. I never showed my
scripts to Mrs. Wilson, or gave her any clue as to their
contents. On receiving from her the record of her
own impressions, I usually sent a brief acknowledgement,
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 309
stating—if such were the case—that the experiment
had given interesting results, but by Mrs. Wilson's own
desire I never mentioned any details whatever. It
should therefore be noted that whereas the impressions
received by Mrs. Wilson during any of our preceding
experiments, were in each case known to me, Mrs.
Wilson had no normal knowledge as to the contents
of my preceding scripts, none of the scripts with which
I am here concerned having been published. This point
is important, because it happened more than once that
a topic referred to in my script made its appearance
a short time afterwards in Mrs. Wilson's impressions.
The question may be asked, whether in my con-
versations with Mrs. Wilson or in my letters to her
during the period of these experiments anything was
said which might directly or indirectly turn her thoughts
towards the subject-matter of my contemporary scripts.
I have no hesitation in saying that this factor in the
case is negligible. As I have already remarked, I never
said anything at all to Mrs. Wilson about my own
scripts, and our conversations together were on quite
other subjects. My letters to Mrs. Wilson during this
period have all been preserved. They consist for the most
part either of vaguely encouraging remarks to the
effect that I thought the result of the experiments
interesting, or in suggestions as to the time and con-
ditions of the next experiment.
It will be s_en that the conditions under which these
experiments were carried out were such as to reduce
to small proportions the risk of error from mere in-
accuracy of memory or record. I do not think that
the theory of deliberate collusion between Mrs. Wilson
and myself will be widely held, although I freely admit
that we cannot disprove it.
It will be convenient at this stage to say something
about the extent of Mrs. Wilson's acquaintance with
the various reports on automatic writing which the
Society has published in lecent years, since her impres-
sions might well be influenced by her memory of what
she had read in these reports. Mrs. Wilson, as I have
u
310 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
already stated, has been an Associate of the S.P.R. for
some years. She has therefore received, and in most
cases has read, the Journal and Proceedings, during
this period. She has seldom however read any of their
contents more than once, and her conscious recollection
of them is not extensive or accurate. But for evidential
purposes we must assume that Mrs. Wilson—sub-
consciously at least—knows whatever has appeared in
the Journal or Proceedings. This assumption however
will affect the argument of my paper very little ; for
the connexions of thought between Mrs. Wilson's records
and my scripts relate in the great majority of cases
to topics which are not mentioned, certainly not empha-
sised, in any published reports, so that Mrs. Wilson's
previous knowledge could not lead her to expect that
some allusion would be made to these topics in my
script. Generally speaking, it may be said that whilst
Mrs. Wilson's impressions exhibit hardly any signs of
being influenced by her recollection of published reports
on automatic writing, they have a curious tendency
to dwell upon topics to which more or less frequent
reference has been made in unpublished scripts, of which
Mrs. Wilson could know nothing. This aspect of the
case is one with which I shall not concern myself here,
except in so far as certain of my own scripts, written
during the period of my experiments with Mrs. Wilson,
appear to be reflected in her records. For—besides the
fact that I am not in a position to compare Mrs.
Wilson's records with scripts by other automatists, to
which, being myself an automatist, I do not for evidential
reasons have access-—this interrelation of scripts is a
question which could not be fully discussed without
going into matters not at present publishable. In the
opinion of those investigators who are able to judge
the case, Mrs. Wilson's records are a valuable contribu-
tion to the evidence for supernormal phenomena which the
Society has obtained in the last few years through experi-
ments in various kinds of automatism, chiefly writing.
Having thus indicated the limited scope of this paper,
I will now give an account of a group of cross-corre-
lxxiv.] Some Experiments iviih a New Automatist. 311
spondences which occurred between Mrs. Wilson's records
and my own script during our first seven experiments
together between May 20 and June 16, 1915. The
whole of the script which I wrote during these four
weeks is printed here, either in the main part of the
paper, or in the Appendix at the end, to which I have
for convenience relegated such parts as are not immediately
relevant, and I have also printed the whole of Mrs.
Wilson's records of impressions obtained during this
period. Both the records and the scripts are printed
verbatim with explanatory notes and translations in square
brackets. In some cases I have inserted letters in round
brackets, (a), (b), etc., for convenience of reference in
subsequent comments.
I.
Mrs. Wilson's record of May 20, 1915, has no apparent
connection with my contemporary script and need not
be quoted here. It will be found in the Appendix,
p. 343.
II.
Mrs. Wilson's record of May 23, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
A plant. —A gipsy caravan.—A book.
(a) The portrait of Dr. Wilson [Mrs. Wilson's cousin] who
died with Captain Scott in the Antarctic, and the words
which formed part of Captain Oates' epitaph :
" A very gallant
gentleman." A man's hands.
—
[Here Mrs. Wilson went to
sleep].
After 6 a.m., May 24, 1915.
A race horse.—Then distinct at last something that had
seemed at one time a white crescent moon, at another a
section of my Japanese crystal, and which had been trying
to form itself from the very beginning. A goblet sur-
rounded by soft light and standing on a crescent. I am
sure it meant the Grail.
(b) A gigantic cloudy hand stretched out over a troubled
sea, seen dimly in the cold grey dawn or dusk.
312 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PART
(c) Two women setting out on a journey to some temple.
I do not know why I thought of Baalbek.
(d) A very ugly and formidable whip.—An iron collar.
I was told it was the collar of a willing slave.
H. V* script, May 23, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
Labor non inutilis [labour not useless]—taking the omen
—felix qui potuit 1
[Happy he who was able] —songs of
gladness —the meaning of the song —over the sea 2 —
the water echoes—over the seas our galley went 2
—realms
unknow n—traversing the deep—the peak of Darien 3
—to see
the sunrise—the waters of the sunset—to see the great
Achilles whom we knew 4
—the happy warrior thrice blessed
—
the chain is broken—link in link—there shall never be one
lost good 5
—the circle of life—full tide—full span—the stream
runs slow
—
better to be a slave 6
—but that belongs to Achilles.
The early part of this script consists in a series of
allusions to voyaging both literally and metaphorically
over unknown seas and to the joys of knowledge. We
have first a quotation from the second book of the
Georgics. Virgil is speaking of the philosopher Epicurus
(or of his follower Lucretius) and says :
Felix qui potuit lerum cognoscere causas. [Happy he who
was able to learn the causes of things].
Then follow three quotations from English poems all
dealing with voyages. First the opening line from one
of the songs in Browning's Paracelsus :
Over the seas our galley went.
The meaning of this song in relation to the whole
poem does not concern us here ; it is enough to say
that it tells the story of an imaginary voyage to a land
that no man has visited before. The second quotation
* For convenience of reference all my scripts are filed under these
initials, which are those of my name before marriage.
1
Virg. G. II., 490. 2
Browning, Paracelsus.
3
Keats, On first looking into Chapman's Homer.
4
Tennyson, Ulysses. 5
Browning, Abt Vogler.
4
See Homer, Od. XI., 489.
Lxxrv.] Some Experiments with a New Autornatist. 313
is from Keats' sonnet On first looking into Chapman's
Homer :
Or like stout Cortez when with eagle eyes
He stared at the Pacific—and all his men
Looked at each other in a wild surmise
—
Silent, upon a peak in Darien.
Here we have an allusion to an actual voyage of
discovery applied metaphorically to a discovery in
literature.
The third quotation is from Tennyson, from the poem
in which Ulysses in his old age looks back with regret
upon the days of his wanderings and determines to
make one last voyage before the end comes :
for my purpose holds
To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths
Of all the western stars, until I die.
It may be that the gulfs will wash us down ;
It may be we shall touch the Happy Isles,
And see the great Achilles, whom we knew.
There is an obvious association of ideas between these
passages in my script and Mrs. Wilson's reference to
the portrait of her cousin, Dr. Wilson, and to Captain
Oates' epitaph. The Scott Antarctic expedition, upon
which Dr. Wilson lost his life, is one of the most notable
examples in recent years of a voyage of discovery, and
the spirit which animated it was evidently the spirit
expressed in the various quotations given in my script, —
•
to adventure into undiscovered regions at whatever cost
to oneself. The impression of a gipsy caravan, which
Mrs. Wilson recorded just before hei impression of Dr.
Wilson's portrait, suggests a wandering life and perhaps
belongs to the same train of thought.
This is the only occasion upon which Mrs. Wilson
has made any allusion in her records to Dr. Wilson
or to the Scott expedition, and this is the only occasion,
at least within the period of my experiments with Mrs.
Wilson, upon which my script has referred with such
particular emphasis to the ideas of exploration and
314 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PART
discovery. I should add that until I received Mrs.
Wilson's record, which of course was after my own
script had been written, I did not know that she
and Dr. Wilson were related. I should not however
lay much stress on this connexion between Mrs. Wilson's
record and my contemporary script were it not rein-
forced by another connexion of a moie .definite kind.
Achilles, and by implication Ulysses, make their first
appearance in this script through the quotation from
Tennyson's Ulysses. Then after a short divergence the
script returns to the subject with the words :
Better to be a slave
but that belongs to Achilles.
The allusion here is to the passage in Homer's Odyssey
in which Odysseus, or to give him his Latin name
Ulysoes, goes down to the underworld and meets the
shade of Achilles, who says to him : "I would rather
be a serf with another man for my master and that
man poor, than rule over all the dead that have passed
away."
It will be remembeied that Mrs. Wilson's record
closed with impressions of a whip and a collar (d) de-
scribed as " the collar of a willing slave." This phrase
represents very closely the spirit of Achilles' words.
He is ready to be a slave, if he may return to the
world of living men. The word " slave " moreover is
actually used in my script, although " serf " would be
a better rendering of the Greek.
Two other impressions which Mrs. Wilson recorded
on May 23, 1915 (b and c), show an association of
thought with phiases which occur in my preceding
script of May 20, 1915, written during my first experi-
ment with Mrs. Wilson, and it is woith noting that
at the conclusion of her record on Ma;y 20, 1915, Mrs.
Wilson wrote :
The odd part of the whole experiment is that while I
felt sure I had failed, another part of my mind was insist-
ing that it had got your idea. If so, perhaps it will emerge
from the subconscious stratum before long.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments ivith a New Automatist. 315
H. V. script of May 20, 1915.
The mills of God grind slowly
—
Far away—the fading light—calm was the morn 1
—the
evening and the morning 2—
The temple of Asclepius—the healing draft (sic) a snake
in the temple—the wand—the white wand of the healer
—
stretch forth thy hands.
Broken images—the temple of Baal—they shall count
their flocks—the shepherds and the sheep—Ah who shall
tell the city 3
—jewels was the word 3
—master of the murmur-
ing courts 4—
When I first read through Mrs. Wilson's second record
'(May 23, 1915), I was in some doubt as to how (b)
should be interpreted.
A gigantic cloudy hand stretched out over a troubled sea,
seen dimly in the cold grey dawn or dusk.
I thought the allusion might be to the crossing of
the Red Sea (Exod. xiv. 15 ff.) :
And the Lord said unto Moses ..." Stretch out thine
hand over the sea. and divide it."
But on July 7, 1915, I asked Mrs. Wilson what this
passage in her record suggested to hei, without myself
offering any mterpretation of it. She at once said :
" The Spirit of God moving on the face of the waters."
This takes us to the first chapter of Genesis :
And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.
And God said, Let their be light : and there was light.
. . . And God called the light Day, and the darkness he
called Night. And the evening and the morning were the
first day.5
1
Cf. Tennyson, In Memoriam, XI. :
" Calm is the morn.''
2 Genesis i
.
3
These phrases refer to an earlier H. V. script in which some
words were illegible.
4 Rossetti, Love's Nocturne.
5
This passage figured with some prominence in a paper read by
Mr. J. G. Piddington at a Private Meeting of the Society on January
29, 1915, but Mrs. Wilson was not present at this meeting and knew
nothing of the paper till it was published in December, 1916.
316 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PART
The words " the evening and the morning," are quoted
in my script of May 20, 1915. They occur six times
in Genesis, Chapter I., once for each day of creation,
and my script leaves it an open question to which of
the six days reference is here made. But there is
undoubtedly a reference to the first chapter of Genesis ,
to which Mrs. Wilson, according to her own independent
interpretation, referred on May 23, 1915.
Further, Mrs. Wilson's impression of a " hand stretched
out over a troubled sea " is immediately followed by
an impression of two women setting out on a journey
to a temple, and Mis. Wilson adds that she thought
of Baalbek, which is a town at the foot of Mount
Lebanon, and was one of the chief seats of the worship
of t he Assyrian sun -god Baal.
In my script of May 20, 1915, immediately after the
quotation from Genesis, there is a reference to the
temple of Aesculapius (Asclepius), the god of healing.
This topic is pursued in the allusion to the snake, one
of the symbols most frequently associated with Aesculapius,
and in several phrases about healing, which conclude
with the words :
" Stretch forth thy hands."
Taking the context into consideration, I think the
allusion here is probably to the healing of the man
with the withered hand.
Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. 1
If the allusion in my script is to this passage, the words
are not quite accurately given ; hand should be singular
and not plural. The words "stretch forth thy hands"
occur in John xxi. 18, but the context there has
no relevance to the context in my script. So far as the
cross -correspondence between myself and Mrs. Wilson
is concerned, it matters little to which passage my
script is taken to refer.
The script then goes on :
Broken images—the temple of Baal—they shall count their
flocks—the shepherds and the sheep.
1
Matt. xii. 13. I am confirmed in this opinion by the fact that a fortnight
later in .my script of June 4, 1915, the words "the palsied hand" occur.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 317
There is almost certainty a reference here to Byron's
poem The Destruction of . Sennacherib
.
The widows of Ashur are loud in their wail,
And the idols are broke in the temple of Baal
;
and this perhaps accounts for the subsequent allusion
in the script to shepherds and sheep, for the opening
line of Byron's poem is :
The Assyrian came down like a wolf on the fold.
Howevei that may be, the " temple of Baal " makes
a clear point of connexion between my script and Mrs.
Wilson's record of three days later containing an allusion
to Baalbek. This is the only time that there has been
any reference to Baal in Mrs. Wilson's recoids.
In my own script the line quoted above
And the idols are broke in the temple of Baal,
was quoted on August 11, 1910 (an unpublished script).
There have been one oi two other allusions, certain
or probable, to The Destruction of Sennacherib, but no
other allusions to the temple of Baal.
It will be observed that whereas in my script the
allusions to a hand outstretched and to the first chapter
of Genesis emerge as two quite distinct lines of thought,
in Mrs. Wilson's record they are combined into a single
impression of a hand stretched out over the sea, which
symbolises " the spirit of God moving on the face of
the waters." This difference in form may seem to dim-
inish the force of the coincidence, but we must take
into consideration that in such cases each individual
mind is likely to follow pre-existing lines of association
and these will almost certainly introduce individual
modifications of the form in which any given idea is
clothed. What is notable in these cases is that in one
form or another the same ideas do arise in two or
more minds, and I believe that a careful study of the
varieties of form into which ideas are moulded by each
individual mind might throw interesting light on the
mental processes lying behind these phenomena.
318 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Tabular Summary.
May 20, 1915. May 23, 1915.
Wilson
Record.
A temple, associated with
Baalbek. A hand stretched
out over the sea, associated
with Genesis i. 2.
The Scott Antarctic Ex-
pedition.
A willing slave.
V.
Script.
" The evening and the
morning" Genesis i. 5 ff
.
"stretch forth thy hands."
The temple of Baal.
Several allusions to voy-
ages of discovery.
" Better to be a slave."
Achilles.
M
III.
Mrs. Wilson's record, May 28, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
(a) Snow-covered mountains with a narrow valley between
them and at the end of the valley a cavern, out of which
darted long snaky necks with dragon-like heads.
(b) Something that looked like an implement made of
ivory which was twirling so rapidly that it took me some
time to realise that it was a spindle.
(c) The market-place of a quaint old town, like the Spanish
towns I know so well. A puppet show was going on. The
puppets were in costumes of somewhere about the period
of Philip the Second. Then came another picture, still of
a mediaeval hill-town at night. This time the square was
emptj and a church-tower stood out against the sky, while
to the right of it there shone high above the horizon a
brilliant constellation. Someone said :
" A sign in the
heavens."
(d) Snow mountains again and the voice, which last night
was distinctly my own said : " The untrodden heights."
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with, a New Automatist. 319
(e) A quotation from Browning which has haunted me all
the afternoon :
God's in His Heaven
All's well with the world." 1
(/) After this I stopped, got out of bed and wrote it
down, but, after I was in bed a sain, I began to wonder
about the spindle, and at once saw the Sleeping Beauty
with the old women in the attic, playing Avith the spindle,
saw her prick her thumb and immediately afterwards I
saw the valley with the cavern at the end, with the figure
of a girl in white going towards it, and I realised she was
Psyche on her vvaj to Proserpine at Aphrodite's bidding.
As the result of that visit was that she fell into a death-
like sleep on her way home, I wonder if the idea you want
is not some allusion to s trance-like sleep ?
Now Mrs. Wilson's impressions on this occasion seem
to show two distinct stratifications of thought. We
have first the impression of a valley between snow
mountains with a cavern at the end of it, followed
by the impression of a spindle. At the end of the
record these two ideas seem to coalesce into the impres-
sion of a tianee-like sleep, as represented by the Sleeping
Beauty, who fell asleep after pricking her thumb with a
poisoned spindle, and by Psyche who fell asleep after her
visit to Proserpine.
The other stratum of thought is represented by two
mental pictuies of mediaeval hill-towns and a quotation
from Pippa Passes. Between these two pictures and
Browning's poem there is a natural link, for the scene
of the poem is laid at Asolo, a mediaeval hill-town of
North Italy.
I now turn to my own scripts of which theie are
two to be considered here, one written on May 27,
1915, the other on Ma\ 28, 1915, during my experi-
ment with Mrs. Wilson.
H. V. script of May 27, 1915, 11.30 a.m.
The garden of sleep—poppy seed—hellebore—the grape of
Proserpine
—
2
1
Pippa Passes. 2
Keats, Ode on Melancholy.
320 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
no, no go not to Lethe
—
1
by the banks of the river—the flowing stream—run slow
run fast
—
even the wariest (sic) river
—
2
Litany—with prayer and fasting—All Souls—for they rest
from their labours
—
3
white-robed the saints in glory—the open gate—cardine
portae—
Beyond imagining—a solemn musick 4
—the passionate hope 5
—the evening bell 6
—the last ray lingering on the meadow
—
the sun in heaven—drifting on—ivory—an ivory tower 7
—and
a green wreath—full of content
—
rock of ages—the water shall flow—in a green land
—
The ideas upon which stress is laid in the first part
of this script are sleep and the goddess who brings sleep,
that is Proserpine.
There are two quotations from the opening lines of
Keats' Ode on Melancholy.
No, no ! go not to Lethe, neither twist
Wolf's bane, tight-rooted, for its poisonous wine ;
Nor suffer thy pale forehead to be kissed
By nightshade, ruby grape of Proserpine.
and almost immediately afterwards there is a quotation
from Swinburne's Garden of Proserpine :
From too much love of living
From hope and fear set free,
We thank with brief thanksgiving
Whatever gods may be
That no life lives for ever,
That dead men rise up never,
That even the weariest river
Winds somewhere safe to sea.
1 Keats, Ode on Melancholy.
2
Swinburne, The Garden of Proserpine.
3
Cf. Litanei (Schubert) " Ruh'n in Friede alle Seelen."
4
Milton, At a Solemn Musick.
5
Cf. Browning, Abt Vogler, and Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXII., p. 59.
6
Cf. Tennyson, Crossing the Bar.
7
Cf. Cant. vii. 4: "Thy neck is a tower of ivory."
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a Neiv Aulomatist. 321
With these phrases in my script compare Mrs. Wilson's
allusion to Proserpine and her suggestion that the idea
which is wanted is " some allusion to a trance-like
sleep."
My script of May 27, 1915, is also connected with
Mrs. Wilson's record of the following day by the occur-
rence in both of the word ivory. In H. V. script it is
applied to a tower and in Mrs. Wilson's record to a
spindle, but it should be noted that the material is
emphasised in each case. Mrs. Wilson sees " something
that looked like an implement made of ivory," afterwards
identified as a spindle, and H. V. script has :
ivory—an ivory tower
—
Later in her record Mrs. Wilson notes an impression
of a tower, but she does not associate this in any way
with the ivory spindle.
If this cross-correspondence on the word " ivory " is
more than a chance-coincidence, it is an instance of the
tendency on the part of each automatist, to which I
referred above, p. 317, to " introduce individual modifica-
tions of the form in which any given idea is clothed."
Twice in my recent scripts (March 18 and March 24,
1914) I had alluded to " a tower of ivory." The words
are from Canticles vii. 4 :
Thy neck is a tower of ivory,
but the immediate reference in the script was to a poem
by Walter de la Mare, of which the opening lines are
There was nought in the valley
But a tower of ivory ;
a poem with which I am familiar.
When therefore I wrote the script of May 27, 1914,
there existed in my mind a strong link of association
between " ivory " and " tower," so that any allusion
to the former would almost inevitably lead me on to
the latter. In Mrs. Wilson's case this particular association
had no force, and she links her impression of ivory
with a spindle, perhaps because the story of the Sleeping
Beauty was already latent in her mind.
322 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PART
This is the only time that the word " ivory " has
occurred in Mrs. Wilson's records. She had no knowledge
of my scripts of March 14 and March 24, 1914.
Mrs. Wilson's record of May 28, 1915, also included
as I have said, an impression of the Sleeping Beauty
" with the old women in the attic," pricking her thumb
with the poisoned spindle. It thus shows a connexion
of thought with a passage in my own contemporary
script which runs :
Thrice the brindled cat hath mewed ]
—spells and potions
—
the w itches brew—Medea's cauldron 2—
For according to the story of the Sleeping Beauty " the
old women in the attic " were witches, and it was in
consequence of the spell laid upon her by one of them
that she fell asleep.
Tabular Summary.
May 27, 1915. May 28, 1915.
H.
V.
Script.
The garden of sleep—the
grape of Proserpine—(the
garden of Proserpine).
an ivory tower.
spells and potions,
the witches' brew, etc.
Wilson
Record.
A trance-like sleep.
Proserpine.
An ivory spindle.
The Sleeping Beauty,
with the old women
(witches).
IV.
Mrs. Wilson's record of June 4, 1915, 10.30 p.m.
(a) The first impression was of a bas-relief cut in rock
representing gods or kings. I thought it was a reminiscence
1
Cf. Shakespeare, Macbeth, Act iv., sc. i, (The witches' song).
"Brindled" should be " brinded."
2
For the rest of this script see Appendix, p. 315.
lxxiv.J Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 323
of Egypt, but was told it was India. When I say told
I do not mean that I heard voices, for last night there
were none, but none the less T understood that certain words
were to be recorded. There were a lot of Indian scenes,
most of them in a town. Towaids the end of the series
there was one of a square, or garden, with canals and
very brilliant flower-beds. In the background were large
and very fine gates opening into a park.
Next came a landscape, a rolling country with enormous
tawny hills in the distance. The whole place seemed a
desert.
Then came a seaport that seemed almost European, and
then a very black and rough sea.
The last of all was, I suppose, meant for the Jungle.
There were enormous trees with heavy dark foliage and at
their base a sort of thicket of bamboo which seemed to be
getting sun from somewhere, for the delicate pale-green leaves
were very lovely.
The words :
" There is one glory of the sun and another
of the moon." 1
[After this Mrs. Wilson went to sleep.]
(b) In the early morning, almost a dream. [June 5, 1915.]
The same park [as above] with the gates closed. I was
standing outside and in the air near me, surrounded with
golden light, there floated a baby's hand. Inside the gates
and to the right there was a house, and at the top of a
flight of steps leading to the door stood a woman in white.
I could not get all the words, or else I forgot them at
once.
" A child's hand and a woman's . .
."
(c) A dream [June 5, 1915.]
I was one of a large company ; we were just living our
lives, and among us constantly was a young man in the
black and white habit of a monk. He was very thin and
haggard, but it was an angelic face, so pure and sweet
with rings of fair hair curling round the forehead. He came
and went and we all knew him, and I do not know what
happened, but suddenly we realised that he was " Death,
the unrecognised familiar friend, the conciliator and consoler."
1
1 Cor. xv. 41.
324 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [PART
The first two sections of Mrs. Wilson's record (a
and b) consist in a series of impressions of India, with
one of which (the park scene) Mrs. Wilson associates
an impression of a woman and child. She also associates
with this series a quotation from the English burial
service (1 Cor. xv.).
There is probably a first emergence here of the same
train of thought which appears more definitely amongst
Mrs. Wilson's impressions on June 13, 1915 (see below),
that " some one in India has had a great grief, the
death of a child, I think."
It is with the last section of Mrs. Wilson's record
(c) that I am now concerned.
In older to make clear the connexion which I believe
exists between Mrs. Wilson's dream and my own script
written on the same day, I must go back to the last
of the five earlier experiments carried out by Mrs. Wilson
and me, the conditions of which I have described in
my introduction (p. 307). Briefly, I as agent endeavoured
at a pre-arranged time to transmit a definite idea of
some kind to Mis. Wilson. I quote my own contemporary
note of this experiment.
May 16, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
I sat in my bedroom at 5 Selwyn Gardens, Cambridge,
looking at Diirer's picture " Ritter, Tod und Teufel " [The
Horseman, Death and the Devil], the picture which suggested
" Sintram."
Shortly before the experiment M. de G. V. [my mother,
Mrs. Verrall] suggested as a subject the picture hanging
in her room called " Der Tod als Freund " [Death the Friend],
but I did not choose this, because I did not think I could
visualise the picture sufficiently clearly.
The picture by Albrecht Diirer, which was the subject
of this experiment, is probably familiar to most of my
readers. It represents a knight on horseback with Death
" on a pale horse " riding beside him, and walking behind
a fiendish creature with a boar-like head. The con-
nexion between this picture and Sintram is that it was
sent to Baron de la Motte Fouque by a friend with a
Lxxrv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 325
request for an explanation, and the Baron replied to this
request by writing " Sintram and his Companions : A
Northern Tale after Albrecht Diirer.'' 1
The other picture mentioned in my note on May 16,
1915, " Der Tod als Freund," is a German woodcut repre-
senting the interior of a belfry-tower. The bell-ringer,
a very old man, is sitting in a chair ; he has evidently
died whilst ringing the angelus, and Death, dressed as
a Pilgrim, is ringing the bell for him. Through the
belfry-window, looking westwards, a landscape is visible,
a level stretch of fields, lit by the rays of the setting
sun.
Mrs. Wilson's impressions on May 16, 1915, did not
appear to have any relation to either of these pictures,
and the experiment was therefore reckoned a failure.
I said nothing whatever to Mrs. Wilson as to what
the subject of it had been.
When I read Mrs. Wilson's account of her impressions
on June 4, 1915, and in the early morning of June 5,
with the allusion at the end to " Death the unrecognised,
familiar friend," I was at once reminded of the sub-
ject of our experiment on May 16. Mrs. Wilson's dream
suggested that she had received a belated impression of
an idea I had then thought of conveying to her, and I
looked at my script of June 4, 1915, to see if any
recurrence to the subject of the earlier experiment could
be found there also. I will now quote part of this
script.2
H. V. script of June 4, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
... a curtain of darkness—a lantern in the dark—the
little candle
The race is won
In lonely splendour
—
stone on stone
—
the horseman (At this point I fell asleep and slept for
nearly two hours. On reading the script through the next morn-
1
Sintram und seine Gefahrten. Eine nordische Erzahlung nach
Albrecht Diirer.
2 For the rest of the script see Appendix, p. 346.
x
326 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
ing, I noticed that the last sentence appeared to be unfinished
and thought that I would try to complete it).
June 5. 1905, 10.20 a.m.
The horseman of the dawn
—
the knocking at the gate . . .
The allusion to a horseman suggested the title of
Diirer's picture, The Horseman, Death and the Devil,
but I was not sufficiently familiar with the story of
Sintram, which I read as a child, to remember whether
there was any point in referring to him as " the horse-
man of the dawn," a curious and distinctive phrase.
I therefore read the book again on June 12, 1915, and
will now give an outline of the story, emphasising the
relevant points.
Story of Sintram and His Companions.
Sintram 's father, Bjorn, and other knights are sitting in
council when Sintram, a boy of twelve, rushes in frightened
and says that Death and " yet Another " are there behind
him. Bjorn refuses to explain the incident, but Rolf, an
old servant, eventually tells the story of the curse which
is on Sintram.
One Christmas when the child was five years old,
his father,—to keep an oath sworn in anger—determined to
kill in cold blood two helpless merchants who had sought
refuge in his castle. When his wife Verena tries to restrain
him from this crime, he calls on Death and the Devil and
stakes his child's soul upon the keeping of his oath. Verena
calls for God's help, a sudden blindness comes upon Bjorn
and his followers, and the merchants escape. Ever since
then the child has been subject to these strange visitations
at Christmas time. Verena has gone into a convent, where
she spends her time praying for her husband and son.
The story then develops, and Sintram passes through various
periods of temptation, in consequence of the curse. The
climax of the story is reached in Chapter 27. Sintram, now
a grown man, has been to visit the old priest at the convent
where his mother is living. The priest tells him that the
crisis of his life is now at hand. He is to ride home to
lxxiv.] Some Experiments ivith a New Automatist. 327
his father's castle alone by night, and on the way he will
be assailed by the powers of evil. The priest prays
for him, and he sets out on horseback, accompanied
by his dog. Then follows the scene based upon Diirer's
picture.
" In front of Sintram the dark valley stared at him like
his grave." He rides on, and presently is joined by a figure
on a small tired horse, who insists on riding with him.
At first Sintram does not know who his companion is, but
eventually the unknown rider reveals himself as Death. He
carries an hour glass in his hand, from which a light shines,
he has a snake wreathed about his head, and his horse has
a bell round its neck which rings a death-knell, as he moves
on. Then the devil, in the shape of a beast half boar and
half bear, comes up behind and tempts Sintram, who how-
ever resists him, and commends his soul into the hands
of Death. The devil then leaves him, and Sintram supposes
that he is now to die. But Death explains that it is to
Sintram's father, Bjorn, that he is coming and not to Sintram
himself. His aspect then changes, the gleam in the hour-
glass grows brighter, the snaky crown becomes a shining
palm-wreath, the horse turns into a white vaporous cloud
and the bell begins to play lullabies. Sintram rides home.
" Death had vanished, but in front there floated something
like a rosy cloud of dawn,1
which remained visible after
the sun had risen and was shining bright and warm in the
winter sky."
Meanwhile (Chapter 28) Bjorn is lying at the castle in
a trance, and is supposed to be dead. A group of servants
are talking together, when another servant breaks in upon
them in great excitement, and says : "A horseman 2
is ap-
proaching, a wonderful horseman, I would think he was
Lord Sintram, but a bright, bright cloud of dawn drifts close
in front of him all the way, and plays upon him with such
brilliant lights that you might think it was just red flowers
falling on him. And besides that his horse has a reddish
wreath on its head, such as I have never been used to
see worn by our dead master's son."
Another servant explains that he made the horse a wreath
1
Eine rothliche Morgenwolke. 2
Ein ritter.
328 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
of red oak-leaves the day before as an emblem of victory.
Something seemed to tell him he must.
Meanwhile Sintram reaches the castle. Bjorn rouses himself
from the trance, and cries out :
" '
Who is this that comes ?
I know, it is my son Sintram. But whom does he bring
with him ? That is the whole question. On that depends
whether I am lost or no/
'
You are not lost, dear father,' said Sintram 's friendly
voice through the gently opened door, and the rosy cloud
of dawn drifted in with him.
Bjorn folded his hands, looked thankfully up to Heaven
and said with a smile :
'
Yes, yes thank God, it is the
right companion. It is beautiful, friendly Death.' " 1
Sintram and Bjorn have some talk together, and then the
story goes on :
" Little by little the hall grew quieter. The old knight's
last hour was approaching. ... At the end the dying man
said :
'
Is that Verena's evening bell at the convent ?
'
Sintram nodded. . . . Then it was as though a ray of
light flashed from the old eyes, the dawn-cloud wrapped itself
close about him, and light and cloud and life had gone
together from the corpse."
It may therefore be said that " the horseman of the
dawn " is a very apt description of Sintram as he is
represented by de la Motte Fouque in the principal
incident of his stoiy, based on Durer's picture ; more-
over the " dawn-cloud," which floats before Sintram,
symbolises Death, the friend, whom he brings to his
father, so that an allusion to this incident is well chosen
to biing out the underlying association of ideas between
the two pictures which figure in the experiment on May
16, 1915. Durer's picture (the origin of Sintram) and
the picture representing Death the friend.
V.
Mrs. Wilson had very few impressions on this occasion
(June 8, 1915), and since they do not appear to have
1
Der schone, freundliche Tod.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 329
any connexion with my contemporary script, they need
not be discussed here. (See Appendix, p. 345.)
VI.
Mrs. Wilson's record of June 13, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
Very few pictures and a perfect torrent of words. Blank
verse, I think. I have still a distinct idea of the metre,
but of course could only remember a sentence here and
there. The ideas seem to be, first, that someone in India
has had a great grief, the death of a child, I think ;
secondly,
that someone is called or chosen for some work, not entirely
easy.
A red and stormy sunset over the desert.
One of those little green plants, called Jonah's gourd,
that grow in the sand.
The facade of a house or temple, the columns linked
together with white flowers woven into heavy ropes.
An interior and the words :
" one who sits desolate."
"My house left desolate unto me." "Rachel mourning for
her children." Then a picture of a round-faced, fair-haired
woman embracing two children. I heard her say :
" Yes,
I have these left."
I forgot to say there was an impression of an oriental
bazaar to signify India was intended.
What follows seems to have no connexion with what I
have already written.
" Above all things to thine own self be true,
Thou canst not then be false to any man." 1
"A harp of a thousand strings." 2
With this the picture of a wind -harp hanging from the
branch of a. tree, and the next two sentences are still evi-
dently struggling with the harp idea.
"By the waters of Babylon we sat and wept."
" How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land." 3
Then any amount of blank verse, and with it a vision
of the Abbey picture of Galahad taking his seat at the Round
Table, followed by the one where he keeps vigil over his
armour.
1
Shakespeare, Hamlet, Act I., sc. iii.
2
Dr. Watt's Hymns. 3
Psalm cxxxvii. 4.
330 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Lastly the words : The dark things shall be made plain,
and the crooked things straight." 1
This morning [June 14, 1915], just before I opened my eyes,
the two following symbols :
Mrs. Wilson divides her impressions on this occasion
into two groups. The first she describes as centering
about " the idea that some one in India has had a
great grief," probably " the death of a child," seems
to be connected with her earlier impressions on June
4, 1915 (see above, p. 322). It is with the second group
that I am now concerned. Mrs. Wilson describes it as
representing the idea that " some one is called or chosen
for some work not entirely easy."
This same idea seems also to be represented in the
opening sentences of my own contemporary script, which
I will now quote.
H. V. script of June 13, 1905, 10.15 p.m.
non datur omnibus [It is not given to all]—some and another
—here and there
—
the priest who slays the slayer and shall himself be slain— 3
truth and a sword—a two-edged sword— 4
though I should perish—the prayer of Ajax
—
5
the master-stroke
—
The rising morn,6
the daystar
The flight of the Duchess—
Crive to me the life I love 7
the wayfarer's song
the song of the bird
—
1
Cf. Isaiah xl. 4.
2
See below, p. 333.
3
Cf. Macaulay, Lays of Ancient Rome. " The priest who slew the
slayer," etc.
4
Cf. Rev. i. 16, and Heb. iv. 12. 6
Cf. Homer, II. 17, 645.
8 Grey, The Bard. 7
R. L. Stevenson, Song of the Road.
2
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 331
The sun over the meadow
—
the sign by the way
—
in a strange land 1
—the flowing tide—fallen upon evil
days
—
lily of the valley
—
2
In the quotation from Macaulay allusion is made
to the priest of Diana at Nemi. He was usually a
runaway slave, who became piiest by killing his pre-
decessor in single combat, and held office until he was
himself killed by his successor. This quotation, taken
with the preceding words of the sciipt, seems to indicate
a man endowed with some special faculty or appointed
to a special task.
The next words of the script :
truth and a sword—a two-edged sword
seem to be derived from several closely connected passages
of the Bible. Compare, for instance, the following :
And he had in his right hand seven stars : and out of
his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword : and his countenance
was as the sun shineth in his strength. Rev. i. 16.
For the wotd of God is quick and powerful, and sharper
than a two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder
of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is
a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart. Heb.
iv. 12.
Stand therefore having your loins girt about with truth
and having on the breast-plate of righteousness . . . And
take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit,
which is the word of God. Eph. vi. 14-17.
With this allusion in my script to truth, compare
Mrs. Wilson's quotation from Hamlet
:
Above all things to thine own self be true.
The next phrases in my script of June 13 :
though I should perish—the prater of Ajax,
are an allusion to a passage in Homer's Iliad, where
the Greek warrior Ajax, finding himself and his com-
1
Ps. cxxxvii. 4 2
Cant. ii. 1.
332 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
pardons surrounded by a dark mist on the battlefield,
prays to Zeus to disperse it, saying :
" Give us light, though thou destroy us in it."
The words of the script which follow almost immediately
after the reference to Ajax :
the rising mom—the day-star
appear to be following a similar train of thought, for
they allude, I think, to a passage in the Second Epistle
of Peter (i. 19).
We have also a more sure word of prophecy ; whereunto
ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth
in a dark place, until the day dawn and the day-star arise
in your hearts.
With these allusions in my script to the idea of
light dispersing darkness, compare Mrs. Wilson's impression
of the words :
" The dark things shall be made plain
and the crooked things straight."
These words are an inaccurate quotation from Isaiah
xl. 4:
The crooked shall be made straight and the rough places
plain.
It will be observed that Mrs. Wilson has substituted
" dark things " for " rough places," and changed the
meaning of the word " plain." Students of automatic
writing will remember other cases in which it seems
as though a passage of literature has been deliberately
misquoted in order to emphasise an association of thought
between two scripts.
The words in my script of June 13 " the sign by the
way " were interpreted by me at the time as denoting
a cross, because I associated them with a picture by
Frank Dicksee, with a reproduction of which in a bound
number of the Magazine of Art I was familiar as a
child ; a conspicuous figure in the picture is an old beggar
sitting by the roadside holding up a crucifix. Indeed,
until I investigated the question with a view to writing
this paper, I thought that The Sign by the Way was.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 333
the title of the picture. On this point I was mistaken,
for the picture is called The Symbol; but the words of
my script were associated in my mind with this picture
and therefore with a cross. 1
It will be remembered that at the end of her record
of June 13, 1915. Mrs. Wilson noted that on first wak-
ing on the morning of June 14, she saw the two follow-
ing symbols :
The second of these drawings is the famous Constan-
tinian monogram. The symbol represents the Greek
letters x an<^ P an<^ r )> the *wo letters of the
name Christ. The legend runs that when Constantine
the Great was on the march against Maxentius, whom
he soon afterwards defeated at Saxa Rubra, he saw
one day a luminous cross in the sky above the mid-
day sun, inscribed with the words Hoc signo vinces (By
this sign thou shait conquer). During the following night
Christ himself appeared to Constantine and diiected him
to set the symbol of the cross upon his standard a ad
march on with assurance of victory. As a result of
these two visions Constantine adopted the Christian faith
and set upon his standard (labarum) a cross, a crown,
and the monogram ch r.
There is thus a connexion of thought between my allusion
on June 13, to " the sign by the way " (interpreted
by me as a cross) and Mrs. Wilson's impression on the
morning of June 14 of the Constantinian monogram,
and it is worth noting that in her first impression she
substitutes a cross for the Greek letter p. Moreover,
the cross which Constantine saw in the sky, the sign
1
The letter-press describing the picture (in the Magazine of Art) speaks of
the old beggar "sitting by the wayside," and this perhaps accounts for my
mistake about the title of the picture. The phrase "the wayside cross"
which occurs in two earlier scripts of mine (January 31 and September 23,
1912) is probably an emergence of the same group of associations.
334 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
by which it was said he should conquer, might well
he described as " a sign by the way," since he was
on the maich when he saw it.
There is yet one more cross-correspondence to be
noted between Mis. Wilson and me on June 13, the
most precise of all. I will quote again a short extract
from my script of that day :
the wayfarer's song—the song of the bird
—
The sun over the meadow
—
the sign by the way
—
in a strange land
—
Compare with this Mrs. Wilson's quotation on the
same day from the 137th Psalm :
How shall we sing the Lord's song in a strange land ?
Tabular Summary.
June 13, 1915.
Wilson Record. H. V. Script.
Someone called or chosen
for work not easy.
" Above all things to thine
own self be true."
" The dark things shall be
made plain."
" How shall he sing the
Lord's song in a strange
land ?
"
It is not given to all
—
" The priest who slays the
slayer," etc.
Truth and a sword.
Ajax' prayer (for light in
darkness).
The wayfarer's song . . .
in a strange land.
The sign by the way.
The suggestion which I have put forward above that
a cross-correspondence occurred between Mrs. Wilson
and myself in our respective allusions to the Constan-
the sign by the way " had a
tinian monogram and
lxxiv.] Some Experiments ivith a Neio Automatist. 335
curious sequel. On April 14, 1916, I read this paper,
substantially as it appears here, at a meeting of this
Society, at which Mrs. Wilson was present. On the
following day, April 15, 1916, Mrs. Wilson and I tried
another experiment and her record on that occasion
contains the following words :
" Hark all ye that pass by ! Is there any sorrow
like unto this soriow ?
"
The reference here is to Lamentations i. 12 :
Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by ? behold, and see
if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow . . .
Now the opening words of this verse (italicised above)
are the motto of the picture by Frank Dicksee, with
which, as I have said, I associated the phrase in my
script " the sign by the way." When I read my paper
on April 14, I was awaie of this fact, having looked
up the leproduction of the picture (see above, p. 332),
but I said nothing of the motto in my paper, as it
did not appear relevant to the matter in hand. I
was interested therefoie to find that Mrs. Wilson had
quoted it in her recoid on the following day, April
15, and on April 18 I wrote to ask her whether she
knew the picture by Dicksee of which I had spoken
in my paper and knew what was the motto to it. Mrs.
Wilson replied that, so far as she knew, she had never
seen the picture in question and had no idea what
the motto might be. It is obviously impossible to
prove that Mrs. Wilson is correct in thinking that she
has never had any normal knowledge concerning the
picture and its motto,1
and therefore the quotation of this
motto in her record of April 15, 1916, nidy be due
to a revived memory. The most probable alternative
hypothesis seems to be that Mrs. Wilson's impression
of the passage from Lamentations was deiived by thought-
transference from my mind.
1
As to whether Mrs. Wilson is likely to have seen the original
picture, it is worth noting that it was exhibited in the Royal Academy
of 1881—at which date Mrs. Wilson was a young child and still living
in America—and was bought by a private collector.
336 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
VII.
Mrs. Wilsons record of June 16, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
The first scene looked to me like a distant view of the
hills, looking towards Nazareth from the Plain of Esdrelon.
I have been there and it seemed to me I recognised the
outlook. Then I saw the hills nearer, but though it still
seemed to me Nazareth was meant, I saw no village, only
a lonely figure in e white robe, and another part of my
mind insisted that the Temptation in the Wilderness was
intended.
Next came a lion's head, and then the lion of St. Mark,
with the halo and the open evangel.
After that the death mask of Aknaton,1
the Pharaoh of
whom I spoke the other day as being a religious genius,
and later on his symbol for Divine Beneficence, the sun
with a little hand at the end of each ray. The association
which suggested "Lead, kindly light" is obvious.
Pansies, and the words " Heartsease."
A book with bright-coloured pictures of daily life.
A city on the banks of a great river.
A ruined amphitheatre. The lorum at Rome. A ruined
temple on a hill.
That was all for last night. This morning I kept seeing
words, and tried to write them down, with the following
result :
"The knowledge wrested from God poured out on men."
Then the conventional design of a rose and the word
" rosicrucian."
Lastly the winged staff with the twining serpents which
I associated with Mercury rather than Aesculapius, though
I have never happened to notice if there is any difference
between the staves.
I do not know whether the words that haunted me while
I dressed have any right to be added :
" The spirits of just
men made perfect."
1
On June 14, 1915, I lunched with Mrs. Wilson, and she mentioned
to me as a book worth reading the Biography of Aknaton, Pharaoh of
Egypt. She said he was the "heretical Pharaoh" and an interesting
character. So far as I can remember she told me nothing more of him
than that.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments ivith a New Automatist. 337
My script on June 16, 1915, was written in two
parts, one at 3.20 p.m. and the other contemporaneously
with Mrs. Wilson at 10.15 p.m. 1
The earlier part contains the following passage :
And it came to pass in 40 days
—
days of penance—the peace-offering.
When I read this script through immediately after
writing it, I supposed that the allusion in these words
was to the Temptation in the Wilderness.
Then was Jesus led up of the spirit into the wilderness
to be tempted of the devil.
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights,2
he Avas afterwards an hungered.3
I still hold that this interpretation is almost certainly
conect, although there are two other passages in the
Bible to which it might be thought that allusion was
made.
(a) Genesis viii. 6.
It came to pass in forty days that Noah opened the window
of the ark which he had made ; and he sent forth a raven.
(b) Exodus xxxiv. 28 (the story of Moses going up into
Mount Sinai)
.
He was then with the Lord forty days and forty nights :
he did neither eat bread, no* drink water.
The first words quoted from the script " and it came
to pass in 40 days " are an almost exact quotation
from the passage in Genesis and it might therefore be
held that the words of my script must be taken as
referring to the flood ; but this interpretation does
not satisfactorily explain the next words of the script
" days of penance," which must be taken into con-
sideration as indicating the trend of thought expressed
1
See Appendix, p. 348.
2
I am indebted to Mr. Bayfield for the suggestion that the tem-
poral form of this sentence (" when he had fasted,"' etc.), is repre-
sented in my script by the words " and it came to pass."
3 Matthew iv. 1, 2.
338 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
in the writing. These words might refer equally well
to the sojourn of Moses on Mount Sinai or to Christ's
sojourn in the Wilderness, since both were periods of
fasting ; indeed the transition of thought from one
event to the other is very easy. I do not propose to
discuss the connexion between them ; it is enough
for my purpose to point out that the marginal reference
at Luke v. 1 (the Temptation in the Wilderness) is
to Exodus xxxiv. 28 (Moses on Mount Sinai). But
I believe that the allusion in my script is rather to
the Temptation, chiefly because that is how I inter-
preted the words, immediately after writing them, and
I think an automatist's contemporary interpretation of
a script is likely to be correct. But whether or no
my script should be interpreted as referring explicitly
to the Temptation, an allusion to it may be regarded
as implicit in the script. For to any one familiar with
the Gospel narrative a reference to a period of 40 days
which were "days of penance" would inevitably recall
the Temptation, the most famous of all such periods.
Assuming then that in my earlier script on June 16,.
1915, there is a reference, at least implicitly, to the
Temptation, there is on this point a cross-coriespondence
between Mrs. Wilson and myself, for her first impression
on that day, received a few hours after my script was
written, was of the Temptation.
1 now turn to the second part of my script of June
16, 1915, written during my experiment with Mrs. Wilson.
It begins as follows :
Dominus illuminatio mea 1
[The Lord is my light].
non eadem vultu demisso [Not the same with downcast face]
the walls of stone—the city wall a walled city—Avatch-
man what of the night ? the answering word—the sleeping
city—the bridge at midnight—a poet's dream
—
I will first analyse this script, considering especially
the various literary allusions which it contains and
their implications. In this case also I am interpreting
my script according to opinions which I formed before
1
Psalm xxvii. 1 ; the motto of the University of Oxford.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 339''
I had any knowledge of Mis. Wilson's contemporary
record. The script begins with the opening words (in
Latin) of the 27th Psalm, "The Lord is my light.'"
The next words, also in Latin, are obscure and I will
not discuss them here. The phrase " Watchman what
of the night ?
" involves two literary associations :
(a) It is a quotation, in the first instance, from Isaiah
xxi. 11 :
Watchman what of the night ? The watchman said : The
morning cometh and also the night : if ye will enquire,
enquire ye.
There is probably an allusion to the watchman's
answer in the concluding words of the script (not quoted
above) " into the coming night."
(6)
" Watchman what of the night- ?
" is also the
first line of a poem by Swinburne called A Watch in
the Night. 1
This poem is included in a volume (Songs
before Sunrise) the subject of which is the Italian War
of Liberation. I myself associate the words with Swin-
burne rather than with Isaiah.
The next phrases of the script contain several literary
allusions which it is not very easy to disentangle. " The
bridge at midnight " is a quotation from a poem by
Longfellow :
I stood on the bridge at midnight,
When the clocks were striking the hour.
But although the actual words are from Longfellow,
the two phrases between which they occur in my script-
suggest that the literary association lying behind them
is with three other poems, all of which are more familiar
to me than Longfellow's.
References to a sleeping city and a bridge at once
recall Wordsworth's Sonnet on Westminster Bridge, especially
the lines :
Dear God ! the very houses seem asleep,
And all that mighty heart is lying still.
1
The words " what of the night ? " are repeated in the first line
of each stanza, e.g.
li
Italy, what of the night ?
"
340 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
It should be observed however that Wordsworth did
not stand upon Westminster Bridge at midnight, for
he says that :
The city now doth like a garment wear
The beauty of the morning.
The allusion to midnight has probably drifted in through
my recollection of Longfellow.
There is yet another literary association contained in
the words " the sleeping city," and this association
will explain, I think, the reference in the script to
" a poet's dream." In Fragments of Prose and Poetry by
Frederic Myers, there is a poem called Venice, which
concludes with the following lines :
How sleeps that city now ! and far is fled
Her tale of fights outfought and Doges dead.
The flying Fames ring round her still ; but she
Dreams in her melted Pearl of sky and sea.
For me too dreaming let the sunset fire
Shade the dark dome and pierce the pillared spire !
Let night and peace the cosmic promise pay,
And even the Soul's self dream into the day !
The phrase of my script " the sleeping city " echoes
Myers's words :
" How sleeps that city now," and the
probability that there is here an allusion to Myers's
poem is, I think, strengthened by the allusion in the
script to "a poet's dream." For not only do these
words suggest Myers's phrase :
" For me too dreaming,
etc.," but they are a quotation from Wordsworth's
poem on A Picture of Peele Castle :
Ah ! Then, if mine had been the Painter's hand,
To express what then I saw ; and add the gleam,
The light that never was on sea or land,
The consecration and the Poet's dream.
This poem had been associated with Myers's Venice
in an article by Mr. J. G. Piddington, published in
Proceedings S.P.E., Vol. XXVI., pp. 174 ff.
1
1
There are further allusions to Peele Castle in my script of June
16, 1915 (see Appendix, p. 348), i.e. "the golden gleam" (cf.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 341
We are now in a position to consider my second
script of June 16, 1915, in relation to Mrs. Wilson's
contemporary record.
(a) The opening words " The Lord is my light " express
the same idea as we find in Mrs. Wilson's allusion to
Aknaton and " his symbol for divine beneficence, the
sun," followed by the first words of Cardinal Newman's
hymn " Lead, kindly light."
(6) Mrs. Wilson had an impression of a " city on
the banks of a great river," followed by impressions
of "a ruined amphitheatre " and " the Forum at Rome."
My contemporary script on the other hand speaks of
the city Avail—a walled city . . . watchman what of the night ?
. . . the sleeping city—the bridge at midnight.
These phrases, if we take them together, relate apparently
to a city on the banks of a river (implied Li the
reference to a bridge), and there is possibly a further
connexion of thought between Mrs. Wilson and me
in my quotation from Swinburne's poem, A Watch in
the Night, the subject of which is the Italian risor-
gimento, and Mrs. Wilson's allusion to Rome, with which
she seems, according to the sequence of her impressions,
to identify the city on the banks of a river.
(c) I have pointed out that the allusions in my script of
June 16, 1915, to "the sleeping city" and "the poet's
dream " contain in my opinion a reference to Frederic
Myers's poem entitled Venice. This point is interesting
when we remember Mrs. Wilson's contemporary impression
of "the lion of St. Mark with the halo and the open
evangel." These are the arms of the city of Venice
and the earlier part of Myers's poem contains the lines :
And one great word the lords of Venice wist :
" My peace be with thee, Mark Evangelist !
"
Proceedings S.P.B., Vol. XXVI., pp. 183 ff.), and probably "like a
glass " (ef. Peele Castle, " Thy Form was sleeping on a glassy sea "),
and J' the flowing tide" (cf. Peele Castle, "No motion but the moving
tide"). Both these lines from Wordsworth's poem are quoted in
Mr. Piddington's article.
342 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
At the end of her record of June 16, 1915, Mrs.
Wilson noted that whilst dressing on the following morn-
ing she was haunted by the words " The spirits of
just men made perfect " (Heb. xii. 23). Now the
motto to the published edition of Myers's poem is from
the Aeneid (Book VI., p. 691): " nee me mea cura
fefellit [nor has my care misled me]," but another
motto was written by Myers on a MS. copy of the
poem. It is taken from Hebrews xi. 40 :
" That they
without us should not be made perfect." 1
There is
not only a verbal similarity between these words and
the quotation from the following chapter of Hebrews,
given by Mrs. Wilson, there is also a connexion of
thought ; for the writer of the Epistle contrasts the
" elders," those who lived before the time of Christ,
and " without us " wsxe not " made perfect " (Heb.
xi. 40), with the followers of Christ who have been
" made perfect " through Him (Heb. xii. 23). Mrs.
Wilson's allusion to this last passage may therefore
be due to a subconscious impression of the alternative
motto and Myers's poem Venice.
The facts about these two mottos to the poem are
given in Proceedings S.P.B., Vol. XXVI., pp. 205 ff., and
the poem itself is discussed there at some length. We
must assume that Mrs. Wilson had at some time read
this discussion (see above, p. 309), but that would not
account for the fact of her alluding to the city of
Venice, and perhaps indirectly to Myers's poem Venice,
on the day when my script almost certainly alludes
to the poem.
I have included in this report only the first seven
of my experiments with Mrs. Wilson, as they make a
convenient group for discussion. We have continued the
experiments since that time and have obtained results
of considerable interest, some of which may form the
subject of a later report.
1
These words are clearly alluded to in a line of the poem,
thus :
" Nor even their joy without us perfected."
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 343
Tabular Summary.
June 16, 1915.
Wilson Record. H. V. Script.
Temptation in the Wilder-
ness.
" Lead, kindly light."
A city by a river.
Rome.
The arms of Venice.
"The spirits of just men
made perfect." Heb. xii. 23.
The Temptation in the
Wilderness.
" The Lord is my light."
the city—-the bridge at
midnight.
" Watchman, what of the
night ? " (Implicit allusion to
Italy.)
Venice by F. W. H. Myers.
[Original motto to Myers's
poem: "That they without
us should not be made
perfect." Heb. xi. 40].
Appendix.
The dates of the experiments were May 20, 23, 28, June 4,
8, 13, 16, 1915. All Mrs. Wilson's records are given in the
text except those of May 20 and June 8, and a supplementary
one of June 9. These are given below.
Of the H. V. scripts written during this period the scripts
of May 20, 23, 27 and June 13 are given in full in the text
(see above pp. 315, 312, 319, 330). Those of May 28, June
3, 4, 5, 8, 9, 12 and two of June 16 are given in full below ;
and of these latter extracts from the scripts of May 28, June
3, 4 and 16 are also quoted in the text.
Mrs. Wilson's Records.
Mrs. Wilson's record of May 20, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
A failure again, I fear, but not altogether my fault. A
fiend of a woman was singing at the top of her lungs across
the street, and with all the windows open might have been
in my room. When you are half hypnotised noise is torture.
344 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
I started off with the evil lurking figure of a man in
the Renaissance period. Why I at once decided he was
the husband in Browning's The Ring and the Book, I
do not know, or why, except that it is, I think, the most
beautiful part of the poem, I found myself thinking of the
part where the Pope sums up the case, and especially of
lines that run something like this :
" Give one good moment to the tired old man,
Weary of finding all his world amiss."
I know that is not a correct quotation, but I can get no
nearer.
Then came a picture, I mean an impression, of a wood
in spring-time. Just one great mass of white blossoms.
Then trees again, but this time evergreens, and this time
it was winter, for though they too seemed covered with
white flowers, it was snow. One fir-tree, outlined against
the intense blue of the sky, stayed with me for a long time.
Then it was autumn, and T was one of two people on horse-
back in a dreary swamp. There were humps of long, dead
grass sticking up out of the black mud, masses of yellow
reeds, and the trees, for it was still a wood, were leafless.
We were alone and in danger, for our horses could not find
firm footing.
1
The last two impressions seem to have nothing to do
with what went before. A small company of men in armour
led by a young knight, bareheaded and with long hair. I
see I put down last night :
" Possibly Jeanne d'Arc." The
last impression must be entirely subjective, for it was the
grave of my young brother-in-law ; unless the inscription
on his tomb-stone means anything to you. It is, as nearly
as I can remember :
And we retain
The memory of an unspoiled man,
Sweet, generous, and humane.
The odd part of the whole experiment is that while I felt
sure I had failed, another part of my mind was insisting
1
Mrs. Wilson told me on May 21, 1915, that her companion seemed
to be her husband. So far as she could remember the impression
did not correspond with any actual experience she had ever had.
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 345
that it had got your idea. If so, perhaps it will emerge
from the subconscious stratum before long.
Mrs. Wilson's record of June 8, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
No success, I am afraid. All I saw was a rather heavy-
looking classic temple at the top of a high grey cliff, and
then wolves, followed by the Romulus and Remus wolf alone.
The only other impression was of a thick not very large
book bound in shabby calf. Yes, there were two more
things, the Free Mason's compasses and a triangle. I wili
try to-night for latent impressions.
Mrs. Wilson's record of June 9, 1915.
I have very little more to add to my Tuesday night
impressions. Only a group of old women in a cave weaving
something white. Their heads were entirely bound up, to
show that they were blind. The Fates, of course. Equally
of course, next a pair of shears. Then a mirror with a
black line right ctcross iu. Of course this at once called up
the Lady of Shalotte, and I saw the torn web. I have
always had a special fondness for the Lady of Shalotte.
H. V. Scripts.
H. V. script, May 28, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
Fons et origo
—
0 fons Bandusiae 1 —
simplex munditiis 2—
a voice from the dead—the milky way—the multitude of
the stars—songs—the stars singing 3
—the company of the
stars—a merry rout—the music of humanity 4
—an under-
current—a falling star—meteoric splendour
—
As falls on Mount Alvernus the thundersmitten oak 5—
Thrice the brinded cat hath mewed 6
—spells and potions
—
the witches brew—Medea's cauldron—ever young
—
'Hor. C. III., 13, 1. !
Hor. C. I., 5, 5.
3
Cf. Rossetti, The Blessed Damozel.
4
Cf. Wordsworth, Tintern Abbey. 5
Macaulay, Horatius.
6
Shakespeare, Macbeth,
346 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
Bacchus ever young—the music of the dance—the light
fantastic toe 1
—trip—trip—trip 2—
H. V. script, June 3, 1915, 4.20 p.m.
Home they brought her \\ arrior dead 3—
The golden gleam—home
—
My home is on the wave—and all deserted—the sea-birds
cry—
The dust of ages—sprinkle—a little dust
—
Archimedes—felix qui potuit 4
—a contrast
—
a triangle—each point a star
[Drawing of a triangle with a star at each point.]
the wheels of the chariot—flashing fire—scatter as from an
unextinguished hearth 5—
H. V. script, June 4, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
Love in the valley 6
—idly dreaming
—
the singer of an idle day
—
the palsied hand—rock of ages—the water shall flow—the
bottomless deep
—
a curtain of darkness—a lantern in the dark—The little
candle 7
The race is won
In lonely splendour 8—
stone on stone 9
1
Milton, UAllegro.
2
Cf. Song :
" We will trip, trip, trip,
We will trip it on the quay."
3
Tennyson, Princess.
4
Virg., G. II., 490. Connington refers to Lucr. I., 78, and Munro
on Lucr. I., 73, " atque omne immensum peragravit mente animoque,"
says that Horace must have had this passage in mind when he wrote
C. I., 28, 5, " animoque rotundum Percurrisse polum morituro." The
allusion in " sprinkle—a little dust" is undoubtedly to Hor. C, I.,
28, " Pulveris exigui . . . munera," " licebit injecto ter pulvere curras."
Archimedes is probably written by mistake for Archytas, both being
famous mathematicians.
5
Shelley, Ode to the West Wind.
G
Cf. Tennyson, Princess. " Love is of the Valley " ; cf. also Mere-
dith's poem with this title.
7
Cf. Shakespeare, The Merchant of Venice, Act v., sc. i.
8
Cf. Tennyson, Idylls of the King : Dedication, 1. 48.
9 Cf. M. Arnold, Morality : " Stone by Stone." »
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 347
the horseman [At this point I fell asleep and slept for
nearly two hours. On reading the script through next morn-
ing, I noticed that the sentence was interrupted in the
middle, and thought I would try to complete it. Below is
the result].
June 5, 1915, 10.20 a.m.
The horseman of the dawn
—
the knocking at the gate—the golden keys—St. Peter's keys
—and a chain of gold—white as snow their armour was
—
their steeds were white as snow 1
—link in link—wrought gold 2
and precious stones—jewelled—the jewel of the East and a
king's ransom—pearls of price—strewn pearls—strew on her
roses roses 3
—strew flowers on the way—the king's daughter 2—
H. V. script, June 8, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
furor subitus—carmina silvis
itur in antiquam silvam 4
Alituum carmen
—
Tigris et Euphrates
—
aequora ponti 5—
the marble tablet—the tablets of the mind—writ in water 6
—in the quiet of the evening—the quiet end of evening 7 —
love is best 7—
the lantern—a single shaft
—
a line in the darkness—a light.
H. V. script, June 9, 1915, 11.10 a.m.
Hyssop and vinegar—casting bread upon the water 8
—open
sesame
—
the golden grain—harvest sheaves—garner in the byre
—
the setting sun on the harvest fields
—
a golden light—the light that never was on sea or land 9—
1
Macaulay. The Battle of the Lake Regillus.
2
Cf. Christina Rossetti, The New Jerusalem. The words are from
Psalm xlv. 13 :
" The king's daughter is all glorious within, her clothing
is of wrought gold.''
3
M. Arnold, Requiescat. 4
Virgil, Aen. VI., 179.
5
Virgil, Georg. I., 469. 6
Keats' epitaph.
7
Browning, Love Among the Ruins.
8 Cf. Eccl. xi. 1. 9 Wordsworth, Peele Castle.
348 Mrs. W. H. Salter. [part
pale beyond porch and portal
—
crowned with calm leaves she stands 1—
a crown of leaves—green leaves—evergreen—a holly wreath
—
the merry bells of Yule—Again at Christmas did we wreathe 2
H. V. script, June 12, 1915, 11.45 p.m.
The last days—the end of Time—the water—across the
water
—
and he walked upon the M ater—the pool of Bethesda 3
and
the garden of Gethsemane
—
rain from Heaven 4—
a clond no bigger than a man's hand
—
H. V. script, June 16, 1915, 3.20 p.m.
Arquebus with bow and spear—the prize of the bow —
the ashen spear —
SoXi-^oo-kiov e'xyos—the warrior king
—
Lord of the host—singing hymns to Zeus
—
father and son—the least among them—a council of elders
—
And it came to pass in 40 days—days of penance—the
peace-offering—what shall be—the chosen path
—
Above the stars and all around the meadows of space
—
launch out into the deep 5 —
the waters have gone over me
—
the great waters—a sound of many waters 6
—the cataract.
H. V. script, June 16, 1915, 10.15 p.m.
Dominus illuminatio mea 7 —
non eadem vultu demisso
—
the walls of stone—the city wall
a walled city—the watchman—watchman what of the night 8
1
Swinburne, The Garden of Proserpine.
2
Tennyson, In Memoriam. 3
John v. 2.
4
Cf. Shakespeare, The Merchant of Venice, Act iv., sc. i.
0
Luke v. 4.
6
Cf. Rev. i. 15. "... his voice as the sound of many waters."
7
Psalm xxvii. 1. The words are the motto of Oxford University.
8 Isaiah xxi. 11. "Watchman what of the night?" The watch-
man said :
" The morning cometh and also the night, if ye will
enquire, enquire ye." Cf. also Swinburne, A Watch in the Night..
(Songs before Sunrise).
lxxiv.] Some Experiments with a New Automatist. 349
the answering word—the sleeping city—the bridge at
midnight
—
a poet's dream—like a glass—dim shadows on the wall
—
the flowing tide 1
—to join the river 2
—the earth—the daedal
earth 3 —
with flowers for a marrying—night and day and a wreath
of flowers for day and stars for night—a crown of flowers
—
the golden gleam 1 —
the brazen bell
into the coming night
—
1
See above, pp. 339 ft.
2
Cf. Tennyson, The Brook.
3
Shelley, Hymn to Pan.
350 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
SOME RECENT CASES OF PREMONITION
AND TELEPATHY.1
By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Since a few of the experiences which form the subject of this
paper are without corroboration, it seems desirable to begin
with a word or two about the lady to whom they oc-
curred, lest you should regard these uncorroborated incidents
—or, indeed, the main narrative—with any suspicion. Of
course, as our experience has taught us, it is only pru-
dent, in the case of any one not well known to us, to
receive unsupported statements on the subjects with which
the Society is concerned with a certain amount of reserve ;
but in the present case you will, I think, agree with me
that the incidents which are confirmed by the testimony
of others lend full credibility to those which are not so
supported.
This lady, who belongs to a family well known in North
Devon—her maiden name was Chichester—has been known
to me from her childhood and to my wife from her birth ;
indeed, our families are connected by marriage. Of the
truthfulness of her statements we have no doubt, and I
have myself carefully cross-examined her on each of the
incidents that are now to be brought before you. I
ought further to state that those accounts which are in
my own language, and which form the majority, were
written down from information given in conversation
several weeks before I received the confirmation of other
persons concerned. That is to say, my account of any
particular incident is really her own independent account,
1
This paper, with the exception of the last in< ident (p. 373) was read
before the Society on November 22, 1915, and was printed in the
Journal for January-February, 1910
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 351
not a story put together by me upon a comparison of the
whole evidence. She signed each account separately when I
had written it, and has since read and signed the whole paper
as correct. Similarly, her written accounts were given to
me before I received the corroborations. From childhood,
as she tells me, she has had experiences similar to those
recorded here, but until the occurrence of one tragic
incident which I shall have to relate, attached no parti-
cular importance to them. The recent experiences were
first brought to my own notice a few months ago. I
at once urged her to make contemporary notes of all such
premonitory impressions, but although she fortunately did
so in two subsequent cases, in three others the good
intention was forgotten.
In 1910 Miss Chichester married Lieut. George Harley
Pownall, R.N., and they went to live at Harwich, where
he was in command of a submarine. She tells me that when
they were engaged she felt convinced—it seems to have been
a settled conviction and more than a mere fear—that he
would not five long ; but admits that she considered the
submarine service a dangerous one even in time of peace.
We may see reason to think that this opinion was perhaps
not the sole cause of the presentiment. Lieut. Pownall
was of a robust constitution and his health was excellent.
One day while they were at Harwich she saw, or thought
she saw, through a window that looked on the street, her
husband come up on his bicycle, get off, and approach the
house. She then heard the door open and shut, and the
sound of his footsteps in the hall. As he did not come
into the room, she went out but found no one. This was
in the afternoon. Lieut. Pownall, who had not been near
the house at that time, returned about an hour later. 1
In 1913 Lieut. -Commander Pownall (he had been promoted
in 1911) was appointed First Lieutenant of the Egmont,
depot-ship of the submarines at Malta, with command of
1
Some ten or eleven years ago, when away on a visit, Miss Chichester
had a visual hallucination of her mother, who, being then at home, had
endeavoured (without any previous arrangement) to make herself visible
to her daughter. She had previously had a similar hallucination of her
mother, but without intention on the latter's part.
352 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [PART
the Submarine Flotilla there. Mrs. Pownall went out with
him.
In August 1914, after the outbreak of the war, Mr. R. E.
Knox, R.N.. 1
who was on the staff of Admiral Carden,
Admiral Superintendent of the Dockyard, said in Mrs.
Pownall's presence, " Anyhow we [meaning the Admiral
and his staff] shall not leave Malta, for the Admiral has
just received an extension of his appointment "—or words
to that effect. 2
A few days later, about August 12, on
coming down to breakfast Mrs. Pownall said she had
dreamed on the previous night that Admiral Carden was
going to have command of a fleet at sea, but nowhere
near England. This was said to her husband and Mr.
Knox, and later to Captain L. T. Esmond.3
Since it was
then common knowledge that the Admiral was not to be
relieved, her friends naturally dismissed the dream as
absurd. Some five weeks after this (I am betraying no
secret, for the fact was at once publicly known) Admiral
Carden was appointed Commander-in-Chief of the Medi-
terranean Fleet, then at the Dardanelles.
This is corroborated by Mr. Knox as follows :
October, 1915.
In August 1914 I was [on the staff of] Admiral Carden.
I remember that towards the end of the month 4
I said to
Mrs. Pownall that the Admiral and his staff would be fixtures
at Malta during the war, as the appointment of the Admiral
who was to relieve him had been cancelled. I remember also
that a few days later Mrs. Pownall said she had dreamed
that Admiral Carden was in command of a Fleet at sea.
Lieut. -Commander Pownall, Captain [Esmond], and I regarded it
as extremely improbable that he would leave Malta Dockyard.
(Signed) R. E. Knox.
1
Not the real name or initials.
2
There was, I believe, no formal " extension " ; it would be more correct
to say that it became known that the Admiral was not to be relieved as had
been expected.
3
Not the real name or initials.
4 Since sending this statement Mr. Knox has written that he cannot
clearly recall what time in August the incident happened. Mrs. Pownall
fixes the date as being a few days after August 8, on which day she
and her husband moved into the house in which the dream occurred.
iiXxrv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 353
Captain Esmond writes from Malta on October 23, 1915 :
Mrs. Pownall told me in August 1914 that she had dreamed
that Admiral Carden was to have a command at sea, but
nowhere near England. This was generally regarded as im-
probable, in view of the fact that the Admiral had only
recently received an extension of the appointment he then
held at Malta,
Some time after the outbreak of the war, but before
September 7, 1911, the question of the despatch of
submarines from Malta to the Dardanelles was dis-
cussed among Mrs. Pownall's friends. It is natural to
surmise that the discussion began after August 10, and
that it arose from the fact that the Goeben and Breslau
had on that day succeeded in reaching Constantinople.
The naval officers were of opinion that the submarines
would remain at Malta for the defence of the island.
Mrs. Pownall, however, constantly affirmed to her husband
and others that the submarine flotilla would be sent to the
Dardanelles and that he would go with them. She will, I
am sure, not quarrel with me if I say that her grasp of naval
strategy is not such that this conviction, opposed as it
was to expert opinion, is likely to have been based on
reflection and judgement. The declaration of war against
Turkey, it will be remembered, was not made until
November 5, 1914.
The premonition is corroborated by Mr. Knox as follows :
November 1, 1915.
I remember Mrs. George Pownall saying in August 1914 that
the Malta submarines would be sent to the Dardanelles. We
all considered this most improbable.
(Signed) R. E. Knox.
Captain Esmond writes under date October 23, 1915 :
Before the Submarine Flotilla left Malta for the Dardanelles
it was the general opinion in Naval circles that it would not be
so employed, being required for the defence of the island. I
remember that Mrs. George Pownall nevertheless affirmed more
than once that the submarines would be sent to the Dardanelles.
This took place.
354 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [PART
On September 7, 1914, Mrs. Pownall saw her husband
pass across the harbour in his skiff. She had frequently
seen him do so, but on this occasion she said to herself,
" He is going to the Admiral to receive orders for the
dispatch of the submarines to the Dardanelles." This was
in fact the case, and the flotilla left Malta next day.
Lieut.-Commander Pownall made the voyage in the
Hindustani, a collier, which was afterwards renamed
the Hindukush and became the submarine depot-ship at
the Dardanelles. He remained on this ship until he was
transferred to a transport on some day between the 17th
and 25th of April, 1915.
When her husband parted from her, Mrs. Pownall felt
absolutely sure she would never see him again, 1
and from
that day onwards she always felt peculiarly depressed on
Sundays, and mentioned the fact in letters to her husband
many times. On Sunday, April 25, 1915, he was killed
by a bursting shell while in charge of a boat taking part
in the first landing on Gallipoli. He was wounded in the
early morning and died at 10.30 a.m.
On that same afternoon at Malta Captain Esmond called
on Mrs. Pownall and delivered a letter written to her by her
husband, whose letters were sent that way by private
arrangement—probably for greater safety or more rapid
delivery. After giving her the letter Captain Esmond
left Mrs. Pownall in the drawing-room, saying he was very
tired and would go into the smoking-room and have a
nap. She proceeded to read the letter, which was dated the
17th of April, and when about half through was seized
with an overpowering conviction that the landing had taken
place and that her husband had been killed. The conviction
was so strong that she felt impelled to go and tell Captain
Esmond at once, but refrained from disturbing him. I have
naturally not been able to ask to see this letter, but Mrs.
Pownall assures me that it contained nothing about naval
matters beyond the statement that her husband was going
on to a transport.
It should be explained that the officer in command of a
submarine flotilla does not live on a submarine, but on
1
Her own words are :
" I had not a shadow of doubt about it."
Lxxrv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 355
what is called a depot-ship, which may be any ship that is
suitable for the purpose. Lieut.-Commander Pownall, as I
have said, had up to the time of writing been on the
collier Hindukush. When Mrs. Pownall read that he was
going on to a transport, she wondered why this was, but
her only conclusion was that for some reason he was to
be temporarily transferred from his submarine duties. No
doubt the removal to a transport might suggest duties in
connexion with the troops, and as I have recently learned,
this was in fact the explanation, for the naval officers who
superintended the landing were all placed together on an
empty transport in order to make the necessary arrange-
ments. Mr. Knox, however, writes to me that a naval
officer would not necessarily infer from the change even
a relinquishment of the submarine duties ; "it might only
mean that a transport was being used as a Submarine Parent
instead of the collier which had hitherto been used." We
shall see that the transference did not suggest to Captain
Esmond any participation in the landing. He had peculiar
facilities for knowing all that was to be known, and shortly
before this had told Mrs. Pownall that the landing would
not take place for some little time.
Together with the letter from her husband, Captain
Esmond had brought to Mrs. Pownall a letter from Mr.
Knox, who also was at the Dardanelles. She does not
remember which she opened first. Mr. Knox's letter has
been destroyed, and he has no recollection of its contents.
Mrs. Pownall, however, is sure that it contained no refer-
ence to the landing of the troops ; and we may take it
for certain, that even if anyone had known the precise
day of the landing more than a week before, Mr. Knox
would not have divulged so vital a secret, and also that he
would certainly not have said a word about Lieut.-Com-
mander Pownall's taking part in the operation, even if he
had then any expectation of his doing so. Before Mr.
Knox left, Mrs. Pownall had obtained from him a promise
that he would send to Captain Esmond a telegram with
the news of her husband's death whenever it should happen ;
she says she did this because she was sure he would
be killed. This telegram, as we shall see, Mr. Knox sent.
356 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
To continue the story. When after about an hour
Captain Esmond returned to the drawing-room, Mrs. Pow-
nall told him she was sure the troops had landed and that
her husband had been killed. He replied that he did not
believe it for a moment ;
firstly, because he did not think
the landing would take place for a day or two, and,
secondly, because whenever it took place, it was most
unlikely that Lieut.-Commander Pownall would have any
part in it. Apparently nothing that he could say pro-
duced any effect, and she replied that she was sure she
was right. So sure was she, that she asked him to promise
that he would himself bring her the news when it came, and
he said he would certainly do so if the need should arise.
I now give Captain Esmond's account of this interview,
written from Malta ; it confirms Mrs. PownalPs account with
extraordinary particularity.
On Sunday April 25th 1915, the day on which Lieut. Comdr
Pownall was killed, I took to Mrs. Pownall at her house a
letter written from her husband to her and sent under cover
to me. After giving her the letter I went into the smoking-
room and slept for an hour. On my return to the drawing-
room Mrs. Pownall told me she was sure her husband had
taken part in the landing and been killed. I was not aware
that the landing had taken place, and did not expect the
attempt to be made for 2 or 3 days. That Lieut. Comdr
Pownall would land seemed to me improbable, as he was O.C.
Submarines. However, I had heard that he had received some
appointment other than that of O.C. Submarines. In reply to
Mrs. Pownall's statements I said that it was of course possible,
but that in view of the fact that 10 beachmasters had been
appointed by the Admiralty, whom I had seen passing through
only 3 or 4 days previously, I did not think for a moment,
that a valuable submarine officer would be taken as a beach-
master. This was my honest belief.
Mrs. Pownall then asked me to bring her the official news of
her husband's death, and I said I would be sure to do so, if it
came. When the news actually arrived I was unavoidably pre-
vented from fulfilling this promise. As far as I am aware, the
only news Mrs. Pownall received of her husband's death was a
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition, and Telepathy. 357
private telegram from Mr. [Knox . . .] to me. When I received
it [this was on the Wednesday after the death] H. E. the
Governor was expected and I could not leave my office, and
my telegram was communicated to Mrs. Pownall by Mrs.
Limpus, wife of the Admiral Superintendent. On my arrival
at 2.0 p.m. (2 hours after receiving the telegram) Mrs. Pownall
was quite calm, and told me that as soon as she saw Mrs.
Limpus she knew she had come to tell her her husband was
dead. She was expecting the news hourly.
Captain Esmond appends the following note to his accounts
of the three incidents in which he was concerned :
October 23, 1915.
The facts I have related above are absolutely true and I am
prepared to swear to them, if necessary.
(Signed) L. T. Esmond, Captain, . . .
Some account of Lieut.-Commander Pownall himself is
desirable for a complete appreciation of this incident, and
it will be most convenient to give it at this point. He
was an exceptionally talented and able naval officer, and
so far as it can be said of any one man in a service
that contains so many men of great ability, there can be
no doubt that his death is a serious loss to the Navy.
Not only was he a master of his particular business, but
he also possessed considerable literary and other gifts, and
was a most agreeable and interesting companion. His
appointment at Malta is evidence of the estimate which
the Admiralty had formed of his abilities.
You have no doubt been wondering how an officer so
valuable for his proper and most important duties came to
be engaged in one of the landing parties. One asks with some
indignation and a bitter literalness, Que (Liable allait-il faire
dans cette galere ? No authoritative explanation is likely to
be obtainable, and we can only suppose that it was a case
of sheer necessity. Similar things have happened before,
and will, I imagine, happen again. It is small comfort
for those who mourn for him, though it says much for
our Naval Service, that, as is shown by our later sub-
marine successes in Turkish waters, his command has
evidently passed into no less able hands.
z
358 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
I have said thus much of this officer—and I would also
remind you of Captain Esmond's opinion on the matter and
of Mr. Knox's remark on the removal to the transport
—
in order that it may be clearly seen how little reason,
humanly speaking, Mrs. Pownall had for supposing her
husband would be in any special danger at the Dardanelles
and how she was least of all justified by any ordinary
calculation of probabilities in her conviction that he had
died as one of a landing party. .
We have now to return to Malta. Mrs. Pownall spent
the earlier part of the evening of April 25 (the day of
the death and of her impression concerning it) alone in
the house ; she had allowed her maids to go out, and
there are no children. She was sometimes on the first
floor and sometimes on the second, but on whichever
floor she might be, she heard from time to time footsteps
on the floor below ; the impression was of human foot-
steps, but she did not otherwise distinguish them. She
went down three times to search but found no one.
Becoming uneasy, she went out and induced a friend,
Mme Davie, to come and spend the evening with her.
She did not mention the footsteps to her, nor her
conviction of her husband's death, but Mme Davie
also heard footsteps and also searched twice for an explana-
tion in vain. A letter has been written to the lady,
asking for her confirmation on this point, but no answer
has been received. Mrs. Pownall thinks she must have left
Malta.
In London on this same night a dream was dreamed which
only perversity, as it seems to me, could dissociate from Mrs.
Pownall's distress at her husband's death, of which she had
become so strangely convinced. Before relating the dream
I should state that the " John " who appears in it is a
brother of Mrs. Pownall who died in Sumatra in Septem-
ber, 1914. In view of the experiences accumulated in this
paper, it is somewhat remarkable that Mrs. Pownall had
no premonition of her brother's death nor any telepathic
impression of any kind in connexion with it, although he
was her favourite brother and there was a strong mutual
affection between them. The dream occurred to a sister
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 359
of Mrs. Pownall, Mrs. Grenfell White, and the following is
her account of it, with her husband's confirmation.
November 6, 1915.
On a Sunday night last April I dreamt that I saw Vera [Mrs
George Pownall] crying dreadfully, and I saw John very plainly,
and he said to Vera, '
I wish T could speak to you, but I
can't.' When I woke up I said to my husband, '
I knoiv some-
thing has happened to George '
; and I then went on to
urge him very strongly to remember what I was going to tell
him, and in particular to remember that I had told him before
we had any knowledge that my forebodings were true. I then
told him my dream, and my insistence made him remember the
circumstances clearly. We afterwards learned that George was
in fact killed on that Sunday. I had not previously dreamt
about John since his death in September 1914.
(Signed) Thomasine Grenfell White.
155 Sloane St., London.
November 6, 1915.
The above is a true account of what occurred.
(Signed) W. Grenfell White.
On the following day, Monday, April 26, although Mrs.
Pownall's impression of her husband's death was less
painfully vivid, the conviction was as strong as ever,
and she proceeded to tear up papers and letters and do
other things which she would not otherwise have done,
in view of an early return to England. She actually told
her maid that she would have no further need of her services.
On the next night, Tuesday, somewhere about midnight
she suddenly woke up in bed, and after a tew minutes heard
footsteps in the street below. Her first thought was that
it was Captain Esmond bringing her the news as he had
promised, and she felt relieved when the steps went past
the house. This feeling, however, was followed by the
'thought, " He will not come ; Mrs. Limpus [wife of
Admiral Limpus] will bring me the news."
On the Wednesday morning Mrs. Pownall went out into
the town, and on her return at 1 o'clock found Mrs.
Limpus waiting for her with a telegram confirming all
360 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
this sad foreknowledge. The telegram ran as follows :
" Pownall killed 25th beach party. [Knox.] " Soon after
this she received a note from Captain Esmond saying he
was very sorry that he had been unavoidably prevented
from fulfilling his promise to bring the news himself. As
you will remember from his statement, he also called at
2 o'clock.
Mrs. Pownall left for England on Monday, May 3, 1915,
and there was a curious premonition in connexion with her
departure. The boats, which go weekly, normally come
into Malta and leave again after a stay of a few hours. Mrs.
Pownall had expected to leave on Tuesday, May 4, but
Captain Esmond had told her that the boat had been
delayed and would not come till the Thursday. On
waking on Monday morning at about 7.30 she felt con-
vinced that the boat would leave at 11 o'clock that day,
and at once got up and made preparations to start.
She usually got up between 9 and 10, after breakfasting
in bed. At 9.30 she received a note from Captain Esmond
telling her that the boat would leave at 11 that day, and
she started by it at that hour. In peace time the boat
was accustomed to leave in the afternoon, but after the
outbreak of the war, according to Mrs. Pownall's recol-
lection, the hour varied. I do not know at what hour the
boat came in on the morning in question, but I can think
of no normal means by which Mrs. Pownall, lying in bed
in her house, could become aware of its arrival, or indeed
of the arrival of any ship. Captain Esmond writes to me
that he cannot remember anything in connexion with this
incident beyond the broad fact that " the boat arrived
two or three days before she was expected and upset all
the arrangements." This, however, is fortunately all the
corroboration we require.
On reaching England, Mrs. Pownall went to her parents
in Devonshire, and stayed with them for about ten days.
At this time she had not been informed whether her
husband had been wounded in the head or in the body,
nor whether he had or had not died instantaneously ; but
she told her mother, while on this visit, that she was sure
he had been shot in the back and had not died at once.
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 361
Her mother has only a vague recollection of this, but Mrs.
Pownall is positive on all three points. Some time in
June she received a letter, dated May 31, from the
Chaplain on board the transport, informing her that Lieut .-
Commander Pownall had been wounded in the back and
had lingered a few hours. She had not written to any one
for information on the point, and this was the first that had
reached her. Before receiving this letter, Mrs. Pownall had
received two others from the Dardanelles, one from an
officer and one from an able seaman, but neither made any
reference to the locality of the wound.
The next three experiences I give in Mrs. Pownall's own
words. She made no contemporary notes, but says that
her recollection is clear.
October, 1915.
In July 1915 I was staying at Eastbourne with Miss Bay-
field, who was driving a motor ambulance in the neighbourhood.
Mr. [R. E. Knox] was also there on leave, expecting a fresh
appointment. One day I told him he would get his appoint-
ment on such and such a day, naming a day of the week four
days ahead. I remember counting the days as they went by.
He obtained his appointment on the day I named.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
Mr. Knox has sent the following confirmation of ithis, and
fortunately has been able to supply the dates :
In July 1915 I was on leave at Eastbourne and was ex-
pecting an appointment. On Friday 30th July Mrs. Pownall
told me I should be appointed on the following Tuesday, which
proved true.
(Signed) B. E. Knox.
I now come to another little incident which may readily
be accepted, though from the nature of the case corrobora-
tion is impossible.
October, 1915.
One morning in October 1915 my copy of the Times had
been brought up to me as usual while I was in bed, and was
lying near me where the maid had placed it, folded as it
always is, with the front page outside. I had not myself
362 Rev. M. A. Bayfield, [PART
touched it. Just as I was about to take it up I had the
impression that I should find among the casualties the name
of Major Ash, of the Middlesex Regiment, as either killed or
wounded. On opening the paper and looking down the casualty
lists I found his name among the wounded. I did not know
Major Ash well, having only met him at Malta two or three
times, and I had no particular interest in him, though I knew
Mrs. Ash fairly well while we were both at Malta. I had had
a letter from her some three months before this. I had not
been thinking of Major or Mrs. Ash, and I did not know
whether he was on the Western Front or at the Dardanelles,
or indeed where he was.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
The next incident also occurred in October, 1915. I
should state that my daughter has for the last two months
been temporarily living with Mrs. Pownall in London. I
give the story as written down at their dictation, begin-
ning with Mrs. Pownall's account :
At about 7.15 p.m. on October 12, 1915, at my flat in
London, I made the following note on the back of a trades-
man's bill:
—'I feel that there will be a Zep. raid to-night or
to-morrow at 9.45 p.m. V. Pownall. Oct. 12.' For the rest
of that day the matter was entirely absent from my mind.
On October 13 Miss Bayfield and Mr. [J. Knox, Mr. R. E. Knox's]
brother, dined with me at the flat at 7.15. During dinner I
found it strangely difficult to collect and control my thoughts
and seemed to myself to be in a state of suppressed excitement
and expectancy, but I was expecting nothing in particular. I
did not think of Zeppelins, and I had entirely forgotten the
memorandum written on the previous evening. No thought
of Zeppelins occurred to me until we were standing outside in
the street at about 5 minutes past 8, when Miss Bayfield said,
'
What a lovely night for Zeppelins !
'
The night was clear and
still. Even then I did not think of my note. When we heard
the first bomb dropped on London that evening we were in
a theatre ; I at once remembered my memorandum and looked
at my watch, which gave the time as 9.40. My watch loses
about 5 minutes each day, and I regulate it every morning
at about 9.30 by the clock on the Great Central Hotel, which
Lxxrv.] Recent Gases of Premonition and Telepathy. 363
I can see from my windows. I do not remember that I was
ever before in the condition described.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
My daughter, who has known Mrs. Pownall intimately
for some years, and spent the winter of 1913 with her at
Malta, describes what happened as follows :
I have read the foregoing statement, and testify that it is
correct so far as concerns myself. During dinner I noticed that
Vera seemed extraordinarily distraite and preoccupied. More
than once she did not reply when we spoke to her, and she
seemed to pay imperfect attention to what was going on. Also
she talked little. All this was quite unusual with her, especially
at dinner and when entertaming guests. I said to her some-
thing to the following effect, '
What is the matter with you ?
I never knew you so vague !
'
She replied, '
I feel something is
going to happen.' [' When I said this I did not think of
Zeppelins.' Vera Pownall.] I said, '
What ?
'
She answered
that she did not know. I then said, '
To whom ?
'
and she
said, '
To all of us.' I said, '
When ?
'
and she replied '
Oh,
soon '
[meaning, as Mrs. Pownall has explained, within a day or
so]. Then she apologised for being '
so vague,' and we all
laughed about it.
After dinner we were going to a theatre. When Mrs. Pownall
and I were putting on our things I said to her, '
Is it going to
happen to you or me ? ', and she replied, '
Oh no ; we are all
in it.' Either now or earlier I said to her, '
Is it something
awful ? ', and she answered, '
No.'
While we were at the theatre we heard the bombs, and at the
sound of the first or second Vera said to me, '
I wrote that down
yesterday and put it in my dressing-table drawer.' When we
got home she at once went to her bedroom and immediately
brought back and showed me the paper attached to this
statement.
(Signed) Cyrille Bayfield.
Mrs. Pownall adds :
I have read Miss Bayfield's statement and declare that it is
correct.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
364 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
The original of the memorandum mentioned has been
identified by Miss Bayfield, and is in the Society's pos-
session, together with the originals of the statements of
Captain Esmond, Mr. Knox, and Commander Remold,
furnished in corroboration of other incidents. I may add
that the newspapers of October 12, 1915, so far as I am
aware, contained no warning of a Zeppelin raid, and the
last previous raid—the only one that had been made on
London—took place more than a month before, on
September 8.
The last case which I have to bring before you occurred
ten days ago, November 12, 1915. The following is Mrs.
Pownall's account of it :
November 13th, 1915.
Yesterday morning, when I began to read the paper, I had it
fixed in my mind that I should see " British Submarine Lost ",
and I hunted through the paper expecting to see something
about it, but found nothing. A Commander from the Admiralty
came to luncheon, and at lunch I said to Cyrille and him,
" Did I dream it or did I see in yesterday's or to-day's paper
that a British submarine had been lost ? Was it in any
paper ?
" The Commander said, " No," and also Cyrille. This
morning, shortly after 12 o'clock, I saw a poster, " British
Submarine Lost. Official." We bought a Pall Mall and found
it was true.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
Miss Bayfield writes :
November 13th, 1915.
I have read Mrs. George Pownall's statement about the British
submarine, the loss of which was first reported in to-day's
evening papers, and certify that it is a true statement in
every detail.
(Signed) Cyrille Bayfield.
Commander B. E. Remold, R.N., writes :
November 11th, 1915.
On Friday last, November 12, I lunched with Mrs. George
Pownall and Miss Bayfield at 2m Hyde Park Mansions, and I
remember that at lunch Mrs. Pownall said something to the
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 365
following effect :
—" Did I dream it or did I see it in yester-
day's or to-day's paper that a British submarine had been
lost ? " I also remember that Miss Bayfield and I replied that
there had been no such announcement in the papers.
(Signed) B. E. Reinold, Comr.R.N.
This brings me to the end of my story, but if you are not
already wearied, I should like to add a few remarks on some
of the incidents—offering, perhaps, by the way, a few targets
for the discussion which I hope will follow.
A resolute critic, unconvinced even of telepathy, might
dismiss this somewhat remarkable series of predictions as
merely so many examples of chance-coincidence, accounting
perhaps for their number by a reference to the extra-
ordinary runs on the red or the black at Monte Carlo,
and to other similar phenomena. I must confess that
such a view would seem to me to be a fresh illustration
of the surprising credulity of the incredulous, who, rather
than accept a new truth which conflicts with their pre-
possessions, are ready to believe the incredible. The sim-
plicity which would believe that we have here to do with
nothing but chance, would appear to be capable of believ-
ing anything. This explanation, then, I unhesitatingly
dismiss, and seek further afield.
Several of the incidents are obviously explicable by tele-
pathy between the living, and may be considered to
strengthen the evidence for it—perhaps to extend our
conception of it. Three others—Admiral Garden's appoint-
ment, the despatch of the submarines, and the Zeppelin:
raid—may be so explained, if we make certain assumptions ;;
but of the premonition of the visit of Mrs. Limpus and some
points of detail in other cases telepathy seems to me to offer
no explanation at all.
To take first the hallucination at Harwich, we may
suppose that Lieut.-Commander Pownall, being compelled
to leave his newly married wife alone for most of the
day, was always desirous of returning home as soon as
his duties permitted. He might often, consciously or
unconsciously, while in the midst of his work picture
himself so returning. On this particular afternoon a
366 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
thought of the kind—perhaps a " high-explosive " one, so
to speak, caused by an apparent chance of an early
return afterwards found to be no chance—may have
caught Mrs. Pownali at a favourable moment, and the
visual hallucination was the result. One only wonders
why hallucinations of this kind do not occur more often.
Telepathy will explain the dream about Admiral Carden's
appointment, if we make a wild and quite gratuitous
assumption. The dream, you remember, occurred about
August 12, 1914. Now, the Goeben and Breslau reached
Constantinople on August 10, and their escape caused
much irritation in this country. At the Admiralty and
in Government circles the irritation was no doubt acute.
It is conceivable—I do not venture to say that it is more
than conceivable—that someone then in high office, whose
name I forbear even to guess, under the stimulus of this
irritating disappointment, flashed out a very highly explo-
sive thought the impact of which was felt as far as Malta
—the thought being something like this, "X. must be
recalled, and Carden must have the Mediterranean com-
mand !
" Whether the thought was justifiable or not of
course I do not discuss, and it does not matter ; nor does
it matter that the change (which, as we know, was
actually made) did not take place till more than five
weeks after the date of the dream. This audacious sug-
gestion is, of course, a mere fancy, but it is the best I
can myself make in the interests of telepathy. On its
merits I attach small value to it, and I have reasons for
believing it to be improbable. I am not at liberty to
impart these reasons, but those of you who have friends
in naval circles will perhaps be able to obtain information
from which you can form your own opinion on the
matter.
Similarly, the dispatch of the submarines could be explained
by telepathy from the Admiralty, if the step was decided
upon there at a sufficiently early date. Perhaps we may
some day be allowed to learn how this was ; but in
view of the fact that the flotilla was ordered to leave at
some twenty-four hours' notice, it does not seem likely that
the matter was discussed and decided in London more
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 367
than a day or two before. Otherwise one would have
expected longer notice to be given.
The incidents of the steamer, the wounding of Major Ash,
and the loss of the British submarine obviously suggest a
telepathic explanation, since in each case some one knew
the facts before they reached Mrs. Pownall. With regard
to Mr. Knox's appointment also, it is possible that some-
body at the Admiralty thought the thought, "in 3 days'
time we shall send Mr. Knox notice of his appointment."
All the same, both the thought itself and the transference
of just that thought on a trivial matter are not easy to
explain. As to Mrs. Grenfell White's dream, which is
veridical on the only point that we can test —Mrs. Pow-
nall's distress, telepathy, while it accounts for the know-
ledge of her grief, does not account for the presence of
the brother. Nor does it account for the mysterious
footsteps heard in the house at Malta the same evening,
which in view of the dream, it does not seem merely
fanciful to connect with him—unless we are to connect
them with the husband. I do not mean that a spirit's
footsteps may be audible ; but I can imagine that if my
subliminal consciousness receives the impression of a spirit's
presence or influence (I do not know what word to use),
the impression might emerge in the vague form of an
hallucination of the sound of footsteps.1
With regard to the Zeppelin raid, we may say, if we
like, that Mrs. Pownall obtained her information from the
Germans in Belgium who were planning it. At first blush
that may seem easy ; but we must remember that the
only rapport between them is a violent mutual repulsion,
1
It was suggested by a speaker at the meeting that the hearing of
footsteps may have been the result of expectation, but the suggestion
seems altogether gratuitous. Why should there be any such expectation ?
Mrs. Pownall had never before had this hallucination, though she had
frequently been alone in the house in the evening, and convinced as she
was of her husband's death, one would suppose that the last thing she
would expect would be to hear his footsteps ;
moreover, she did not
distinguish them as a man's footsteps. It may be added that Lieut.
-
Commander Pownall had never lived in this house ; Mrs. Pownall moved
into it after he left Malta. Mme Davie had not been told about the
footsteps before she thought she heard them herself, so that in her case
it is equally difficult to imagine why she should expect to hear them.
368 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
and the production of rapport by repulsion seems unlikely.
Moreover, as these Germans presumably thought in German
and Mrs. Pownall's knowledge of that language is extremely
slight and (as I have proved by experiment) quite insuffi-
cient to understand such a message as might be pre-
sumed,1
one must ask how it came to be so conveniently
translated in transit. Or can such a thought (all the
concepts which it embraces being familiar to the receiver)
be transmitted from mind to mind, without the employ-
ment of language ? I am disposed to think that this may
be so, although, so far as I am aware, we have no
recorded example of telepathy between people who do not
understand each other's language. Even so, however, not
all our difficulties are removed. How are we to explain
Mrs. Pownall's precise knowledge of the hour of the raid ?
On the telepathic hypothesis, the enemy proposed to him-
self to drop his first bomb on London at 9.45 ; but if he
did, we know enough of aerial navigation to be able to
say that he was highly unlikely to keep to his time-table
with such astonishing precision. In this case, therefore,
telepathy cannot, I think, be lightly allowed to have the
last word.2
The knowledge of her husband's death may well have been
apprehended by Mrs. Pownall telepathically ; the impression
may have been subliminally received at the moment of death,
to emerge in some mysterious way through the handling
of the letter. There is, however, one point in this painful
episode which telepathy does not wholly explain.
1 In the following sentence, " Ein Viertel vor zehn werden wir iiber
London ankommen," the only word translated was -iiber.
2
An article in the Observer of October 3 contained the following
paragraph :
" Sunset coming earlier, the hours of the possible arrival of German
airships over London is put forward, and this month we may expect
them as earlj. as 10 p.m. In November, December, and January, they
might in certain conditions get here before 9.30 p.m. ;
and, other things
being equal, they will be a trifle less particular about the amount and
direction of the wind during the winter, for they will have a greater
duration of dark hours for the job." Mrs. Pownall takes the Observer
and it must therefore be presumed that she read this article ; but even
so we are not much helped. The impression was not received until
10 days later, and " as early as 10 p.m." does not suggest 9.45.
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 369
Mrs. Pownall appears to have known for many months
that her husband would be killed at the Dardanelles, and
also, as I incline to think, that it would be on a Sunday.
At any rate, she was possessed by an unshakable convic-
tion on the former point, and the conviction was justified
by the event. She did not, I believe, consciously expect
that he would die on a Sunday, but her remarkable
depressions on Sundays look like the formless emergence of
a subliminal impression to that effect.1
The depressions
were peculiarly distressing and usually culminated in
weeping. They began when she woke in the morning,
passed off towards midday, and returned about tea-time.
Nothing at ail like them occurred on other days, and
during the week, but for the one great trouble, Mrs.
Pownall preserved her normal cheerfulness. Of course, there
are countless instances of people saying that they are
" convinced " they will never see someone dear to them,
but they do not mean more than that they greatly
fear it will be so. Mrs. Pownall's other veridical predictions
seem to forbid us to regard the present case as one of
mere forboding, and she herself absolutely refuses to regard
it as such. Every prediction of the future must be con-
sidered on its merits and in its own setting, and having
regard to all the circumstances, I cannot persuade myself
that we have not here a case of actual foreknowledge.
With every desire to show common sense, I am unable to
accept accidental coincidence as a satisfactory explanation
of the facts. But if it is a case of foreknowledge,
how are we to account for it ? I can imagine three
1
Dr. Wingfield once told me of a patient, a young lady, who for a long
time had refused to go out of the house for fear that something dreadful
would happen to her, she knew not what. Suspecting this vague fear to
be the emergence of something more definite in the subliminal, he
hypnotised her and told her to dream of the thing she was afraid of.
On waking her, he bade her make notes of her dreams and bring the
notes to him. She brought notes of some half-dozen, of which he
selected one. The dream was of an incident in a story she had read when a
child : a girl, whose friends wished to get hold of her money, had been taken
out and driven off to a lunatic asylum. Put into the trance again, the
patient now confessed that the fear that this might happen to herself
was the cause of her unwillingness to go out of doors. With this know-
Jedge the cure was simple and was immediately effected.
370 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
possible views, and someone may suggest a fourth or
more.
Firstly, we may suppose the information to have been
conveyed by a spirit who had knowledge of the future.
Secondly, we may suppose that the mind can of itself,
and on its own initiative, travel into a world of thought
where there ib no past or future—where all that is, all
that has been, all that is to be, is equally known and
knowable. Thirdly, there is a supposition which those
who find it difficult to believe that we on earth ever come
into contact with a spirit world, would perhaps prefer
to either of these two. We may suppose that a man in
perfect health may by some mysterious means come to
have, consciously or subliminally, a foreknowledge of the
very day of his death many months before it takes place
—and that, although his death is to be a violent one, and
not due to some disease whose rudimentary existence the
subliminal may be supposed to be capable of noting, while
it is also able to forecast and to time with accuracy its
fatal development. We may suppose that Lieut. -Com-
mander Pownall had this foreknowledge and was unable
to prevent the communication of it telepathically to his
wife. This idea is not to be hastily rejected ; but it
must be admitted that it transcends normal experience
quite as outrageously as does the idea of communication
with a spirit world, or that of our ability to penetrate
into a world of thought such as I have suggested ; more-
over, it lacks at present any substantial support. It is,
however, the explanation offered by Professor Flournoy of
a case of foreknowledge of death from disease described
in his book Esprits et Mediums. That case, which is very
well attested, is so remarkable that I gave a summary of
it in a review of the book in Vol. XXV. of the Pro-
ceedings. Since it may be thought to lend some support
to this last theory, I will give a bare outline of the story
here. For convenience, I accord the dates to the Russian
calendar, which is twelve days behind ours.
A certain Mme Buscarlet of Geneva, after acting for
three years as governess to the two little daughters of
M. and Mme Moratief at Kasan in Russia, returned to
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 371
Geneva in August, 1883. At Kasan she became acquainted
with a Mme Nitchinof and a Mile Olga Popo'i. Mme
Nitchinof was headmistress of the Institut Imperial at
Kasan, a school which Mme Moratief's daughters began
to attend after Mme Buscarlet's departure, and she and
her husband were intimate friends of the Moratiefs. On
December 10 (our 22nd) Mme Buscarlet wrote a letter to
Mme Moratief, but did not post it till the 12th, and it
reached Kasan on the 20th. Professor Flournoy saw both
the letter and the envelope with the Geneva and Kasan
postmarks. After about a page of Christmas greetings,
the letter goes on as follows. It is written in French, but
I translate, omitting all that is not essential.
Last night I had an absurd dream. . . . You and I were on
a country road, when there passed in front of us a carriage
from which came a voice calling you. When we got to the
carriage we saw Mile Olga Popo'i lying stretched across it inside,
dressed in white and wearing a cap trimmed with yellow ribbons.
[Mme Buscarlet told Professor Floumoy that the cap also was
white, and that she had seen the body of a lady invested for
burial in this manner in Russia.] She said to you, '
I have
called you in this manner to tell you that Mme Nitchinof leaves
the Institute on the 17th.' The carriage then drove on. How
ludicrous dreams are sometimes.
After this the letter turns to other subjects.
In a letter written in reply and dated Kasan, Decem-
ber 20 (the day on which Mme Buscarlet's letter arrived),
M. Moratief wrote to Mme Buscarlet that he and his wife
had dined at Mme Nitchinof 's house on the 13th, which
was four days after the dream. After dinner Mme Nit-
chinof felt unwell, but a doctor who arrived immediately
diagnosed nothing more than an ordinary slight sore-throat
(une simple et legere angine). On the 14th and 15th the
doctors, three in number, failed to find anything alarming,
and only on the morning of the 16th was the illness
recognised as scarlet fever. At 5 p.m. on that day the
patient could hardly speak, and at 11.45 the same night she
died. For fear of infection, the body was removed from
the school to a neighbouring chapel at 2 a.m. on the 17th.
372 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
Thus Mme Nitchinof did indeed " leave the Institute " on
the 17th. Mile Olga Popoi's intrusion into the dream is
unexplained
.
There remains one final puzzle. If Mrs. Pownall had
expected that official news of her husband's death would
be sent to Admiral Limpus, she might naturally suppose
that it would be brought on to her by Mrs. Limpus.
Questioned on this point Mrs. Pownall wrote : "I could
not possibly have expected Admiral or Mrs. Limpus to
bring me the news. Official news of the death of a Naval
•officer always comes straight from the Admiralty to the
wife or nearest relative. About a fortnight after George
was killed I had a letter from the Admiralty telling me of
his death. I arranged with Mr. [Knox] that, should any-
thing happen to George, he was to send a telegram to
Captain [Esmond]." Now, Mr. Knox's private telegram to
Captain Esmond arrived in Malta at noon on the Wednesday,
and until a few minutes after that no one on earth could
know by any normal means, nor even by telepathy, that the
news would be brought to Mrs. Pownall by Mrs. Limpus.
Her intervention was the outcome of an accident which
did not happen till noon on that day. How, then, could
Mrs. Pownall know of it twelve hours before ?
The following considerations, which I present because they
occurred to me and might be thought to touch the point,
really afford no solution of the mystery. In asking Captain
Esmond to " bring her the official news " Mrs. Pownall
seems to have had some dim notion that it might be
officially telegraphed to Malta direct from the Dardanelles,
though on a moment's reflection she would have remem-
bered that headquarters authorities communicate casualties
only to the Admiralty or the War Office. She was well
aware of this. Such a telegram, if sent—though passing,
as did all official telegrams, through Captain Esmond's
hands—would have been addressed, she thinks, to Admiral
Limpus. She tells me she never thought of this until I
questioned her on the point ; her only thought was that
Captain Esmond was always the first recipient of official
news, and she had forgotten for the moment her arrange-
ment with Mr. Knox. Moreover, even if it had occurred
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 373
to her that an official telegram from the Dardanelles would
be addressed to the Admiral, she would not have thought
of Mrs. Limpus as a possible messenger ; she would have
felt sure that Captain Esmond, when forwarding the tele-
gram to the Admiral, would at the same time inform him
that he had promised to break the news to her himself,
if it should come.
NOTE.
November 22, 1915.
I have read Mr. Bayfield's paper, and declare that it faith-
fully describes my experiences and the facts connected with
them.
(Signed) Vera Pownall.
ADDENDUM.
The reproduction of the foregoing paper in the Pro-
ceedings affords me the opportunity of adding the following
letter, written to me by my daughter and received on
January 21, 1917.
2m Hyde Park Mansions, W.
January 20, 1917.
You will, I am sure, be interested in the following peculiar
behaviour on Vera's part on the last 3 evenings, 17th to 19th
inclusive.
On the 17th, between tea and dinner, she felt very breath-
less with heart palpitations, combined with a great depression
and a feeling of vagueness, which passed off when she went
to bed. On the 18th she had been to tea with Mrs. Pownall
[Mrs. Vera Pownall's mother-in-law], and felt ill and had heart
palpitation there. She returned here between 6.0 and 6.30,
and felt her heart [disturbed] again and was very depressed
indeed. She tried to rouse herself and throw it off, but
though the palpitation passed, the depression did not, and I
persuaded her to go to bed. She kept saying she felt her
memory was going, and that she felt so vague and stupid.
After dinner in bed she was better, and the depression passed
and she slept well.
2 A
374 Rev. M. A. Bayfield. [part
Last night, the 19th, we had tea about 5.0 and then I wrote
some letters in my room. About 6.0 I went into the drawing-
room and found V. lying on the sofa in the most extraordinary
state of depression. I have never seen her like it before. She
said she couldn't throw it off. She had tried to read, and to
write a letter, but found it impossible. She said she felt so
vague, and that everything she said and did was mechanical ;
that she didn't feel as if she was herself at all, but someone
else. She said she felt as if she might go melancholy mad.
She then said she felt very much as she had at that time in
Malta when George died,—very receptive, and all noises seemed
louder, and little things made her jump. I put it all down to
her being in a, low state of health, though I thought it strange
that all the rest of the days, until after tea, she was in excel-
lent spirits and feeling much better for her massage.
When she said she felt as she had in Malta and very recep-
tive, I said,, " Perhaps you are going to get something [meaning
some supernormal communication]. What a pity you don't
feel the war is going to end, or the Town Hall in Berlin is
going to be blown up !
"
Not many minutes after this this dreadful explosion [the
Silvertown explosion of Jan. 19, 1917] took place. It was like
a huge gun going off, and as we rushed to V.'s window [that
is, her bedroom window, which affords a wider view than the
drawing-room], I said, " That will take you out of yourself."
We did not hear any definite news at once, but after the
explosion Vera said she felt as if some great load had been
lifted from her mind, the feeling of relief was so great.
I was not at all frightened, as I knew by the sound that it
was not very near ; but later V. told me that she had never
had such a feeling of fright in all the Zepp. raids we've been
in, and she felt quite sure she was going to be killed,—that
the roof might fall in or the walls. I gather that this feeling
only lasted a moment or two, and then she felt as if she was
herself again and no longer vague at all, though rather shaken
and very tired. I think she was almost on the verge of being
in a trance.
This is a very lengthy story, but I felt sure you would be
interested, as I don't see how her health accounts for the
most peculiar state she has been in for the last 3 evenings,
lxxiv.] Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy. 375
never till between tea and dinner, and feeling worse between
6.0 and 7.0—and the explosion was about 6.30 or 6.45.
This evening she is quite normal and not at all depressed, and
it is now past 6.40 p.m.
She also told me later, that before the explosion she felt
she was going to be killed, but did not tell me for fear of
alarming me, as she was not thinking of it all from a
psychic point of view.
(Signed) Cyrille Bayfield.
Of the last sentence, which the writer's haste has left
somewhat obscure, I have received the following explana-
tion. Mrs. Pownall felt so ill that she thought she was
going to die of this mysterious illness. This feeling, with
an inconsistency which she did not perceive, was combined
with a conviction that something dreadful was going to
happen and that she would be killed. She did not feel, as in
the case of her premonition of her husband's death, that her
condition was due to an external cause. If she had told my
daughter that she felt she was going to die, the latter would
naturally have been much alarmed. If, on the other hand,
she had thought her depression was premonitory, say, of
an air-raid, and that it was from this that she might
perish, she would have mentioned the fact ; but that idea
never occurred to her.
The incident is not necessarily evidential, but it seems
striking enough to deserve recording in connexion with
those which precede it. Too many loincidences spoil the
sceptic broth.
M. A. Bayfield.
376 Jane Harrison. [part
SUPPLEMENT.
VII.
IN MEMORIAM—Mrs. A. W. VERRALL.1
Manibus date lilia plenis.
" Why in less than no time," she said to me in her alert
cheerful voice, her eye lighting as she spoke, " one of us
will be writing the other's obituary notice " —she paused.
" And if it's you, Jane, what appalling rubbish you will write."
The. lot has fallen upon me.
Margaret de Gaudrion Merrifield came up to Newnham
College in 1877, the year of the opening of Old Hall.
As Student, Lecturer, Associate, Member of Council, constant
friend, her connection with the College knew no break ; to
the generations to whom she cannot leave her memory she
has left a legacy of £500.
On her mother's side she came of French stock, and of
her two-fold ancestry she was most justly proud. Throughout
her life her attitude towards superstition, ancient and modern,
was not of protest and intolerance but of almost physical
shrinking and disgust. I often tried to interest her in savage
superstitions and rites —she used to shudder and say, " how
can you work at such things—ugh." She lived through an
age when obscurantism was rampant and her later work
brought her in intimate contact with charlatanism ; it brought
1
The obituary notice of Mrs. Verrall, which has already appeared
in Proceedings (Pt. LXXIL), was concerned almost entirely with her
work in psychical research, and it was thought that members of the
S.P.R. would be interested to learn something of Mrs. Verrall from a
more personal standpoint. We have to thank the Committee of the
Newnham College Club for permission to reprint this article, written by
a college friend of Mrs. Verrall's for the Newnham College Letter for 1916.
The intention with which the article was first written will explain the
many college allusions.
—
Ed.
lxxiv.] In Memoriam Mrs. A. W. Verrall. 377
her also to the acceptance of views usually rejected by the
"free-thinker." But these views were to her matters arrived
at not by faith but by scientific investigation. A free-thinker
in the full sense and a protestant against all superstition
she remained to the end.
' ;
How could I," she would say,
" be anything else ?
" Yet free-thinker though she was, she
sent her daughter impartially to Anglican and Roman services
in order that from the outset the child might learn in practice
quot homines tot sententiae.
Very vividly I remember first speaking to her and first
really seeing her astonishingly young and vivid face. I was
taking down names for a concert and I asked hers. " Mar-
garet de Gaudrion Merrifield " she answered, with a polite
and dignified little bend of the head. I looked at her with
some amusement—she was so very, very young—and said,
more because she attracted me and I wanted to talk to her,
than from any second-year brutality, " I'm afraid I can't
spell all that. Will M. de G. do ?
" The answer came with
perfect good temper, " 0, please, whatever is most convenient,"
and another little bow. At cocoa that night, in the college
slang of the moment, we decided that young M. de G. had
" come to count." And count very much she soon did.
Her education had been on the best modern lines of the
day ; her father's private interests were scientific —he was
a well-known naturalist—she herself came up intending to
read political economy and moral science. The family were
intimate friends of the Fawcetts. Through long hours on
the window seat of my room we wrangled over ancient and
modern, and at last, though she knew little Latin and no
Greek, she consented to try classics. I believe the heroic
difficulties tempted her adventurous spirit. Her place in the
Tripos, handicapped by lack of training as she was, showed
her linguistic poAvers, and she never regretted her choice.
Nor could anyone regret it, for her classical training was
the basis of a high companionship in marriage. But I have
often thought with some misgivings that I may have done
an ill turn to science, and it was with real pleasure that I
saw her later turn her eager, enquiring, and truly scientific
mind on Psychical Research.
As a girl, what impressed her friends most in her was her-
378 Jane Harrison. [part
boundless, tireless life and vigour ; she was simply hungry
for work. A little knot of college friends used to discuss
future careers and look over lists of appointments together.
One day she came on some toilsome post which she thought
would suit her. She read aloud the regulations and conditions,
then frowned suddenly and flung the paper away. " Com-
pulsory retirement at sixty ! Oh, that's no good." The
story caused Dr. Verrall perennial joy. " That's May all
over," he said, and " compulsory retirement at sixty " became
a household word.
She never then dreamt of Academic work, and was to the
end never in spirit Academic. Her appointment as classical
lecturer came as a surprise. I was her senior, and we had
often talked over what the classical work was to be when
I was appointed. Dis aliter visum. Never shall I forget
her generous rage when she was pi eferred before her friend.
She came immediately up to London to see me, and literally
stamped about the room, healing thereby her friend's hurt
vanity. Then and then only did I see her thoroughly irrational.
It was far into the night before I could persuade her that
refusal would be as useless as Quixotic. She, like Dr. Verrall,
was the staunchest of friends. Even the early years of the
marriage, which soon followed her appointment, never sub-
merged friendship.
About her teaching work, Miss Sharpley, who was in turn
her pupil and her colleague and always her intimate friend,
writes :
" Mrs. Verrall held the post of resident lecturer in classics
from 1880 until her marriage in 1882, and she continued
to lecture for the College with intervals till shortly before
her death. I think her most characteristic work was perhaps
done in the teaching commonly described as 'giving back
the Trinity papers.' Some of her pupils may have cavilled
at the uncompromising blue pencil which paid no heed to
the literal correctness of the translation they submitted, but
to those who were capable of appreciating points of style
the painful process brought the joy of a new insight. The
clearness and confidence with which she expounded her subject
gave her class the satisfactory feeling that here was some-
lxxiv.] In Memoriam Mrs. A. W. Verrall. 379
one who knew what she was talking about, while her treat-
ment of it had no savour of school methods, and her hearers
felt a stimulating new assumption in the air. They were
being dealt with as intellectually mature and the matter of
real scholarship was being put before them. Knowledge they
could lay no claim to was attributed to them. Her '
as
of course you know '
was not ironical. One might look up
to see if she was laughing, but no, she always meant it, and
one settled back into a larger self-respect. In discussion of
points and difficulties she would be swift and unqualified
at first in her pronouncements, but ready instantly to place
her mind at another's standpoint while they maintained a
different view from hers, and to allow it often more than
its just value on the first impression.
Latterly she had returned her teaching fees into the College
funds.
Her work as examiner for the College in scholarship ex-
aminations was excellent in method and reliability. It was
trenchant, clear-eyed and discriminating.
She was for many years a member of the meeting of
Classical Lecturers, which sits at the end of each term to
discuss plans and make arrangements for the next term's
work. As a Colleague she was business-like, unselfish and
convenient. There was never anyone less fussy—never worried
with the tiresome, always above vexation and offence. As
her service to the College as a teacher had its own distinc-
tion and has enriched the teaching tradition of Newnham,
and is recognised with gratitude and admiration and with
the sense of a gap to be ever filled by something different,
so too her contribution as a fellow lecturer had a special
quality—a quality, I think, of comfort and nobility, the
warm memory of which is a part of the possession she leaves
to the College generations who have known and loved her."
Miss Matthaei confirms Miss Sharpley's view. Mrs. Verrall
she found as a teacher very full, swift, and spite of her great
swiftness always clear. She corrected very freely, never
contenting herself with the conventional depreciatory scratch.
She was quick to praise as well as to criticise, and specially
appreciative of any evidence of style.
380 Jane Harrison. [part
We called her " M. de G.," and throughout her life M. de
G. she always was, very French as well as English. If I
understand and sympathise with our great Allies at all, it
is mainly through her. Her Frenchness came out in small
things—if they are small—in her rather formal and always
unfailing courtesy of manner. Of course we chaffed her
when, on passing her best college friend, she would give a
polite little bow. I believe she loyally tried —but she never
could really master the cheery half-shamefaced grin which is
among intimates our accepted English salutation. The war
hit her hard on the French as well as the English side.
The suspense as to whether England would join in was anguish
to her. Yet she kept careful guard over passion. She had
really no material for hate in her, nothing poisonous to fester ;
but once she said to me, " How dreadful it is ; if the war
goes on we may all come to hating the Germans." So French
was she that she never could really feel the perilous pom-
posities of the Latin idiom. At a Swiss table d'hote a French
neighbour tried to sketch something for her with a blunt
pencil. " Je ne demanderai mieux que de vous satisfaire,
Madame, mais "—with a bow and an elegant wave of the
stump of a pencil
—" Vinstrument est rebelled Two unmannerly
Britons hid their faces choking with suppressed laughter,
why she could never qiute realise, but later on in the evening,
with her beautiful fairness and perfect good temper she said,
" I think I do understand a little what you two very foolish
people were laughing at."
French she was also in big things, in fact in her whole
mentality. There was about her personality an alertness,
a clarity, a dexterity which left some of us with a feeling
that we were half-baked and wholly imfinished. I shall
never forget the three weeks I spent with her pulling together
the MS. draft of our Mythology and Monuments of Ancient
Athens. With characteristic alacrity and precision she said
at the outset, " I can give you three weeks, and we must
finish it up." In the little inn at Robin Hood's Bay, which
to me now has its special sanctity, I laid before her a fright-
ful tangled mass of material and, what is worse, conflicting
opinion. She sifted it and sorted it, and saw through it
with a swiftness that was then and is still to me little short
lxxiv.] In Memoriam Mrs. A. W. Verrall. 381
of miraculous. She dived into my mind, dredged up tangled
debris, and convicted me of only half-conscious confusions ;
she insisted that decision was possible and must be made.
Once I remember her swiftness flurried me, and I said crossly,
" I wish to goodness you'd wait and let me make up my
own mind." " I should wait a long time," she said, and
we both burst out laughing.
She was one of the rare people who can really " change
their minds "
—most of us slowly and painfully shift and
adjust our prejudices —I mean she really altered her views
owing to the rational arguments that were presented to her.
And this she could do with an astounding, kaleidoscopic
swiftness that left many of us gaping and gasping. This
capacity for swift volte, face was disconcerting to the lobbyist.
She would promise her support to a measure and see reason
to change her view at the last moment. The prudent lobbyist
did well to see her to the door of a committee-room, and
even there she was not safe. So perfect was her own recti-
tude that, when she suddenly voted against your most cherished
scheme, she confidently looked for your sympathy and approval.
A generous confidence breeds generosity ; she was not often
disappointed.
Her reasonableness was the more remarkable because she
was a person of rather violent prejudice, and this is not
supposed to go with reasonableness. Certain quite harmless
weaknesses she could not tolerate —notably any detailed
discussion of food. This cannot be laid to the charge of
her. French ancestry. " How can you encourage that disgust-
ing man ?
" she said to me almost angrily of an earnest diner
at table-d'hote, whose single-hearted devotion to the menu,
and whose missionary zeal for our conversion had rather
touched me. " If you go on letting him talk about food
I shall move our places." Often the prejudice was quite
baseless. " No," she would say, " I can't do with him !
don't ask me to like him ; he rubs me up the wrong way."
When pressed for reason her French mind would hark round
for some small lack of tenue : he had lolled about on the
sofa ; she had been met in the town without gloves ; but
you felt, and she often acknowledged, that it was just blind
instinctive prejudice. Yet with all this she somehow con-
382 Jane Harrison. [part
trived—and it was a great strength, though also a slight
weakness—to keep her intellect clear of her emotions and
instincts ; it seemed to work alone unhampered. I suspect
again this trait was Latin rathei than Teuton. It seems
to belong to a very high level of civilisation, and she was
the most civilised creature I have ever known.
She was an admirable citizen, punctiliously law-abiding.
" Laws are made to be broken," was an English truth that
she never could grasp. That she with her clear head, Avide
knowledge of facts and strong sense of public duty, should
be voteless, was in itself a reductio ad absurdum of the anti-
suffragist position, yet her voteless condition never abated
by one jot her interest in public affairs. As a true democrat
she desired the vote, and she was a member of the National
Union, but she was never an ardent or even very active
Suffragist. Once I remember she forbade the subject to be
mentioned at Sunday supper ; not that she wavered for a
moment in her convictions, but she was very easily bored
and disliked stale or fruitless controversy. " We have said
all there is to say. Do let us talk about something else."
Yet her private views as to the independence of a woman's
life were at times startling. She was listening once to the
account of how a brilliant intellectual woman had dropped
all her literary interests after marriage and devoted herself
entirely to domesticity and the furthering of her husband's
career. " She has simply given up her whole life to him,"
the speaker ended ;
"it is wonderful !
" " Wonderful," said
Mrs. Verrall ;
" I call it simply squalid ;
fancy giving up
your own life to your husband !
" and—reflectively
—" how it
would bore Arthur if I did !
"
She was a keen politician ; she and Dr. VerralJ maintained
their steady Liberalism at a time when Liberalism, in Cambridge
at least, was not very easy, and when many of their old
Liberal set dropped away on the Irish question. Of a lapsed
Liberal friend she said to me, " We can't discuss politics
with him any more ; that's useless ; he is rabid, and I sup-
pose we are ; but we are determined it shall not change
our friendship," and it never did. One of her closest friends
was suddenly converted from rank Toryism to ultra-Socialism ;
that friend she met always with the same smiling—not sym-
lxxiv.] In Memoriayn Mrs. A. W. Verrall. 383
pathy, but affectionate tolerance. Try as you would, you
could not quarrel with her on a matter of principle, because
she really believed in Freedom of Thought. In theory, though
by no means in practice, she was the perfect democrat. We
were once discussing the question of whether an Associate
on becoming Principal should cease to be an Associate. 1
A
timid Associate urged that some might feel a difficulty in
speaking freely when the Principal was present. " She will
not be present," said Mrs. Verrall, firmly ;
" she will have
become an Associate."
Though so good a citizen, she was no philanthropist. When
a national need arose she could and did work gallantly against
fast declining health, as Secretary of the University Belgian
Committee in Cambridge. But she said to me once, " I
suppose there is something wrong in me, for I'm no good
at '
good works '
—they bore me." In like manner, she was
no initiator of reforms. This last characteristic she perhaps
took on from Dr. Verrall, who drove his own revolutionary
train of thought quite cheerfully along the most antiquated
University rails. It was not, I think, " something wrong "
in her, but something rather profoundly right. She seemed
to feel, with Ivan Karamazov, " One can't live in rebellion,
and I want to live." In her character there were plenty
•of —not faults, but little obvious, loveable and intensely logical
absurdities, which allowed her friends to laugh at her, and
so made her doubly dear. But in one important direction
she unconsciously led the way morally, and somehow an-
ticipated the new religion that seems dawning among the
young. She showed us—but here I am putting into words
what she never formulated—that the whole, or at least the
chief, Duty of Man is not to do good, or even to be good,
but rather, in obedience to healthy impulse, to work, to
create, to " energise," and thereby enrich the commonwealth.
Herein lay her sanity and her success. This instinctive ad-
vanced outlook was the more marked, as she was never very
keen about, or closely in touch with young movements, and
she was impatient of discussion societies. At the founding
of the Cambridge Heretics Society I tried to get her sympathy
1
The Associates of Newnhani College are an elected group of old
students, having a certain share in the government of the college.
—
Ed.
384 Jane Harrison. [part
for a then struggling cause. " Heretics," she said, " of course
I'm a heretic, but I don't want a society to talk about it."
As a scholar, her personal liking was stronger for Latin
than for Greek ; she knew Greek as well, or perhaps better,
but she used to tell me she felt more at home in Latin,
and preferred writing in it. She had not the born linguist's
passion for words. What she really cared for was that
mysterious thing, style. She owned somewhat reluctantly
that Ibsen was great as a dramatist, but he gave her, she
said, little pleasure. She promised to read Dostoievsky, and
even after her last illness had set in began to learn
Russian, for she had the true stylist's dislike to translations,
but she prophesied that she would never "enjoy" him.
It was characteristic of her rather belles-lettres attitude that
she always expected to " enjoy " great literature. Markedly
un-modern she was in her literary tastes, yet to her as well
as to Dr. Verrall was dedicated the book of verse by young
Cambridge poets. The fact speaks volumes.
Her output of original work in classics was small. Con-
stant teaching work, wide human and political interests, a
household most competently managed (her servants stayed
with her for years), and incessant social duties all made
heavy inroads on her time. Sunday, which brings breathing
space to some of us, was devoted to entertaining London
friends and old pupils. During Dr. Verrall 's tutorship genera-
tions of undergraduates were welcomed at Sunday luncheon,
and, in fact, it was open house all day. Moreover, the
later years of her life were given to intricate Psychical work.
How delicate and exact her classical work was is shown
by her last contribution, on Tivo Instances of Symbolism
in the Sixth Mneid {C.R., 1910, p. 43). It is specially
characteristic as marking the blend of Classical and Psychical
Research.
It is easy to catalogue qualities. Personality, the thing
we love, escapes us. There are so many young, splendid,
vigorous, noble people whom yet one does not love. Our
friendship, her's and mine, was one long, affectionate, dis-
passionate animosity. We had few views and fewer tastes
in common. On college politics we were often though not
always at issue. Why then was I always so inwardly glad
liXxrv.] In Memoriam Mrs. A. W. Verrall. 385
when she came into the room ? Why was it that—deeply
devoted though I was to both husband and daughter
—
Sunday supper alone with her was such a pure joy ? I
cannot tell.
The end I will not speak of, for death came to her harshly.
" Compulsory retirement " at 58 was too early for us, her
friends —alas ! not now for her. She accepted her demission
not only with dignity—that was anyhow certain—but with
something like joy. It is well, in the midst of our loss and
our loneliness, steadily to remember that, though content
to live, she wished to die, and that death meant to her
fuller knowledge, fresh opportunity to live and work. Years
ago she had said to me, " Sometimes I can scarcely bear
to wait."
Jane Harrison.
386 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
VIII.
REVIEW.
Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research. The
Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. By Walter
Franklin Prince, Ph.D. Vol. IX. August, 1915. Pp.
1-700. Vol. X. August, 1916. Pp. 701-1419. Vol. XL
August, 1917. By James H. Hyslop, Ph.D. .Pp. 1024.
If this stupendous study carries as much weight and bulks as
large in the literature psychically as it does physically, it will
assuredly be epoch-making. For it extends over three fat,
elaborately-indexed 1
volumes (only ninety pages in the third
being devoted to the '
Patison '
case), and approximates to 2500
pages of reading matter and nine pounds in weight, while its
published price is $20. Nevertheless, it really is a great case,
and no one who has read it will belittle it. Rather will he
admonish others to follow his example if they would be con-
sidered up to date in the literature of psychology and psychical
research, and express an earnest hope that some of the pro-
fessional psychologists and psychiatrists will be open-minded
enough to study it. For not only will it give them a very
fine study of what appears to be a very typical and instructive
case of the multiple personality which even the most conserva-
tively '
orthodox '
psychologists have by now come to accept
as a fact, and a case moreover which was carried to a remark-
ably successful conclusion by the manipulative skill, persever-
ance and devotion of Dr. Prince ; but it will have also a
pleasing element of surprise. For just when they think they
have come to an end of it, it starts off again in a new direction,
and challenges them to think furiously, by developing vistas of
a very startling and unorthodox kind. Yet when they think it
over as a whole they will find it very difficult to say where in
1 The index, however, is not very good.
LXXIV.] Revieiv. 387
the course of its perfectly smooth and objective record they can
draw the line between science and pseudo-science, between what
they are willing to accept as normal fact and what they are
determined to reject (with far too little investigation) as super-
normal and superstitious. A condensed narrative of the plot
will illustrate this curious difficulty.
I.
The heroine of the case, Miss '
Doris Fischer,' was born in
1889, of German-American parents, as the youngest of thirteen
children. The father contracted the drink habit while serving
as a soldier during the Civil War, and this proved to be the
cause, not only of all the family troubles, but also of the
tragedy of '
Doris's '
dissociations. For, in 1892, when she was
three years old, the intoxicated father in the course of a quarrel
with her mother, took her and dashed her on to the floor.
This shock '
dissociated '
her into the '
Real Doris,' '
Margaret
'
and '
Sleeping Margaret ' ; but no one suspected the dissociation
until Dr. Prince took charge of her nineteen years later, dis-
covering 'Margaret' on Jan. 20, 1911, and 'Sleeping Margaret'
two days later. All that the mother had noticed was that her
youngest child was queer, subject to moods and apparent lapses
of memory, in which she would '
forget '
what she had just
done or said. No wonder, seeing that '
Margaret '
used to
alternate with '
Real Doris,' and the latter knew nothing of
'
Margaret's '
doings, unless '
Margaret '
chose to tell her. For-
tunately '
Margaret,' unlike '
Sally '
in the '
Beauchamp '
case,
was well-disposed towards
1
Real Doris,' and from the first
used to amuse her and keep her quiet, by '
making her play
with her fingers and see things that were not there '
(p. 108),
and though she sometimes got her into trouble by her childish
freaks (for she never grew mentally older than ten), the pair
lived happily enough with each other and their mother, to whom
both were devoted, until '
Doris '
was seventeen. Then, on
May 6, 1906, the mother died after a short illness, aggravated
by a painful scene with the father ; the result of this agony was
a further '
dissociation.'
The new personality, '
Sick Doris,' started life with no
knowledge whatever of the past, unable to speak or to under-
388 F. C. S. Schiller. [PART
stand language, to eat. swallow, dress, etc., and in fact not
far short of the helplessness of that perfect example of the
'psychological baby,' the Rev. Mr. '
Hanna '
after his fall, in
Dr. Sidis's famous case. Like Mr. Hanna she had an adult
mind to learn withal, but unlike him she had also a '
subliminal
teacher '
in '
Margaret,' prompting her from within and able
and willing to take a hand in averting disaster from the common
body. This shows that when one suffers 'dissociation' it may
be an advantage to have been dissociated before. '
Margaret '
was able to talk to '
Sick Doris '
through her lips, but soon found
that the only way " to get her to understand was by doing
things," an observation which should be taken to heart by in-
tellectualists who will not admit that acting has anything to do
with understanding. '
Sick Doris '
did not attribute to herself
the movements of her body initiated by '
Margaret '
(a fact
which has a bearing on Hume's theory of causation), but
imitated them and other things ; the first thing she understood
was the language of gesture. As a teacher '
Margaret '
had, of
course, peculiar advantages, having an inside view of '
Sick
Doris's '
mind and a power, in emergencies, of driving her '
in,'
coming '
out,' and assuming control of the body herself. On
the other hand, she had the limitations of a little girl of ten,
with a quick temper, and easily grew tired or impatient. It
is not astonishing that in the end she came to despise and
loathe her pupil, who never got over the disadvantages of her
birth, being "lacking on the side of the affections, though
morbidly the slave of duty, and lacking in humour, in con-
ceptions of the abstract, and in other respects " (p. 171). So
she often annoyed '
Margaret '
excessively, who retaliated by
scratching and otherwise tormenting her, much as '
Sally '
did
'
B I.' Still her self-sacrificing labours at first are beyond all
praise, and the account of the education of '
Sick Doris '
as
told by '
Real Doris,' when she had inherited her memories
(p. 221 f.), is excellent reading. '
Margaret's '
lessons were
mostly given at night, and at first she kept '
Sick Doris '
awake
all night in order to teach her. In this way the defects of
the new personality were concealed from human eyes, though
not from the keener discernment of dogs and parrots, who
observed the difference between '
Sick Doris '
and '
Margaret,'
and much preferred the latter (p. 233). What, however,
LXXIV.] Review. 389
particularly irritated '
Margaret ' was not her congenital stupidity,
but her morbid appetite for work. She speedily developed a
habit of going into a sort of trance in which she embroidered
with extraordinary skill and speed, without intermission or
repose. '
Margaret '
had to participate in these bouts,, and
greatly resented being *
worked.' In about two weeks from
'
Sick Doris's '
first appearance they were on scratching terms.
This, as Dr. Prince observes, p. 235, was " a rather futile
performance, as S.D. was partially anaesthetic ... so that M.
was the one chiefly to suffer " from the injuries inflicted on
the common body. She also pulled out her hair in long
strands with much violence, and set her night-gown on fire.
Fortunately both were well-disposed towards the primary
personality, '
Real Doris,' and willing—as it will be remembered
'
Sally '
Beauchamp was in the end—to be sacrificed in order
that she might be restored. At this time the relations of
mutual comprehension between the three personalities, all of
which were recognisable by distinctive expression, intonation
and manners, as may be seen from the illustrations, were these
(p. 47 f.). (1) "Real Doris had no direct knowledge of the
thoughts or acts of any of the secondary personalities." She had,
however, been from the first in communication with
1
Margaret,'
who could '
use the same mouth without her volition.' and also
used to write notes to her. Besides, thoughts of '
Margaret's
'
might '
bubble up '
into her mind, and colour her dreams.
(2)
" Sick Doris knew, or was capable of knowing, all that
R.D. did, said, experienced and thought," and was (probably)
subliminally co-conscious with her, as '
Margaret '
certainly was.
But she had no access to the mind of '
Margaret,' and when
the latter was '
out,' i.e. in control of the body, she was " as
if annihilated for the time being." As was the case with
'
Real Doris,' '
Sick Doris '
and '
Margaret '
also " wrote notes to
each other, and held frequent oral conversations "
(p. 49), and
'
Sick Doris '
received other intimations of '
Margaret's '
feelings
and wishes. (3) 'Margaret' "had, or was capable of having,
knowledge of the experiences of every sort and the thoughts
of both R.D. and S.D.," though it was alleged that her know-
ledge of S.D. only was immediate, while her knowledge of
R.D. was reflected from S.D.'s mind as from a mirror. Fur-
ther, when the other two were '
out,' she was subliminally
2b
390 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
co-conscious and could '
watch '
them, but (unlike '
Sally ') she
did not claim to have uninterrupted consciousness. For though
she never '
dreamt ' 1
she slept, and was sometimes '
away and
sleeping,' perhaps because there was a deeper personality still.
(4) This was (rather inconveniently) denominated '
Sleeping
Margaret,' because first discovered (p. 463) on April 5, 1911
while '
Margaret '
was asleep, and in several respects was the
most remarkable feature in the case. She never manifested
except when '
Margaret '
was asleep, and subsequently, when
'
Margaret ' had gone, in the sleep of '
Real Doris,' and had
power only over the vocal organs, and in rare emergencies over
the limbs. But then she was not allowed to develop, and to
'
get her eyes open '
like Sally Beauchamp (p. 814). But for
this she would, as she said, " probably have become the hardest
one to deal with." For mentally she was the most impressive
and inclusive ; she knew all that the others did and thought,
seeing M.'s thoughts directly, those of S.D. reflected from the
consciousness of M. and those of R.D. reflected from S.D. via
M. Her mind was that of a mature, sensible woman, and
after Dr. Prince had won her confidence, she was always willing
to give (excellent) advice in the treatment of the case. She
claimed to date back to '
Doris's '
infancy, and to have '
come '
at the same time as '
Margaret '
; but none of the others were
aware of her existence, which '
Margaret '
only discovered in
Nov., 1911, by telepathically reading Dr. Prince's mind (p. 799),
and she preserved to the end the attitude of a benevolent but
detached and independent spectator. When she had had her
little evening chat with Dr. Prince she would relapse into
silence, and in the daytime would usually '
go away '
on busi-
ness of her own, about which she was very reticent, and she
could glean what had happened in her '
absence '
only from the
minds of the others. (5)
'
Sleeping Real Doris '
was little
more than a disturbance in the sleep of '
Real Doris,' due, as
'
Margaret '
said (p. 247), to "a little crack in the R.D." She
was started by a fall down the stairs on Oct. 2, 1907, but never
developed very far. Dr. Prince doubts whether she had self-
consciousness, and she had no knowledge of any of the others,
1
Pp. 414, 787. As against these positive statements in the 'record' the
remark in the summary on p. 50 that M. was subject to '
simple dreaming
v
must be a slip.
LXXIV.] Review. 391
nor had they access to her mind. All she ever did was to
rehearse with mechanical accuracy, like a phonograph, conversa-
tions and soliloquies in which R.D. or S.D. had participated.
Such was the '
Doris '
Family when the case came under Dr.
Prince's notice in Nov., 1909, and such it had been (with the
addition of '
Sleeping Real Doris '
in 1907) since the mother's
death in 1906. Ever since that catastrophe the '
Real Doris
'
had been practically suppressed. She '
came out '
only for a
few minutes at a time, and the least disturbance sent her '
in,'
i.e. away, again. Dr. Prince estimates that during the five
years 1906-11, her conscious existence can hardly have amounted
to three days, and tells us that when he talked to what hap-
pened to be '
Real Doris '
in November, 1909, she had not
spoken to anyone since her mother's death four and a half
years before !
(p. 257).
It was, therefore, a singular piece of good fortune that S.D.
should have wandered one day in Jan., 1909, into the Episcopal
Church in Pittsburgh of which Dr. Prince was then rector, and
that just as he began to preach R.D. should have emerged and
listened to the whole of the sermon. Still it was S.D. who,
in October, 1909, joined the Sunday school of his church,
and attracted the attention of Mrs. Prince. S.D. at this time
was her father's household drudge, terribly overworked, and
tormented by '
Margaret,' who resented the '
sewing fits '
in
which she was made to participate, underfed, and in a very
bad state of health. Mrs. Prince made her come to the rectory,
gave her food and allowed her to rest and to sleep, soon
noticing that in her sleep her hands used to scratch and other-
wise torment her body. This was '
Margaret '
avenging herself
upon '
Sick Doris '
; but it was not until Jan., 1911, by which
time Dr. Prince had interested himself in the case, that its
significance was understood. Dr. Prince had read his name-
sake's book on the '
Beauchamp '
case, suspected 'dissociation,'
and soon unravelled the major complications. He at once
recognized that in order to effect a cure, and indeed to save
the girl's life, it was necessary to take her away from her
father, and despite some opposition from the father, who was
to go to a Veterans' Home, carried through his scheme. Mr.
and Mrs. Prince adopted Doris, and on Mar. 2, 1911, she
entered their household, and her cure commenced.
392 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
The conduct of this cure reflects the greatest possible credit
on Dr. Prince, both as a man and as a layman (medically).
For even though he had the advice of the professor of
psychiatry of the local University, not many professional
physicians or psychologists would have managed the affair so
smoothly and with so few mistakes. Dr. Prince proceeded on
the very sound principle that all the conditions should be
rendered favourable to the return of the primary personality,
'
Real Doris,' and that she should be encouraged to occupy as
much of the total life as she was able to endure, while the
secondary personalities should be allowed to manifest as little
as possible, and should have their opportunities of activity
and self-expression curtailed as much as possible. Hence, even
when it was found necessary to let them come, in order to
rest '
Real Doris '
and to relieve her from the strain of con-
tinuous living, they were kept asleep as much as possible. As
regards method, Dr. Prince did not employ hypnotism, but
found personal influence and persuasion more effective, having
speedily discovered that all the personalities were very sugges-
tible, especially when asleep. The application of these thera-
peutic methods demanded, however, great tact as well as
patience ; for the secondary personalities had to be kept in
good Immour and tolerant of their treatment, lest their
opposition should jeopardize its success. '
Margaret '
especially
could clearly have done as much mischief as '
Sally '
in the
4
Beauchamp '
case.
Both for this reason, and because she was the latest comer,
1
Sick Doris '
was the first to be attacked, with the enthusiastic
concurrence of 'Margaret.' She yielded ground rapidly, and in a
very curious way. Within a week her memories began to go,
but most of them (though not their accompanying emotions)
turned up again in the mind of '
Real Doris,' and afforded her
some ex post facto compensation for the experience she had
missed. It was now S.D.'s turn to be absent for days at a
time, to become anaesthetic, and generally to dwindle and to
diminish in vitality. But her retrogressive development took
the curious form of growing younger. She who had been born
adult, now experienced her first childhood. Jn two months'
time she was reduced to helpless infancy, and on June 28th,
1911, her last brief appearance was recorded. Similarly, the
lxxiv.] Review. 393
recitals of '
Sleeping Real Doris '
grew rarer and shorter, until
she too petered out, in April, 1912.
The evanescence of '
Margaret '
was a slower process. Her
decline, as measured by loss of power over '
Real Doris '
and
of the ability to know her mind and to '
watch '
when '
in '
{i.e.
subliminal), set in at once, and continued as the '
Real Doris
'
grew stronger and occupied more and more of the day. Like
S.D. she too grew progressively younger, though receding only
from the mentality of a girl of ten to that of one of five. She
also grew more and more anaesthetic, and her sight shortened,
until she became totally blind, though she retained to the end
her remarkable auditory hyperaesthesia. Her last appearance
occurred in April, 1914.
So there was no one left of the family besides '
Real Doris
'
and '
Sleeping Margaret.' And as the latter only manifested
in R.D.'s sleep, without encroaching upon her waking hours, the
cure was for practical purposes complete. Theoretically, how-
ever, '
Sleeping Margaret '
remained a great puzzle, and part of
the anomalies (yet to be mentioned) which differentiated the case
from ordinary dissociations of personality. With her mature
intelligence, detached attitude and curiously restricted control
of the body, she was obviously unlike the alternating personali-
ties. Finding that she alone was not amenable to suggestion,
and singularly reticent about herself, Dr. Prince (perhaps
unwisely) suggested to her that she was a spirit (p. 767). She
repudiated the idea repeatedly—in Nov., 1911, Oct., 1912 (p.
1307), Feb., 1913 (p. 1101). But always in a way suggestive
of a desire to baffle an impertinent inquirer. Thus the second
of these denials was provoked by an allegation made through
'
Margaret's '
automatic planchette-writing, purporting to come
from Doris's mother, that she was '
the guard '
(or spirit
'
guide ') but would deny this. She admitted that she was " the
one that guards " and that her own coming was in response
to the praj^ers of Doris's mother, denied both that '
Margaret *
could have written the messages (" You know very well that
she does not understand what is written ") and that she herself
had, and replied to the question '
then it is a spirit ?
' " No,
I think that is nonsense." Her subsequent denial was still
more enigmatic. To an inquiry as to what she was, she
replied, " Well, I am not a spirit . . . Don't you know that a.
394 F. C. 8. Schiller. [part
personality can go from one person to another ?
" (No.)
" Well, it can. I don't mean such a one as S.D. But M.,
for example, if she had become more fully developed—a per-
sonality gets to be more like the real person when fully
developed—if she had gone on and developed, until she was
out most of the time, and then had been suddenly forced out
—and you could have done it, though it would probably have
ruined R.D.—she could have gone to some other person." (To
what sort of a person ?) "To some nervously weak person
"
(You reason this out ?)
" No, I know it." (From your own
experience ?)
" I didn't say that." Surely Dr. Prince was
justified in regarding this curious theory of possession as
detracting seriously from the denial that '
Sleeping Margaret
'
was a spirit. Finally, in August, 1914, when '
Margaret '
had
been gone four months and it had been arranged that '
Doris
'
was to have some sittings with Prof. Hyslop's medium, Mrs.
Chenoweth, '
Sleeping Margaret '
was prevailed upon to make
an extraordinary statement (p. 1264). She wrote " I am a
spirit, so called by people who live on the earth. I do not
know whether I have a name or not. I only know that I
was sent by some one higher to guard Doris when she was
three years old. There are lots of guards like me but they
do not stay with the people they guard. I never knew one
that did. I was trying to prove who I was by trying to get
your father to write through the planchette board, but failed
to get it done." Then she said, " There, you may believe as
much of that as you like," with which judicious remark we
may temporarily leave her, while we return to the more normal
aspects of the case.
II.
Ignoring for the time being the supernormal side of the case,
let us reflect a little on the points of interest it should have
for psychologists.
(1) Should it not excite wonder even in the most dully
conventional pedant to find how marvellous must be the soul's
organization to be capable of vicissitudes like Doris Fischer's ?
What could be more fantastic, and also more instructive, than
the coming into being, and the passing out of it, of her various
LXXIV.] Review. 395
personalities ? What could more vividly reveal the utter
inadequacj7
to the facts of the old metaphysical dogma that a
soul is a simple and indivisible spiritual substance ? Souls
seem to be composed of strata that extend down into the
subliminal with no perceptible limits, and capable under
pressure of developing new stratifications or obliterating old
ones. It is, of course, tempting—and medical minds usually
find the temptation irresistible—to connect these stratifications
with the structure of the brain, and this theory is in our case
supported by the very definite local habitations in the head
which M. and S.M. assigned to themselves and their colleagues.
But such attempts are usually found to turn metaphors into
arguments, and invariably involve themselves in far-reaching
confusions of the physical and the psychical. 1
(2) Moreover these astounding facts are as damaging to
materialistic dogma as to the old-fashioned spiritualism. A
soul's organization is not adequately expressed by physical
analogies. Its so-called '
dissociations '
are not mechanical
processes, even when they are excited by bodily injuries. Nor
are they wholty morbid. What stands out very clearly in
Doris Fischer's case is that they are really teleological—pro-
tective reactions to alleviate the burden of living. But the
same lesson was really implicit also in the earlier cases, though
the bias of the doctors who recorded them has not infrequently
obscured it. Thus even in the very earliest case of all, that
of '
Felida X.,' it is recorded that the secondary personality
was a great improvement on the condition of the primary ;
while Dr. R. O. Mason's case of
1
Alma Z.' presents very
close analogies to '
Doris Fischer's,' in that it too had a child-
like secondary personality -very like '
Margaret,' and '
Twoey '
declared that she had come to help '
Number One.' It is
quite probable that if
'
Sally ' in the Beauchamp case had
been handled by Dr. Morton Prince as sympathetically as
'
Margaret '
was by Dr. Walter Prince, she too would have
consented to be a curative influence, 2
and it should be remem-
bered that in the end it was she who gave away the secret
1
Cf. e.g. Dr. Morton Prince's notion of '
neurograms '
and my criticism
of it in Proc. S.P.fi. Pt. LXX., pp. 495, 490-501.
2
Cf. '
Sleeping Margaret's '
testimonial to Dr. Prince on p. 750, which
indicates that a different policy might have led to disaster.
396 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
of the Beauchamp family, and that she consented to her own
suppression. 1
Also, it is only fair to say that Dr. Morton
Prince was a pioneer in the therapeutic handling of secondary
personalities, and that his successor profited by his experiments. 2
Lastly, it should be realized that the form of alternating per-
sonality which we all normally experience, viz. ordinary sleep,,
is definitely therapeutic in its function ; and that if we were
not capable of it we could not live.
(3) It is clear that every case of '
dissociation '
has individual
features of its own, and differs from every other. 3 There is a
general family resemblance, but we must be chary of too hastily
arguing from one case to another. Thus if we compare '
Doris
Fischer '
with '
Miss Beauchamp,' we can note the following
differences in the '
dissociations.' (a) The Real Miss Beauchamp
was wholly dissolved into her 'dissociations,' 'BI' and '
B IV
'
(the latter remaining latent for six years after splitting off),
whereas the Real Doris was not dissolved or extinguished, but
became an alternating personality, who was driven off the
scene for a time but gradually recovered the power to maintain
herself, (b) She recovered the memories of '
Sick Doris,' as
Miss Beauchamp did those of B I and B IV ; but the character
of S.D. did not enter into the composition of her own, whereas
the real Miss Beauchamp was a synthesis of B I and B IV.
(c) In the Beauchamp case there was nothing analogous to
the way in which S.D. and M. evanesced, by reduction to in-
fancy and weakness, nor did Real Doris ever inherit the mental
contents of '
Margaret '
as well as those of S.D. (d) Though
'
Margaret '
corresponded in a general way to '
Sally,' there are
well-marked differences. She was much less potent, even at
her strongest, and was finally extinguished, and not merely
'
squeezed '
back into the subliminal. It would perhaps be
true to say that '
Sally '
combined the parts played in the
Fischer case by '
Margaret '
and ' Sleeping Margaret.' But
1
The Dissociation of a Personality, p. 519 ; cf. p. 521.
2
In Sidis and Goodhart's case of the Rev. T. C. Hanna the dissociating
shock was apparently entirely physical. But could we have known what
damage precisely it had done to the brain, we might hope to understand
why, to repair it, it was expedient to start the new '
Mr. Hanna '
afresh
psychically, and to dissociate him from his whole past.
s This was '
Sleeping Margaret's '
view too, cf. p. 750.
LXXIV.] Review. 397
(e) there is no real analogue in the Beauchamp case to '
Sleep-
ing Margaret.' Or if there was, Dr. Morton Prince failed to
discover it.
(4) This possibility must be seriously reckoned with. We
are far too ready to ascribe finality to the knowledge of the
hour and to assume that what has not been found, or is not
officially recognized, does not exist. But few facts are so
obtrusive as to force themselves upon us if we will not look
for them, and still fewer so strong that they can make their
way against hostile prejudice. Now the professional interests
of doctors are such as inevitably to prejudice them in certain
directions, and it is possible that they may overlook a good
deal. At any rate the Doris Fischer case suggests that in
all such affairs there may be a good deal more than meets the
ordinary doctor's eye. It seems to point to a whole array of
mysteries which are usually not explored because medical pre-
judice fights shy of them and medical attention is directed
elsewhere. We may take it that medical records are usually
incomplete where they approach the supernormal. Incidents
bordering upon this region are recorded, if at all, only apologeti-
cally and under protest. Nevertheless, it is fairly well
recognized that cases of '
dissociation '
exhibit hyperesthesias
as well as anaesthesias, though rarely in such abundance as
in our case. Supernormal knowledge was observed in other
cases also, e.g. in ' Alma Z.,' ' Lurancy Vennum,' and
'
Mr. Hanna.' As for the Beauchamp case, it will be re-
membered that ' Sally '
seemed so supernormal to Mr.
M'Dougall as to drive that great authority into an argument
for sheer spiritism. 1
In the Doris Fischer case the super-
normal, though still subordinate to the psychological interest,
bulks large—perhaps only because it was fully and fairly
recorded. At any rate it is to be accounted a piece of good
luck rather than an anomaly that the case fell into the hands
of investigators who were not afraid to explore its supernormal
side. Nor can it be too strongly impressed on future investi-
gators that scientific completeness and honesty require them
not to omit what look like supernormal incidents merely
because they do not understand them. We know so very little
about the intimate '
nature '
and structure of '
souls,' and about
Proceedings S.P.H., Vol. XIX., p. 430.
398 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
their disorders and potentialities that we should not allow any
a priori prejudice to impede the investigation of whatever facts
we can observe. Nor should we acquiesce too easily in terms
like '
dissociation '
as the beginning and end of wisdom. They
are little more than descriptive metaphors, and explain neither
what originally '
associates '
a soul into the sort of unity it
normally has, nor what disrupts this unity, so strangely and
capriciously, to the varying extent illustrated in these abnor-
malities. It may then very well be, as Prof. Hyslop contends,
that supernormal influences usually accompany a '
dissociation.'
and may be detected, if they are looked for. If so, this will
be an additional reason for cultivating a very open mind, in
the hope of unravelling their complexities. These considera-
tions, therefore, lead us on to the supernormal side of the
Doris Fischer case.
III.
The supernormal side of the Fischer case is developed at great
length in Vol. III., which contains Dr. Hyslop's account (with
some annotations by Dr. Prince) of twenty-three sittings Doris
had in Nov. and Dec, 1914, with his medium '
Mrs. Chenoweth,'
together with more or less relevant references to Doris in over
a hundred subsequent sittings, down to Dec. 22nd, 1915. In
this part of the narrative the atmosphere is frankly spiritistic,
in accordance with Dr. Hyslop's well-known convictions. But
in a more moderate way the supernormal element had figured
also in the first two volumes. For Dr. Prince had from the
first conscientiously recorded all the apparently supernormal
incidents that occurred spontaneously. These may be classified
under the heads of (a) telepathy and clairvoyance, (b) hallu-
cinations, and (c) automatic writing, and are deserving of con-
sideration whatever may be thought of Volume III.
(a) On a number of occasions 1 '
Margaret '
evinced a power
of knowing Dr. Prince's past thoughts, discovering, e.g. in this
1 I have not been able to count those recorded, and unfortunately the
index happens to be almost worthless on this important point. It omits,
under '
Margaret, telepathy,' the cases on pp. 508-10, 739, 799 and 804, and
under '
Margaret, clairvoyance '
those on pp. 335-346, 376-8, 661, is nugatory
under '
telepathy,' and quite incomplete under '
clairvoyance '
and 1
tele-
voyance.'
lxxiv.] Review. 399
way that he had written to Dr. Morton Prince about the case
(p. 804), and that '
Sleeping Margaret '
existed (p. 799). She
explained these feats variously, by saying that she saw it in
his eyes, at which she used to gaze fixedly on such occasions,
or that he had '
formed words with his lips,' although he had
not moved them (pp. 509-10). She also explained that she saw,
not his actual thoughts, but what was "passing like a parade
down underneath." Dr. Prince was convinced that this power
was genuine, and it is difficult to deny that it was '
telepathic'
In addition there are reports of clairvoyance due to her (pp. 301,
661), and she was once sent on a clairvoyant expedition with
considerable success (pp. 376-8). The curious case on pp. 508-10,
in which she knew what Dr. Prince had been reading hi a book,
seems to attest both telepathy and clairvoyance. On one
occasion (pp. 335-46), '
Sick Doris '
appears to have had a
clairvoyant vision, in which '
Margaret ' may have been implicated.
(b) Hallucinations of a possibly veridical sort occurred to
'
Sick Doris '
and ;
Real Doris,' and also ;
in connexion with a
proof '
Sleeping Margaret '
had promised him, to Dr. Prince.
'
Sick Doris,' when she first came, was frequently comforted in her
troubles by visions of the mother she had never seen, who spoke
kindly to her, teste '
Margaret '
(pp. 244, 442). In November,
1912, '
Margaret '
reported that '
Real Doris '
had several times
seen their mother, and this was confirmed by S.M. and R.D.
who said
—" I Avas sitting in the henyard day before yesterday
at half past four, feeling sad, and holding a chicken, looking
down at it when I saw a shadow. That made me look up
—
I thought it must be you ; and I saw my mother, just as
plainly as I ever saw her, dressed in a calico dress which she
wore when I was a child about eight years old. She looked
down on me and smiled and her face shone—it seemed to
reflect light. I saw her only a second, and then she suddenly
disappeared. I saw the same thing yesterday afternoon
"
(pp. 1042-4). As for Dr. Prince he was awakened from a
dream by hearing himself called '
Walter '
:
'
Sleeping Margaret '
spontaneously claimed to have made this experiment (pp. 1214-5).
Subsequently the same thing happened again, and could not be
explained (p. 1258 f.).
(c) Automatic writing first occurred in July, 1911, when a
pencil was put into '
Margaret's '
hand while she was asleep.
400 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
It took the form of a message from her mother, Emma Fischer.
On Sept. 30, 1912, '
Margaret '
was induced to experiment with
a planchette, and she continued to do so at intervals until
March, 1913. These experiments did not yield anything that
was properly evidential, but it was curious, especially in view
of the infantile character of the automatist, that the names of
'
Emma Fischer '
and '
Walter M '
(Dr. Prince's father) should
be given, and that '
Sleeping Margaret '
should be referred to
as '
the guard '
and '
the one who guards the sleep of Doris/
In 1914 Doris did some automatic writing, which claimed to
come from her '
guards,' other than '
S.M.,' but was not
evidential.
Such was the situation when Doris came east from San
Bernardino, Cal. (whither the Princes had moved in June, 1912)
to sit with Mrs. '
Chenoweth '
under the superintendence of
Dr. Hyslop. The main points to be tested were, of course,
(1) whether Mrs. 'Chenoweth' would give facts about her
sitter that she could not have known by normal means, and
more particularly would refer to Doris's curious history ;
(2) whether knowledge could be produced which was not known
to Dr. Hyslop and yet was verifiable by Dr. Prince ; (3)
whether evidential communications could be obtained from
'
spirits,' and more particularly from '
Emma Fischer.'
Now if, as Dr. Hyslop assures us, any normal knowledge of
Doris Fischer by Mrs. '
Chenoweth ' was out of the question,
it is clear that considerable success was obtained under all
three heads. And certainly very elaborate precautions were
taken. Mrs. '
Chenoweth '
was, of course, told nothing about
her sitter, who was introduced into the room after she went
into trance, and left it before she came out.
Under these conditions '
Doris's ' '
dissociation '
was diagnosed,
in general terms but unmistakably, in the third sitting, and
ascribed to obsession by evil spirits. Her condition was (with
some '
fishing ') attributed to a fall and connected with her
father (p. 373 f .), whose failings were plainly indicated (pp.
471-3). Her mother communicated copiously, gave her name,
and claimed to have appeared to her on '
two or three' occasions
(cf. the story of the henhouse above). She remembered the flowers
at her funeral as violets and white roses, which was contrary
to Doris's (very imperfect) recollection, but could be verified
XXXIV.] Review. 401
by Dr. Prince from his knowledge of '
Margaret's '
treasures
(p. 303). She told inter alia a highly evidential anecdote
about a lame pet '
Skippy ' of Doris's youth, who, however,
was said to be a dog and not a cat 1
(pp. 424-5). But she did
not confirm planchette's story of the blow that had killed her.
All these statements came in the presence of '
Doris,' and so
may be attributed by believers in telepathy to infiltrations from
some stratum or other of her mind. But some evidential
matter was given subsequently, when Dr. Hyslop sat alone
with the medium. The names 'Walter F. Prince,' 'California,'
'
Doris's '
real name '
Brittia '
(pp. 842, 850, 851) are examples.
But these may all have come from Dr. Hyslop's mind. 2
About '
Sleeping Margaret '
there arose a sharp conflict with
Dr. Prince's interpretation. For though Mrs. '
Chenoweth's
'
'
controls '
accepted her term '
guards '
instead of '
guides
'
(p. 438), they declined to recognize her as a '
spirit '
at all,
and declared her to be merely Doris's '
subconscious.' This
view was accepted by Dr. Hyslop, but not by Dr. Prince.
S.M. did not in fact manage to keep her promise to authenti-
cate herself through Mrs. '
Chenoweth,' but neither did the
latter 's '
controls '
find any support in Dr. Prince's records.
And '
Sleeping Margaret '
stuck to her guns manfully, and the
description of the sitting at which Mrs. '
Chenoweth '
was taken
to the house where Doris was sleeping, identified her (without
seeing her) as her sitter, with the cross-examination of '
Sleeping
Margaret '
which ensued, is one of the most striking episodes in
the whole record. It would appear, therefore, to be necessary
to choose between these two conflicting views, even on a
spiritistic interpretation of the facts : whichever is adopted, the
other has to be declared a subliminal romance, similar to those
of '
Mile. Helene Smith.'
Dr. Hyslop not unnaturally prefers to believe in his medium's
'
controls,' but he hardly appears to recognize what a monstrous
tale they have induced him to tell. He asks us to believe
that a titanic struggle between the powers of good and evil
1
Doris remembered only a cat '
Skippy.' But it may have been
'
Margaret's '
name for a subsequent dog who also was lame, and if
so '
Doris '
would not remember it.
2 Whether he also knew about '
Sick Doris's '
embroidery, which was
•explained (p. 830), is not made clear.
402 F. G. S. Schiller. [PART
was going on for years over, and in, the soul of '
Doris Fischer.'
On the one side were a host of obsessing '
earth-bound '
spirits
led by Cagliostro, of whom '
Margaret '
was one ; on the other
the whole '
Imperator '
band, supported by .
all the departed
psychical researchers from Edmund Gurney to William James,
and by '
Minnehaha,' Laughing Water, the good component in
the obsessing double personality called '
Margaret ' by Dr.
Prince. Moreover, all these distinguished persons seem to be
labouring under a delusion. They think that the struggle is
still on, and are unaware that Doris has been cured, and is
now as sane and normal as anyone—indeed completely so on
their own theory, which makes '
Sleeping Margaret '
into a
subsconcious part of '
Doris.' If such are the ignorance and
sense of values that prevail among the good influences on the
spiritual plane, it is no wonder that the devils have things
prettjr much their own way on the earthly. Perhaps by the
time '
Imperator '
and Co. have realized that they have actually
helped to save the soul of one little girl, they may discover
that there has been a war in Europe, which has ruined souls
by the million and dealt a staggering blow to civilization.
The principle of economy, then, seems decidedly to favour
'
Sleeping Margaret's '
conceptions of the function of spirit
'
guards '
and of the organization of the world of spirits. It
is much more moderate, and accords well with the evidence,
whereas the claims of the Chenoweth '
controls '
were wholly non-
evidential and unsubstantiated. This is not, however, to endorse
her theory, either. For the possibility of telepathy and
subliminal intercommunication between individual minds cannot
be dismissed as lightly as by Dr. Hyslop. I am quite disposed
to admit that '
telepathy '
may be, and has been, overworked
as an explanation, but it does not follow that we should hence-
forth accept even the most improbable version of the spiritist
interpretation. I can agree also that '
telepathy '
and '
dis-
sociation '
are both descriptive terms, rather than explanatory
(pp. 8, 150, 170). But it hardly follows that telepathy is " not
worth serious consideration as a rival of spiritistic theories
"
(p. 20). Before we can say that we shall have to know a
great deal more about '
spirit,' incarnate as well as discarnate.
At present '
spirit '
is best regarded as a descriptive term too,
and indeed the soundest philosophy of science is disposed to
lxxiv.] Review. 403
hold that all terms are descriptive, and that the old notion of
'
explanation '
was a prejudice. It seems wiser, therefore, to
suspend judgment as to the source of the supernormal features
in the case of Doris Fischer : their value in any case is not
diminished, but increased, by the discrepancies between the
evidence collected by Dr. Prince and Dr. Hyslop. For nothing
is more likely to impede investigation than premature accept-
ance of '
explanations.'
It remains to be noted, from a literary point of view, that
in Mrs. Chenoweth's record the utterances on p. 693 are in
verse and should have been printed as such, and (if possible)
identified. They sound as if they might have come from Myers's
St. Paul, and so may be evidential. '
Cagliostro's '
argument for
the reality of hallucinations, even of those of delirium tremens,
on p. 532, is very curious, and should appeal to our '
new
realists,' while he clearly got the better of Dr. Hyslop in the
ethical argument on p. 661. Lastly, the spirited account of
the suicide spirit who wanted to be dead and insisted that he
was, is worth quoting. He declared (p. 821 f.) " I am of no
nation and no land ;
my hold on life is broken and I beg you
let me proceed on my journey to silent death land. Man I
was, but now a phantom, soon to lose form as memorj? in
cloud and clod. Pray disturb me not . . . My soul is doomed,
my day is ended. You are walking my way. I hear your
voice, the echo of my words is borne to my dying brain. Why
this delay ? (What delay do you mean ?) I would be released
and pass on to death." Evidently two views may be taken
of immortality, even after death, and if '
Sleeping Margaret
'
was, as she said, a spirit that had lost her identity, here was
one that had tried hard and failed.
F. C. S. Schiller.
404 Eleanor Mildred Sidgivick. [part
REVIEW.
Raymond, or Life and Death, with Examples of the Evidence
for Survival of Memory and Affection after Death. By
Sir Oliver Lodge. (London: Methuen & Co. 1916.)
1
i
This book, well described by its title, has had a remarkable
success with the public, and no fewer than seven editions
have been issued since its first appearance in November, 1916.
This success is natural, for Sir Oliver Lodge has a gift of
simple, popular exposition ; and at a time when so many
are mourning near friends and relatives cut off in their prime,
and so many are desiring evidence that the separation is
not complete or permanent, a book by him offering such
evidence in the case of his own son is sure to be widely
read. It is indeed the hope of affording comfort and help
to such mourners that has led Sir Oliver to publish the
book.
The volume is divided into three parts. The first is a short
account of his son Raymond, Avho was killed on the Western
front on September 14, 1915, with extracts from letters from
him and about him. The second, and longest, part consists
mainly of notes of sittings, with professional mediums, or
in the family circle, held with a view to getting into com-
munication with Raymond after his death. To these are
added such comments and information as are required to
enable the reader to estimate the value of any evidence
that certain verifiable communications exhibit knowledge
1
This review was first published in the Hibbert Journal for April,
1917, and we have to thank the Editor for his permission to reprint
it here.
A short review of Raymond has already appeared in the S.P.R.
Journal for January, 1917, but it seemed desirable that this book
should be discussed in the Proceedings also, and at greater length,
notwithstanding that so important a part of the evidence it contains
has appeared in Part LXXII. of the S.P.R. Proceedings.—Ed.
LXXIV.] Review. 405
beyond that normally possessed by the medium—and especially
evidence that Raymond is the source of this knowledge.
The reader would do well to begin his study of the book
by reading the introduction to Part II. (p. 83), as this shows
clearly Sir Oliver Lodge's own attitude to the subject, and
the spirit in which he has written. The third part, called
" Life and Death," is of a more theoretical nature. In it
Sir Oliver discusses, in a series of short essays, various points
concerning matter, life, and mind, and some of the theoretical
difficulties likely to be felt by persons endeavouring to fit
the subject of communication with the dead into the scientific
framework they already possess. He also discusses some
methods used in obtaining communications, and some theories
and hypotheses corcerning the process involved. Part III.
concludes with an article reprinted from the Hibbert Journal
of July, 1911, on "The Christian Idea of God."
There are good evidential points in Part II. such as no
student of the subject can afford to overlook ; but too much
should not be expected. If we had no evidence but what
this book contains, the cautious student would hesitate to
conclude more than that there was a good prima facie case
for investigation. As Sir Oliver Lodge says (p. 85), " To
base so momentous a conclusion as a scientific demonstration
of human survival on any single instance, if it were not
sustained on all sides by a great consensus of similar evidence,
would doubtless be unwise ; for some other explanation of
a merely isolated case would have to be sought." He him-
self, before his son died, had become convinced by other
evidence that survival and communication were verifiable
facts. "Speaking for myself," he wrote in 1911, "and with
full and cautious responsibility, I have to state that as an
outcome of my investigation into psychical matters I have
at length and quite gradually become convinced, after more
than thirty years of study, not only that persistent individual
existence is a fact, but that occasional communication across
the chasm—with difficulty and under definite conditions
—
is possible."
1
In 1909, in his book, The Survival of Man,
which gives an account of the evidence then before him,
he says rather more tentatively (p. 321), "The hypothesis
1
Raymond, p. 389, reprinted from Hibbert Journal of July, 1911.
2c
406 Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick. [part
of surviving intelligence and personality, —not only surviving
but anxious and able with difficulty to communicate, —is
the simplest and most straightforward, and the only one
that fits all the facts." He is quite justified therefore when
he says {Raymond, p. 85), in defending the bringing forward
of his new evidence, " I myself considered the case of survival
practically proven before, and clinched by the efforts of Myers
and others of the S.P.R. group on the other side ; but
evidence is cumulative. . . . Each stick of the faggot must
be tested, and, unless absolutely broken, it adds to the
strength of the bundle."
And there is no doubt that the stick this book adds to
the bundle is a solid and valuable contribution. To anyone
who may feel disappointed that the mass of evidence here
presented is not greater, or more overwhelming, I may point
out that good evidence of survival and communication is
more difficult to devise—quite apart from the difficulties
there clearly are in producing it—than persons new to the
subject are apt to think. One great difficulty is that the
possibility of thought-reading from the sitter has to be ex-
cluded. To put this difficulty in Sir Oliver Lodge's own
words : "The gradually recognised possibility of what may
be called normal telepathy, or unconscious mind-reading
from survivors, raises hesitation—felt by most studious and
thoughtful people—about accepting such messages as irre-
fragable evidence of persistent personal existence ; and to
overcome this . . . difficulty, it is demanded that facts shall
be given which are unknown to anyone present, and can
only be subsequently verified "
(p. 346).
Space forbids my attempting to give even in outline any
account of special incidents, but I may mention that among
those fully described the one which best meets the above
condition is the group-photograph case, 1
of which the details
will be found in Chapter IV. of Part II. The E.A. incident
(pp. 243-46), of which, however, full particulars are not given,
seems also to have been a remarkable one. I should like
also to call attention to the " Honolulu " incident (pp. 212,
215-16, 271-75). This incident includes correct references
1
This is the case described even more fully than in Raymond in Sir
Oliver Lodge's paper (Proc. S.P.R. , Part LXXL, pp. 132 ff.).
lxxiv.] Review. 407
to songs sung by Raymond, and an interesting correspondence
between a sitting with a medium in London and a con-
temporaneous family sitting at Birmingham. Incidentally
I think it throws light on conditions of communication. But
we must admit with Sir Oliver Lodge that it does not com-
pletely exclude explanation by telepathy between living minds.
A considerable number of the communications purporting
to come from Raymond Lodge show knowledge which, while
it can hardly have reached the medium in any normal manner,
may without improbability be accounted for by telepathy
from the sitter or other living person. As already said,
such cases cannot be used as distinctive evidence of communi-
cation from the dead. Nevertheless they strengthen that
evidence indirectly by showing that supernormal power is
at work.
My own provisional belief, based on a comparison of thought-
transference experiments with evidence of communication from
the dead, is that the latter is not different in kind from
telepathic communication between the living. In both cases
we have—as I believe—communication between miiid and
mind otherwise than through the senses. In both cases it
apjiears generally to reach the normal consciousness of the
recipient in an uncertain, scrappy, and imperfect way, mixed
with ideas and associations appaiently imported by the re-
cipient ; and in both cases, especially perhaps if the recipient
of the communication is in trance, and therefore his normal
consciousness in abeyance, what is said is liable to have
the incoherence of dreams.
I do not think Sir Oliver Lodge quite agrees about this,
for (on p. 330) he expresses a belief that the communicating
intelligence with difficulty and imperfectly operates the brain
of the medium in the place of the medium's own mind ;
and he can hardly suppose that this happens when the com-
municator is a person in the body. At the same time he
does not exclude my hypothesis—at least as regards automatic
writing—for he says (pp. 355-6), " The intermediate mentality
employed in this process seems to be a usually submerged
or dream-like stratum of the automatist. ... In some cases
the content or subject-matter of the wiiting may emanate
entirely from [this stratum] and be of no more value than a
408 Eleanor Mildred Sidgwiclc. [part
dream. . . . But when the message turns out .to be of evidential
value it is presumably because this subliminal portion of the
person is in touch, either telepathically or in some other way,
with intelligences not ordinarily accessible,—with living people
at a distance perhaps, or more often with the apparently
more accessible people who have passed on."
As regards the mixed, and therefore untrustworthy, nature
of the communications he is in entire agreement with me,
and frequently warns the reader th?t they cannot be taken
at their face value without examination. For instance, on
p. 180, " It is unlikely that lucidity is constant all the time,
and Feda " [the so-called control of the medium through
whom the communication is supposed to come] " may have
to do some padding." Or again, p. 192, " I should think
myself that they " [i.e. statements about life on the other
side] " are of very varying degrees of value and peculiarly
liable to unintentional sophistication by the medium." Or
again, on the same page, " Some books, moreover, have been
j^ublished of late, purporting to give information about ill-
understood things in a positive and assured manner, and it
is possible that the medium has read these and been in-
fluenced by them." Or again, on p. 269, " A good deal of
this struck me as nonsense ; as it Feda had picked it up
from some sitter. But I went on recording what was said."
It is certain, then, that no supposed communications,
whether through private persons or professional mediums,
should be accepted uncritically at their face value. But the
difficulty is greatly increased in the case of professional
mediums for three reasons. Firstly, many of them—perhaps
most, are more or less fraudulent. Even where there is some
real power it acts fitfully, and the temptation to supplement
genuine with manufactured evidence must often be great
when the medium's living depends on satisfying sitters. My
second and third reasons do not necessarily involve conscious
deception. The second is, that the need of producing some-
thing must tend to increase the amount of what may be
called padding. The third is, that the effort to get into
relation with the affairs of a constant succession of new
sitters and to give them tests is apt to develop a habit of
fishing, of rapid inference from small indications, and of bold
LXXIV.] Review. 409
guessing. For these reasons I think resort to professional
mediums is to be deprecated.
Sir Oliver Lodge in his wholesome advice to bereaved persons
(pp. 342-3) also deprecates it for many people. " It may-
be asked," he says, "do I recommend all bereaved persons
to devote the time and attention which I have done to getting
communications and recording them ? Most certainly I do
not. I am a student of the subject, and a student often
undertakes detailed labour of a special kind. I recommend
people in general to learn and realise that their loved ones
are still active and useful and interested and happy—more
alive than ever in one sense—and to make up their minds
to live a useful life till they rejoin them.
" What steps should be taken to gain this peaceful assur-
ance must depend on the individual. Some may get it from
the consolations of religion, some from the testimony of
trusted people, while some may find it necessary to have
first-hand experience of their own for a time. And if this
experience can be attained privately, with no outside assistance,
by quiet and meditation or by favour of occasional waking
dreams, so much the better."
I am afraid that, notwithstanding this excellent advice,
Raymond is likely to lead many people, who had much better
not do so, to go to professional mediums, and is likely to
encourage a very undesirable trade. I can only hope that
the evil of this will be compensated by the comfort which
the book will bring to many mourners.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETT FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1882-84.
Professor Balfour Stewart,
F.B.S., LS85-87.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1888-92.
The Bight Hon. A. J. Balfour,
M.P., O.M..F.B.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894-95.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., - 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers, - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.B.S. - 1901-03.
Sm William Barrett, P.B.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Bichet, - - 1905.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour,- 1906-07.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - - 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - - - 1910.
Andrew Lang, 1911
Bt. Bev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., - 1910
Professor Henri Bergson, - - 193L
F. C. S. Schiller, d.Sc., - - 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LLC, Litt.D.. - - - 1915-16.
L. P. Jacks, LL D., D.D., - -1917
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1918.
PRESIDENT.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M.,
F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. . Boyd Car-
penter, D.D.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Captain Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
J. G. Piddington, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
The Hon. Everard Feilding, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W. 1.
EDITOR AND HON. RESEARCH OFFICER.
Mrs. W. H. Salter, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
SECRETARY.
Miss I. Newton, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
HON. SECRETARY OF THE MEDICAL SECTION.
. T. W. Mitchell, M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
AGENT FOR AMERICA.
The W. B. Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
2d
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, FR.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., D.Sc.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. T) T.it.t T,T, ri
Prof.Gilbert Murray, LL. D.,Litt. D.
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, Litt.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D,
V. J. Woolley, M.D.
M. B. Wright, M.D.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
March, 1918.
President—L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Vice- Presidents .
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M., F.R.S., 4 Carlton
Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Carpenter, D.D., 6 The Little Cloisters,
Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W. 11.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., The University, Birmingham.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., 20 Hanover Square, London,
W. 1.
Honorary Members.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 7 Kensington Park Gardens,
London, W. 11.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de
Physique Generale, 12 rue Cuvier, Paris.
Miss Alice Johnson, Meadowside, Grantchester Meadows, Cam-
bridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, c/o The Russian Legation,
Christiania, Norway.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Holm Leigh, West Road,
Cambridge.
414 Members and Associates. [part
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beavmis, Villa Printemps, Le Cannet (Alpes Mari-
times), France.
Professor Henri Bergson, 31 Rue d'Erlanger, Paris.
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy, France.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex.
Dr. Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
Professor Dr. Freud, ix., Berggasse 19, Vienna.
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Mrs. William James, 95 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Pierre Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, VIP, Paris.
Dr. C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
M. Maurice Maeterlinck, 32 rue Perronet, Neuilly-s.-S., France.
Professor Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa,, U.S.A.
Professor E. C. Pickering, The Observatory, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Browning, Oscar, Palazzo Simonetti, via Pietro Cavallini, Rome.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
Edmunds, Miss L., P.O. Box 111, Alton, R.I., U.S.A.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Instituto Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., St. James's Vicarage, Walthamstow, London,E.17.
Grubb, Edward, 26 Avondalc Road, Croydon, Surrey.
Hill, J. Arthur, Claremont, Thornton. Bradford.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., The Rowans, Balsall Common, nr.
Coventry.
Ochorowicz, Dr. J., Faubourg de Cracovie No. 16/18, Warsaw.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 415
Reed, Miss E. M., 2 Gledhow Gardens, S. Kensington, London,
S.W. 7.
Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIVe
Arrt., Paris,
van Eeden, Frederik, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is prefixed to the names oj Members.
Abbott, Mrs., Broadview, Hill Brow, Bromley, Kent.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena, 23 Vale Avenue, Chelsea, London,
S.W.
Adair, Desmond, Little Flixton, Forest Road, Worthing.
Adamowska, Madame S., 11 Channing Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Adams, Mrs., 4 Brookside, Cambridge.
Aglen, F. A., Inspectorate General of Customs, Peking, China.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allan, Percy, M.D., Crogdene, Croham Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Allen, B. M., 14 Gainsborough Gardens, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Allen, Professor H. J., c/o The National Bank of India, 26 Bishops-
gate, London, E.G. 2.
Allen, William, M.B., 20 Sandyford Place, Glasgow.
Alston, Mrs. Rowland, Turvey Abbey, Turvey, Beds.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Brig. -General A. T., R.A., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co.,
16 Charing Cross, London, S.W. 1.
Anderson, Medical Director F., 3942 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Andrews, Dr. Marion B., 34 Foregate Street, Worcester.
Anstey, Major E. C, R.F.A.. c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W. 1.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
Armstrong, Miss M. M., 57 Redington Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Arnold-Foster, Mrs. H. 0., Basset Down, Swindon, Wilts.
*Aspinall, Mrs., New Hall, Harlow, Essex.
416 Members and Associates. [part
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, Vaynol, Bangor, N. Wales.
Astley, Miss, Cowrie Haven, Poundstock, nr. Bude, N. Cornwall.
*Astor, Viscount, Hever Castle, Hever, Kent.
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., NY., U.S.A.
*Auden, Harold A., 13 Broughton Drive, Grassendale, Liverpool.
*Austen, Harold W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London,
W.5.
Austin, C. G., I.C.S., Hosur, South India.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Highground, Waterford Rd., Oxton, Cheshire.
*Baddeley, Colonel C. E., C.M.G., D. D. W. (N.), Army Post Office,
No. 3, Boulogne-sur-Mer, France.
Baddeley, Miss Florence A., Cathedral House, Gloucester.
*Baggally, Wortley W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
*Bagot, Richard, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, S.W. 1.
Baikie, W. S., Southend, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
Baker, Alfred L., Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S.A.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 27 Kensington Gardens Square, London, W. 2.
Baker, Miss Mabel, 21 Lansdowne Avenue, Slough, Bucks.
*Baldwin, Mrs., 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., M.P., O.M., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W. 1.
Balfour, F. C. C, 32 Addison Road, Kensington, London, W. 14.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Barclay, Edwyn, lOj Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W. 1.
Barclay, Mrs. Edwyn, lOj Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W. 1.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., 3942 Ellis Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Barldey, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Thornford House, Sherborne, Dorset.
*Barlow, Miss Katharine, St. Valerie, Bray, Co. Wicklow, Ireland.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Barritt, E. H., J.P., Warrior House, 26 Beaconsfield Avenue,
Colchester.
*Barrow, J. R., Chittagong, Bengal, India.
Barrows, C. M., 522 West 149th Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Barrs, Mrs., Shakespeare House, Amity Grove, Wimbledon,
London, S.W. 19.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 417
Baruch, Edgar. Room 704, Wright & Callender Building, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Basden, Miss Isabel K., 21 The Drive, Hove, Sussex.
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., Chhindwara, Central Provinces, India.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring, Herts.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1524 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Bayfield, L. Arthur, Park Grange, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*Bayfield, Rev. M. A., The Rectory, Hertingfordbury, Hertford.
Baynes, W. E. C, Assiut, Upper Egypt.
*Beadon, Mrs., at 11 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
*Beavis, P. E., North Lynn, 106 Highbury New Park, London, N. 5.
*Bedford, Adeline, Duchess of, Chenies, Rickmansworth.
*Behrens, Captain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
*Beilby, Sir George, F.R.S., LL.D., 11 University Gardens, Glasgow.
Belaribi, Mrs., Bartlands, Holt Heath, Worcestershire.
Bell, Miss A. E., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
Bell, Miss Alison H., Exmoor, Quickley Lane, Chorley Wood,
Herts.
*Bell, Dr. Mary C, 33 York Street Chambers, London, W. 1., and
114a Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Bennett, Colin N., Escot, Penzance, Cornwall.
*Bennett, Captain E. N., 1 Sussex Mansions, Sussex Place, London,
S.W. 7.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 65 Cornhill,
London, E.C. 3.
*Benson, Mrs., Tremans, Horsted Keynes, Sussex.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College,
Cambridge.
Benton, Dr. J. R., Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
*Benton, W. E., 18 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
Bergen, Axel von, Abbey Road, Darlington, Durham.
Berrington, Rev. Leslie G., Churchover Rectory, Rugby.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London,
W. 1.
Berry, Rev. S. M., 16 Hagley Road, Birmingham.
*Bertie, L. W. H, I.C., R.F.C., The Nook, 110 Woodstock Road,
Oxford.
418 Members and Associates. [part
Bethell, Mrs.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Bevan, Rev. W. O., Kalutara, Ceylon.
*Beveridge, Erskine, LL.D., St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermline, N.B.
Bibesco, H.H. Prince Antoine, 114 Grosvenor Road, London,
S.W. 1.
Bicknell, Clarence, Villa Rose, Bordighera, Italy.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg. Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
Binney, Lady Marjory, Pampisford Hall, nr. Cambridge.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Ringwood, Hants.
Black, Mis., 33 Rectory Place, Woolwich, London, S.E. 18.
Blackburn, A. J., Aruba House. The Leazes, Burnopfield, Durham.
Blacklock, Miss C, 101 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Blane, Miss Edith H., 16 St. Augustine's Mansions, Vincent Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Bodley, Mrs., 5 Talbot Square, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. J. M. Robertson & Co., Colombo, Ceylon.
Bond, F. Bligh, F.R.I.B.A., 25 Sydenham Hill, Bristol.
Boothroyd, A. E., Warley, Meadway, Hampstead Garden Suburb,
London, N.W. 4.
Booyalsky, Jean de, 16 Champion Grove, Denmark Hill, London,
S.E. 5.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 10 Lawrence Street, Cheyne Walk,
London, S.W.
*Boustead, Mrs., Westfield, Wimbledon Common, London, S.W. 19.
Bouwens, B. G., 5 Albert Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., rue Maze, St. Martin's, Guernsey.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Bowditch, C. P., Ill Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bowen, Miss Anna C, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
Box, Alfred Marshall, Woodlands, 14 Magrath Avenue, Cambridge.
Bozzano, E., Salita Emonuele Cavallo, N. 92, Genoa.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 419
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., Langhain House, Wellington,
Surrey.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 54 Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London,
W.8.
Bradley, F. H., Merton College, Oxford.
*Braithwaite, Major-General Walter P., C.B., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co.,
16 Charing Cross, London, S.W. 1.
Bramlj-, Mrs. Jennings, Asolo, Treviso, Italy.
*Brainwell, J. Milne, M.B., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.C. 3.
Bray, F. E., 17 The Boltons, London, S.W7
. 10.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Bristowe, The Hon. Mr. Justice, Supreme Court, Pretoria, South
Africa.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Brooke, Miss Emma F.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, Lady, Colebrooke. Brookeborough, Co. Fermanagh,
Ireland.
Brown, Captain A. D. Burnett, M.C., Greenhurst, Beaconsfield,
Bucks.
*Brown, B. G., 46 Regent s Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
*Brown, B. H. Inness, 24 Broad Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Brown, Mrs. F. C, Piazza Miratori, Floriani, Malta.
*Brown, Hadyn, L.R.C.P., Manor Lodge, Chislehurst, Kent.
*Browne, Mrs. A. Scott, Buckland Filleigh, Highampton, N. Devon.
Browne, Professor Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cam-
bridge.
Brownrigg, Lady, White Waltham, Maidenhead, Berks.
Bruce, James, Craik, Sask., Canada .
Brush, W. Franklin, 40 Wall Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
*Bubb, Henry, J. P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
*Buist, Mrs., Swalcliffe Lea, Banbury, Oxon.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winni-
peg, Canada.
420 Members and Associates. [part
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
*Bullough, Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burghard, Mrs., 86 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Burnett, Miss Ethel, Crathes Castle, Crathes, N.B.
Burnham, Mrs., Staindrop Lodge, Chapeltown, Sheffield.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, Mrs. Charles, c/o Lloyds Bank, Knightsbridge Branch,
Brompton Road, London, S.W. 1.
Burton, Mrs. Harry, 25 via dei Bardi, Florence, Italy.
Burton, Miss M. G., 2 Airlie Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W. 8.
Bury, Henry, Mayheld House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Syon House, East Budleigh, Devon.
Butler, Frederick W., 1627 Silver Street, Jacksonville, Florida,
U.S.A.
Butt, Lady.
Buttemer, Robert Win.
, St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., 9 Huskisson Street, Liverpool.
Caccia, Major A. M., 24 Morpeth Mansions, Westminster, London,
SW. 1.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield ,
Edinburgh.
Caird, Mrs. Henryson, 34 Woronzow Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
*Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Glendaruel, Colintraive, Argyll-
shire.
Campbell, Mrs., Arduaine, Lochgilphead, N.B.
Camjobell, Colin E., 9 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W. 1.
Campbell, Major N. D. H., 7th Dragoon Guards, Trimulgheny,
Deccan, India.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., Ashville, Priory Road, Edgbaston, Bir-
mingham.
Campbell-Lang, Miss, c/o Professor Brunton, LL.B., 180 Hope
Street, Glasgow.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road East, London, E. 1.
*Carlton, Arthur, J. P., Colehurst, Worcester.
*Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13 Berkeley Square, London, W. 1.
Carnock, Lord, 53 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 421
Carpenter, Mrs., 51 Teignmouth Road, CrickleAvood, London,
N.W. 2.
Carr, H. Wildon, D.Litt., 10 More's Garden, Cheyne Walk, London,
S.W.
Carr, Lucien, 163 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Carrington, Hereward, 504 West 111th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Carruthers, Mrs. W., 6 Cavendish Court, Wigmore Street, London,
W. 1.
Case, Miss A. J., 35 Elm Bank Mansions, Barnes, London, SW. 13.
Cassatt, Miss Mary, 10 Rue de Marignan, Paris.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
Cave, Captain A. L., Sherwood, Newton St. Cyres, Devon.
*Cave, Charles, J.P., Ditcham Park, Petersfield, Hants.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Alford House, Alford, Somerset.
^Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
*Champion de Crespigny, Mrs. Philip, Artillery Mansions, West-
minster, London, S.W. 1.
Chapman, E. G., Belsize, Friern Watch Avenue, N. Finchley,
London, N. 12.
Charles, Clifford P., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Bancroft, Hitchin, Herts.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W. 8.
Chatterjee, A. K., Deputy Magistrate and Collector, P.O. Bankura,
Bengal, India.
Chattock, Arthur P.. D.Sc, Heathfield Cottage, Crowcombe, nr.
Taunton, Somerset.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E.. 126 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
•Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H, 12 Portman Street, Portman
Square, London, W. 1.
€hitty, Hubert, M.B., F.R.C.S., etc., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton,
Bristol.
Uhubb, Mrs. C. A., Longforgan, The Ridgway, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Ulapham, Mrs. H. H, 50 South 6th Street, San Jose, Cal., U.S.A.
Clapham, J. H, King's College, Cambridge.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H., 24 Green Street, Cambridge.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, Trobridge House, Crediton, Devon.
Oarkson, Mrs. St. John, 8 Milner Street, Cadogan Square, London.
SW. 1.
422 Members and Associates. [part
Clayton, Mrs. C. E., Holmbush Lodge, Woodmancote, Nr. Henfield,
Sussex.
Give, Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., Apt. 405 The Woodward, Connecticut
Avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T.. The Rectory, Swinford, Co. Mayo, Ireland.
Coe, Miss M. A., 195 Via Le Alessandro Villa, Florence, Italy.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
*Cole-Hamilton, Mrs. L. A., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 9 Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collins, Miss M., 29 Glenluce Road, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Colquhoun. Daniel, M.D., 44 High Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Compton, Henry, 1709 Sills Street, Fort William, Ontario,
Canada.
Connah, Charles, J. P., The Creek Ranch, Monitor, Alta. Canada.
^Constable, F. C. Wick Court, near Bristol.
Conway, Lady, Allington Castle, Maidstone, Kent.
Cook, Mrs. T. S., Bailey's Hotel, Kensington, London, S.W.
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Miss Louisa E., Ripponhurst, Epping, Essex.
Cooper, Mrs. P. H, 283 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
Cornford, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Cornish, J. Easton, The Water Works, Alexandria, Egypt.
Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, Campden Hill, London, W. 8.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, Groenhove,
The Hague.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W. 1.
Cotterell, Miss Alice, 1g Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W. 1.
Courage, Mrs., The Mount. 17 Oakwood Court, Kensington,
London, W. 14.
Courtauld, George, Junr., The Waver, Wethersfield, Braintree,
Essex.
Courtauld, R. M.. M.B., Grey Friars, Whiting Street, Bury St.
Edmunds.
*Cowan, Sir W. H., M.P., The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield,
Sussex.
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J., U.S.A.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 423
Coxe, Henry R. H., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament
Street, London, S.W. 1.
Coxeter, Harold, 34 Holland Park Road, London, W. 14.
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
Craige, Wm. C, 409 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Craufurd, Commander Quentin C. A., R.N., H.M.S. Europa, c/o
G.P.O., London.
Crawford, W. C, 1 Lockharton Gardens, Colinton Road, Edin-
burgh.
Crook, A. H., Queen's College, Hong Kong.
Crouch, H. N., Additional Judicial Commissioner of Sind, Karachi,
Sind, India.
Currie, Mrs., 7 Sunderland Terrace, Bayswater, London, W. 2.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 53 Romney Street, Westminster, Lon-
don, S.W. 1.
Curzon of Kedleston, The Earl, Hackwood, Basingstoke, Hants.
Dale, J. Gilbert, 68 Holland Park, Kensington, London, W. 11.
*Dalton, J. H. C, M.D., The Plot, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Damant, Mrs. H. C, Lammas, Cowes, Isle of Wight.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
*Danson, F. C, 74 Bidston Road, Birkenhead.
Darbyshire, Rev. H. S., St. Margaret's Vicarage, Methley, Leeds.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
Davies, Benjamin, Wilford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middle-
sex.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., Glenlaggan, Parton, N.B.
Davies, Miss M. H. Lloyd, Lynton, Curzon Road, Hoylake,
Cheshire.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 71 Rodney Street, Liverpool.
*Davis, Mrs. Kennard, The School House, Woodbridge, Suffolk.
Davis, Thomas Henry, 52 Hill Lane, Southampton.
Davison, Miss Annie, 4 Ranelagh Grove, Pimlico Road, London,
S.W.I.
Davys, Major G. I., I.M.S., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., Hornby
Road, Bombay, India.
Dawes, Mrs. Frank, 11a Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington Hall, Skipton.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. H., Newton House, Belmont, Hereford.
Day, Miss Mabel K., Gershom, Reigate, Surrey.
Dean, Frank, 1 Langham Street, Portland Place, London, W. 1.
424 Members and Associates. [part
Dearmer. Rev. Percy, Oakridge Lynch, Stroud.
Deichmann, Baroness, Abbey Lodge, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
De Jong, Dr. K. H. E., Obrechtstraat 343, The Hague.
Deland, Mrs. Lorin F., 35 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Delap, Alfred D., Priorsland, Carrickmines, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Derby, Miss Isabel C, 258 King's Road, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, Scotland,
de Winton, Mrs. R. F., 7 Chester House, Eccleston Place, London,
S.W.I.
De Wyckoff,
Joseph, The Croft, Greville Place, London, N.W. 6.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Consulate, Pernambuco, Brazil.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W. 7, and
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, R.A., 3 Greville Place, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 6.
Dill. J. F. Gordon, M.B., 6 Brunswick Place, Brighton.
*Dimmock, Mrs. H. P., 23 Homefield Road, Wimbledon Common,
London, S.W. 19.
*Dixon, Edward T.
Dixon, Hugh N, 17 St. Matthew's Parade. Northampton.
Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B.. Litt.D.. 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow, W.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Dodds, E. R,, 41 Wellington Road, Dublin.
*Dodge, Miss Mary H. Warwick House, St. James's, London, S.W. 1.
Doe, George M., Enfield. Great Torrington, N. Devon.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W. 1.
Dorr, George B., 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Dougall, Miss Lily. Cutts End, Cumnor, nr. Oxford.
Douglas, Mis., 4 Campden House Road, Kensington. London, W. 8.
Douglas, Mrs. Charles, Auchlochan, Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., 5 East 88th Street, New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Douglas-Pennant, The Hon. Violet, The Old House, Holland Street,
London. W. 8.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 425
Dowson, Mrs., Landhurst Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
Dowson, Mrs. W. E., Felixstowe, The Park, Nottingham.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham, Crowborough, Sussex.
Drew, Ringrose C, Kluang, Johore, via Singapore, Federated
Malay States.
Drewry, Mrs. George, 4 Calverley Park, Tunbridge Wells.
*Dudley, James, M.Sc, 16 University Mansions, Putney, London,
S.W. 15.
*Duff, J. R. K., 100 Sunningfields, Hendon, London, N.W. 9.
Duff, The Lady Juliet, 16 Upper Brook Street, London, W. 1.
Dulley, Rev. B., St. Peter's Clergy House, London Docks, E. 1.
*Duncan, Harold M., c/o Dr. G. W. Stewart, Oak Lane, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., Yetholme, Liverpool Road, Birkdale, Southport.
*Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
*Eckstein, Mrs., 18 Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., 8 Beach Lawn, Waterloo, nr. Liverpool.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.G. 4.
*Edwardes, Mrs. Dyer, 5 Hyde Park Gate, Kensington, London,
S.W. 7.
*Ekin, James, 88 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
*Elder, Frederick, 57 Antrim Mansions, Haverstock Hill, London,
N.W. 3.
Eldred, Fleet-Paymaster E. H., R.N., c/o Capital and Counties
Bank, Ltd., Southsea, Hants.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E. 1.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, 9 Grafton Street, London, W. 1
.
Elliott, Captain B. H., R.A. Mess, Rangoon, (Cantonment Post
Office), Burma.
Ellis, Herbert, The Gynsills, Groby Road, Leicester.
Emmerson, Robert, M.D., Calle Llave 423, Chihuahua. Chili.,
Mexico.
Emmet, Rev. C. W., West Hendred Vicarage, Steventon, Berks.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Entee, Professor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhaunagar, India.
Erskine, Mrs., The Buries, Bishopstrow, Warminster, Wilts.
420 Members and Associates. [part
Evans, Maurice S., C.M.G., Hillcrest, Berea Ridge, Durban, South
Africa
.
Evans, W. A., The Brackley, Stoneygate Avenue, Leicester.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W. 1.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W. 1.
Felkin, Mrs., 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
*Fellowes, The Hon. Lady, Honingham, Norwich.
Fergusson, Rev. A. W., The Manse, Dundee.
*Festing, Miss E. A., St. Hilda, Duxhurst, nr. Reigate, Surrey.
*Festing, Lieut. -Colonel H. W., 10th K.O. Yorkshire Light Infantry,
B.E.F., France.
Firnberg, Miss L. J., 158 Adelaide Road, London, N.W. 3.
Fisk, Rev. George, c/o Rev. E. E. Fisk, 91 North Denes Road,
Great Yarmouth.
Flugel, J. C, Cravenhurst, Reigate, Surrey.
*Forman, Josef, Czech Press Bureau, 231 Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Forman, Colonel R. H, A.M.S., 65 Ashley Gardens, London,
S.W. 1.
Forrester, Mrs. Robert, Annfield, Stirling, N.B.
Fortescue, Miss Frances, 45 Alexandra Road, Worthing.
Fotheringham, W. B., 17 Upper High Street, Worthing.
:!:
Fox, Mrs., Fawe Park, Keswick, Cumberland.
Fraenkel, Dr. Joseph, 21 East 82nd Street. New York City, U.S.A.
*Francis, Mrs. Francis.
Franks, Mrs., 51 Dacre Hill, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Amie's Mansions, London,
S.W. 1.
Freeman, Rev. H. B., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent, Staffs.
*Frith, Mrs., Swynnerton Rectory, Stone. Staffordshire.
*Frost, Miss Annie, Carnelloe Cottage, Zennor, nr. St. Ives, Cornwall.
Frostick, J. A., Christchurch, New Zealand.
*Fry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Fullerton, Colonel J. D., 172 Gloucester Terrace, Hyde Park,
London, W. 2.
Gabb, F. B., The Willows, Abergavenny, Wales.
Gaff, T. T., 1520 20th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Gage, Lyman J., Point Loma, Cal., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., Wallington Rectory, Baldock, Herts.
liXXIV.] Members and Associates. 427
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 187 Main Street, Northampton, Mass.,
U.S.A.
^Gardner, Mrs., 30 Albacore Crescent, Lewisham, London,
S.E. 13.
^Gardner, Rev. A. R. L., 52 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London,
S.W.3.
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
Gatliff, H. E. C, The Treasury Chambers, Whitehall. London,
S.W. 1.
Gellert, J. W., c/o Box 396, G.P.O., Adelaide, S. Australia.
*George, Mrs., 88 Prince of Wales Mansions, Prince of Wales Road,
Battersea Park, London, S.W. 11.
*George, H. Trevelyan, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 33 Amptbill Square,
London, NW. 1.
Gibbes, C. S., Mojaiskaia oolitsa, No. 1, Petrograd.
Gibson, Professor W. R. Boyce, D.Sc, Lichfield, 18 Wallace
Avenue, Toorak, Melbourne, Australia.
Gilson, R. Cary, King Edward's School, Birmingham.
*Girdlestone, E. Kenneth, Rosendale, Iffley, Oxford.
*Girdlestone, Mrs. Frank, The Mil House, Iffley, Oxford.
Girault, A. A., 1459 N. St. N.W., Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Girod, Madame, 4 Avenue Hoche, Paris.
Glenconner, Lady, 34 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Glidden, Walter S., 13 Centre Street, Bath, Maine, U.S.A.
Goedhart, P., Koningen Maria Straat 18, The Hague.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de.
Gooch, G. P.. South Villa, Campden Hill Road, London, W. 8.
Goodhart, Rev. Charles A., The Mount, Stonehouse, Gloucester.
Gordon, Mrs. J. L. R., Roden House, Cheltenham.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., Sandcroft, Upper Bridge Road, Redhill,
Surrey.
Gover, J. M., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn. London,
W.C.2.
Gower, John H, Mus. Doc. (Oxon.), 1431 Glenarm Street, Denver,
Colo.. U.S.A.
*Grafflin, Mrs. W. H., Filston Manor, Glencoe, Baltimore County,
Md., U.S.A.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
Graham, Mrs. W. P. Gore, Burntwood, Goring-on-Thames.
Grahame, Miss Helen, Cumberland House, Horley, Surrey.
•2 k
428 Members and Associates. [part
:;
Grant-Suttie, Major H. F., R.A., M.C., H.Q. 36th D.A., British
Expeditionary Force.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Riviere House, Phillack, Hayle, Cornwall.
*Greene, J. G.. 34 Stiles Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Greg, Mrs., 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Gregson, G. E., 12 Hesketh Road, Southport, Lanes.
Grenfell, Prof. B. P., D.Litt., Queen's College, Oxford.
-Grenfell, Field-Marshal Lord, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., Overstone Park,
Northants.
Grew, J. C, c/o American Embassy, 4 Grosvenor Gardens, London,
S.W.I.
Grew, Mis. J. G, c/o American Embassy, 4 Grosvenor Gardens,
London, S.W. 1.
Grey, E. H., 261 Essex Road, Islington, London, N. 1.
*Grey, R. G, c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W.
Grignon, Miss A. E., 4 Melrose Avenue, Cricklewood, London, N.W.2.
*Grigsby, Miss E. B., 80 Brook Street, London, W. 1.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. R. C, Morrisburne House, Woking, Surrey.
Grottendieck, W. G., Schenk Straat 150, The Hague.
"Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
*Gunnell, A. Mortimer, F.R.A.I., E.R.Met.Soc, Broomfield Park
College, New Southgate, London, N. 1 1
.
*Gurbaxani, Professor H. M., D.J. Sind College, Karachi, Sind,
India.
*Guttwoeh, Charles, 7 Kingswood Avenue, Queen's Park, London,
N.W. 6.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Hackett, James T., Widows' Fund Building, Grenfell Street,
Adelaide, South Australia.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, Id Rammohan Saha Lane, Calcutta.
Hall, Mis. Basil, North Cottage, Cromer, Norfolk.
Hall, R. D., c/o W. H. Hart, Esq., Sutton-on-Hull, Yorks.
Hall, Miss S. Elizabeth, 47 Campden Hill Road, Kensington,
London. W- 8.
Hall. Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
Hambro, Mrs. Eric, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
"Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, Hamilton Palace, Lanark-
shire.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 429
Hamilton, James.
Hamilton, J. J., 80 Woodland Rise, Muswell Hill, London, N. 10.
Hamilton, Mrs. Vera, South Lodge, Highley Manor, Balcombe,
Sussex.
Hamilton, W. Bernard.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
Harmes, Mrs., Woolley Firs, Maidenhead Thicket, Berks.
Hansard, Mrs., c/o Mrs. Duke, The Dell. Croft Road, Sutton,
Surrey.
Hanson, Mrs., Pleasaunce Cottage, Dormans Park, Surrey.
Hardeman, Miss Frances E., Beulah, Green Lane, Godalming.
Harding, Miss A. K., 34 Colville Terrace, London, W. 11.
Hardwick-Terry, Mrs. E., Urquhart, Boxwell Road, Berkhamsted.
*Hare, Dr. A. W., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
Hargreaves, Miss, 115 Clarence Gate Gardens, Regent's Park,
London, N.W. 1.
Harper, Miss E. K., The Apple Gate, Coombe Hill Farm, nr.
Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
Harriman, T. G., M.D., 2291 East Ocean Avenue, Long Beach,
Calif., U.S.A.
*Harris, Mrs. Herbert A., 22 Bina Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
*Harris, Lady, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Harris, Hon. J., Lyndhurst, Hampshire.
Harris, Mrs. W. F., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
*Harrison, Francis, 104 Craven Park, Harlesden, London, N.W. 10.
Harrison, Miss Jane E., Newnham College, Cambridge.
Harrison, William, 17 Tirlemont Road, Croydon, Surrey.
Hart, Mrs. H. H., H.B." Zephyr," Srinigar, Kashmir, India.
Hart, Lieut. -General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O.,
United Service Club, Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Hartley, Alfred, 3 Macaulaj- Road, Clapham Common, London,
S.W. 4.
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont, U.S.A.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, Milton P.O., Mass. ; and Camden, Maine,
U.S.A.
Hasler, Miss K. M., East Mount, Brunswick Road, Douglas, Isle
of Man.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C. 3.
Hastings, Rev. J. H, The Manor House, Halton, Lancaster.
430 Members and Associates. [part
Hatton, G. C.
Hauxhurst, Mi's. W., Columbus Avenue and East 6th Street,
Mount Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
Hawarden, The Viscountess, 18 Chelsea Court, London, S.W. 3.
Hawker, Mrs. George, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Hawker, Miss Elizabeth, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Hawley, Miss Zoe, 129 Church Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., West Thurrock Vicarage, Grays, Essex.
Head, Miss Alice L., 52 Pembridge Villas, Notting Hill Gate,
London, W. 1 1
.
Heard, G. H., 7 Oakington Avenue, Wembley Park, Middlesex.
Heath, George H, 277 Brockley Road, London, S.E. 4.
*Hefford, Percy H., 387 Pershore Road, Selly Park, Birmingham.
Henderson, J. J., Mill Cottage, Bonhard, Perth.
Hemmerle, Madame, Colbjornsensgade 6in, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
Henrici, Jacob, 201-203 Chestnut Street, Meadville, Pa,, U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenham.
*Hensley, Mrs. Egerton, 14 Albert Court, Kensington Gore, London,
S.W. 7.
Herriot, Miss E. E., 2 Sunningdale Gardens, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Herschel, Colonel John, F.R.S., Royal Engineers, Slough, Bucks.
*Hervey, Miss G. M., 8 Gliddon Road, West Kensington, London,
W. 14.
Heseltine, Mrs., 19 Launceston Place, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Heymans, Prof. G., UbboJimmiussingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
*Hicks, Miss Lucy, 50 Cambridge Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
Higbee, Colonel George H, Burlington, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hildyard, F. W., 77a Lexham Gardens, London, W. 8.
*Hillard, Miss Mary R,, Westover School, Middlebury, Conn.,
U.S.A.
Hillman, E. Haviland, 4 Somers Place, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
Hillsmith, Mrs. Montfort, Ragged Place, South Danbury, New
Hampshire, U.S.A.
Himes, Prof. Charles E., 170 W. Louther Street, Carlisle, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Hinkley, Mrs. W., The Gables, Glenmore Road, Salisbury. «
Hoare, Fred H, 37 Fleet Street, London, E.G. 4.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 431
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London,
W.l.
Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, Littlebrook, Uppingham.
Hodding, Miss, 2 The Avenue, Bedford Park, London, W. 4.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, Emerson Hall, Harvard Univer-
sity, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogenraad, Mrs. Clio, Cornelis Jolstraat 93a, Scheveningen, Holland.
Hogg, Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hogg, Mrs. Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London,
W.8.
Hoggan, Mrs. Frances, M.D., Hill view, Squire's Lane, Finchley,
London, N. 3.
Holder, Henry L., 6 Lindum Terrace, Mannins;ham, Bradford.
Holding, Sam, Columbia, Term., U.S.A.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W. 11.
^Holland, Mrs. H. C, The Wheathills, Kirk Langley, Derby.
Holland, W. A., Plantation House, Bishop's Stortford, Herts.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
Hollins, Mrs., 24 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
Holloncl, Mrs. John R., Wonhani, Bampton, Devon.
*Hollway, C. R., 59 Carlisle Mansions, Victoria Street, London,
S.W. 1.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Holmes, Miss Lilian, The Firs, Charing, Kent.
*Holt, Henry, 34 West 33rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Holt, Miss M. D., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Holt, Miss Winifred, New York Association for the Blind, 111 East
59th Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Homan, C. H., 24 Oscarsgade, Christiania, Norway.
Home, Miss Georgina, Halcyon Club, 13/14 Cork Street, London,
W.l.
*Home, Mrs. Robert, b/78 Portsdown Road, Maida Vale, London,
W.9.
Hope, Lieut. -Commander R. H. K, R.N., H.M.S. Dreadnought,
c/o G.P.O., London.
Hoppin, J. G, 310 Sears Building, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Horridge, Miss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southport.
*Horwood, C. Baring, D.Sc, F.C.S., Wyeholme, St. Briavels, Glos.
*Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Arden, Birmingham.
432 Members and Associates. [part
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
Howe, Mrs. M. A. De Wolfe, 26 Brimmer Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Howell, Mrs. Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Hubback, Mrs , 8 Grange Road, Cambridge.
Hnde, Mrs. Anna, Ph.D., 35 Vestre Boulevard, Copenhagen, B.
Hudson, Mies Alice, Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Miss Katie E., Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Morris, St. Cuthbert's, Bathampton, Somerset.
*Hull, Mrs. Carrie G., 20 Garfield Place, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.. U.S.A.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., The Pines, Tivoli Road, Cheltenham.
Humphreys, T. H. A., Survey Department, Giza (Mudiria), Egypt.
"'
::
Hunt, Mi s. Warwick, 12 Lansdowne Road, Holland Park, London,
W. 11.
Hunkin.Rev. J. W., M.C., C.F., Headquarters, 29th D.A., British
Expeditionary Force.
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Herts.
*Hyslop, Professor J. H., 519 West 149th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Imamura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Univer-
sity, Kioto, Japan.
Ince, Miss Gladys, Nurses' Home, Guy's Hospital, London, S.E. 1.
Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingram, Miss M. I., The Priory, Wimbledon Common, London,
S.W. 19.
Innes, Miss H. K., 4 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Ionides, A. G, Junr., 34 Porchester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Ireland. Gordon, 32 Nassau Str., New York City, U.S.A.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
James, Henry, 00 West 12th Street, New Y7
ork City, U.S.A.
James, Mrs. Joseph, Souttnvood, Barnt Green, Birmingham.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, Hallsannery, Bideford, N. Devon.
^Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Jaye, William R., Springwood Lodge, Oakfield Road, Clapton,
London, E. 5.
Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex.
Johns, Miss, 13 Longton Grove, Sydenham, London, S.E. 26.
LXX1V.] Members and Associates. 433
Johnson, Charles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 25 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
Johnston, R. F., Weihaiwei, China.
Jones, Miss Constance, Meldon House, Weston-super-Mare.
Jones, J. Herbert, 7 Kitchener Drive, Orrell Park, Liverpool.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London,
S.W.7.
Jones, Miss Lilian I., 120 Maida Vale, London, W. 9.
Jordan-Smith, Benjamin, Briantcroft, Grosvenor Road, Caversham,
Reading.
*Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Judd, Mrs., Sylvestre Dwight, 477 Highland Avenue, Maiden,
Mass, U.S.A.
Jutsum, J. A., 6 Cowley Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
Keene, The Most Rev. J. B., D.D., Bishopscourt, Ardbraccan,
Navan, Co. Meath, Ireland.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, The Hut, Holmwood, Dorking.
Kelly, Miss Eleanor B., Sea Craig, Bognor, Sussex.
*Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kelso, Mrs. H. J., 425 W. Church Avenue, Knoxville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Kenneth, H., Lindley, Bycullah Park, Enfield, Middlesex.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Ker, Miss, Naj)ier Lodge, Strathblane, Glasgow.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
:;:
Kevill-Davies, Captain G., Edgeley House, Whitchurch, Salop.
*King, H. F. Locke, J. P., Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
*King, Dr. W. A. D., 1 Bishop's Place, Paignton, Devon.
King, W. A. H., Balliol College, Oxford.
*Kingscote, Mrs., 4 Southwick Crescent, London, W. 2.
*Kingsford, Miss S. M., 5 Doneraile Street, Fulham, London. S.W. 6.
Kittei, T. B., Vane House, Hampstead, London, N.W.
Kittermaster, Rev. Digby B., Dame Armstrong House^ Harrow-
on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Knight, Charles N., 36 Kensington Park Road, London, W. 11.
Lafone, A. W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R. M., Boys' High School, Christchurch, New Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, 77 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
Lambert, G. W., 86 Chester Square, London, S.W. 1.
434 Members and Associates. [part
Lane-Poole, Professor Stanley, Litt.D., The Bell House, Bersted,
Maidstone, Kent.
Larken, E. P., 98 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 14.
Latham, Miss Edith, c/o Mrs. Ingalls, Watkins, New York, U.S.A.
Latshaw, Allen, 3414 Sansom Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Lawry, J. Littleton, M.D., Calstock, Cornwall.
*Lawson, J. S., 58 Howitt Street, Guelph, Ontario, Canada.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss Ellen, 6 Airlie Gardens, Campden Hill, London, W. 8.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W. L
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, NY., U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett, 135 Park Row, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*Legg, W. A., 14 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
Leigh, W. Austen, Hartfield, Roehampton, London, S.W.
Lenon, J. W., c/o P.O. Kyambu, British East Africa.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W. ]
.
Leonard, Thomas, 223 W. School Lane, Germantown, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Leslie, James, 1029 Corydon Avenue, Winnipeg, Canada.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St. Paul's Vicarage, Hull.
Lewis, David J., United States Tariff Commission, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Lewis, Mrs. Gerald V., The Yews, Bletchingley, Surrey.
Librarian, Public Library of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, 101- Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.,
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, etc., Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Public Library, Colorado Springs, Colo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
U.S.A.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 435
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Embankment,
London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, The John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.G. 2.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Hornby Road,
Bombay.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneapolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Natal Society and Central Library, Pietermaritzburg,
Natal, S. Africa.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs. Truslove
& Hanson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W. 1.
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Omaha Public Library and Museum, 19 and Harvey
Streets, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Peoria Public Library, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, Selslcabet for psykislc Forslcning, Havnegade 35n, Copen-
hagen.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 19 Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1.
436 Members and Associates. [part
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian. Bibliotheque Victor Cousin, L'Universite de Paris.
Librarian, University of Minnesota Library, Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, Univeristy of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Librarian, Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams's Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
*Linden, Edward F. B., 11 South Mansions, Brondesbury, London,
N.W.
*Little, Mrs., Park House, Whaley Bridge, nr. Stockport.
*Llewellin, Mrs. W., Upton House, nr. Poole, Dorset.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
Lloyd, Rev. John, 530 Warren Street, Wausau, Wisconsin, U.S.A.
Lloj-d, Miss Julia, Farm, Sparkbrook, Birmingham.
Lodge, Miss E. C, Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Lombard! C, 2817 Routh Street, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Long, Miss Constance, M.D., 2 Harley Place, London, W. 1.
Lorimer, Miss Emilia S., 45 Marston Street, Oxford.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Greenhill, Sutton-Veny, Wiltshire.
Ludford-Astley, Mis. A. G., 31a King"s Road, Chelsea, London,
S.W.3.
Lyall, Mrs., 6 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square, London,
'
W. 1.
Lyall, Sir Charles James, 82 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Lyall, Edward, c/o William Lyall, Esq., 19 Victoria Road, Dar-
lington.
Lyell, D., 74 Campden Hill Court, Kensington.. London. W. 8.
''Lyon, Miss C. G, Ashcroft, Prestwood, Great Missenden.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street. Westminster,
^
London, S.W.I.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W. 1.
MacGregor, Arthur G, 8 Longford Terrace, Monkstown, Co. Dublin.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 437
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
Mackenzie, Miss Maud R. R., 50 Chester Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Mackenzie, Lady Muir, 22 Draycott Place, Cadogan Gardens,
London, S.W. 3.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W. 2.
Macnaghten, E. L., 37 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Madders, Mrs. H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
*Magrane, Mrs. Victor, 2 Holland Park Road, Kensington, London,
W. 14.
Mahler, Mrs. John, Bronygarth, Oswestry, Salop.
Mainwaring, Mrs., 11 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Mallet, Right Hon. Sir Louis, G.C.M.G., C.B., Wardes. Otham,
Maidstone, Kent.
*Malone, Wing Commander C. L'Estrange, R.N., 30 Eccleston
Street, London, S.W. 1.
Mander, Charles A., The Mount, Wolverhampton, Staffs.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
'::
Manfield, Miss Muriel R., 63 Delaware Mansions, London, W. 9.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Coombe Dale, Coombe Pvoad, South
Croydon, Surrey.
^Manning, Miss H. T., 102 Central Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Genappe, Bridgewater, Tasmania.
*Mansfield, Mrs. Richard, The Grange, New London, Conn., U.S.A.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., Arolla, Warren Road. Guildford, Surrey.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs., Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshire.
Marsh, Edward H., 3 Gray*s Inn Place, London, W.C. 1.
Marston, Charles, J.P., Afcot, Compton, nr. Wolverhampton.
*Marston, Commander G. M., R.N., Park Lodge, Albert Gate,
Knightsbridge, London, S.W. 1.
Marten, Miss A. R., 78 Vanbrugh Park, Blackheath, London,
S.E.3.
Marten, Rev. G. H., St. Mark's, Purley, Sm:rey.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbirry.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Jullundur, Punjab, India.
Matbar, H. P., No. 3, Sleater Road, Bombay, India.
*Mason, Miss, 211 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Mason, Miss M. H., 5 Vincent Square Mansions, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
438 Ulembers and Associates. [part
*Mather, Rev. Herbert,
Matthews, Dr. Caroline, 13 Longton Grove, Sydenham, London,
S.E. 26.
^Matthews, Mrs., 15 Stanley Gardens, Notting Hill Gate, London,
W.ll.
*Maunsell, Captain G. A., R.E., c/o C.E.P.C, D.G.T., General
Headquarters, B.E.F., France.
Mavrogordato, John N., 5 Linnell Close, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 4.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 6 Rue Villaret-de-Joyeuse, Paris.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., 21 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W. 8.
M'Alpine, Robert, The Croft, Totteridge, Herts.
M'Clellan, Mrs. Clara D., Briarcliff Manor, New York City, U.S.A.
M'Clure, Henry, M.D.
M'Connel, H. W,. M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich; and
11 Eton Avenue, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
M'Connel, Mrs., Matlaske Hall, Norwich ; and 11 Eton Avenue,
Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
M'Dougall, William, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B., Woodsend, Foxcombe
Hill, nr. Oxford.
M'Gill, Edward E., Towa/nda, Bradford County, Pa., U.S.A.
M'Gusty, G. A., 12 Molesworth Street, Dublin, Ireland.
M'Keever, BuelJ, 3900 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*M'Kenna, Mrs. Theodore, 24 Bryanston Square, London, W. 1.
M'Lauchlan, G. M., c/o B. A. Hignett, Esq., St. Brannocks, Mount
Grove, Birkenhead.
M'Neile, Rev. R. F., Bishop's Sutton, Alresford, Hants.
Mead, G. R. S., 47 Campden Hill Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Meek, Maximilian de.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg, Germany.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 3 Batlivala Villa, Sleater
Road, Bombay, India.
Meissner, Mrs. de, 1524 3 1st Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Mendonca., M. S. de, 100 Rua S. Juliao, Lisbon, Portugal.
Merlin, Rev. F. W. J., Highfield, Huddersfield, Yorks.
Metcalfe, Mrs. G. R., The Aberdeen, St. Paul, Minnesota, U.S.A.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
Milburn, Rev. R. Gordon, Black Bridge, Beaulieu, Hants.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 439
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Millard, Mrs. Alinira B., 2505 Farnam Str.. Omaha, Neb., U.S.A.
*Milward, Graham, 77 Colmore Row, Birmingham.
I\Iims, Mrs. Virginia G., 211 N. Conception Street, Mobile, Alabama,
U.S.A.
*Mirlees, W. J., 11 Cranmer Road, Cambridge.
Mitchell, Sidney J., c/o D. Mitchell & Co., Box 77, G.P.O., New-
castle. N.S.W., Australia.
Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
*Montague, Mrs., Penton, Credition, Devon,
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, Co.
Limerick.
*Moore, Mrs. Harold, The Burrow Alma Road, Sidcup.
*Moore, Mrs. Roland, 41 Rosary Garden?, London, S.W.
*Moore, W. F., 5 Coleherne Mansions, London, S.W. 5.
*Moore, Admiral W. Usborne, 8 Western Parade, Southsea.
Moriarty, Miss Eileen F. H., 46 Inverness Terrace, Hyde Park,
London, W. 2.
Morier, Mrs., 65 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
Morris, Miss D. M., 284
Bramham Gardens, South Kensington,
London, S.W. 5.
*Morris, Miss Helen L., The Fore Hill, Ely, Cambs.
Morris, Mrs., Horsley Hall, Eccleshall, Staffs.
Morris, Mrs., 284
Bramham Gardens, South Kensington, London,
S.W. 5.
Morton, Mrs. F. N., 73 West La Crosse Avenue, Lansdowne, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Morton, Miss Mary, Acland Hall, The College, Bingley, Yorks.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., 4 Mission Row, Cal-
cutta.
Moss-Blundell, F. B., 28 George Street, Richmond, Surrey.
Moultrie, Miss A. J. C, 6 Oakhill Road, Putney, London,
S.W. 15.
Murphy, Gardner, U.S. Base Hospital No. 39. American Expedi-
tionary Force.
*Murray, Donald, Messrs. Creed & Co., Croydon. Surrey.
*Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., 82 Woodstock Road,
Oxford.
Murray, Miss Jessie, M.B., 14 Endsleigh Street, Tavistock Scpiare,
London, W.C. 1.
440 Members and Associates. [part
Murton, Miss Josephine, The Firs, Charing, Kent.
Myers, Professor Charles S., M.D., Thursley, Chaucer Road, Cam-
bridge.
* Myerg, Mrs. F. W. H., Leckhampton House, Cambridge.
*Myers, L. H., 34 Kensington Square, London, W. 8.
Myers, W. Wykeham, M.B., H.B.M.'s Consular Agency, Pagoda
Anchorage, China.
Nash, Miss Diana, 2611 Guilford Road, Cleveland Heights, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Neale, Edward, c/o Mr. Herbert Bishop, 29 Ludgate Hill, London,
E.C, 4.
Neild, Miss Maria, 27 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
Neustadter, Louis W., 461 Mission Street, San Francisco, Cab,
U.S.A.
*Newcastle, The Duke of, Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
Newton, Miss F. E., 156 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
Newton, Heber, Oamaru, New Zealand.
Newton, Miss I., 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
*Nicoll, Mrs. DeLancey, 23 East 39th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Nicolls, Brig.-Generai E. G., 19 St. Andrew's Road, Bedford.
*Nisbet, E. T., Birnieknowes, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
Noel, Miss Frances, Becket House, Thaxted, nr. Dunmow, Essex.
Noel. J. B. L., West Hill House, Portishead.
Noel-Cox, H. L., M.D., F.R.A.S., The Military Hospital, Belmont,
Surrey.
Norris, Stuart, 3 Birchfield Road, Birmingham.
Northcote, Rev. H., 35 Rue Tour Notre Dame, Boulogue-sur-Mer,
France.
Nott, William F.. 3 Glebe Villas, London Road, Mitcham, Surrey..
Nutter, Miss H. G., 6 Acacia Road, Norbiuy, London, S.W. 16.
Odell, S. W., 202 Boston Building, Pasadena, Cal., U.S.A.
Ogilvie. Mrs. Robert, c/o R, G. Ross, Esq., 10 Hill Street, Edinburgh.
Ogle, Major N., 67th Punjabis, Quetta, Baluchistan, India.
Oldham, G. F., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Rostrevor, Langton Green,
Tunbridge Wells.
Oman, Professor Charles W. C, Frewin Hall, Oxford.
Onslow, Lady, Chevin Bank, Duffield, Derbyshire.
*Onslow, Hon. H., Clandon Park, Guildford.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Street, Hamp-
stead, London, NW. 3.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 441
*Osmaston, Mrs., Stoneshill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Oxenham, Mrs., 3 Baring Crescent, Exeter.
Pach-Beresford, Denis R., J. P., Fenagh House, Bagenals'town, Co.
Carlow.
Pagan, Mrs. G. L., 5 Belgrave Place, Edinburgh.
Paget, Sir Arthur, 9 King's Bench Walk, Temple. London, E.G. 4.
Paley, Mrs., Ampton Hall; Bury St. Edmunds.
*Paley, G. A.. 90 Onslow Gardens, London, S.VV. 7.
*Park, William, 61 Eardley Crescent, Earl's Court, London, S.W. 5.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
*Parr, F. G, Llwynoun, Great Ormes Head, Llandudno, N. Wales.
Parsons, N. M., 22 Barkston Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., 3 Church Gate Street, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., Royal Marine Hotel, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight,
*Patton, Mrs., Stoke Court, nr. Taunton, Somerset.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa,, U.S.A.
Payne, Ernest, 10 Wellington Court, Knightsbridge, London,
S.W. 1.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Peck, Miss Charlotte L., Maidencombe House, St. Mary Church,
S. Devon.
Peck, Mrs. Louis S., 30 Lackawanna Avenue, Jacksonville, Florida,
U.S.A.
Peckham, Orville, 1422 Broadway, Indianapolis, Indiana, U.S.A.
Pennington, Mrs. Henry, Villa Cimerose, Chateau d'Oex, Switzer-
land.
Penny, W. R., Railway Stores Department, Uitenhage, nr. Port
Elizabeth, S. Africa,
Perceval, Mrs. Dudley, 153 Church Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
*Perdicaris, Ion, The Manor House, Chi&lehurst, Kent.
*Perez, Dr. Jorge, " La Quinta," Santa Ursula, Teneriffe, Canary
Isles.
Perkins, Miss S- R., c/o Dr. Perkins, 57 Harley Street, London,
W. 1.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Superintendent's House, Guy's Hospital,
London, S.E. 1.
Perry, Horace H, Court Royal, 144 King's Cliff, Brighton.
442 Members and Associates. [part
Perry, T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Peters, W. E.
Pfau, A. R., Junr., Mankato, Minnesota, U.S.A.
*Phillimore, Mrs., Kendals, Elstree, Herts.
*Piddmgton, J. G., Holy Well, Hook Heath, Woking, Surrey.
*Piercy, Major B. H, 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
*Pinney, Mrs., 17 Doune Terrace, North Kelvinside, Glasgow.
*Pinney, Miss Ida A., 17 Doune Terrace, North Kelvinside, Glasgow.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue, Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 18.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
*Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.I.
Pitt, Mrs. Fox, 48 Grosvenor Street, London, W. 1
.
Plowden, Mrs., Strachur Park, Loch Fyne Side, Argyllshire.
Pollard, J. Ellery, L.R.C.P., 7 Esme Road. Sparkhill, Birmingham.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B., 14 West Halkin Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Pontifex, Dudley D., 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London,
S.E. 21.
Pooley, H. F., Scotter, Well Walk, Hampstead, London, N.VV. 3.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Post, Mrs. Wm, St. Lucie, Fla,; and Buckhaimon, W. Va,, U.S.A.
*Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J.P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Powell, Ellis T., D.Sc, Rosedene, Brondesbury Park, London,
N.W. 6.
*Powell, Mrs., Goodwyns Place, Dorking, Surrey.
Powles, Lewis Charles, The Highlands, Rye, Sussex.
*Preece, W. Llewellyn, 8 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Prindle, H. E., 915 New Birks Building, Montreal, Canada.
*Proctor, Captain G. Norman, c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., Hornby Road,
Bombay, India.
*Pulver, S. H., Dunedin House, Basinghall Avenue, London. E.G. 2.
*Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hall, Stocksfield-on-Tyne.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 443
*Purdon, Mrs., 72 Ridgmount Gardens, Gower Street, London,
W.C. 1.
Putman, Miss Irene, 328 Walnut Avenue, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Pye, W. A., Priest Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Pynsent, R. B., at Oaklands, Hailsham, Sussex.
Quackenbos, John D., M.D., 127 West 73rd Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Radeliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Radclyffe-Hall, Miss M., 22 Cadogan Court, Draycott Avenue,
London, S.W. 3.
Raggett, M's.
Raikes, E. B., Drayton Old Lodge, Norwich.
Raikes, Ms., Beomonds, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
*Rampling-Rose, W., The Corner House, Caythorpe, Lines.
Ramsden, Miss, 16 Incognito Gade, Christiania.
Ransom, Francis, Chilterns, Hitchin, Herts.
*Rashdall, The. Very Rev. Hastings, The Deanery, Carlisle.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
Rawlinson, Rev. G. C, 20 Holbein House, London, S.W. 1.
Rawsthorn, Mrs., Yew Trees, Ashton-on-Ribble, Preston.
Reade, Herbert V., C.B., 181 Queen's Gate, S. Kensington, London,
S.W. 7.
Ready, Mss E. A., 74 Regent Road, Leicester.
*Reekitt, Miss Juliet E., 20 Dulwich Wood Park, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E. 19.
Regina Madre, S. M. La, Palazzo Margherita, Rome.
Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
Richmond, Kenneth, St. Merryn, North Cornwall.
Riddle, Mrs., Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew,
Surrey.
Ridley, M. Roy, 11 Percival Road, Clifton, Bristol.
*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, NW. 3.
Ridley, The Viscountess, 10 Carlton House Terrace, London,
S.W. 1.
Riley, Miss Mary, 6 Colin Street, Wigan, Lanes.
2f
444 Members and Associates. [part
Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. L.
Ritchie, Thomas, J. P., Conservative Club, St. James's Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W. 1
.
Rix, Rev. A. H., St. Mary's Vicarage, Keighley.
Robbins, Rufus M., Titusville, Brevard County, Florida, U.S.A.
Roberts, Mrs. Hugh, 6 Albemarle Villas, Stoke, Devonport.
^Roberts, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Roberts, W. M., Bar Harbour, Maine, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
Robinson, George R., 25 Water Street, Liverpool.
Rogers, Edmund J. A., M.D., CM.. 222 West Colfax Avenue,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
Rogers, Rev. F. G. The Vicarage, Langley, Newport, Essex.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Henleaze Park, Westbury-on-Trym, Glouces-
tershire.
Rolleston, T. W., Ifield, 16 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Romanes, N. H., The Cavendish Club, 119 Piccadilly, London,
W. 1.
Rosenberger, James, Sellersville, Bucks Co., Pa., U.S.A.
Ross, Samuel, 67 Willis Street, New Bedford, Mass.. U.S.A.
Row, Miss L. M.. 4 Moon Street, Dulverton, Bucks.
Russell, Mrs., 68 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
*Russell, Mrs. E. S.. Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Damory Cottage, Walton-on-the-Hilt,
Surrey.
St. Hill, Mrs., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
*Salmon, Mrs. Spencer, Crockham Hill Place. Edenbridge, Kent.
Salter, W. H., 2 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W. 8.
*Salter, Mis. W. H., 2 Campden Hill Gardens, London, W. 8.
Samaldas. Hon. Lalubhai. 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
Sanderson, W. R., Little Highleigh Farm, Exbridge, N. Devon.
*Savage, Rev. M. J., D.D.. 1867 Crawford Road, Cleveland, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 35 Weymouth Street, London, W. 1.
*Savory, Ernest J. G, 61 Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 445
*Scatcberd, Miss F. R., 14 Park Square, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
Schaaf, Albert E., 5 The Louvain, 2101 N. Pennsylvania Street,
Indianapolis, Ind., U.S.A.
Schauffler, Robert H., 3 Spruce Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schofield, Mrs., 1 Phillimore Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Scholefield, Mrs., Caergwrle, Rectory Lane, Prestwich, Manchester.
Schuster, Miss, Cottenham House, Wimbledon, London, S.W.
Scott, Rev. D. D., C.F., Presbyterian Institute, Trentham M.C.,
New Zealand.
Scott, F. Gilbert. M.R.C.S.. L.R.C.P.. Rocquaine, New Maiden,
Surrey.
*Scott, Captain G. B., N.W. Militia, Miranshab, N.W. Frontier
Province, India.
Scott, Mrs. Minturn, Waterside Copse, Liphook, Hants.
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
*Scott, Mrs. W. E., 95 Ashley Gardens, London. S.W. 1.
Scott, W. Sibbald, M.B., The Lymes, Ellesmere, Salop.
Scowcroft, Heber, Ogden, Utah, U.S.A.
Seabra, Alberto, M.D., rua 15 de Novembre No. 9, Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., 120 E. 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Sellers, Miss R. A., Wellesley Girls" High School, Naini Tal, India.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, Hammersmith,
London, W. 6.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet Sir E. H, O.M.. G.C.B., G.C.V.O.,
Queen Anne's Mansions, St. James's Park, London. S.W. 1.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., Room 318, Citizens' Bank Building,
Tampa, Florida, U.S.A.
Shakespear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London, W.8.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W.8.
Shaw, Arnold E., Grove House, Aspley Guise, Beds.
*Shavv, Mrs. Bernard, 10 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, London, W,C. 2.
*Shaw, Rev. Sir Charles J. Monson, Bart., The Rectory, Wrotham,
Kent.
Shaw, Lady, 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Sheets, J. G, 7 Glenwood Apartments, College Hill Station, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
446 Members and Associates. [part
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
Shuttleworth, Miss C. J., 10 Cottesmore Gardens, Kensington,
London. W. 8.
Sibly, F. Arthur, LL.D., Haywardsfield, Stonehouse, Glos.
*Sidgwick, Arthur, LL.D., 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Edward, 25 Collingham Road, London, S.W. 5.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Sidgwick, Miss Rose, 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Silver, Mrs., 24 Victoria Square, London, S.W. 1.
Simmonds, Miss C. E., 33 Clarence Gate Gardens, London, N.W. 1.
Simmons, Judge Daniel A., Jacksonville, Florida, U.S.A.
Simons, L., LTtrechtschedw. Straat 13, Amsterdam.
Simpson, Captain H. V., R.N., C.M.G., United Service Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Simpson, Miss Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
Sinclair, Miss May, 1 Blenheim Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
Sloggett, Director-General Sir Arthur, K.C.M.G., K.C.B., 6s Bicken-
hall Mansions, London, W. 1.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W. 6.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
*Smith, Rev. Ernest F.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove, Brighton.
*Smith, Henry Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London,
W.6.
Smith, Sir H. Babington, C.B., 121 St. James's Court, Buckingham
Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Smith, J. Hoyle, Spring Bank, Eccles, Lancashire.
Smith, R. F. Ruthven, 81 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Hebden Bridge Vicarage, Yorkshire.
Smith, M's. William, c/o The Royal Bank of Australia, 18 Bishops-
gate, London, E.G. 2.
*Smith, Mrs. W. Easton, 132 Grove Street, Waterbury, Conn.,
U.S.A.
Smith. William Hawley, 2039 Knoxville Avenue, Peoria, 111.,
U.S.A.
Smith, William P., Crestline, Ohio, U.S.A.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 447
*Smith, W. Whately, Rackenford Lodge, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
Sparrow, G. W. S., Albrighton Hall, near Shrewsbury.
*Speer, Charlton T., Glenhurst, The Common, Sutton, Surrey.
Spens, William, King's College, Cambridge.
Srinivasa Raghavachariar, V., Chittoor. Chittoor District, Madras
Presidency, India.
Stanhope, The Hon. Mrs. Fitzroy, 49 Onslow Square, London,
S.W.7.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., 148 North 18th Street,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Stapleton, Mrs., 11 Sloane Terrace Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
Stawell, Miss F. M., 33 Ladbroke Square. Notting Hill Gate,
London, W. 11.
Steedman, J. G. W., M.D., 5394 Waterman Avenue, St. Louis,
Mo., U.S.A.
*Steel, Mrs., Court o' Hill, Tenbury, Worcestershire.
Stephens, Mrs., 41 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Stephens, W. F., Seychelles Colony.
*Stevenson, Mrs., 52 Abinger Road, Bedford Park, London, W. 4.
Stevenson, A. Creery, 2 Cambridge Road, Farnborough, Hants.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. I.
*Stobart, Mrs. St. Clair, 7 Turner's Wood, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 4.
Stoehr, Miss, 109 Iverna Court, Kensington High Street, London,
W.8.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachan, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
Strachey, Charles, Colonial Office, Downing Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,
Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Streatfeild, W. H. R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 42 Ovington Square,
London, S.W. 3.
Strode, Miss E. L. C, 7 Stafford Terrace, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Strutt, Captain Hon. A. O, R.N., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
Stuart, Mrs.
*Sturdy, Edward T., Norburton, Burton Bradstock,Bridport, Dorset.
448 Members and Associates. [part
Sturge, Miss M. Carta, Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
Swaine, Mrs. R. C, Letclworth Lane, Letchworth, Herts.
Swainson, Miss F. J., Stonecross, Kendal.
Swainson, Miss M., 23 Warrington Crescent, Maida Hill, London,
W.9.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., Daylesford, Berwyn P.O., Pa.,
U.S.A.
Swinburne, Mrs., Western Withdean, Brighton.
Tait, Mrs., 10 Eilerdale Road, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Lismnllen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
London, S.W. 19.
Talbot, P. Amaury, Forcados, Southern Nigeria.
*Taylor, Mrs. Charles H., 31 Blenheim Park Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 23 Warrington Crescent, Maida Hill,
London, W. 9.
*Taylor, H. Dennis, Stancliffe, Mount Villas, York.
*Taylor, Mrs. Lewis S., 14 Frobisher Terrace, Falmouth.
Temple, Reginald W.
Tennent, W. J., 69 Essex Street. Masterton, New Zealand.
*Thaw, A. Blair, Hotel Leonon, 701 Madison Avenue, New York,
N.Y., U.S.A.
*Thesiger, Mrs Ernest, 6 Montpelier Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt.
*Thomas, Seymour P., 41 Gower Avenue, Germantown, Pa., U.S.A.
Thompson, Edwin, 25 Sefton Drive, Liverpool.
Thompson, M. W., 39 Steeles Road, Haverstock Hill, London,
N.W. 3.
""Thomson, Edward J., Western Club, Glasgow.
Thorburn, Rev. T. J., D.D., LL.D., The Bungalow, St. Helen's
Down, Hastings.
Thornley, Miss F. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Thorp, Richard, Colenso Hill, Napier, New Zealand.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow,
Ireland.
Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid de.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 449
*Trotter, Mrs., Standerwick Court, Frome, Somerset.
*Troubridge, Mrs., 6 Cheltenham Terrace, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 45 Upper Brook Street, Grosvenor Square,
London, W. 1.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill, Haslemere, Surrey.
*Tugwell, Mrs. Arthur, Bracken Hill, Tower Road, Branksome
Park, Bournemouth.
Tivrner, General Sir Alfred, 16 Chelsea Embankment, London,
S.W. 3.
Tyler, Professor C. M., 1601 Washington Avemie, Scranton, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Tyrone, The O'Neill de, 59 rua das Flores, Lisbon, Portugal.
Tyrrell, G. N., 40 Gondar Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W. 6.
Tyrwhitt, Rev. H. M., 19 The Glebe, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Ulman, Mrs. Jacob A., Brooklandville, Baltimore County, Md.,
U.S.A.
*Upton, Miss Florence K., 21 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
Urquiola, Manuel de, Calle de Alfredo Calderon 8, Valencia, Spain.
Van Deren, H. S., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam.
*Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
Verrall, Miss M. E., The Lydd, West Hoathly, Sussex.
Vyvyan, Mrs. T. C, Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
Wagner, W. Q., St. John Street, Melrose, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Wales, Hubert, The Long House, Hindhead, Surrey.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Walker, Miss May C, Halcyon Club, 14 Cork Street, London, W. 1.
*Walker, Captain P. L. E., 7th Hussars, Meerut, UP., South India,
Walker, R. A. Rolleston, Innisfallen, Campbell Road, Boscombe,
Bournemouth.
*Walker-Munro, L., R.N., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Wall, Perry G., Tampa, Florida, U.S.A.
^Wallace, Abraham, M.D., Wendela, Harrow-on-theJTill, Middlesex.
*Waller-Sa\vyer, Mrs., Moystown House, Belmont, King's Co.,
Ireland.
Walsh, Rev. A. Digby, Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
450 Members and Associates. [part
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grosso, Brazil.
Wang, C. Y., Panoff Garden, Rue de Saigon, Hankow, China.
Ward, David S., Sedan House, Harrogate, Yorkshire.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Beechwood, Killiney. Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Warren, Mrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Wastell, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 73 Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
Waymouth, Miss Esther, 3 Church Road, Parkhill Road, Hamp-
stead, London, N.W. 3.
Webb, Mrs. Curtis, 33 Dover Street, London, W. 1
.
Webber, Mrs. Felix, The Croft, Shillingstone, Dorset,
"'Weinberg, Harry J., North Road, The Park, Nottingham.
Wemyss, Countess of, 23 St. James's Place, London, S.W. 1.
Western, F. J., Cambridge Mission, Delhi. India.
*Westlake, Ernest, Godshill, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
Weston, Miss Lena E., Shipbourne Grange, nr. Tonbridge, Kent.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 80 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
*Whetham, W. C. D., F.R.S., Cadhay, Ottery St. Mary. Devon.
Whishaw, R, W.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., Villa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
"Whitehead, Miss Mercia D.. St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge.
*Whitmee, A. G, Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D.. 65 West 127th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Whittemore, Mrs. Julia S., Naugatuck, Conn., U.S.A.
*Whittingham, F. S., Rodborough Rectory, nr. Stroud, Gloucester-
shire.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing. Maidstone, Kent,
Wight, Edward, M.R.C.S., 9 Regency Square, Brighton.
Wilde, Mrs. George, 4 West 40th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Wilding, Mrs., Penbryn, Montgomery, Wales.
Wilkins, Mrs., 19 Ormond Road, Rathmines, nr. Dublin.
*Wilkins, C. F., Allahabad, U.P.. India.
Wilkinson, Sidney, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 49 Rodney Street, Liver-
pool.
Willcocks, Miss M. P., 35 Pennsylvania Road, Exeter.
Willett, Mrs., Fir Tree End. Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Willett, Miss Cicely, 2 Holland Park Road, Kensington, London,
W. 14.
LXXIV.] Members and Associates. 451
Williams, Mrs. Glynne, 7 Berkeley House. Hay Hill, London. W. 1.
Williams, Harry L., 541 Wood Street, Pittsburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Williams, J. E., Streator, Illinois, U.S.A.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lome Road. Oxton. Cheshire.
Williamson, Mrs., The Copse, Brook, Godalming, Surrey.
Williamson, John, M.D.. The Rhallt, Burgh Heath Road, Epsom.
Surrey.
*Williamson, The Very Rev. Dr. Wallace. 44 Palmerston Place,
Edinburgh.
Willis, Grant B.. 173 W. Second Street, Mansfield, Ohio, U.S.A.
Wilson, Rev. Alexander, The Manse, Ythanwells, Insch, Aberdeen-
shire.
Wilson. Charles J., Derlamogue, Ailesbury Park, Dublin.
Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, Sesame Club. 29 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
Wilson, Mrs. George, 12 Osborne Drive. Bangor, Co. Down, Ireland.
Wilson, Mrs. F. E., c/o Hon. W. Warren-Vernon, 105 Cadogan
Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J.. 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Wilson, Naval Instructor Percy, R.N.. H.M.S. Dreadnought, c/o
G.P.O., London.
Wilson, W. E., 45 Maiden Road, Kentish Town, London, N.W. 5.
Wingham, T. A., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario,
Canada.
Wise, Miss A. Stewart, 16 West Kensington Gardens, London, W. 14.
Witherby, Arthur George, Newtown Grange, Newbury. Berks.
*Wolf, Francisco Eugene de. P.O. Box 269, Bristol, Rhode Island,
U.S.A.
Woodhull. Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.
Woods, Miss Alice, St. Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Miss C. E., 13 Cowley Street, Westminster, London. S.W. 1.
Woollett, Lieut. -Colonel W. Charles, F.S.A., 4 The Ridges, Farn-
boro', Hants.
Woolley, V. J., M.D., 15 Lower Camden, Chislehurst, Kent.
*Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, Romden Place, Smarden, Kent.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, Wandsworth, London.
S.W. 18.
Wriford, Mrs., 21 Bullingham Mansions, Kensington, London, W.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 17 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
452 Members and Associates. [part lxxiv.]
Wyndham, Mrs., 200 West 58th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Yaroschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
Yeats, W. B., 18 Woburn Buildings, Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Yssel de Schepper, Mr. Justice, Eendra chtstraat 27b, Rotterdam.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XXIX
(PARTS LXXII.-LXXIV.)
191 8.
" A.", Mrs., The Trance Phenomena of, 125, 126-128, 129-130, 134-136,
145-148, 160, 164 (footnote)
Abnormal Psychology, The Foundations of Normal and, Review of 186
Acis and Galatea (The Ear of Dionysius), 213, 214-215, 217, 219, 222
(footnote), 224-225, 228, 229, 233
Script references to - 206-209, 213, 215-217, 219
See also Cross-Correspondence.
Addresses, Presidential ------- 46, 287
American Society for Psychical Research, Proceedings. The
Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality - - - - 386
Analytical Psychology, Collected Papers on. By Dr. C. G. Jung.
Review of- - - - - - - - -191
Aristophanes. See Scripts, Literary references.
Aristotle. See Scripts, Literary references.
Arnold. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references ; also Scripts :
Literary references.
Associates, List of Members and - - - - 4 1
1
Audition, Automatic ----- 308, 318, 329
Auditory Hallucinations - - - 308, 318, 329, 351, 358, 367, 399
Automatic Messages (Table-Tilting, Visualization, Writing, etc.), 111-
113, 117, 118, 120-124, 125-126, 129-130, 157, 158, 160-162, 198-199,
206-209, 215-217, 220-222, 226, 239-241, 243, 311-312, 315, 318-320,
322-323, 325-326, 329-331, 336, 337, 338, 343-349, 393-394, 400
See also Cross-Correspondences.
454 Index to Vol. XXIX. [parts lxxii.-
Automatic Visualization ------- 306-345
Automatic Writing. General references 172-175, 248, 252, 253, 254-259.
307-308, 407-408
,, ,, Harmfulness, Question of - - - 258-259
Psychology of - - 173, 257-258, 407-408
Automatist, Some Experiments with a Neiv ----- 306
Baal, Temple of. See Cross-Correspondence.
Balfour, The Right Hon. G. W.—
The Ear of Dionysius ....197, 254, 260, 270
,, ,, Discussion of, by Miss F. Melian Stawell 260
.. Reply to 270
Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of Survival, 229-231, 285-286
,, ,, ., A Reply to Criticisms 230 (footnote)
Barrett, Sir W. F. - - - - - 247 (footnote)
Bayfield, Miss Cyrille, Cases confirmed by - - - 363, 364, 373-375
Bayfield, Rev. M. A.—
Faunus Incident - - - 114.115-116,120,158-159,166
Interpretation of portions of script - 117-118, 337 (footnote)
Some Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy - - - 350
"Beauchamp,The Misses," Compared with the Doris Fischer Case 395-397
Bergson, Professor Henri - - - 46-47, 48. 49, 50, 57, 61, 293-294
Bloic, blow thou Winter Wind and Tennyson's Mariana. See
Cross-Correspondence.
Boast, Captain S. T. 143-144
Body and Mind, Transmission theory of the relation between 188-189
Briscoe, A. E., Evidence contributed by - - - - - 141
Browning. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references ; also
Scripts : Literary references.
Burne-Jones. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references.
Butcher, Professor S. H.. Communications purporting to come
from. See " The Ear of Dionysius."
Byron. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Chenoweth, Mrs.. Sittings with '"Doris Fischer *"
- 398, 400-403
Cheves, Captain -------- 133-134
Cheves, Mrs. 133, 134, 137, 139, 140
Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology, Review of - - - 191
Communication from the Dead 173-174, 404-409
Evidence for - 173-174
,, Untrustworthy nature of Communica-
tions 408-409
See also Survival.
Communicators
—
Butcher, Professor S. H. See The Ear of Dionysius.
Lodge. Raymond. 122-123, 126-127, 129, 130-132, 133, 134-136, 147
LXXIV.] Index to Vol. XXIX. 455
Communicators
—
Myers, F. W. H. 112-113, 121-123, 130, 149, 161, 173
Verrall, Dr. A. W. See The Ear of Dionysius.
Congreve. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references.
Consciousness, The Fringe of, by Professor Gilbert Murray - -46
Consciousness, Theories of - - 189-190
Constantine's Monogram. See Cross-Correspondence.
Controls
—
"Mrs. A." 's - - 126-128,134-136,146-147
Cagliostro --------- 402, 403
Guyon, Madame - 117-118, 124, 157, 161-162
Hodgson, Richard - .... 122-123
Imperator Band - ... 402
James, William --------- 402
Pelham, George -------- 250, 253
Phinuit ----- 250
Rector ... - 120-121, 123-124, 157, 158, 160-162
Sidgwick, Henry - - - 254, 256
"Mr. Z.'s" 128-129,130-132,133
See also the Gurney, Hodgson, and Myers Controls.
Cosmic Relations, On the, by Henry Holt, Review of - - 177
Creation, Days of. See Cross-Correspondence.
Cresswell, Alfred, Evidence contributed by - - - 142
Cross -Correspondence : Acis and Galatea - - 219, 239-243
,, ,, Blow, blow thou Winter Wind and Tenny-
son's Mariana - - - - 26-28
Baal, Temple of - - -312,315-317,318
,, Constantine's Monogram - - 328-335
,, Days of Creation ----- 12-19
,, Dido and Sichaeus ----- 30-38
Euripides, reference - 199, 203-204
,, Exile and Moore, reference - 2
,, Festina Lente -----5-8, 27
Ivory ... - 318, 320, 321-322
,, Joy and Troy, reference - - - - 2
,, Laurel Wreath, reference - 2
,, Lead, kindly Light - - - - 336-343
,, Light dispersing Darkness and Truth 328-335
,, Mariana and Stars when they sang together 22-26
„ ,, and Blow, blow thou Winter Wind 26-28
,, Moonlight (Pseudo-script), reference - 261
,, Music hath Charms - 8-11
Narthex - - 20-22
,, Neptune and Trident, reference - - 2
,, Panopticon - - - - 173 (footnote)
Pine Trees ------ 38-44
456 Index to Vol. XXIX. [parts lxxii.-
Cross-Correspondences: Sesame and Lilies, reference
,, Sichaeus and Dido -
Sintram and friendly Death
,, Song in a strange land
Sphere-Spear -
2
- 30-38
323-328
328-335
173 (footnote)
,, Stars when they sang together and Tenny-
son's Mariana - 22-26
,, Swifter far than Summer's flight - - 29-30
Temple of Baal - 311-318
,, Temptation in the Wilderness - - 336-343
Trance -like sleep - - - - 318-322
,, Triangle within a Circle, reference - - 2
Troy and Joy, reference - 2
,, Truth and Light disjiersing Darkness 328-335
Venice - - - - 336-343
Voyage of discovery - - 311-318
,, Walking in Darkness - - - 11-12
Willing Slave, A .... 311-318
Cross-Correspondences, General references 1-45, 172-173, 219, 239-243,
254-257, 260-261, 306-349
,, ,, Nature of 254-255
Cross-Correspondences : Script references and reminiscences
—
Anon., Says Tweed, to Till - 6-7
Arnold, Morality 346
,, Requiescat - . - - 347
Browning, Abt Vogler - - 22, 312, 320
Flight of the Duchess -
41, 42-43, 330
,. La Saisiaz - 44
,, Love among the Ruins 347
,, Numpholeptos 20
,, Paracelsus - 312
„ Pippa Passes 319
Burne-Jones, Angels of Creation - - 15, 16
Byron, Destruction, of Sennacherib 315, 316-317
,, She icalks in Reaxdy 11
Congreve, Mourning Bride - 8
De la Mare, W., Poems - 32-33, 321
Fouque, Baron de la Motte, Sintram und seine Gefdhrten 325-326
Gray, The Bard - 330
Homer, Iliad 330
Odyssey - - - - - 312, 314
Hood, I remember "44
Horace, Odes - 15, 16-17, 18, 345, 346
Keats, On first looking into Chapman's Homer - ' - - 312
,, Ode on Melancholy - 319, 320
Longfellow, I stood on the bridge - 338, 339
LXXIV.] Index to Vol. XXIX. 457
Cross-Correspondences : Script references and reminiscences
—
Lucretius 12 (footnote)
Macaulay, Battle of Lake the Regillus ----- 347
,, Horatius -------- 345
,, Lays of Ancient Rome - 330
Milton, At a solemn Musick .... 320
„ L'AUegro - - - 346
Myers, Immortality - ... . 23-24
„ Venice - - - - - 338, 340, 341-342
Ovid, Fasti 44
Rossetti, Blessed Damozel - 13, 22, 23, 24-26, 30, 345
,, Love's Nocturne - - - - - - - 315
Rossetti, Christina, New Jerusalem ----- 347
Ruskin, Modem Painters - - - - 39-41, 42, 43, 44
Schubert, Litanei -------- 320
Scriptures : Old Testament, 12-16. 18-19, 22, 23, 25, 30, 315, 320,
329, 330, 331, 335, 338, 339, 347, 348
New Testament, 315, 316, 322, 330, 336, 337, 342, 348
Shakespeare, .4s You Like It - - - 26-27, 28
Hamlet - - - - - 329
Macbeth - - 322, 345
„ Merchant of Venice - - - 346, 348
,, Orpheus with his lute ----- 8
Shelley, Hymn to Pan ------- 349
Ode to the West Wind ... - 346
,, Remembrance ....... 29. 30
Stevenson, R. L.. Song of the Road ----- 330
Swinburne, Garden of Proserpine - 320, 348
Watch in the Night 338, 339
Tennyson, The Brook 349
,, Crossing the Bar ...... 320
,, Idylls of the King ...... 346
,, In Memoriam ------ 315, 348
Mariana 13, 22, 24, 26, 27, 28
,, Oenone ........ 44
,, Princess -------- 346
,, Ulysses ........ 312
See also Script : Literary references.
Turner's pictures -------- 44
Virgil, Aeneid ------- 30, 31-37, 347
Georgics - - 312, 346, 347
Watts, Hymns - - - 329
Wordsworth, Picture of Peele Castle - 338, 340 (and footnote), 347
,, Sonnet on Westminster Bridge - - - 338, 339
,, Tinlern Abbey - - 345
Cyclops. See Philoxenus.
458 Index to Vol. XXIX. [parts lxxii.-
Dante on the Baptism of Statius - - 229, 230 (footnote)
Days of Creation. See Cross -Correspondence.
De la Mare, W. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Dekker's Patient Grissel. See Scripts : Literary references.
Deucalion and Pyrrha - - - - - - - -17-18
Dido and Sichaeus. See Cross-Correspondence.
Dionysius. The Ear of 197-243, 254, 256, 260-286
Dissociation, Mental. See Personality.
Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality - - - 386-403
Dream-personalities, On the Identification of 288, 293
Dream psychology ----- 54-55, 56-57, 192-195
,, ,, Identification of dream-personalities - 288, 293
,, Interpretation of dreams - - - 192-195
Symbolism - - 193-195
Theories - 181, 183, 192-195
Dreams - 54, 56-57, 179-180, 323, 352, 358-359, 369 (footnote), 371
Ear, The, of Dionysius - 197-243,254,256,260-286
" Esmond, Captain L. T.", Cases confirmed by - 353, 356-357
Euripides. See Cross-Correspondence.
Exile and Moore. See Cross-Correspondence.
Fatjnus incident - 111-132,148-149,151,156-159,160,162,164
Festina Lentc. See Cross-Correspondence.
Forbes, Mrs., Automatic writing of 252, 257
Foundations of Normal and Abnormal Psychology, Review of - 186
Fouque, Baron de la Motte. See Cross-Correspondences : Script
references.
Freud, Theories ------- 191-195
Dreams - - 192-194
Galatea, Acis and. See Acis and Galatea.
Gale and Polden - - - - - - 139, 143, 144
Gallic Type, Cross-Correspondences of a - 1
Geley, Dr. Gustav, Contribution a Vetude des Correspondances
croisees - - - - - - - - - -1-3
Gray. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Greek Melic Poets - - - 224-225, 226, 234, 262, 264, 265, 277
Group Photograph Incident - - 132-148, 253, 260, 406
" Guessing,'" A Series of Experiments in ... - -64-110
Gurney-Control ---------- 255
See also The Ear of Dionysius.
" Hanna," Rev. T. C, Case of, reference to 388, 396 (footnote), 397
Harrison, Miss Jane, In Memoriam—Mrs. A. IF. Verrall - - 376
lxxiv.] Index to Vol, XXIX. 459
Hill, J. Arthur, 111, 124, 130, 133, 137, 141, 142, 148-150, 151, 153-156,
157, 161, 164, 167
Faunus Incident - - - - 157-158, 164
Horace and O. L. Incident - 148-151,153-155,160-161
Sittings with " Mr. Z." - - - 148-149, 160, 161
,, Note on the allusion to Horace, Sat. ii. 6,
by J. G. Piddington - - - 160
Hodgson, Richard, On Mrs. Piper's trance communications 249-251
Hodgson-Control (through Mrs. Piper) - 111-113, 121-123
" Holland, Mrs.," The automatic scripts of 5-8, 18, 43, 44, 202-204, 256
Holt, Henry, On the Cosmic Relations. Review ... - I77
Homer. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Homer's Odyssey. See Scripts : Literary references.
Hood. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Horace. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references ; and
Scripts : Literary references.
Horace Ode Question - - - - - • - - - 167
" Horace and O. L." Episode - - 148-156, 160-169
Horace's Sabine Farm - - - - - - - 151, 165
Horace, Sat. ii. 6. See " Horace and O. L." Episode.
,, ,, Note on the allusion to - - - - 160
Hyperesthesia, Impressions - - ... 51
Sight 172
Sound - 50-51, 52, 67-68, 71-75, 77, 78-79, 80, 393
Hypnotism, Experiments in thought-transference - - 306-307
,, Self-induced, Experiments in thought-transference 307-349
Hyslop, Dr. J. H., The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality,
Review of --------- 386
Identification of dream personalities, On the - - - 288, 293
Identity, Personal, Difficulty of proving - 288-290
In Memoriam—Mrs. A. W. Verrall - - - - - 376
Ivory. See Cross-Correspondence.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., Presidential Address 287
James, William 49, 188, 189-190, 249, 293
Johnson, Miss Alice, References to, regarding Automatic
Scripts 235, 255, 256, 261, 279
Joy and Troy. See Cross-Correspondence.
Jung, C. G., M.D., Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology,
Review of - ... 191
,, Dreams, Psychology of ----- - 192-195
Keats. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references.
Kennedy, Mrs. 124, 125, 126, 128, 129, 133
2g
460 Index to Vol. XXIX. [parts lxxii.-
" King," Mrs., The automatic scripts of, 4, 5-7, 15-17, 18-19, 42, 219,
239-243, 257, 275
,, ,, ,, Cross-Correspondences
—
H. V. script - - - 5-8, 12-19
„ M. V. „ - - - 5-8, 12-19
„ Willett „ - 19, 219, 239-243, 275
" Knox, R. E.", Evidence contributed by - - - 352, 353, 361
Laurel Wreath. See Cross-Correspondence.
Lead, kindly Light. See Cross-Correspondence.
Leaf, Dr. Walter, Sittings with Mrs. Piper 249
Lethe Case, Reference to - - - - - - - - 174
Light dispersing Darkness. See Cross-Correspondence.
Lodge, Lady, The Group Photograph Incident - - - - 141
„ Sittings with " Mrs. A." - - - 125,126,129
„ "Mr. Z." - - - 128-129, 133
Lodge, Oliver W. F., " Town and Country Mouse " fable - 152-153
See also " Horace and O. L." Episode.
Lodge, Sir Oliver
—
Raymond, Review of ------- 404
Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival - - - 111
Sittings with "Mrs. A." - 126-128, 129, 134-136, 160
„ "Mr. Z." .... 130-132
Sittings with Mrs. Willett - - 198-199, 205 (footnote)
Survival, The, of Man - - - 405-406
Willett Script ----- - - - 235
Lodge, Raymond. See " Recent Evidence about Prevision and
Survival."
Lodge, Rosalynde, Evidence contributed by 142
Long, Dr. Constance E., Translation of Jung's Collected Papers on
Analytical Psychology, Review of - - - - - 191
Mac Script, reference to 18, 26. 44, 174, 256
Macaulay. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Mariana. See Cross-Correspondence.
Maxwell, Dr. J., On Cross-Correspondences .... 3
Mediums, Professional, Unreliability of communications through 408-409
Members and Associates, List of - - 411
Milton. See Cross Correspondences : Script references.
Mind and Body, Transmission theory of the relation between 188-189
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., Review of Jung's Collected Papers on
Analytical Psychology -------- 191
Moonlight, Pseudo-Script Cross-Correspondence - 261
Multiple Personality. See Personality.
Murray, Miss Agnes, Experiments in thought-transference
89, 100, 101, 102, 102-3, 105-6, 106
LXXIY.] Index to Vol. XXTX. 461
Murray, Professor Gilbert
—
Presidential Address -------- 46
Thought-transference, Experiments in - - 58-61, 64-110
Murray, Lady Mary, Experiments in thought-transference
79, 80, 82, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 101
Music hath Charms. See Cross -Correspondence.
Myers, F. W. H.
—
Human Personality, Influence on the automatists - 174, 256
Script references to and reminiscences of the writings of.
See Cross-Correspondences : Script references ; and
Scripts : Literary references.
Survival, On the evidence for ----- 251-253
Trance -phenomena of Mrs. Thompson - - 251-252
Myers-Control, The
—
(through Mrs. Piper). See Faunus Incident ;
" Horace and
O. L." Episode ; and Cross -Correspondences,
(through " Mr. Z.") - 148
Narthex. See Cross-Correspondence.
Neptune and Trident. See Cross-Correspondence.
Newbold, Professor W. Romaine, Mrs. Piper's trance-phenomena 251
,, ,, ,, Review of Henry Holt's On the
Cosmic Relations - - 177
Obituary Notices : Mrs. A. W. Verrall - - - 170, 376
" One Horse Dawn " Experiment, reference to - - - - 267
See also Scripts : Literary references.
Ovid. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references ; and
Scripts : Literary references.
Panopticon. See Cross-Correspondence.
Pelham, George, Characterization of - - - - 184 (footnote)
" G. P." Control - 184, 185, 250
Personal Identity, Difficulty of proving - 288-290
Personality, Problems of
—
Dissociation ... .... 386-403
,, Curative influence - - - - - 395-396
Multiple ----- - 187, 189-190, 386-403
The Doris Fischer Case ------ 386
Automatic Writing - 399-400
,, ,, ,, Clairvoyance - - - 399
,, ,, ,, Compared with earlier cases 395-397
,, ,, ,, Hallucinations - - - 399
,, ,. ,, Psychological interest. On
the 394-398
462 Index to Vol. XXIX. [parts lxxil-
Personality, Problems of
—
Multiple
—
,, The Doris Fischer Case, Supernormal side 397, 398-403
Telepathy - - - 398-399
Secondary personalities 395-397
Philoxenus {The Ear of Dionysius) 222-226, 232, 262, 263, 264-266, 276-
277
Cyclops, 202 (footnote), 221 (footnote), 222 (footnote),
223- 226, 232, 238
Script references to - - 215-218, 219, 220-222
Photograph (Group) Incident ... - 132-148, 253, 260, 406
Piddington, J. G.
—
Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type - - - - - 1
Euripides : Cross -Correspondence ..... 203
" Faunus and the Poet," Interpretation of - 113-114.151,162
" Horace and O. L." Episode - - - 151,152,158,160-169
Note on the allusion to Horace, Sat. ii. 6 - - - - 160
References to articles by, 203, 254, 315 (footnote), 340, 340-1 (foot-
note)
Pine Trees. See Cross-Correspondence.
Piper, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of, 111-113, 117-118, 119, 120-124,
156-159, 160-162, 163, 165, 173, 178, 183, 184-185, 186, 249-251,
253, 257, 258
Polyphemus and Ulysses (The Ear of Dionysius), 213, 215, 220 (footnote),
224- 225, 228, 233
Script references, 206-209, 214, 216, 219- 220
Posthumous-letter experiments, failure of and evidential weakness
in 253-254
Pownall, Mrs. G. H., Telepathic and Premonitory Experiences 350-375
Premonition and Telepathy, Some Recent Cases of - - 350
Premonitions
—
Dreams .... ..... 352
Impressions - - 353, 354-365, 373-375
Presidential Addresses-
Jacks, Dr. L. P. - 287
Murray, Professor Gilbert ------- 46
Prevision and Survival, Recent Evidence about, by Sir Oliver Lodge 111
Prince, Dr. Morton 395 (footnote)
Prince, Walter Franklin, Ph.D., The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple
Personality, Review of ....... 386
Pseudo-Scripts, Experiments in - .... 290-261
Psycho-Analysis, Vienna and Zurich Schools contrasted - 191-195
Psychology of Automatic Writing ...... 173
„ Dreams - - - - 54-55, 56-57, 192-195
„ Telepathy - 173
Psychology, Analytical, Collected Papers on, Review of - - 191
LXXIV.] Index to Vol. XXIX. 463
Psychology, Normal and Abnormal, The Foundations of, by Boris
Sidis, Review of - - - - - - - - - 186
Pyrrha and Deucalion ------ - - 17-18
Rawson, Miss, Cross -Correspondence through - - - - 254
Raymond, or Life and Death, by Sir Oliver Lodge - - 260
Review of - - - 404
Reinold, Commander B. E., R.N., Case confirmed by 364-365
Reviews—
Henry Holt's On the Cosmic Relations - - - - 177
Jung's Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology - - - 191
Sir Oliver Lodge's Raymond .... - 404
Dr. Walter Prince's and Professor Hyslop's Report on the
Doris Fischer Case ------- 386
Dr. Sidis's The Foundations of Normal and Abnormal
Psychology - - -" - - - - - - 186
Robbins, Miss, Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - -111-113,121-123
Rossetti. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references.
Ruskin. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Salteb, Mbs. W. H. - - 5 (footnote), 171, 173, 256, 277, 306
,, ,, Automatic Writing - 307-349
„ ,, Cross-Correspondences (with Mrs. Wilson) 311-349
,, Experiments in Thought-transference 306-307
,, ,, Some Experiments with a New Automatist - 306
See also Verrall, Miss H. de G.
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S.—
Review of The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality - 386
,, Boris Sidis's The Foundations of Normal and
Abnormal Psychology - - - - 186
Schubert. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references.
Scott, Dr. Gilbert, Assistance in experiments ... - 306
Scripts, Automatic
—
Literary knowledge beyond the scope of the automatist's
mind - - 218, 222 (footnote), 227-229, 232-235, 255-256
Memory ---------- 273
„ Lapse of - - - 262-263, 272-275
Scripts, Literary references and reminiscences
—
Aristophanes, Plutus - - - 221 (footnote), 222 (footnote)
Aristotle, Poetics - - 216, 217, 218, 219, 221, 233, 238, 242
Arnold, Forsaken Merman - - 240
Browning, Aristophanes'
1
Apology or The Last Adventure of
Balaustion 203, 204, 207, 210
Dekker, Patient Grissel - - - - - - - 217
Handel, Acts and Galatea - - - 240, 241, 242, 243
464 Index to Vol. XXIX. [parts lxxil-
Scripts, Literary references and reminiscences
—
Homer, Odyssey (Polyphemus and Ulysses) - 206-209, 214. 216,
219, 220
Horace. >SeeFaunus Incident; and "Horace and O.L."' Episode.
Myers, F. W. H., St. Paul - - 403
One-Horse-Dawn Experiment - - - 199, 201, 279
Ovid, Metamorphoses (Acis and Galatea) 206-209, 213, 215-217, 219
Scriptures: New Testament - 241-242
Tennyson, Tears, idle tears ..... 199, 201
Ulysses 199, 202, 208
Theocritus- - - - - - 201-202 (footnote)
See also Cross-Correspondences.
Scriptures. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references ; and
Scripts : Literary references.
Sealed Letter, F. W. H. Myers' (posthumous) ... - 254
J. G. Piddington's 267, 279
Sense-impressions, Subconscious ..... 47, 48-63
Sesame and Lilies. See Cross-Correspondence.
Shakespeare. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Shelley. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references.
Sichaeus and Dido. See Cross-Correspondence.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
On the Development of the different Types of Evidence for
Survival in the Work of the Society .... 245
Review of Sir Oliver Lodge's Raymond .... 404
Sidis, Dr. Boris, The Foundations of Normal and Abnormal
Psychology, Review of - - - - - - - 186
Sinclair, Miss May, On sub-conscious dramatization in automatic
writing and dreams ------ 266 (footnote)
" Sintram and His Companions ------ 326-328
Sintram and friendly Death. See Cross-Correspondence.
Smyth, Dr. Herbert Weir, Greek Melic Poets, 224-225, 226, 234, 262,
264, 265, 277
Society for Psychical Research : The Development of different
types of evidence for survival ------ 245
Song in a strange land. See Cross -Correspondence.
Sphere-Spear. See Cross-Corresj)ondence.
Stars when they sang together. See Cross-Correspondence.
Statius Case, The - - 174, 229-231, 281
„ Comparison of, with the Dionysius Case, 230-231, 281, 283,
285-286
Criticisms of, A reply .... 230 (footnote)
Stawell, Miss F. Melian
—
The Ear of Dionysius : A Discussion of the Evidence - - 260
A reply, by the Rt.
Hon. G. W. Balfour 270
LXXIV.] Index to Vol. XXIX. 465
Subliminal Consciousness, On the working of the - - 246-249
Subliminal Self, As the Agent in communications purporting to
come from the dead ----- 264-268, 275-285
Survival, Evidence for
—
Balfour, The Rt. Hon. G. W. - - 197, 270
Classification - - 245
Development of the different types - - - 245
Dionysius, The Ear of - 197, 260, 270
Literature, 246, 249-251, 252-253, 254-255, 256, 404, 405, 406 (foot-
note)
Lodge, Sir Oliver - - - - - -111,404
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry - 245, 404
Stawell, Miss F. Melian - 260
Types - - 253, 254
Survival, On the Development of the different Types of Evidence for,
in the Work of the Society ------- 245
Survival, Personal, Some Recent Scripts affording evidence of,
reference to ----- - - 229-231
Survival, Recent Evidence about Prevision and - - - - 111
Survival, The Theory of, in the Light of its Context - - 287
Swifter far than Summer's flight. See Cross -Correspondence.
Swinburne. See Cross-Correspondence : Script references.
Telepathy, 46, 61, 62, 83-85, 173, 246-249, 252, 253, 258, 279-280, 402,
406, 407
,, Cases of
—
Experimental 48, 58, 59-61, 64-110, 171, 172, 306-307
Spontaneous - 171, 365-368, 398-399
,, Dreams - 358-359
Temple of Baal. See Cross-Correspondence.
Temptation in the Wilderness. See Cross-Correspondence.
Tennyson. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references ; also
Script references.
Test Questions, On - - 268-269, 270
Theocritus. See Script references.
Thompson, Mrs., Trance Phenomena of - 163, 251-252, 254. 257
" Town and Country Mouse." See " Horace and O. L." Episode.
Toynbee, Mrs. Arnold. See " A Series of Experiments in Guessing."
Trance-like Sleep. See Cross-Correspondence.
Triangle within a Circle. See Cross-Correspondence.
Troy and Joy. See Cross-Correspondence.
Turner's Pictures. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Ulysses and Polyphemus. See Polyphemus.
Unconscious, Dreams the interpretation of the - - - 192-195
Unconscious leakage of ideas - - 266-268, 271, 275-276, 278-284
466 Index to Vol. XXIX. [pakts lxxil-
Venntjm, Ltjbrancy, Case of, reference to .... 397
Verrall, Dr. A. W., Communications purporting to come from.
See The Ear of Dionysius ; also " The
Statius Case."
„ " Dante on the Baptism of Statius
"
229, 230 (footnote)
,, One-Horse-Dawn Experiment, Script allusion
to - - - - - - - 199, 201
Verrall, Mrs. A. W.
—
Automatic Scripts, 6, 7, 8-15, 16 (footnote), 18-19, 20-22, 26, 30-31,.
34, 35-36, 37-38, 43, 44, 172-175, 246, 256, 281
,, ,, Cross-Correspondences
—
H. V. Script - - - 5-19, 26-38
King „---.- 5-8, 12-19
Willett „ - - - - 19, 30-36.
Experiments, early ------- 171-172
Faunus Message, On the Poet and - 113, 114
Horace Ode Question - - - - - - - - 167
Obituary Notices - 170, 376
On a Series of Automatic Writings, reference to - 173-174, 246
Report on a Series of Experiments in " Guessing " - - 64
Sittings with Mrs. Willett - - 197, 205 (footnote), 220-222
Subconscious agency of, in Willett script, suggested, 264-268, 275-285
Willett script, On the - 199-200, 202, 204, 235
Verrall, Miss H. de G. (Mrs. W. H. Salter)—
Automatic writing (H.V. Script), 5-7, 8-15, 18-19, 20-30, 32-44, 173,
256, 307-308, 312,315,318, 319-320, 322, 325-
326, 330-331, 334, 337, 338, 341, 343, 345-349
,, ,, Cross -Correspondences
—
King script - 5-8,12-19
M. V. „ ... - 5-19, 26-38
Willett „ 19, 20-26, 29-30, 35-36, 39-44
Wilson records - - 311-349
Venice. See Cross-Correspondence.
Vienna School. See Psycho-Analysis.
Virgil. See Cross-Correspondences : Script references.
Vision of Professor Butcher 211, 220
Visualization, Automatic ------- 308-345
Voyage of Discovery. See Cross-Correspondence.
Walking in Darkness. See Cross-Correspondence.
White, Mrs. Grenfell, Case contributed by - ... 359
White, W. Grenfell, Case confirmed by ... 359
"Willett," Mrs., The automatic scripts of. 18-19, 22, 23-25, 29-30, 35,
36, 39, 40, 42, 43, 44, 173, 174, 197-243, 256-257, 260-286
LXXIV.] Index to Vol. XXIX.
" Willett," Mrs., The automatic scripts of, Conditions in which they
are produced - 205-206, 227
,, ,, ,, Cross-Correspondences
—
H. V. script, 19, 20-26, 29-30, 35-36,
39-44
King „ 19, 219, 239-243, 275
M. V. „ - - 19, 30-36
,, „ „ ,, Knowledge, Normal, of the Auto-
matist, 200, 201, 203-204, 205, 206,
212, 218, 222 (footnote), 225 (foot-
note), 227-229, 232-235, 237
„ Statius Case - - - 229-231
,, „ Vision of Professor Butcher - - - 211, 220
Willing Slave. See Cross-Correspondence.
Wilson, Mrs. Stuart, Automatic visualization and audition. See
Some Experiments with a New Automatist.
Wordsworth. See Cross -Correspondences : Script references.
X., Felida, Case of, reference to - - - 395
"Z.'\ Mr., Sittings with, 128-129, 130-132, 133, 138, 144, 145, 148-149,
160-169
Z., Alma, Case of, reference to - - - - - - 395, 397
Zurich School. See Psycho-Analysis.
GLASGOW : PRINTED AT THE^UNIVERSITY PRESS BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
Part LXXII. Vol. XXIX. November, 1916. Price 4s. net.
CONTENTS.
PAGE
I. Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. By J. G. Piddington, . 1
II. Presidential Address. By Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D., . . . . . . . .46
III. Report on a Series of Experiments in "Guessing." By Mrs.
A. W. Verrall, ...... 64
IV. Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. By Sir Oliver
Lodge, F.R.S., ....... Ill
V. Obituary Notice: Mrs. A. W. Verrall, . . .. .170
Supplement : Reviews :
Mr. Henry Holt's "On the Cosmic Relations." By Professor
W. R. Newbold, . . . . . 177
Professor Boris Sidis's " The Foundations of Normal and
Abnormal Psychology." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . 186
Professor Jung's " Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology "
(translated by Dr. Constance Long). By T. W. Mitchell,
fiil|k",.M'.i).,
'
'
;
v.; ;
191
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & 'COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON!: FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Harylebone, W.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street.
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1916.
PRESIDENT.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D.
VICE-PRESIDENTS,
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd
Carpenter, D.D.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. •
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.i
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Bverard Feilding.
Professor L. P. Jacks, D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.B.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
COUNCIL.
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
A. F. Shand.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
Mrs. A. W. Verrall..
V.J. Woolley, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - - - - - 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S., - - -. - - 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, 1888-1892.
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, ------- 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., - - - - - - 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, - - - - - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., ------- 1901-1903.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - 1905.
The Right Hon Gerald W. Balfour, ... 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - 1908-1909.
H. Arthur Smith, - ... 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., - - - - - - - - 1911.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson, 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, - 1914.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to oin the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W., are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LXVIII.-LXXI.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LXVIII. —January, 1914. Price 4s. net. pagb
I. A Reconstruction of some ." Concordant Automatisms." By Alice
Johnson.
Synopsis, . . . . . . 1
Introduction, . . . . •. . . .4
Chapter I. Cross-Correspondence: "Ave Roma immortalis," . 11
,, II. The Theory of Cross-Correspondences and the
Latin Message, . . . . .24
,, III. Cross-Correspondence: " Hope, Star and Browning," 28
,, IV. Cross-Correspondence: "Alexander's Tomb," . 50
,, V. The avros oupavbs clkv/xuv Incident, . . .77
,, VI. Cross-Correspondence: "The Clavigers," . . 127
,, VII. Some General Conclusions, . . . . 143
List of Illustrations, . . . . . ... 156
II. Presidential Address. By Professor Henri Bergson. Trans-
lated by H. Wildon Carrr D.LUt., . . . .157
Supplement :
Review : Mr. Hereward Carrington's "Personal Experiences in
Spiritualism." By Count Pkrovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, . 176
Thought- Transference, —Experimental. By John E. CoovER,Ph.D., 186
Part LXIX.—July, 1914. . Price 4s. net.
I. Philosophy, Science, and Psychical Research : A Presidential
Address. By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . . 191
II. Some Recent Scripts affording Evidence of Personal Survival.
By The Right Hon. Gerald W. Balfour, . . . 221
III. Note on the Same Scripts. By the Rnv. M. A. Bayfield, . 244
IV. A Further Study of the Mac Scripts. By Helen de G. Verrall, 250
V. Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Clarissa Miles and
Hermione Ramsden, ...... 279
VI. To Clear the Air. By the Rev. M. A. Bayfield, . . 318
VII. The History of Marthe Beraud. By Helen de G. Verrall, . 333
Special Medical Supplement.
VIII. Recent Experience in Hypnotic Practice. By Sidney Wilkin-
son, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., . ; . . . .370
IX. Some Auto-Suggested Visions as Illustrating Dream-Formation.
By V. J. Woolley, M.D., . . . . 390
X. Pseudo-Physical Phenomena in the Case of Mr. Grvinbaum. By
Alice Johnson, ....... 400
Mevicw: Professor S. Freud's " Psychopathology of Everyday Life"
(Translated by Dr. A. A. Brill). By Constance E. Long, M.D., 411
Part LXX.—May, 1915. Price 3s. net.
I. Some Recent Experiments in Thought-Transference. By Helen
de G. Verrall, . . . . . . 415
II. A Discussion of the Willett Scripts :
I. By Hereward Carrington, . . . .458
II. By Ivor Lloyd Tuckett, M.D., .... 466
III. By The Rev. M. A. Bayfield, .... 474
Proceedings of the Society.
—
Continued.
Part LXX.
Review :
Dr
-Continued.
Morton Prince's "The Unconscious: The Fundamentals
of Human Personality, Normal and Abnormal." By F. C. S
Schiller, D.Sc,
Officers and Council for 1915,
List of Members and Associates
Index to Vol. XXVII.,
Part LXXI. —December, 1915. Price 6s. net.
A Contribution to the Study of the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance
Phenomena. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick :
492
507
508
548
Preface, 1
List of Papers concerning Mrs. Piper, previously published, ii
Synopsis of Contents, ......
Chapter I. Introductory, ...... j.
„ n: Theories of Controls as to their Relation to the
Medium, . 29
„ ni. Individual Controls, . . . 75
„ iv. Language of Controls, and their Common Memories
and Associations of Ideas, 130
„ v. Communicators, ..... 159
„ VI. The Waking-Stage, . . . . . 205
„ VII. Relation of the States of Consciousness to each other, 258
„ VIII. Effect of Sitters and of so-called "Influences," . 294
„ ix. Conclusion, . . . . - . . 315
Appendix to Chapter I. Some Prophecies, . 332
,, II. Theories of Controls, 335
)) ,, III. Specimens of Individual Controls, 437
* j ,, IV. Speaking by Thought, 518
y ) ,, V. Communicators, 520
} )
)
»
,, VI. Examples of Waking-Stages,
,, VII. Relations between the States of
549
Consciousness, . . 614
)
)
,, VIII. Sitters and "Influences," . 619
Vol. XXVIII., . . .
• . 653
Bound Copies of Volumes I.-XXVIII. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
(Parts i. -iv.) pp. 336. 5s.
v.-vn.) pp. 340. 5s.
Vol. I
II
III
IV
V,
VI
VII
VIII
IX
X
XL
XII.
XIII
XIV.
XV
v.-vii.) pp. 6W. os.
viii. -ix. ) pp. 500. 5s.
x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
,, xii. -xiv. ) pp. 606. 5s.
,, xv. -xvii.) pp. 707. 5s.
,, xvnr.-xx.) pp. 442. 4s.
,, xxi. -xxiii.) pp. 647. 5s.
,, xxiv. -xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
(Part XXVI > rm dfifi *e
(Pts.xxvn.-xxix.)pp. 637. 5s.
( „ xxx.-xxxi.)pp. 391. 4s.
( ,, xxxn. -xxxm.)pp. 653.6s.
(Pts. xxxiv. -xxxv.) pp.436. 5s.
(Pts. xxxvi.-xl.) pp. 522. 6s.
Vol. XVI. (Part XLi.)pp. 650. 6s.
,, XVII.(Parts XLii.-XLv.)pp. 46S.
6s. 3d.
,, XVIII. ( ,, xlvi.-xlix. ) pp. 548. 7s.
„ XIX. (,, L.-Lii.)pp. 508. 6s. 6d.
„ XX. (Part Lin. ) pp. 444. 6s.
„ XXI. (Pts. liv.-lvi.) pp. 584. 6s.
„ XXII. (Part lvii.) pp. 445. 6s.
„ XXIII. (Pts. lviii.-lix. ) pp: 602. 7s.
„ XXIV. ( ,, lx.-lxi.) pp, 758. 7s.
,, XXV. ( ,, Lxn.-LXiv.)pp. 540. 6s.
,, XXVI. ( ,, Lxv.-Lxvn.)pp. 544. 6s.
,,XXVII.( ,,LXvm.-LXX.)pp.562. 6s.
,,XXVIII.(Part Lxxi.)pp.657. 6s.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Private Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
