{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patty_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Patty P NDE 4620","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patty P NDE 4620  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patty P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2337 Patty P NDE 4620  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a passenger in a car when we hit black ice. We were going sixty mph. I remember the feeling of the car spinning and me gasping. The next thing I remember is looking down at me sitting in the driver's seat. I thought 'What am I doing in the driver's seat?' I then noticed I was at the ceiling of the car. There was a golden light all around me. I felt calm. I was in communication with two 'beings' that I couldn't see but felt their presence. They seemed to be part of the golden light that surrounded me. We communicated about something. I'm not sure what the content of the 'conversation' was. I remember feeling that they were telling me something important. 

I don't remember what the message was. The next thing I remember is being worked on by passing emergency medical technicians. I had been there for several hours before help arrived.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  5-28-2000

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   When I was on the ceiling of the car.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was on the ceiling of the car.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were bright and difficult to describe.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I didn't know them. They were just there, calm and loving. They were telling me something. I don't remember what. It seems like the message was that I couldn't stay and that I couldn't come any closer. There weren't any words just thoughts.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calm and blissful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   spiritual

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have always been a spiritual person. Now I meditate and can get close to the feeling I had in the golden light. I am more calm and my faith in a higher power has more clarity.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   spiritual

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have always been a spiritual person. Now I meditate and can get close to the feeling I had in the golden light. I am more calm and my faith in a higher power has more clarity.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     After I was home, I saw two 'ghost like' figures standing next to my bed. They seemed to be giggling. It was so real that the next morning I asked my daughters if they had been in the room. There was a box with a man's face in it that floated next to my bed. It was as if it was in more than three dimensions. The box rotated back and forth. I don't know who the man was. He was just there. After about a month, he was gone. I've seen a spirit walking behind me, reflected in the TV screen.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just being in that peaceful golden light. The strange feeling of seeing myself sitting in the drivers seat.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've shared these experiences with my daughters and boyfriend. I told them soon after the accident. They believe me but it is hard to truly understand the experience. I think that they have stronger belief that there is something more to reality than what we can humanly see.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I have heard stories of people who have had near death experiences. I have read books about it. I don't believe that this exposure had anything to do with my experience.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It seemed real. It happened. I felt the calmness of the experience to this day.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I draw on the experience everyday. I know that there are beings around me all of the time. I had a sense of this before the accident, but now the feeling is more intense.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My hearing has always been acute. Now it is sensitive I can hear abnormally well.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patty_p_nde.html