{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paul_b_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Paul B Probable NDE 4714","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paul B Probable NDE 4714  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paul B Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2385 Paul B Probable NDE 4714  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was a store man at the time, alone working on the office computer at about 2:00 am. I don't know why I started coughing but I did, it quickly became uncontrollable, then after a while I felt my windpipe close, I knew I was in trouble. My initial feeling was to panic, but I reasoned what good would it do? A few seconds later, a work colleague 'Gripper' (nickname) entered the office. Gripper is a huge guy, twenty stones plus and paws like a bear, he starts slapping my back then front and it isn't having any affect, so I grab his arms and turn in towards him, then I fold them and try to get him to hold his thumbs right, all this time I haven't taken a breath. (I found out later that Gripper had never heard of the Heimlich maneuver.) THEN IT HAPPENED.

I slipped out, that is I wasn't connected to my body.  The discomfort in my throat (it was never painful) was gone. My first thought was, that's it I'm dead, only I'm not dead, I feel okay, I can see, I still can't breathe. Just then a voice that seemed to come from my head (it wasn't a voice more like a thought that didn't seem to be mine) said, 'You don't need to breathe, you're body needs to breathe, you don't!' That makes sense I thought. When this event occurred, I was never frightened but I was in a state of shock that I would think would be normal. Then I thought what have I got left, that is I had better try and move something.  Believe me, I hadn't even blinked, maybe it was the shock. I was just figuring out what part of me I should try to move when I was back in my body. All the discomfort returned to my throat and Gripper's arms were squeezing me and then WHOOOOOOOOOSH  - my throat opened and I could breathe. 

I couldn't talk for several minutes, but I could breathe.

At this point I must state, I saw no strange lights, people or tunnels, I was, when the OBE occurred, still in the office, I wouldn't say standing because I couldn't feel any connection with the floor or anything else. Also I wasn't aware what was happening with Gripper and my body - strangely it didn't even occur to me at the time, I kind of accepted and felt comfortable in my new 'state'. I must state also that at no time did I lose consciousness, I felt as 'me' out the body as in. I now realize that my consciousness is me and that when my body dies I don't. I couldn't put a time on how long I was out my body, I don't think, looking back, that it was my time to go.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  approx. 10 years ago

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I suffered a coughing fit which caused my trachea to close.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   The same level from start to finish.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The same level from start to finish.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I cannot say how long I was out, only that it must have been seconds, but it seemed longer.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was in shock to some extent, I was at the time trying to focus on exactly what had become of me. I didn't panic, I wasn't frightened, but I wasn't confident either. It's hard to explain that although I could see. I was staring out the office window, not focusing on anything. My consciousness was about my mind not reacting to what I could see.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I wasn't aware of hearing anything when out of my body, just the voice in my head, which answered two questions, one of which I have forgotten.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, accepting, but shocked.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   spiritualist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal   spiritualist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When you come away from your body it's extremely meaningful.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Close friends and family.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I am a spiritualist. I believed in the survival of the spirit; consciousness - now I know for sure.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Because at no point did my conscious mind change. I was alert throughout, one thing flowed into the other - I did not blackout at any point.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     As above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain   My third eye opened when I experienced a connection with my father (passed on) at a spiritualist meeting. I do not believe I saw with my third eye when I had my NDE, or at least not in the same way.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       A voice in my head has spoken to me once before, to stop an accident from happening - I didn't listen, the accident happened.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       People find it hard to believe until it happens to them. I don't really care if people doubt my sincerity, I am not here to experience other people's events and happenings and they are not here to experience mine. I tell people who express an interest in these matters as I am always willing to listen to their experiences.         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paul_b_probable_nde.html