{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patty_j_nde.html","mytitle":"Patty J NDE 753","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patty J NDE 753  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patty J NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						250  Patty J NDE  753  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I felt innocent like a child does, and had no memory of family or Earth. I saw a light coming towards me from a distance, so small but it was so interesting, for it was the only light there. I felt like I was moving very fast towards it but wasn't afraid. I heard a little buzzing sound and strained to hear what it was - I heard my first name. Then I remembered my mom and fiancée, for he and I were going to Georgia to be married. I knew it would upset my mom that I had went before her and that she needed me. I remember saying, like in my mind, 'I can't go Lord.' Then I heard a strong but gentle voice say, 'Very well,' but it sounded like the voice wished I had decided to go on instead.


Well I felt a thud and that was me hitting my body when I went back in. It is nasty coming back in and I heard a rasping sound and realized it was me trying to breathe, or regain a normal respiration. I felt like a mule had kicked me in the chest. My fiancée was crying and when I spoke to him, he yelled something fierce! He kept repeating, 'You were dead,' over and over.


All in all, I suffered a femur break, requiring traction; a wrist broken in two places and dislocated; a cracked collar bone; and some massive bruising on my chest (my chest was completely black and blue). The doctor said, 'You should be dead,' and up to that point I hadn't remembered any of what went on, but I heard myself say, 'I think I was dead.' My fiancée told me my lips were blue when he woke up and my eyes were open and staring, all the blood had drained from my face and I was under the dash with my head thrown back on the seat. He said I had been like that for about fifteen minutes, as far as he knew. He had banged his head on the steering wheel when we hit the other car. The cops say we were doing forty to fifty miles per hour when we hit him. The car was a loss, it landed with us in it, in a ten feet ditch by a church.


My heart started all on its own after being stopped for so long. Resurrection comes now to my mind. God spared me. Sad thing is - two years later my mom died, but I had many happy days with her and I don't fear death, for I am safe in Jesus. I am different now, as if I'm part here and yet still part there, weird I know but that's how I feel. Thanks for your time, I am glad to have the chance to give credit to the Lord for my deliverance from an early home going - I have two lovely daughters now and am dedicated to my Lord Jesus Christ. 'If a man believeth in me,' Jesus said, 'though he were dead, yet shall he/she live.' Amen.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    April 1980

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death I saw the car we were about to hit.  Everything got warm and comfy and all of the sudden I was in a cool dark place, but very aware, it was about seventy or so degrees it seems.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  Didn't see anybody but I felt like I had movement and limbs.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Was completely aware of my surroundings.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time moves slower there, sometimes when the Lord moves in the spirit realm in our behalf, and sends out the Sons of God (angels) things always slow down. That sounds nuts to a non-Christian but it is true.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Was quiet except for a soft breezy noise - like at the beach when a little ocean air swirls by.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Was in a hallway or long room like area - dark but so much peace - you could feel God's love there.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Heard a voice, felt I was not alone.

The experience included:      Void

The experience included:      Darkness

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   Pinpoint at first but I was moving toward it so fast - funny I get motion sick here but there I felt elated.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew I had been changed somehow and later spiritually, in my faith as a Christian, I began to have visions - they always come true. They are mostly symbolic, but some have been news reports, before they happen. Weeks or days before they happen, I keep a record, draw my visions, and get the paper clippings when they come true.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   Asked to come back.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No     Have always known there was a God and hell and Satan from very young, but had no church back ground.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     Visions have increased, started having them at five years old, but only once in a while. After the wreck much more, but that's God's doing not mine.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Best was the peace and love.  Worst was coming back into this dirt sack of a body!

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Whoever God leads me to.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      Yes, I am not a nut, or a fanatic - I am just relating what I know that I know to be true, there is a heaven and a hell and God is real and so is the Fallen One (Satan) - if that makes me a fanatic then so be it. Nothing shall ever change my mind.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?      Not really, I usually wouldn't submit this to the secular media but time is short and our redemption draws near. God bless you, and if you don't have Jesus as your Lord - I urge you to make him your Lord and king. He is the only way to heaven - thanks again.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patty_j_nde.html