{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V30 1920","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v30_1920.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V30 1920","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXX
(CONTAINING PARTS LXXV, LXXVI, LXXVII, LXXVIII APPENDIX)
192O
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS:
GLASGOW
1920
Agents for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, S3 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW : MACLEHOSE, JACKSON & CO., 61 St. Vincent Street
AMERICA: THE F. W. FAXON CO., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
Digitized by the Internet Archive
in 2015
https://archive.org/details/proceedingsofsoc30soci
CONTENTS.
PART LXXV.
(Special Medical Part).
July, 1918.
I. The Psychoanalytical Use of Subliminal Material. By
Constance E. Long, M.D., 1
II. Dream-Analysis. By Miss Alice Johnson, ... 33
III. Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. By
T. W. Mitchell, M.D., 134
PART LXXVI.
November, 1918.
I. Fresh Light on the " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. By
J. G. PlDDINGTON, 175
II. Evidence of Super-normal Communications through Motor
Automatism. By Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., -
? III. Note on Telepathy and Telergy. By Sir William Barrett,
F.R.S.,
Review :
Mr. John E. Coover's Experiments in Psychical Research,
being the " Leland Stanford Junior University's
Psychical Research Monograph, No. 1." By F. C. S.
Schiller, D.Sc, - - - - - - - 261
PART LXXVII.
July, 1919.
I. Presidential Address. By The Right Hon. Lord Ray-
leigh, O.M., F.R.S., 275
II. Note on Mr. Piddington's Paper called " Fresh Light on
the
1
One-Horse Dawn '
Experiment." By Sir
Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., - 291
III. A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note. By J. G. Piddington, 296
IV. " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." By W. Whately
Smith, .
- 306
V. Report on Dr. Crawford's Medium. By Sir William
Barrett, F.R.S., 334
193918
230
251
iv ... Contents.
.'.
". • J * 1 > t » » ** •*
?e
» J
»
PART LXXVIII.
•Bepembery. 1919'.
On a Series of Sittiiigg with 'Mrs. Osborne Leonard.
By Miss Radclyffe-Hall and (Una) Lady Trotjbbjdge.
I HAT. PAGE
Introduction, -------- 339
I. Description by Feda of Communicator's Personal Appear-
ance as Evidence of Identity, 348
II. Evidence of Memory retained by the Communicator :
§ I. Memory of Riding and M. R. H.'s Horse, - - 361
§ II. Memory of Characteristics of M. R. H., - 365
§ III. Memory of Places where the Communicator and
M.R.H. have been together :
(a) Malvern Wells, 366
(b) Teneriffe, - 39
1
§ IV. Memory of a Motor Accident and of certain
Uncomfortable Physical Symptoms, - - 4 17
§ V. Memory of U. V. T.'s Photographs, - 436
§ VI. Memory of A. V. B.'s Guitar, ... - 438
§ VII. Memory of Words Peculiar to A. V. B., - 444
§ VIII. Memory of M. R. H.'s Method of Composing, 449
§ IX. Memory of Swimming and Bathing, - - - 451
III. Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events :
§ I. Actions and Conversations, ----- 454
§ II. A Flash of Colour, 457
§ III. A Diagram, 457
§ IV. U. V. T.'s House and Circumstances connected
with it, - - 458
§ V. U. V. T.'s Dining-room and the Work done there, 463
§ VI. Daisy's Plans and Movements, - - - - 471
§ VII. Knowledge of Small Incidents connected with
M. R. H. and U. V. T., 473
IV. Personal Touches and the A. V. B. Control, - - - 477
V. Knowledge shown of Matters entirely unknown to the
Sitters :
§ I. Concerning the Dog Billy, ----- 487
§ II. Concerning " Burnham," ----- 506
§ III. Concerning Daisy's Second Father, - - - 521
Appendices, ---------- 547
APPENDIX TO PART LXXVIII.
Officers and Council for 1920, - - - 555
List of Members and Associates, - ... 557
Index to Vol. XXX., - 60L
SPECIAL MEDICAL PART
OF THE
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research.
PART LXXV.
1918.
I.
THE PSYCHOANALYTIC USE OF SUBLIMINAL
MATERIAL.1
By Constance E. Long, MJD.
I have chosen for the subject of my paper the psycho-
analytic use of subliminal material, believing this to be
something of interest to all of us. The S.P.R. has made
intimate studies of various subconscious phenomena, which
I have not as yet foiuid time to follow. I, on the other
hand, have been acquiring a practical knowledge of the
working of the unconscious part of the mind in particular
ways which are probably unfamiliar to many of my
. readers. There should be here a j)romising field for dis-
cussion and I welcome the opportunity now given me of
opening it.
I am using the word " unconscious " in the sense intro-
duced by Freud. In a paper published by this Society he
said, "Let us call 'conscious' the conception which is
J
This paper was read at a General Meeting of the Society on January 31, 1917.
VOL. XXX. A
2 Constance E. Long, M.D. [pabt
present to our consciousness and of which we are aware,
and let this be the only meaning of the word '
conscious '
;
as for latent conceptions, if we have any reason to believe
they exist in the mind—as we have in the case of memory
-
—let them be denoted by the term '
unconscious '."
Freud's "unconscious" corresponds to the "subliminal"
of Myers, viz. " those thoughts and feelings lying beneath
the ordinary threshold of consciousness, as opposed to the
'
supraliminal,' lying above the threshold." Freud dis-
tinguishes between the preconscious and the completely
unconscious layers of the unconscious mind. The contents
of the preconscious have once been conscious and they
can fairly easily become conscious again, if suitable
stimuli occur. The completely unconscious part of the mind
has contents which have never yet reached consciousness
at all. According to Freud, this material remains uncon-
scious because of a powerful unconscious resistance against
its admission into consciousness. It is connected with
infantile wish-tendencies which are incompatible with the
adult thinking or feeling. It is kept unconscious by a
mechanism which he calls " repression." The barrier pro-
duced by repression can only be surmounted with great
difficulty. It may be psychologically " rushed," so to
speak, as in an attack of mania, where the unconscious
material breaks through into consciousness and holds the
field in a disastrous manner ; or it may be systematically
brought up, as in psychoanalysis, by the help of the
consciousness, with an end in view, chiefly that one may
gain control over something which, if neglected, tends to
get the upper hand.
While touching upon the different views of the uncon-
scious mind, I had better just mention Jung's conception
of the personal and impersonal unconscious.1
He recog-
nises in the unconscious mind material which in its origin
is independent of any land of personal experience, but
which is inherited and latent, derived from our remotest
ancestors and common to the human mind and soul, just
as certain histological elements are common to the human
body. This he calls the impersonal or collective uncon-
Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology, 2nd ed.
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 3
scions. It is this impersonal content which makes men so
much more alike in the unconscious than in the conscious.
It is akin to the undifferentiated, mind of the primitive or
of the little child, neither of whom separates subject and
object in thought. From one point of view, the process
of developing individuality consists in finding the poise
between what belongs to the personal and what to the
impersonal or collective thinking and feeling. One has to
develop one's own individual capacities and qualities by
a process of differentiation from those which are a race
inheritance.
The adaptation of the individual to society is a task
for the whole of life, and one which presents special
difficulties to people who deviate from the normal, as do
neurotics. To lead a satisfactory life one must develop
as an individual and also as a member of a group, and
growth in either direction should be complementary, not
antagonistic, to growth in the other direction. In analysis
of the unconscious mmd we soon find how great is the
unconscious conflict between these two sets of claims.
These two lines of cleavage, viz. that between the personal
and impersonal or collective of Jung, and that between
the individual qua individual and qua member of a group,
have a parallel in the cleavage between the conscious self
and the subconscious infantile or primitive tendencies.
But the unconscious mind is not to be regarded as merely
infantile and primitive, except in the sense that the
infantile contains all the possibilities of future develop-
ment. Moral instincts 1
are as much an essential content
of the unconscious mind as are the sexual instincts upon
which Freud has unfortunately laid such undue stress.
Primitive man, whom we all own in our ancestry, made
taboos and imposed barriers upon what he unconsciously
felt to be his more dangerous instincts. This fact is of
great significance and justifies belief in the fundamental
goodness of man in his main development.
To turn from the origin of subconscious phenomena to
their actual characteristics. It is clear that the unconscious
1
Trotter calls these " gregarious instincts." See Herd Instinct in Peace
and War.
4 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
mind expresses itself in curiously veiled symbols. Freud
attributes this veiling mainly to the activity of a
hypothetical " censor," who cannot allow a more direct
expression of unconscious infantile wishes, because they
are distasteful and unwelcome to the conscious personality.
Jung gives little credit to the censor and sees in the
veiled symbolism the primitive human mode of thinking,
of which the dream is a survival, and which is shown also
in the construction of myths and in folk-lore. This
difference in emphasis between Jung and Freud leads to
widely different results. The Freudian interpretation of
symbols becomes monotonous and stultifying. The other
interpretation reveals a richness in the content of dreams
which is fully in accordance with the creative and evolu-
tional character of the human mind.
Let me now turn to psychoanalysis. Psychoanalysis is
a technique for discovering and analysing the contents of
the unconscious mind. It is a therapy, specially beneficial
in illnesses caused by disturbances in the unconscious
region of the mind, functional diseases, such as hysteria,
and other psychoneuroses. It may be regarded histori-
cally as an offspring of hypnotism, as chemistry is an
offspring of alchemy. In each case the offspring differs
widely from the parent. In hypnotism unconscious mental
processes are covered up from the patient ; in analysis
they are laid bare. The history of hypnotism is too well
known to need comment here, save to say that most
psychoanalysts of repute have hitherto come to the newer
therapy via the old. Psychoanalysis owes a debt to
hypnotism and to those pioneers who initiated the use of
a psychic remedy for psychic diseases.
Hysteria and hypnotism show us the mind in dissection
or dissociation. Analysis deliberately seeks to analyse the
mind, even the morbid and distraught mind, into its
elements. It makes the subconscious contents conscious
with an aim in view. This naturally has a somewhat
disturbing effect on the individual, for it involves a kind
of operation on the mind. But as with surgical operations,
its aim is not only to disturb and dissect, but to resect
and heal, leaving the condition healthy, with the function
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 5
restored. The physical healing and renewal correspond to
the synthetic or reconstructive side of analysis.
In hypnosis an apparent synthesis is obtained. This
acts effectively for a time, and may suffice for life. There
is, however, considerable risk that under a severe accidental
emotional strain fresh dissociation will occur. The process
of synthesis in hypnotism is not a conscious one. It is
inexplicable to the patient, who accepts it gratefully as
something akin to the miraculous. In psychoanalysis the
cause of the dissociation and the means of the synthesis
are made apparent to the patient. The resulting cure
should theoretically withstand all the events of life. Of
course this is not so in fact. We have to acknowledge our
share of failures. It must be remembered that much of
our work is done on very nervous people, and that these
very sufferers are asked to contribute a great amount of
effort. They must be people of good will, capable of
co-operation. At first sight this demand on the neurotic,
though wholesome, seems very hard. He is extra sensitive
and painfully self-conscious. He unconsciously protects
himself from the mental sufferings to Avhich his peculiar
make of mind renders him susceptible, in one of two ways :
either he shuts himself up within himself and develops
symptoms such as phobias, or fears, which tend to deliver
him from his environment ;
or else he develops hysterical
symptoms, such as blindness, or paralysis, which tend to
throw him on to the sympathy of people around him. In
the first case he turns his j)sychic energy inwards by a
process of introversion ; in the second he turns it outwards
by a process of extraversion. In each case the same
purpose is served-—a modification of the individual's actual
relation to the world and to the demands made upon him
by "daily life. Each is the outcome of an unconscious
childish attitude of mind. Psychoanalysis aims at helping
the patient to find the unknown causes of this attitude,
and his understanding must accompany the analytical pro-
cess at every step. " Neurosis is a failure in adaptation
to life." The origin of the first mental dissociation was
in the unconscious, and it is there we must ultimately
find the means for the desired synthesis. Whatever in
G Constance E. Long, 31. D. [part
the morbid symptoms is not understood—not merely
intellectually but emotionally too—contains a possibility
of present failure and future breakdown. Jung says. "In
psychoanalysis the infantile personality must be set free
from the unconscious hindrances to its development in a
rational manner. The energy which is thus freed serves
for the building up of a personality matured and adajited
to reality, who does willingly and without compulsion
everything required of him by reality." 1 The Scotch have
a way of describing a man by saying " there's not much
to him." In analysis we find there is much more to a
man than he was aware of, and this applies generally to
the healthy and to the morbid. It is not merely a ques-
tion of resources—it is one of energy. It is useless for a
country at war to contain rich coal fields if there is no
one to work them. The nervous invalid is in a similar
position. He has large resources which he cannot develop
and which are an actual encumbrance to him, because
they offer a temptation to the enemy, and use up his own
energy in an unproductive way in guarding them.
This brings me to an important psychoanalytic concept,
called the libido theory. It was first introduced by Freud,
but greatly extended by Jung and I shall explain it
entirely from the standpoint of the Swiss school. The
term libido is used by Jung not in the ordinary Latin
sense of the word, but as equivalent to psychic energy.
This libido or psychic energy is the central impulsive or
propulsive force in human nature and human actions. It
may also be described as interest, desire, inclination,
capacity for action. It may be applied to one object
or another, from which follows the shifting of interest
from one thing to another. Like physical energy it may
be kinetic or potential, i.e. active or latent. It may also
be transmuted from one form to another ; this may happen
suddenly, as in a moment of danger when the energy
directed to the occupation of the moment is converted
into paralysing fear, or into the effort to escape ; or the
transmutation may be gradual, as in the process of sub-
limation, when the energy passes through a variety of
1
Psychology of the Unconscious.
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 7
forms, and is applied successively to different and higher
functions. Thus the combative instinct which makes war
between nations may be directed to the promotion of
international peace. One has only to think of a life's
progress to realize that the energy which was once applied
to activities infantile in character, and appropriate during
infancy, has to take other forms at later stages of growth.
What was once automatically given to sucking is later
devoted to eating, which is a conscious process. The love
which was originally given solely to the mother, that is
to an undifferentiated object within a group recognised
as " mother," is gradually applied to the differentiated
mother, to the nurse, father, other members of the family,
and later to companions, teachers, lovers, and causes. It
is clear that the psychic energy, where development is
normal, is differently applied at 6, 16 and 60, and, to
judge by external behaviour, this is generally the case.
But the psychic energy must be looked for on both sides
of the threshold of consciousness ; not the whole of it is
in the conscious life. Some is with our subliminal
memories and imaginations. There is a tendencv for too
much of it to be applied below the threshold of con-
sciousness. This is particularly the case with neurotic
people, for the reason that those who cannot live agreeably
to themselves in the real world are led to create a world
of phantasy to live in. This produces a thinning of the
forceful currents of life, and in some hysterical subjects
the thinning is so extreme as to result in complete dis-
sociation of the personality—a fact illustrated by the
classical cases frequently referred to in the literature of
our Society. Absent-minded acts show a temporary and
partial dissociation ; we are not " on the spot," as we
say ; that is, the psychic energy has momentarily retired
from consciousness and dipped into the subconscious.
In our work as analysts we strive to find where this
missing energy is located. We actually find that much of
it is applied to phantasy building. We all know what it
is to day-dream ; but what we do not know so well is
that day-dreams occur without our being even aware of
them—they may be entirely subliminal. A person is
8 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
apjDroximately normal when the psychic energy is well
applied, and flows easily from point to point, as required
by life, in his thoughts, feelings and actions. A person
is neurotic when the stream tends to stagnate, to remain
in lacunae, or to run in too many directions at once. He
is then like the owner of treasure who has no means of
realizing it. There are people of many talents whose
energy is lacking, and people of small talents whose
energy is all available, and it is adapted energy, after
all, that tends to make one individual more effective than
another. There are some who have ample energy, but
who are so desirous that they expend it extravagantly
in overwork, so that their resources are always at a low
ebb. Samuel Butler says :
1 " The life of a creature is
the memory of a creature. We are all the same stuff to
start with, but we remember different things, and if we
did not remember different things, we should be absolutely
like each other. As for the stuff of which we are made,
we know nothing, save that it is '
such as dreams are
made of.' " We should add to this, however, that unless
the psychic energy is free to move among these memories,
selecting one or another and inserting them into con-
sciousness at the right moment, they might just as well
not exist. In a sense our well-being may be said to
depend upon a good rapport with the unconscious mind.
A neurotic person is deficient in control of his psychic
energy. In a severe case he either cannot direct it to
the useful end he desires, or else he uses it in an exag-
gerated manner. He is a victim to the phantasies formed
in his own unconscious mind. In order to cure him, the
analyst has recourse to dream or phantasy material,
which arises from the same source as the hysterical
symptoms and is of a similar nature. The symptoms
are phantasy formations created by a displacement of
energy from the psychical to the physical realm, con-
sequent on the fact that to some natures physical suffering
is easier to bear than mental suffering, and offers an
escape from it. The neurotic is not for one moment to
be regarded as inferior to other people ;
he is very often
1
Life and Habit.
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 9
superior, but more sensitive, and far too thin-skinned.
But lest I should seem to accuse him alone of making
phantasies, let us remind ourselves that phantasy formation
is a perfectly normal mechanism—one may call it a
function even—which few of us would wish to live without.
Every inventor makes phantasies before he makes his
invention ; the philosopher does the same in the process
of arriving at his new concepts. The business man and
the lover equally pave the way for their ventures with
day-dreams ; the mother plans for the Christmas holidays
in her phantasies. With the poet and artist their poems
and paintings are more or less direct expressions of their
unconscious mind. They may in a very special sense be
called mediums of the subconscious. Let us see what
Shakespeare says about phantasies :
Lovers and madmen have such seething brains,
Such shaping fantasies that apprehend
More than cool reason ever comprehends.
The lunatic, the lover, and the poet,
Are of imagination all compact :
One sees more devils than vast hell can hold ;
That is the madman : the lover all as frantic,
Sees Helen's beauty in a brow of Egypt :
The poet's eye, in a fine frenzy rolling,
Doth glance from heaven to earth, from earth to heaven ;
And, as imagination bodies forth
The forms of things unknown, the poet's pen
Turns them to shapes, and gives to airy nothing
A local habitation and a name.
Such tricks hath strong imagination,
.That, if it would but apprehend some joy,
It comprehends some bringer of that joy :
Or in the night, imagining some fear,
How easy is a bush supposed a bear !
1
It must be recognised that " the unconscious holds the
germs of future conscious contents," 2
and that dreams
and phantasies, when made conscious, help us to come
1
Midsummer-Night's Dream, Act v. Sc. i.
2
Jung's Conception of the Unconscious. Collected Papers, ch. xv.
10 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
to our true thinking and feeling. In normal persons
the unconscious has the effect of softening and toning
down extreme conscious tendencies " through an effective
opposite impulse in the unconscious." A life that is
devoid of phantasy is apt to be sterile. When we say a
man has no imagination, we recognise a defect in him.
A case which illustrates the effects of subconscious
phantasy is that of a Miss A., a young woman of 30.
She was brought to me because she had violent attacks
of hiccoughs lasting from one hour to a whole day. She
had an innocent mindless expression and a high childish
voice. She had at one time been clever and capable, for
at 17 she was forewoman of a room in a blouse factory,
where she showed originality in designing and cutting out.
She exhibited the usual belle indifference to her symptom
so characteristic of the hysteric, for though the hiccoughs
were of such violence as almost to jerk her off the couch
on which she was lying for my examination, she yet wore
the placid expression of an infant suffering from painless
eructations of wind. Her guileless baby-talk was equally
remarkable. I was obliged to send this patient into a
nursing home, much against her will ; and without giving
her any other treatment I began an analysis, which was
at first carried on every day for one hour. One of her
early dreams was the following :
Something was wrong with me, what, I did not know. I
was having advice from a gentleman who seemed to be a surgeon.
He did a lot of talking with mother. He then lifted a little
girl on to a wooden horse and pushed the horse and child into
a pond. The child was wearing one of my dresses. We all
stood and watched her sail away. After that the doctor went
into a shop, still talking. My sister Maggie said, " That's the
worst of Dr. Long."
Here the dream amusingly hits off the exact situation.
Without giving details I will just say that my patient
identified herself with the little girl on the horse by the
dress she was wearing ; the surgeon was identified with
myself as the " doctor who talked so much." The " pond"
brought up as a free association a previous dream. In
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 11
this dream she was reluctantly coming to my consulting
room for the first time, and as she crossed the street to
my house a great pond spread out before her into which
she fell : this she had called the Slough of Despond, for
the thought of being treated medically filled her with
despair. She did not want to go to a doctor—that is,
unconsciously she did not want to get well. My talka-
tiveness was a witty and revengeful criticism by her
unconscious of my persuasiveness in making her come
against her wish, for a second visit, and finally talking
her into a nursing home. The pond, then, was a symbol
for this terrible adventure of treatment. She is accom-
panied in the dream by her mother, and indeed by her
whole family, for this grown-up baby is never far, psycho-
logically at least, from her mother's apron strings and her
childhood's companions.
The dream gives a picture of the childishness of her
attitude. The little wooden horse was understood to be
her psychic energy, which was a feeble affair—as unsuit-
able to her present age of thirty as a child's toy would
be as a steed. The argument between the mother and
the surgeon represented the tempest of emotions roused
by making her conflict conscious. The conflict was between
her childish adaptation to her mother, and the new
demands made upon her that she should sacrifice the
shelter which her symptoms had hitherto procured for
her, and take up a new attitude to life.
You will see that the make-up of this dream seems very
simple. It is like the story you tell children when you
want to point a moral. The unconscious is not a moralist,
however, not at least by intention, but it is a picture
maker, a maker of parables. The meaning of the dream
is arrived at, not from the manifest content (that is, the
part of the dream which is remembered, and which pro-
bably is only a fragment of the whole), but from the
latent content. This latent content is to be gathered from
the free associations, which it is the analyst's business to
stimulate and discuss in the time devoted to the analysis
of the dream. The meaning of the dream lies on this
side and on that of the threshold of consciousness. It is
12 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
the analyst's art to bring the two into juxtaposition, so
that understanding may come to the patient.
Earlier in Miss A.'s case there had been an attack of
blindness of hysterical nature. It had occurred at the age
of 17 in this wise. She travelled backwards and forwards
daily to the blouse factory in the city. One evening, on
her way home, she was alone in the carriage. As the
train left the station a working man swung himself into
the carriage, sat opposite to her and suddenly exhibited
himself in an alarming and indecent way. She was rooted
to her seat, unable to move or speak. A minute or two
later he swung himself out as the train slowed up to
enter the next station, which was Miss A.'s destination.
She ran the three-quarters of a mile between the station
and her home, arriving breathless and almost beside
herself with terror and excitement. The only account she
gave to her parents was " that a man had followed her
from whom she ran." Three weeks later, as she was
examining the work one of her girls brought for inspection,
darkness fell upon her. She asked, " What has happened
to the light ?
" Nothing had happened, but she had
suddenly become blind, and had to be led home. This
blindness passed away in the course of a few weeks,
although her sight remained inadequate, and rendered her
comparatively helpless for some years. She was no longer
able to go out to work, and lost all her initiative, and though
she became helpful in her mother's house, could take no
J.
responsibility. She constantly had hallucinations of being
pursued ; and once, like Luther, who threw an ink-stand
at the devil, she threw everything she had in her hands
at an equally visionary figure which came in at her doc r .
Her second severe psychical illness was that accompanied
by the violent hiccoughs described. She was permanently
cured of these within a week, and her cure has been
lasting.
Several months ago she came to me again, looking
anxious, and told me that no less than five times in the
previous few weeks the kettle and saucepans had fallen
out of her hands, the contents being spilled. The last
incident of this kind was that she had washed up the
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 13
tea-cups and absent-mindedly put them into a large
enamel jug to carry to the dresser
—" a stupid thing,"
she said, which she "had never done before." Five
minutes later she emptied the jug into the sink, smashing
all the crockery thereby ! She also said that for several
nights she had been wakened from sleep hearing her name
called, and had gone to her friend who was ill at the
time and who was to her an adopted mother, saying,
"What did you call me for?" But, like the infant
Samuel, she found the voice was a subjective one. These
acts are what is called " symptomatic "—the result of a
splitting of consciousness. They shew the tricky behaviour
of the unconscious, and have counterparts at seances.
My patient had been neglecting to pay proper attention
to the workings of her unconscious mind, and her phan-
tasies had once more got her partially in their grip.
They were a signal from her unconscious that she was
in some danger of a fresh breakdown. Analysis of a few
dreams soon brought to light the new problems which
were disturbing her, and helped her to get her energy on
the right track again. Miss A. has acquired insight enough
into the analytic method to realize that she must be on
her guard and take preventive measures to avoid a
breakdown, whenever she is disturbed by symptomatic acts
of the kind described. In such symptoms one is able to
recognise the beginnings of a psychic disease—a type of
illness upon which the use of a thermometer and the
counting of a pulse can throw no light.
I now propose to give the analysis of a dream in some
detail. A dream may be interpreted on its objective
or on its subjective aspect, or from both points of view,
which supplement each other. The line to be followed is
indicated by the remarks of the dreamer. On the sub-
jective side, all the personages that occur in the dream
are dramatizations of the dreamer himself under various
aspects, more or less disguised, and all the things they
do and say represent different conflicting feelings or ideas
of his. The dream characters are of the same nature as
the different characters that appear in cases of multiple
personality, or the personifications of automatic phenomena.
L4 Constance E. Long, 31. D. [part
To demonstrate this in the interpretation of dreams is
generally enlightening to the person under analysis, because
few people realize the simultaneous existence of opposite
feelings in themselves. In making the following analysis
I asked my patient to give her free associations, taking
the various dream-parts as texts. In order to arrive at
these, the dreamer should be as passive as possible in
regard to the ideas which come into the mind, should
repeat them without self-criticism, and should reject
nothing, no matter how far-fetched or irrelevant it may
seem. This is exceedingly difficult, though it sounds easy.
Miss B., the dreamer, is of the intellectual type. She
is aged 45 and has been engaged in teaching and literary
work. She is suffering from inability to walk any distance
and has vague abdominal pains. She can walk about in
the house and in her own room with a firm elastic step,
but out of doors she is assailed by fears, and has to lean
against supports. A distance of fifty yards seems well-
nigh impossible to her. She has to come to my house in
a cab, a walk of some four minutes. She once took this
walk at my suggestion and as a consequence had a
collapse. She has been ill for seven years. Up to that
time she earned her living, and led a most praiseworthy
life. She was the youngest child of an unhappy marriage.
Her father was a heedless spendthrift, her mother a
patient Griselda, of almost saintly forbearance. The pair
were incompatible, and this youngest daughter, clever and
sensitive, gradually sided with the mother, though un-
doubtedly most of her love was given to her father. As
she grew up she soon put her talents to use, and earned
an income, which later on she devoted largely to her
parents' support and succour. Her holidays were almost
exclusively spent in the family home, from a sense of
duty. Here she underwent constant anxieties, and to a
certain extent stood between the parents. It seemed to
her in reviewing her life that it was one of perpetual
sacrifice and self-less devotion.
In ajjpearance the lady is cpiiet and self-respecting.
She has a clear skin and well cut features. She looks
healthy, though at times she is very pale and worn, and
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 15
she very soon tires. Her. ^animation .springs up quickly
in response to intellectual or iaee.'i subjects:., tier expression
is lively. If anything offends her, she compresses her lips,
and very angry looks sometimes dart •
from her eyes. This
change of expression indicates- rmcbi^cious feelings and
gives one the impression of slumbering fires.
She brought the following dream for analysis :
Dream.—I see myself in a strange room, there are people in
it, but I do not know any of them. A gentleman of the
company, who seemed to know me and to have some interest
in me, asked me to come with him, as he wanted to shew me
a school building. I took my house shoes off and put them
somewhere behind the leg of a piano, and put a blanket round
my shoulders to go, as it appeared to be raining.
When we reached the road outside, I saw on the left a
cluster of beautiful blue-bells ; farther down the road, on the
same side, hung a great clump of wild broom in full flower.
The road and the flowers were bathed in a beautiful clear
light. The school building was some distance beyond the
flowers, but we did not get to it, nor did I see it. I knew
it was there.
While we stood for a moment on the road, I saw an animal
glide out suddenly from among the blue-bells ;
in shape and
size and in its sinuous movement, though not in colour, it
looked at first like a weasel. A beautiful phosphorescent light
shone right down its back. It glided swiftly across the road,
and as it went it became much larger, and now the fight on
its back was no longer to be seen. It settled itself down on
a low bank on the opposite side of the road with its back to
us, and I now saw its coat was spotted greyish black and
white and that it was quite a large animal. I asked what
animal it was, as I did not recognise it, and was told it was
a wolf, and I wondered if we had not better move away from
its neighbourhood when I heard that.
There was something very sinister in the appearance of the
creature, as it very quietly stretched itself out, apparently
quite oblivious of our presence, but one felt in it a certain
indefinable something that rather expressed or betokened extreme
watchfulness, power and knowledge. Then it rose up slowly,
crossed the road back to the blue-bell clump and stood among
Hi Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
the flowers ; but now it was .fi(j5 i-onger & wolf, but a low type
woman vath :
<.n'm8* -hard features, a hooked nose and unplea-
sant aspect'. Her clothes were not ragged, but plain and tidy
and she wore a bonnet.. She; was talking to some one who
stood near' her.- The dream ended there.
The following are some of the dreamer's free associations :
PART I.
School.—I have been associated with schools practically all
my life and am interested in them. In Sweden I visited
several and taught in some there. The schools in Sweden for
the people are infinitely better equipped than ours. I have
visited schools in Switzerland and in Paris, and have been
present at language lessons given in schools in France and
Switzerland. I have taught in schools in Wales and England.
Blanket.-—Suggests bed and warmth ; one would not use a
blanket as covering for the body except in a case of great
urgency, and where it was the only covering available, such as
in shipwreck or fire, etc.
House Shoes suggest my present pair, which are of velvet
and very comfortable, but nearly worn out. I always like to
wear house shoes in the house.
Piano.—Calls up the pleasure I have in being able to play
a little ; but I like a good piano and sweet and rather muffled
tone. Playing gives my fingers something to do and in this
way is a satisfaction and pleasure, apart from the much
deeper enjoyment of the music.
PART II.
Blue-bells.—A stretch of blue-bells in spring gives me infinite
pleasure. I don't like spring to pass without having this
pleasure ; I have missed something very helpful and beautiful
if it does. I know of many blue-bell woods, all very beautiful,
in Wales and also in Somersetshire.
Broom.—Grows more gracefully than gorse, without prickles,
is less common, is very beautiful in a mass, although you
seldom see it so. White broom is more beautiful than yellow.
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 17
I can think of three gardens where there is some very lovely
white broom.
Phosphorescent light. —Recalls glow-worms and fire-flies. I have
seen the former in Ireland. This particular light strikes you
as different from any other light you have ever seen. I have
noticed it on old tree stumps. "I have translated a fairy story
from the Swedish in which hobgoblins used rotten tree stumps
for lights.
Wolf.—Hungry, fierce, cruel. I have seen wolves only in
Zoos ; have translated stories from the Swedish in which wolves
figure largely ;
belong to cold northern climates now.
Browning has written a striking poem, Ivan Ivanovitch, in
which a mother throws her children one by one out of a
sledge to the wolves, so that she might escape herself.
Greyish black and white coloured coat.—Does not suggest a
wolf ; colours out of place ; I like a decided black and white.
Woman low type.—I saw a woman of this type at a railway
station in London some months ago ; such a face repels and
saddens me.
The telling of this dream with its free associations
occupied the first part of the analytical hour, which I
am briefly describing. The latter part of the time was
taken up in weaving the dream parts and their associations
into one fabric in order to obtain the interpretation.
As this proceeding goes along, fresh-springing associations
are added by the dreamer, and some analogies may be
introduced by the analyst (the hermeneutical method) 1
from history, mythology or experience.
The dream related gives, through its analysis, the patient's
subconscious view of the present situation, and of her
immediate problems and her own psychological attitude.
It exhibited her orientation, for hitherto we only knew
she was ill and in need of treatment, other treatments
having failed to cure her. We knew that her illness was
more psychical than physical ;
we could see she was a
conscientious person, with a somewhat saint-like character ;
but without such a dream one would hardly know where
to begin to work.
1
See Jung's Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology, 2nd edition.
B
is Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
She is in a strange room,1
as indeed she is here in London ;
there are other people in it ; she knows none, that is, she
does not personally know anyone who has been analysed
;
she would " like to know what effect it has on others."
A gentleman who seemed to have some interest in her
shows her the school building. The analyst is interested
to shew her something she has never seen before, that is,
her unconscious ;
analysis is a " new school."
She makes her preparations ; she takes off her soft house
shoes ;
they are indeed nearly worn out. This tendency
of hers to keep indoors is hard on her slippers, which are
so comfortable. She finds she ought to put off these
comfortable outworn habits to go outside to the road„
This brings an association with the command to
Moses, " Put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the
place whereon thou standest is holy ground." This gives
a solemn and religious aspect to the visit to the school
building, that is, to her new effort at analytical under-
standing. She puts the shoes behind a leg of the piano.
The piano is an apt symbol of expression ; she prefers
her sweet sounds " muffled."
She " plays a little." The piano at her lodging is poor
and jangling and out of tune, so that the music she can
produce just now is not satisfying. The " finger exercise
"
represents extraversion ; the " deeper enjoyment " intro-
version. All the harmonies of her life are muffled. The
putting of the shoes behind the piano is a make-shift
affair. Things are not in their right proportion ; how could
a piano leg hide a pair of shoes ? It is easier to live a
half-invalided life than to take up a drastic new attitude.
Like her slippers, she feels " worn out " ; but this is
equivalent to " shipwreck," and that she thinks it so
(subconsciously) is shown by her use of a blanket as
covering ; it is an occasion of " great urgency." This adds
to the notion of a religious call, a sense of desperate
personal need. The blanket has the significance of some-
thing comfortable taken from her bed ; she "loves warmth "
;
her ill-health has made her spend much time in bed, and
1
The italics here refer to items in the dream, the inverted commas to
items of the associations.
x,xxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 19
value her comforts. She feels now like one who has lost
her all in storm or fire. She is indeed an invalid and
might expect shelter, and yet she has to go out in the rain
'to see a new school building. The demand of analysis is
that she should take up life again. She consciously
acquiesces up to a point, but the dream shows her to be
wearing the blanket, a symbol of her invalid life, which
she carries with her on her new venture.
The school building xvas at some distance beyond the
flowers. Much had to be seen, experienced and under-
stood before it was reached. The flowers were inter-
preted as phantasies ; the school is " beyond." Will the
goal be reached ? That is always the problem ; has one
enough patience and perseverance to get beyond the
phantasies to the real working place ? The dream puts
the question but does not answer it. The school building
had come up in former dreams as a place where she had
done educational work, which had been rebuilt, and which
she was re-visiting. It is something new on an old founda-
tion. Perhaps what analysis requires of her is not alto-
gether new, only a reconstruction and a fresh attitude to
life. The new building is an improvement on the old ;
that much is clear. She knows that we must assimilate
the new by means of the old, for until we can do this,
we cannot accept the new, although the old no longer
serves us. Until we can accept the new emotionally, our
thoughts carry no conviction and supply no power. Thus
she must bring over into the new life the blanket that is
so ill adapted to her new purposes. She will throw it
away only when she is able to face the new requirements.
The road outside goes through beautiful bluebells and is
bathed in beautiful clear light. These are the pretty
phantasies she loves so much about herself and life.
They are " beautiful," but danger lurks in them too.
These spring flowers suggest new springing hope.
Broom was there, too, and the rarest kind, white broom.
She " prefers it to gorse." It is typical that what is
beautiful in her eyes is " rarer, more graceful and without
prickles." This sensitive soul would like her roses without
spines. Be it noted that broom suggests gorse in the
20 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
associations. That is a contrast of smooth and prickly.
There is the idea of opposites in the associations with the
colour of the wolf's coat, which was spotted greyish black
and white. The dreamer likes " a decided black and
white." Black and white represent evil and good. She
has always wanted to separate the one from the other.
Indeed has she not done this in following the path of
sacrifice ? What else could she have done ? This clear-
cut attitude has repeatedly made her turn away from
anything that is dubious and dangerous in life and revert
to the known and approved. It has led her to adopt the
path of sacrifice as " white," and reject all that is unknown,
all her natural desires for herself, as " black." This atti-
tude has always led her back to the parental home, no
matter how unhappy that return made her. She had
never risked spending on herself, or living her own life,
because who could tell where it might lead ? Suppose
there was " a hungry wolf " inside one, how dangerous
that might be ! We may call to mind here the legend
of St . Francis and the wolf of Agobio. This hungry wolf
was causing grief in the little town, robbing and killing.
The saint went out to it, struck a bargain with it, tamed
it, converted and led it home, turned it into a friend of
the poor, and it became a guardian of the town. There
is a kind of goodness that tames the animal nature by
accepting it, and dealing with it ;
by uniting with it in
friendship. This surely is the meaning of this legend.
But for our dreamer " white " is the safe colour. It
is the colour of etherialized saints, of brides, and little
children. She can keep herself pure and uninitiated and
infantile by an invariable choice of white. But it does
not really succeed. To remain spotless means to cut
oneself off from real life and live in phantasies. Phantasies,
however, have a way of running off with one, of suddenly
becoming dangerous, that is, if one begins to live in them,
and the real pains, incidental to life in the real world,
which one avoids, may push surrogates of themselves into
consciousness in the form of neurotic symptoms, such as
disability to walk, or vague abdominal aches and pains,
which are alarming and penalising.
Lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 21
Miss B., whenever a choice is presented, decides to live
for her parents. She identifies herself with her suffering
mother, and bears the burden of her father's vices as
though she were herself his wife. In thinking thus of
others, she avoids thinking of herself, and evades that
greatest of all problems in life—the acceptance of personal
freedom and the necessity of learning to use it. This, in
other words, is the task of developing her individuality.
Timid natures, such as hers, unconsciously refuse indivi-
dual thinking and feeling, and shirk the problems of love,
which naturally arise and require enterprise and responsi-
bility for their full acceptance. Miss B. thinks she is
freely selecting a path of self-sacrifice. Her unconscious
motive is that she prefers to remain a child ; she cannot
accept the temptations of freedom. She would ever
remain with the " white," which she believes to be the
good.
But the dream tells us the reason for this. Unknown
there is an animal lurking. Out of the bed of the shelter
of blue-bells darts a stealthy creature in the form of a
weasel with a beautiful phosphorescent light down its back.
It crosses from one side of the road to the other. It
turns its back to her, as though disregarding the con-
ventions, or so that it may be seen in all aspects. It
increases in size as it moves and becomes a wolf, and
finally returns to the blue-bell clump ; and behold it has
now turned into a woman of low type. It is a land of
werewolf.
In looking at the woman the dreamer knows she is
looking at a representation of herself. Her clothes are
plain and tidy, she wore a bonne*. She herself is neat and
plainly dressed. The bonnet is a sign of middle age.
The unpleasant aspect explains these darting expressions of
ill-feeling and malice that rise up so unexpectedly from
her unconscious from time to time.
The beautiful phosphorescent light has the effect of a
magic illumination. It reminds her of the torches used
by fairies which are symbolic of the light of the phantasies ;
it reminds her of the inexplicable baffling insect light
shown by the glowworm and fire-fly—these humble things
22 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
which are so wonderful and illuminating. This is the light
that belongs to the subconscious view of things. It is
" different from any other light." It is not the light of
the intellect, but non-rational rather than rational in
character.
This analysis by no means exhausts the dream and its
associations, but it must serve as an example of the way
the work proceeds. It is carried on by means of a
backward and forward conversation, which follows the
patient's lead as closely as possible.
What is most remarkable in the dream and analogous
material is its character as compensatory to the conscious
thinking. 1
This of necessity throws light on the daily
problems. One is working in what Gilbert Murray calls
" the uncharted region of the mind," 2
which contains all
the germinal material that may ultimately become con-
scious, and from which art and religion emanate.
The dream itself may in a sense be regarded as a
primitive form of art, sometimes crude, sometimes mature.
The instance just given is clear and bold allegory, pro-
vocative of deep emotion in the dreamer and, when under-
stood, capable of giving rise to a new set of values and
providing the motive force for a reconstruction of life.
But though the dream is valuable as a stimulus, this is
not all that is wanted. It supplies only part of the
motive for conduct, the other part must come from the
conscious reason and the will. The patient in this case
had been overthrown by her unconscious and had taken
her phantastic view of life for reality. Now in analysis
we go to the very source of her overthrow and learn
wisdom from it ; we now use the phantasies that formerly
made use of her.
The patient whose dream I have given is not unique
in her breakdown. She represents complexes and con-
flicts to which all are subject. How to effect a compromise
with life in its two aspects is a common human difficulty,
but we do not all break down over it. Perhaps a tem-
porary experience of neuroses would have a beneficial effect
1
Nicoll, Dream Psychology, chapter vi.
2
Gilbert Murray, Four Stages of Greek Religion.
xxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 23
on many of us. It would teach us to sympathise with
others and help us to realize there is no precisely normal
reaction, no exactly right path.
Our dreamer's " high has proved too high, her heroic
for earth too hard." For her the lowering of her standard
would increase the possibilities of life. In order to main-
tain her one-sided attitude, she has pushed all she takes
to be evil into the unconscious and disguised it with
phantasies ; and in doing this she has sacrified her own
development. Her ideal of perfection has kept her childish.
The animal has magic in it ; that is the strange light it
carries. This power for good or ill is at present only in
the unconscious ; and her emotional life is limited because
of its repression. Her symptoms represent her repressed
feelings.
Primitive man embodies the idea which I wish to con-
vey in his attitude to his totem animal. He eats it to
obtain its " mana " or virtue, its life-force or magic, and
thereby enchances his own personality. The dream is on
the level of " totemistic thinking " and expresses the notion
of vital force under the symbol of the wolf, which later
becomes incorporated in the woman. So Miss B.'s next
step must be to obtain the " mana " from her animal
nature. She must recognise that side of herself, pay
attention to it, and consciously abstract from it what
is useful to herself and to humanity. She will thus
accpiire forcefulness and an extension of her personality
and bring about that co-operation between good and evil,
spiritual and animal, white and black, without which no
life can be lived satisfactorily.
To act " nobly," according to a standard of virtue
which she has not independently thought out and adopted
for herself, is useless for one who has already broken
down under such an attempt ; it does not work. What
we want is to be as effective as possible on a level
suitable to our capacity, and to live as free from neurosis
or any other hampering manifestation as may be. The
difficulty for each is to cut his coat according to his
cloth, to find out what suits his special nature, to make a
harmonious compromise. It does not do to be a saint or
24 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
martyr in the conscious, and a werewolf in the unconscious.
Such an attitude is bound sooner or later to be no longer
supportable. The more sensitive and valuable the character,
the graver the conflict.
Dreams have been denied a moral meaning ; I cannot
but think this is an error. In no department of human
activity can an ethical bearing be excluded. The moral
meaning is not, however, to be found in the dream alone.
It would be dangerous to take a dream too literally or
concretely ; but it supplies the view missing to conscious-
ness—missing because painful to consciousness. The
meaning is to be found only through the work of the
conscious upon the unconscious.
The dream just analysed is chosen on account of its
general character. A trained analyst will find other
meanings than those given ; the patient herself as time
went on found other important meanings and associations.
It has been said that the whole of a life might be revealed
from one dream, if the associations were followed suffi-
ciently freely and far ; but no dream can be exhaustively
analysed, especially in public.
Before I myself had analysed dreams and become
familiar with some aspects of the subconscious mind, I
found examples of dream analysis very unconvincing, and
I cannot hope that my own attempt will prove less so.
One cannot recapture all the delicate threads of the con-
versation, and portray the subtle reactions that made it
possible to bring the material above the threshold of
consciousness ; and when once the material is in con-
sciousness and is so obvious, it seems as if it must have
been there all the time. The dream gives a concrete
picture of an incident that at first sight may not be
interesting even to the dreamer. It seems meaningless
till the free associations shew it to have a symbolical
meaning. The emotions attached to it belong to the
psychological problems which also occupy the dreamer in
the day, and the symbols selected are singularly apt,
and often witty. An example of a witty dream is the
following, which was reported to me. I do not know the
dreamer. It ran :
" Some people travel by boat, some by
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 25
rail, but I always travel by Virginia creeper." We can
all make a guess at the latent content of this dream, and
in so doing we shall all interpret it differently. What it
actually meant to the dreamer can only be known when
her free associations are forthcoming.
I will now give an instance of phantasy production in
which I think some credulous people would be inclined
to see the appearance of a spirit, but which to the
analytical student, and most members of the S.P.R.
would have quite another interpretation. A certain Mrs. C.
had a hypnagogic vision. It was the head of a young
woman with a peculiar and striking face. The key-note
of the expression was sad. The face appeared on a grey
misty background. Mrs. C. woke from this vision with a
feeling of sorrow. On going to sleep again she saw the
same head in a dream. This time it was a dead face.
As the dreamer gazed at it the eyes opened and looked
levelly forward. Mrs.C. woke up weeping, and the memory
of the hypnagogic vision and the dream caused her acute
distress when she recalled it during the foliowhig day.
Unknown to Mrs. C, then or since, the woman whom she
recognised in the dream had died a few days previously
in tragic circumstances, and her body was still unburiecl.
Mrs. C. had seen her but three times, then not to speak
to and only for a moment. She had consciously thought
her ill and sad-looking, and her striking appearance had
roused a passing curiosity. One association with the dead
face in the dream was of a thorn-crowned head of Christ
painted or printed on linen, in which the eyes appear
to open as the gazer approaches the picture. Another
association was of a so-called mystical painting, in which
a cross appeared, which it was claimed had never been
put there by the painter. Thus the head in the dream
represented sorrow, despair and death, and also sacrifice
and crucifixion.
All these emotions belonged to the immediate life prob-
lem of the dreamer, and her unconscious mind with
remarkable sureness had selected, out of hundreds of
indifferent faces seen in the previous few days, just the
very one that poignantly symbolized her own particular
26 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
sufferings. This appearance of the dead in the dream is
a coincidence that we must necessarily come across when
we observe unconscious phenomena, just as we find it in
any group of conscious imenomena. It is obvious that
the dream must be attributed to a reminiscence of the
dreamer's, rather than to any supposed action of the
dead person. What analysis adds to the view of its
subjective origin is that it has a meaning discoverable
by the dreamer, as representative of certain unconscious
thoughts or wishes.
Those who have read reports of seances are often struck
with the occasional banalities of the so-called controls.
They serve to strengthen the supposition that the pheno-
mena in question are emanations from the unconscious
mind of the medium, and possibly of the sitters through
the medium. The material of dreams is often quite as
trivial, but we recognize that it has no concrete value
—only a symbolical one. In analysis the conscious mind
is brought to bear upon it critically in order to wrest
values from it, as one washes away mud to find the gold
ore. This critical attitude gradually brings about a change
in the character of the material produced.
During analysis the work done on the unconscious by
the conscious mind continues to force fresh material above
the threshold. Examples may be given which treat of
the relation between the analyst and the analysed person.
Incidentally they show how humorous the unconscious is.
E.g., a lady expressed feelings of parsimony in the following
way : She dreamed that she was being fitted by a Bond
Street tailor for a coat and skirt ; she regretted she had
not bought it before the tailor had removed to this
expensive address, as he had made them just as well
at half the cost when he lived at Surbiton. This actually
refers to the recent removal of the physician from a
suburb into the area of consulting practice. She could
have paid smaller fees if she had consulted him before
his removal.
Another patient ended a spell of analysis with a wish
to establish friendly relations with the doctor. This did
not seem possible. She dreamed that she was on an
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 27
island. A beautiful dolphin visited her on government
business. As he swims away she feels very sad, and
notices that his tail is studded with yellow discs. They
are of shining metal, and strengthen the tail as a band of
metal strengthens the blade of an oar. The analysis
shewed the metal discs to represent golden guineas, sym-
bolic of the cash nexus which she now feels to be the
sole bond between her and the doctor, and which she
tries to rejoice over, on the ground of cash being necessary
to his well-being.
The analyst often turns up in his patient's dream under
any guise that fits the situation of the moment. In a
single day the dreams of various patients might depict
him as : (1) a j^oliceman, representing a guardian of law
or a helper ; (2) a siren, one who draws into danger ;
(3) a ship's stoker, one who attends to the invisible
sources of energy ; (4) a gardener, one who cultivates
growing thoughts and feelings, or who prunes bushes, and
nurtures seeds ; (5) a piece of jewelry, which may be either
precious or a sham ; (6) the Kaiser, one who makes bom-
bastic assertions. Every symbol would have its special
meaning for the moment, and would be changed in the
course of analysis as rapidly as the mental attitude
changes. Though in each case the analyst is meant
objectively by these characters, they have a subjective
meaning as well, standing for something in the dreamer's
psyche.
The analysed person appears to himself under innumer-
able guises. His ambition may be symbolized by Alex-
ander, his power by Jove, his patience by Job, his piety
or sexuality by monk or nun, his self-depreciation by a
cringing dog, his temper by Xantippe, his greed by a
ravening wolf, his childishness by a sucking pig, and so
forth. The problems with which the dream is concerned
are curiously veiled, not for purposes of concealment
merely, but because the subconscious naturally thinks in
terms different from the conscious, and is trying to solve
problems by seeking analogies. The dream is a means of
expression. It is, according to Jung, " the subliminal
picture of the psychological condition of the individual
28 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
in his waking state." It is also a fact that the subcon-
scious view of a problem is often different from the
conscious one. Just as the day-dream offers a relief from
the hard facts of reality, so the night-dream refreshes us
with the opposite point of view, or points out our error
in a picture. The dream is a source of wisdom, as we
all unconsciously admit when we leave some knotty
problem over night with the words, " let us sleep upon
it."
Sometimes we find that the psychological problems are
brought up under a recurring dream character. This
personification persists until the problems connected with
it disappear—till " the ghost is laid " in fact, not by
magic but by development, by assimilating into conscious-
ness the repressed elements which the dream-character in
question represents. Let me illustrate. Miss X., a kind-
hearted woman of forty, with the benevolent feelings of
a social worker, was generous-minded and affectionate, but
she was also slangy and aggressive, and unconsciously
inconsiderate of the feelings of others with a different
outlook on life. In some respects she had the psychology
of an open-hearted public schoolboy of sixteen, who is
well-intentioned, but does not think. In her dreams the
following character appears again and again under slightly
different guises ; each guise embodying some special point
a propos to the occasion of the dream. The character is
a youth—like a Greek youth, and rather like the Faun
of Praxiteles. He is more like a natural and kindly
animal than a man. He might be mentally or morally
defective, but is quite amiable and gay. He has a
romantic appreciation of feminine charm. He appears
under the following circumstances :
(1) A policeman comes to arrest him good-temperedly and
put him where he can do no harm.
(2) He was sent up to Cambridge, but only wasted his time.
Now he is going to have another try.
(3) Miss X.'s father helps her to capture him when he " runs
amok " in the house and is a danger. Once caught, he can be
" put on his honour."
jLXXV.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 29
(4) He comes home as a semi-prodigal and joins family
prayers, but is allowed to look at a picture book.
(5) Returned from the hunt, he sticks his legs up on an Inn
table, whereupon the company, shocked at his manners, proceed
to hunt him.
(6) He wakes up and is terribly frightened to find himself
alone.
(7) As " Sir Pompey Briseas "—Breezy Ass—he is required
to enter into an estate and manage a property. He hates
laving to do it.
This character reappeared until the unconscious trends
symbolized were fully acknowledged, and the attitude
abandoned—at least in intention, for it takes time to
work the change. Such an unconscious attitude creates
many difficulties in life, puzzling the patient, who is apt
to think these difficulties are owing to faults of others.
Her conduct is influenced, none the less that the irrespon-
sible side is under repression, and in this case concealed
by enthusiastic interests in life. Here I may add that
the sex of a dream personification matters little—male
may stand for female and vice versa. The symbol most
appropriate will be selected, regardless of sex, or because
of it, as the case may be. This should not surprise
us, because every normal human being contains elements
of both sexes, not only biologically, but also psycho-
logically.
I will next give an example of a cryptic word which
occurred in a dream, in the making of which a great
condensation of dream ideas has taken place. Here I
must again remind you that the remembered dream is
the manifest content only. As Freud says, " The first
thing that becomes clear to the investigator in the com-
parison of the dream content with the dream thoughts
is that a tremendous work of condensation has taken
place. The dream is reserved, paltry, and laconic, when
compared with the range and copiousness of the dream
thoughts." I do not propose to relate the dream, but
will merely give the word and the associations attached
to it, supplied by the dreamer. I may say the dreamer
30 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
was Welsh and a speaker of Welsh. She saw on a door-
plate the word :
Anwlwimdwy.
Anwl—was a Welsh word meaning " dear."
Dwy—meant " two," or feminine.
Wy—(1) a common ending for names of places :
(2) the last syllable in her mother's name :
(3) the first syllable in her sister's name :
(4) a word meaning " egg."
Lwm="lum," part of the names of two people of whom
she thought, giving associations.
Wlwin =cwlwin—meant " a knot."
Nwl=niwl—meant "a frog."
Mdwy==nodrwy—meant "a ring."
English words gave the following associations :
Anwl = annul, null and void.
Wmdwy—Humpty Dumpty, the Liberal Party, Anti-suffrage,
Lum =Lump.
Following these items back to early reminiscences, she
recollects that at the age of nine she associated with three
children whose names all began with W., and now noticed
that in Anwl, Wm, Dwy, there are three W.'s, and Wy
suggests the name of two of them, but the third has no
letter beyond the W. Every one of the foregoing associ-
ations led to important dream thoughts. The word
Anwlwimdwy, then, is merely the form that conceals the
latent content. It is a symbolic picture, embodying
psychological problems, a language of signs which has the
significance of shorthand. Analysis finds the associations,
shewing subtle symbolic connections between the form and
its contents ; these connections represent the dream thoughts.
Another short dream shewing similar mechanisms occurred
to a middle-aged man, who was thinking of proposing to
a lady who lived in Highgate. He was feeling dashed by
recent experiences and was inclined to give up his quest.
As he woke one morning he caught this fleeting dream :
"Archie Hemel H.em\Me&." The associations with Archie
were : an ingenuous youth ; the railway arch ;
Archway
lxxv.] Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material. 31
Tavern ;
Highgate Archway ; the way to Highgate—this
was the way to the lady of course ! Hemel—Himmel =
Heaven. " What is the German for saddle (he continued
in associating), and for a camel's hump, which is not a
defect, but is useful to ride on ?
" Hempsted was a
combination of Hampstead and Hemel Hempsted—two
places associated in the dreamer's mind with successfully
wedded couples who are free and natural people. His
mixed attitude to this problem of marriage, needing such
courage on the part of our timid dreamer, is well shewn
in the camel's hump—" having the hump." The question
about the German for saddle means : won't he be saddled ?
but will it not be Himmel ? etc., etc. I need not elaborate
further.
When dreams and phantasies fail, as they occasionally
do in analysis, there is either conscious material to work
upon, or other subconscious products, such as verses,
drawings, paintings, or models. All is grist that comes
to the analytical mill. A certain patient brings me a
kind of shorthand drawings, which analyse out very use-
fully. They are extremely abstract forms, sometimes mere
lines or curves, representing germinal thoughts or feelings ;
they are not unlike some scribblings I have seen in Miss
Johnson's accounts of Mrs. Holland's scripts. One comes
to believe that nearly every one is capable of some form
of primitive art, and that it, like the facade of the dream,
is a fruit of the symbolic function of the unconscious
mind. I have also a number of little statuettes done in
plasticine, produced by a woman during analysis. She had
never done anything of this kind before ; but these things
are not to be appraised for their artistic merit, though
we do occasionally find evidences of real art in a latent
or nascent state.
I may say that any effort to force an interpretation of
subliminal material falls flat. The intelligent patient will
have none of it. When the material is rightly handled,
the more obvious and simple truths go home at once, for
the reason, as Jung 1 says, that the analyst "has a con-
federate in the patient's unconscious." Analytical work
1
The Conception of the Unconscious.
32 Constance E. Long, M.D. [part
follows laws and demands a technique. The training which
analysis gives in the observation of unconscious phenomena
greatly deepens the individual's rapport with his own
unconscious and so brings his other side into closer union
with his consciousness. The Swiss school advises that after
an analysis, the patient should remain in touch with his
unconscious, that is, by paying attention to it and carrying
on his own analysis to the best of his ability. " The
real end of analysis is reached when the patient has
attained adequate knowledge of the methods by which
he can remain in such contact, and apply its results to
his life." The problem is to adapt oneself continually,
with an increasing degree of success, to the external
world. It is natural to make efforts to overcome the
obstacles in life to a certain degree. When the obstacles
are too great, and the man gives up trying to overcome
them, the energy that should have been thus used turns
instead to j)roducing emotional disturbances, physical and
mental. It is imperative that a rational solution of the
patient's conflicts should be found, and they should be
found by the patient himself. For the aim of analysis
is to leave the jmtient morally responsible. It helps him
to discover where his energy flows most easily, and to
find the path in life where he can be most truly at one
with himself. When he has learnt to find the latent values
in himself, he is generally more tolerant and harmonious
in his relations with other people and with the external
world in general. It is with this important aim of unifying
the personality that we make analytical use of subliminal
material.
LXXV.] Dream -Analysis. 33
II.
DREAM-ANALYSIS.
By Alice Johnson.
Introduction.
I have long been convinced that the Society for Psychical
Research could not afford to neglect the study of psycho-
analysis. It may be remembered that Dr. Freud's early
work was referred to more than once in Mr. Myers's
articles on the subliminal consciousness, 1
while a lengthy
notice of Drs. Breuer and Freud's Studien iiber Hysterie
was included in Human Personality (Vol. I. pp. 50-56)
Mr. Myers had a remarkable faculty for recognising what
was important and significant in any fresh field of research,
and if he had lived, would, I have no doubt, have made
himself fully acquainted with the subject and considered
its bearings on psychical research.
From 1910 onwards, some valuable discussions of psycho-
analysis have been contributed to the Proceedings by
Dr. Mitchell and Dr. Woolley,2
besides an important
1 Proceedings S.P.R. Vol. IX. p. 12 (1893); Journal S.P.R, Vol. VIII.
p. 55 (1897).
2 " Some Recent Developments in Psychotherapy," by T. W. Mitchell,
M.D., Proc. Vol. XXIV. p. 665.
Review of Dr. Bleuler's " Die Psychanalyse Freuds," by V. J. Woolley,
M.D., Vol. XXVI. p. 367.
" Some Auto-suggested Visions as illustrating Dream-Formation," by
V. J. Woolley, Vol. XXVII. p. 390.
Review of Dr. Freud's " Psychopathology of Everyday Life," by
Constance E. Long, M.D., Vol. XXVII. p. 411.
Review of Prof. Jung's "Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology,"
by T. W. Mitchell, Vol. XXIX. p. 191.
c 33
34 Alice Johnson. [part
paper by Dr. Freud himself on " The Unconscious in
Psychoanalysis " (Proc. Vol. XXVI. p. 312).
The present paper attempts to deal with certain limited
aspects only of the subject through the detailed analysis
of a few of the writer's own dreams by the psycho-
analytic " method of association."
It is a tenet of psychoanalysis that all the incidents
of a dream stand for events significant for the dreamer,
and that all the dream-characters are dramatisations of
different aspects of himself, his varying feelings, conflicting
impulses, and so on ; so that if any one dream could be
completely analysed and interpreted, it would give a
picture of the man's whole inner self. The primary aim
of psychoanalysis is to gain an insight into the personality
of the dreamer through studying his dreams from their
personal and especially from their emotional side, as
described in Dr. Long's paper above ; and the knowledge
thus acquired is often used with great success for thera-
peutical purposes. But it is also possible to analyse
dreams on the lines rather of pure psychology, and to
treat the results, as is done here, in a less personal and
more objective manner, which has perhaps a more direct
bearing on psychical research.
The analysis seems to show that many more thoughts
and ideas are involved in the dream than appear in
that part of it which is consciously remembered (its
" manifest " content) ; and an attempt is made to discover
how these underlying ideas (its " latent " content) are
concealed, and to what cause or principle of mental
action they owe their concealment.
In some automatic scripts also obscurities occur, which,
though sometimes accidental, at other times appear to be
deliberate. This is manifest in some scripts that have
been discussed in the Proceedings. If therefore we can
obtain any light on the causes of obscurities in dreams, it
may help us to understand the psychology of automatic script.
From a psychological point of view, dreams resemble
artistic or literary compositions, with the peculiarity that
they are composed by the dreamer's subliminal for him-
self, and are addressed exclusively to himself. Thus,
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis 35
they are more like poetry than prose ;
for, roughly
speaking, poetry is a mode of self-expression, whereas
prose is better adapted for conveying facts to other
people. Since the poet wishes to express his own ideas
rather than to make himself plain to others, it is
enough for him to use a descriptive epithet instead of
a name, or an allusion or image instead of a simple
statement of fact. Yet even in the most subjective poetry
he does not completely ignore his readers ; at the back
of his mind he must to some extent be addressing him-
self to them. In a dream, on the other hand, the dreamer
is, as it were, talking to himself and cannot possibly
be overheard. He is therefore entirely absolved from
the necessity of making himself clear to anybody else.
So, if we wish to understand either imaginative literature
(including poetry and myths), or dreams, we must take
the trouble to note the metaphors or allusions used by
the poet or dreamer, and try to find out the underlying
thoughts or feelings which he attaches to them, and
which presumably have determined his selection of them.
The general analogies between myths and dreams
have been pointed out by many writers,—mythologists
and philosophers, 1
as well as psychologists. The myth
starts, we may suppose, as a simple story of a single
interesting event. The story, as it passes from mouth
to mouth, gradually picks up the features of other similar
events and becomes a collective or composite story of
many incidents telescoped into one. Then, as men's
minds become more and more capable of apprehending
abstract ideas, the composite story may be interpreted
in a metaphorical or allegorical way. So some primitive
and barbaric myth, by the gradual accretion of associa-
tions and emotions that have gathered round it in the
course of many generations,—who found in it, some one
thing, and some another, answering to their own feelings,
—
comes to have an immense and growing appeal to all
classes of mankind and plays a great part in the mental
evolution of the race.
1
See, e.g., an interesting discussion in Prof. J. A. Stewart's Myths oj
Plato, pp. 4-8.
36 Alice Johnson. [part
In much the same way that the history—both physical
and mental—of the race repeats or telescopes itself in
the history of the individual, the mental history of the
individual may in some cases apparently repeat or tele-
scope itself in a single dream, which seems to run through
the whole gamut of the dreamer's experience, representing
at the same time the most infantile and the most advanced
stages of his personality. On the infantile element,
which comes out clearly in most of the dreams analysed
below, much stress has been laid by psychoanalysts,
who maintain that the dream-state represents a return
to the primeval.
There can, I think, be little doubt that at least some
dreams are, like myths, allegorical. Others are probably
nothing more than a literal reproduction—a mere repetition
in memory—of past experiences, real or imaginary, or are
simply rambling and incoherent. But the present dis-
cussion deals only with dreams of the allegorical type,
—
with those, that is, in which a meaning other than what
appears on the surface has been detected. In comparing
such dreams with myths, we observe that while the
narrator of a myth presumably intends to indicate or
suggest the ideas underlying it, the dream is sometimes
more like a riddle ; on the face of it, it looks as if the
person who propounded the riddle did not wish it to be
guessed, or at least wished to make it difficult to guess.
Freud, as is well known, believes the concealment of
meaning to be intentional ;
he puts it down to the action
of his hypothetical " Censor," who, on his theory, distorts
the ideas of the dream-self because they are such as
would annoy or disgust the waking self if they were
openly expressed.
Before accepting this theory, it seems to me we should
consider how far the imperfect recollection of dreams
may not account for their obscurity. All we know about
the dream must be founded on the conscious recollection
of it after waking,—after, that is, a definite break in
consciousness which has probably caused much of it to
be forgotten. We are often aware that we have forgotten
many dreams, and many portions of dreams, for there
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 37
are often dissociations of consciousness within the course
of the dream itself. We may compare it to a cinemato-
graph film with large pieces torn out, which makes it
difficult to understand what subjects are represented.
But the one and only spectator of the show (i.e. the
dreamer of the dream) is the designer of the film, and
he-—if he can recover the recollection of it—will under-
stand its meaning. Other people can only make guesses
at it, from his description of the fragments.
The dreamer must retain in his subliminal consciousness
the recollection of the whole dream and of his thoughts
about it at the time, and any view of the dream that
conflicts with this will probably be confronted with
feelings of dissatisfaction arising from the subliminal.
On the other hand, when the dreamer feels convinced
that the solution he has found is the right one—at
least as far as it goes—it seems probable that the sub-
liminal is satisfied too, or else it would make some protest.
Freudians would not, I imagine, accept this view,
because they would hold that it ignores the action of
the " Censor." I can only say that, having studied
my dreams carefully, and, I believe, with an open mind,
by the association method for the last two years, I am
unable to find in them any evidence of the working of
the Censor. The dreams given below may, no doubt,
be interpreted on Freudian lines, (as it is obvious that
any dream can be), by any one who chooses to follow
the all-embracing lines of Freudian symbolism, instead
of taking my own personal associations with the topics.
As the result of following my own associations, which
seems to me the only reliable method, I have come to
the provisional conclusion that there is no deliberate
concealment, but rather—where any definite intention
exists—that the intention is to clear up some train of
thought,—to express some idea in a form which, when
grasped, will give it a fresh significance, and that the
metaphors are chosen, as they are chosen in poetry,
for this purpose.
The views here advanced are based partly on a study
of some of the work of Freud and Jung, but chiefly
38 Alice Johnson. [part
on analysis of my own dreams, aided by discussions with the
analyst (who, of course, is not responsible for anything in
the paper). This is obviously a slender basis for generalisation,
and I should not have ventured to express any opinion on
the work of psychoanalysts but that I found myself
driven to do so in the course of analysing certain dreams,
such as the " Queen Victoria " and " Kaiser " cases
below. Whatever point there may be in these analyses
would have been lost by the suppression of my personal
views. This must be my excuse for writing, as a novice, in
a manner that must, to an expert, appear presumptuous and
dogmatic. My ojMnions are not put forward as important in
themselves, but the interaction between the dream-thoughts
and the opinions may possibly be instructive.
To the psychoanalyst who may find the analyses
barren in other respects, I may add that, as remarked
above, the personal application of the dream interpretations
is, for obvious reasons, deliberately omitted.
General Description of the Process of Analysis.
The first stage in the analysis shows the material
out of which the dream is concocted. We can often
remember incidents, exjjerienced or read of, which are
like the incidents of the dream. We do not remember
that we concocted the dream out of them, but we are
ready to believe it, because it accounts for the dream
in a simple and reasonable way. We can often also
remember some quite recent circumstance which has
reminded us of the incidents and has apparently led us
to work them up into the dream. This affords a reason
for the choice of the hicidents.
But considering the mass of past experiences from
which we might choose, it would seem that we could
find a similar reason for many other choices. And we
often notice that both the past experience and the recent
incident are trivial and unimportant ; it is clearly not
because they are especially interesting to us that we
have dreamt of them. We have still then to account
for the jiarticular selection made.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 39
It is the peculiar merit of Freud that he grasped
the importance of this question and devised an empirical
method for finding an answer to it.
Thus, I dream that I am walking along a narrow,
uneven path, cut in the face of a steep hillside, with
three members of my family, A., B., and C. After
waking I come to the conclusion that the dream was
compounded out of memories of two somewhat similar
walks,•
—one with A. and B. in North Wales, the other
with C. in the Lakes. I also remember that a day or
two before the dream, I happened to mention the North
Wales walk to D., another member of the family party
there, but who did not himself appear in the dream.
No particular incident occurred on either of the walks,
nor was my talk with D. on any but trivial topics.
The analytic method takes up the problem at this
point, with a view to finding some ground for the choice
of the dream-material. I look for my associations with
the items of the dream : what do I first think of,
—
i.e. what is of interest to me,—in connection with the
different points ? E.g., the Lakes : I think at once of
Mr. Myers, who spent his early life there and had so
strong an affection for the country (see his Fragments
of Prose and Poetry, and his Wordsworth). The thought
of him naturally carries with it thoughts of his work
in psychical research ; it carries me at once to one of
the strongest interests of my life.
I give this dream in outline only, including the first
step only of the analysis, merely as a preliminary illustra-
tion of the analytic method. The first step shows that
there is more point than appears at first sight in the
choice of a walk in the Lakes as one of the factors in
the make-up of the dream ; the subject is more interesting
to the dreamer than was at first apparent.
Freud holds that by following up the dreamer's associa-
tions with all the items of the dream, something of
great interest to him may be found connected with
every one of them, and that this is why he chose them
to dream of. He maintains that the ideas which come
out in the analysis through the dreamer's associations,
40 Alice Johnson. [part
and which he calls " the dream-thoughts," have entered
into—have indeed taken a preponderant part hi—the for-
mation of the dream, although the dreamer cannot remember
that they have had anything to do with it. The links which
are lost to recollection are supplied by the associations.
Now it is comparatively easy to believe that in the
case just given the dreamer mentally transformed and
compounded two concrete images of a walk into one
similar concrete image ; even though no recollection of
the mental process could be recovered. We can believe
it on what may be called circumstantial evidence. It
is much more difficult to believe that the complex and
more or less abstract idea of Mr. Myers and his con-
nection with the S.P.R. was transformed by some obscure
process 1
into the simple concrete image of a walk along
a hillside. It must appear on the face of it much more
probable that the idea of Mr. Myers first occurred to
the dreamer's mind in the course of the analysis, and
that the meaning attached to that idea was read into
the dream afterwards. If, as most analysts say, a man
will persevere in analysing his own dreams as thoroughly
as possible for some considerable time, he will probably
convince himself that such apparently remote ideas as
this have actually entered into the formation of his
dreams,
—
i.e. have not only been read into them after-
wards ; but—they generally say—his analysis will fail
to carry conviction to any one else who has not gone
through the same experience. One cannot, however,
remain satisfied with a conviction which is only j)ersonal ;
and the cases which I give below—a few typical ones
out of a large number recorded and studied—are analysed
in considerable detail, in order to give readers material
for forming their own judgment on them.
A Literary Parallel.
I referred above to the analogy between dreams and
literary compositions,—a feature which has especially
1 For Freud's conception of the process, which in this brief and bald state-
ment I am not attempting to expound, see his Interpretation of Dreams.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
4.1
struck me because it happens that the material for my
own dreams is largely drawn from literary sources. If
we analyse a poetical metaphor on the same lines as
those on which a dream is analysed, we find that meanings
are brought out in a similar way. The analogy is so
essential for my general argument that I venture to
give an instance in illustration, from Dante's Inferno,
XIV. 103-1 19,
1
as follows :
Within the mountain [Mount Ida, in Crete] stands erect a
great elder, who holds his shoulders turned towards Damietta,
and gazes at Rome as his mirror. His head is fashioned of
fine gold ; and pure silver are his arms and breast ; then is
he of brass even to the fork ;
from thence downwards is he
all choice iron, save that his right foot is baked earth, and
upon the first more than upon the other he stands upright.
Every part beside the gold is burst with a cleft which drips
tears, the which, collected, pierce this cavern. Their course
into this vale is from rock to rock ;
they make Acheron,
Styx and Phlegethon ; afterwards . . . they make Cocytns.
The image of this great Old Man is—like so many
dream-images—compounded primarily of two factors :
—
(1) The "great image" of Nebuchadnezzar's forgotten
dream, which Daniel recalled and interpreted to him
(Daniel II. 31 ff.) :
" This image's head was of fine gold,
his breast and his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs
of brass, his legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part
of clay." ; (2) the four ages of man, represented by the
four metals,—an idea common to the ancients, but perhaps
derived by Dante from Ovid, Met. I. 89-150, in particular.
The Old Man of Crete, then, represents the whole
human race from the earliest age onwards. He is placed
in Crete because, from Aen. III. 105, Crete is regarded
as " the cradle of our race," that is, the Trojan race,
the ancestors—according to Virgil—of the Romans. The
tears that issue from every part of him, except his golden
head, are shed for the sins and sorrows of the human
race. In the golden age alone, under the reign of Saturn,
king of Crete, [Inf. XIV. 96) mankind was innocent
1
A. J. Butler's translation.
42 Alice Johnson. [part
and happy, for sin and war had not yet come into the
world. In the silver, brass, and iron ages men became
progressively more and more wicked and impious.
Dante, starting from these two sources, which for
brevity may be called Daniel and Ovid, diverges at
once from his originals. Daniel's interpretation of his
image was that the golden head represented King Nebu-
chadnezzar, and the silver, brass, and iron the kings
that were to succeed him. The symbolism of the four
metals here is essentially different from that of the four
metals corresponding to the four ages of man ; but there
is a superficial resemblance between the two cases, and
just such a superficial resemblance as we often find
between two factors of a dream-image.
Further, Dante transforms Daniel's image in two re-
spects :
(1) he makes the brass end with the trunk,
whereas Daniel's brazen part includes the thighs ; (2) he
makes the right foot of clay and the left of iron, whereas
Daniel makes both feet partly iron and partly clay.
Such deviations in the case of dreams rule,
significant ;
they are generally indicative of the idiosyn-
crasies of the dreamer. In the case of this metaphor
they introduce a dominant idea of Dante's,—that the
human race rests essentially on the double organisation
of Church and Empire, each the supreme human authority
in its own sphere, both deriving their authority direct
from God. That the Old Man rests more upon his right
foot of clay than upon his left foot of iron indicates
that the ecclesiastical power had actually become stronger
than the secular power,—a usurpation of authority against
which Dante in his works was constantly protesting.
The 0vidian factor in the Old Man of Crete is aug-
mented and largely coloured by what may be described
generally as Virgilian influences, for it must have been
chiefly from Virgil that Dante drew his enthusiastic
idealisation of Rome. The Old Man stands in the moun-
tain with his back turned always to Damietta (in Egypt),
—the type of the old barbarous and luxurious monarchies
after which the degenerate Roman hankered ; from which,
in Virgil's age, Rome was saved by the Battle of Actium
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
and the final victory of Augustus over Antony,1 " nigh
the time when all heaven willed to bring the world to
its own serene mood " {Par. VI. 55-56). Later Constantine,
by removing the capital of the Empire to Constantinople,
" wheeled back the eagle, counter to the course of heaven
which it had followed in train of " Aeneas {Par. VI. 1-3), which
was the origin—in Dante's view—of the disastrous usurpation
of temporal power by the Papacy. The reversion to the
East symbolises for him a return to the Dark Ages. So
the Old Man of Crete keeps his face turned always to
Rome, the ideal city, destined ultimately to become " that
Rome whereof Christ is a Roman " {Purg. XXXII. 102).
The ancient poets looked back to the past and longed
for the return of the primeval Golden Age. For Dante
the human race turns its face to the future and looks
forward to the realisation of its ideals there. Meanwhile
the miseries and evils of the past and the present—the
tears of the Old Man—are flowing continually away
from the earth, down into hell.
While scholars would perhaps not endorse every detail of
the above, they would probably all agree that these meanings,
or something like them, were in Dante's mind as he was
writing the passage and have not merely been read into
it later by commentators. By a somewhat similar process of
analysis, one may be convinced that complicated meanings
are inherent or latent in comparatively simple dreams.
The first dream to be considered illustrates the use
of the association method in disclosing a connection
between the factors that could hardly have been discovered
by any other means.
Dream. "The Golden Stairs."
A photograph of Burne-Jones's " Golden Stairs " was given
to me, and I hung it up in a certain place on the wall of
my room.
1 The culminating scene of the future history of Rome represented on
the shield of Aeneas, see Aen. VIII. 675 ff. See also the prayer of
Juno that the Romans may never return to Troy, Aen. XII. 819-828.
44 Alice Johnson. [part
When I woke up, I remembered that the place where
I dreamt I had hung it was really occupied by two
pictures, Rethel's Der Tod als Freund (Death tolling a
bell while an old man is dying peacefully in his chair),
and a Nativity by Diirer. So it seemed that in my
dream I had substituted the " Golden Stairs " for these
two pictures.
I have never seen the original of the " Golden Stairs,"
or taken any interest in it ; but reproductions of it
(which do not attract me) are, of course, very common.
It happens that, through a casual remark once made
by a friend of mine, I associate it with Jacob's Ladder,
though there is no connection between the subjects of
the picture and of Jacob's dream. In the picture a
number of girls are walking down a winding staircase ;
in the dream the Ladder connects earth and heaven,
and the angels descend and ascend on it. There is,
however, a connection between Jacob's Ladder and the
two pictures for which the " Golden Stairs " was sub-
stituted ; for in " Der Tod als Freund " the soul of the
dying man is, we may suppose, about to ascend into
heaven, and the Nativity is a " descent into generation."
The Ladder represents both these in a composite form ;
for it is associated with the promise of posterity to
Jacob :
" The Lord stood above it and said . . . thy seed
shall be as the dust of the earth . . . and in thee and
in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed
"
{Genesis XXVIII. 13, 14).
The church at Rottingdean where Burne-Jones is buried
contains seven windows designed by him. Of these, the
two in the tower represent Jacob's Ladder and a " Jesse
tree " with the Virgin and Child at the top. I had
visited the church and paid special attention to these
windows about two years earlier, so that there was in
my mind a definite link between Burne-Jones and the
Ladder and the Nativity.
Another of my associations with Jacob's Ladder comes
from the Paradiso (XXII. 111-120). Dante rises by the
Ladder from the Seventh Heaven into the Heaven of
the Fixed Stars, and finds himself, to his joy, in the
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis .
4.-,
region of his own natal stars, the Gemini. Heaven has
many mansions, and he returns to the one from which
he first descended to earth, the mansion of his " genius,"
" the Soul that rises with us, our life's Star." He brought
with him into the world a certain individuality, and the
same individuality he carries back with him into Paradise ;
it is on this very account that he finds himself at home there.
The general idea is probably derived from Plato's
Timaeus, (known to Dante only in the Latin paraphrase
of Chalcidius) ; cf. Par. IV. 49-53 :
" That which Timaeus
argueth of the souls. . . . He saith the soul returneth to
its star, believing it cleft thence when nature gave it
a form."
The passage alluded to in the Timaeus Myth 1
is as
follows :
When [God] had made of [the elements of the Soul of the
All] one mixture, he took and divided Souls therefrom, as
many as there are stars, and to each star he assigned a Soul,
and caused each Soul to go up into her star as into a chariot,
and showed unto her the nature of the All. [The souls are
then born into human bodies, with all the human passions] ;
and if any man should hold these passions in subjection, his
life would be righteous ; but unrighteous if he should be over-
come of them ; and whosoever lived virtuously all the time
appointed unto him should journey back to his kindred star
and dwell there, and there should have a life blessed and
conform unto his nature ; but whosoever fell short of this
[must go through various lower incarnations, until] he should,
by the might of reason, overcome all that unreasonable,
tumultuous crowd which was afterwards gathered about him
from the elements of fire and water and air and earth, and
should come again unto his first and best estate.
This abstract notion of the history and fate of the
human sold Dante characteristically renders into concrete
individual terms by imagining himself in the act of going
through the process. His ingenious device of using Jacob's
Ladder for the return journey to the star is, I think,
original
.
1
Translation in Prof. J. A. Stewart's The Myths of Plato, pp. 275-277.
46 Alice Johnson. [part
The dream associations show that the idea behind the
" Golden Stairs " in my dream was Jacob's Ladder, and
that Jacob's Ladder stands in the dream for a symbol
of continuity between the present and a future life, and
of individual survival.
There is another peculiar feature in the dream which
I did not notice till more than a year after its occurrence,
viz. the substitution of an English picture, the " Golden
Stairs," for the two German pictures, by Rethel and
Durer. German is par excellence the language of psycho-
analysis (and something German has occurred several
times in my dreams as a symbol or indication of this
subject, as will be seen in some cases given below, p. 63) ;
whereas English may be called par excellence the language
of psychical research. The substitution of the English
picture in the dream is therefore, I think, to be regarded
as indicating the dreamer's predilection for psychical
research.
Dream. " The Bacchae."
I came into Botolph Lane, Cambridge, (a narrow lane with
houses on one side and the churchyard of St. Botolph's Church
on the other), and saw a cow running wild among a crowd of
children. With some difficulty I got through the crowd and
was running away into the street beyond when I heard it
said that some of the children were being attacked by the
cow. So I turned back, intending to go to their rescue. I
saw several small children being tossed up in the air and
falling in the churchyard. The most horrible part was that
the other children in the crowd were rejoicing in the sight,
laughing and shouting exultantly. Before I could get to the
scene of action, an elderly man, with two or three women,
came out of one of the houses. He had a long grey beard,
and a plain, unattractive face, and carried in his hand some
sort of antique weapon, like a pike. He went up to the cow,
who was now in the churchyard, sitting up and leaning back,
in the attitude in which one sits in a dentist's chair. He
said to her, " Madam, you knew it would end in this," and
then cut her throat. Then he told the parents of the injured
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 47
children, who gathered round him with the children in their
arms, that if the point of his pike was cleaned and placed
lengthwise against their throats, it would heal them.
On waking up from this dream, I said to myself,
" Why, that's a parody of the Bacchae,"—meaning the
Bacchae of Euripides, familiar to me in Prof. Gilbert
Murray's version. I recognised the Cow as a disguised
form of Dionysus, the Bull-God,—a disguise which was
skilfully emphasised in the dream by the Cow being
addressed as " Madam," but which I saw through at
once on awaking. I went over the details of the dream
in my mind, so that I might remember it in the morning ;
then I soon went to sleep again and dreamt again. The
scene of the first dream (Botolph Lane) was on the way
from my home to Newnham College and was a place
which I must have passed through at least a thousand
times. The second dream was located at Newnham itself,
and was as follows :
—
I was walking through a long passage. One side of the
passage, where there are in reality a number of small rooms,
was transformed into a wall some ten to twelve feet thick,
pierced by three narrow archways. These led out into an open
space, surrounded by a high brick wall. The wall was mellow
in colour, very old, but in perfect repair, and looked very
solid. It was almost entirely covered by a creeper, which
also covered the whole ground. An extraordinarily soft and
brilliant light, like glorified sunlight, was shining down on to
it, and I noticed particularly the delicate, half-transparent
green of the young shoots and leaves. I recognised the creeper
as a very common one, perfectly familiar to me, but I could
not remember its name. The whole scene suggested peace,
quiet, and solitude.
When I woke up, it seemed important that I should
get the name of the creeper. With a considerable effort
I recalled its appearance to my mind, and then saw that
it was Ivy. I was vaguely aware that Ivy had some
significance in Greek mythology ; but it took a little
while longer to remember—what was perfectly well known
to me—that it is one of the commonest emblems of
48 Alice Johnson. [part
Bacchus. Thus the second dream was obviously a con-
tinuation of the first.
Considering that no incident of the first dream is like
any incident in the play, it seems to me noteworthy
that I recognised it at once as a parody of the play.
The recognition was not a matter of inference from any
of the details ; it seemed rather of the nature of an
immediate sensory perception ; it was like being in the
same room with a person intimately known to one,
whose identity it would be imjjossible to doubt, in spite
of his being dressed in strange and unfamiliar clothing.
So I was convinced, and nothing could have shaken my
conviction, of what the dream Avas.
This, I think, amounts to a practical proof that a
good deal of subliminal mental activity had gone to the
concoction of the dream, and that the recollection of
that activity was retained in my subliminal conscious-
ness, while the knowledge of the result of it, and this
only, had risen above the threshold of consciousness.
In other words, my subliminal self had composed the
jjarody ; it knew that it had done so, and knew, of
course, what it had parodied ; but the only part of its
knowledge that emerged into the supraliminal was the
bare fact : Here is a parody of the Bacchae.
The material for the dream is borrowed in the first
instance from Professor Murray's translation of the Bacchae
and his Euripides and his Age, and to a less extent from
Miss J. E. Harrison's Prolegomena to the Study of Greek
Religion and Dr. Verrall's The Bacchants of Euripides ;
but other elements, as will be seen, also enter into it.
Dr. Verrall's view 1
that the Bacchae is a veiled attack
on the Dionysiac cult, that the Dionysus of the play
is an impostor masquerading as the God, and so on,
may partly account for the semi-farcical, or superficially
farcical, character of the dream.
In order to make it comprehensible, it may perhaps
be best, for the benefit of readers who are not familiar
with the play, to begin with a brief account of it, which
1 This view is expressly put forward as only one out of several inter-
pretations, all more or less valid ; see op. cit. p. 18.
XXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 49
I abridge from Professor Murray's Introductory Note to
his translation :
The myth on which the Bacchae is founded is briefly as
follows :
Semele, daughter of Cadmus, King of Thebes, being loved
by Zeus, asked him to appear to her once in his full glory ;
he came, a blaze of miraculous lightning, in the ecstasy of
which Semele died, giving premature birth to a son. Zeus,
to save this child's life, and make him truly God as well as
Man, tore open his own flesh and therein fostered him, till
in due time, by a miraculous and mysterious Second Birth,
the child of Semele came to full life as God.
He is a God of Intoxication, of Inspiration, a giver of
superhuman or immortal life. He becomes especially the God
of the vine. He has many names,—Dionysus, Bacchios,
Zagreus, etc., etc., and also many shapes, especially appearing
as a Bull and as a Serpent. His worshippers carry the thyrsus,
a wand wreathed with ivy.
This originally primitive and barbarous religion was in the
sixth century B.C. seized upon and transfigured by the great
wave of religious reform, known under the name of Orphism.
Orphism was grafted straight upon the Dionysus-worship,
and, without rationalising, spiritualised and reformed it. Ascetic,
mystical, ritualistic and emotional, Orphism easily excited both
enthusiasm and ridicule. It lent itself both to inspired saint-
liness and to imposture. In doctrine it laid especial stress
upon sin, and the sacerdotal purification of sin ; on the eternal
reward due beyond the grave to the pure and the impure,
the pure living in an eternal ecstasy, the impure toiling through
long ages to wash out their stains. It recast in various ways
the myth of Dionysus, and especially the story of his Second
Birth. All true worshippers become in a mystical sense one
with the God ;
they are born again and are " Bacchoi."
Dionysus being the God within, the perfectly pure soul is
possessed by the God wholly and becomes nothing but the
God.
A curious relic of primitive superstition and cruelty remained
firmly embedded in Orphism—a doctrine irrational and un-
intelligible, and for that very reason wrapped in the deepest
D
50 Alice Johnson. [part
and most sacred mystery : a belief in the sacrifice of Dionysus
himself, and the purification of man by his blood. There was
a constant tradition of inspired Bacchanals in their rites
tearing to pieces wild animals, even bulls. The wild beast
that tore was, of course, the savage God himself. And by
one of those curious confusions of thought, which seem so
inconceivable to us, but so absolutely natural and obvious
to primitive man, the beast torn was also the God. The
Orphic congregations of later times, in their most holy gather-
ings, solemnly partook of the blood of a bull, which was, by
a mystery, the blood of Dionysus-Zagreus himself, the " Bull
of God," slain in sacrifice for the purification of man.
In the play Pentheus, now king of Thebes, son of
Agave, sister of Semele, denies the divinity of Dionysus
and suspects that the secret rites of his women worshippers
are a mere cloak for licentiousness. The suspicion is
throughout maintained to be groundless ; and Dionysus,
to revenge himself on Pentheus, lures him out into the
forest glades to witness the women's rites, on which no
man may look, and then leaves him to the vengeance of
the women. Inspired by the God with madness, they
take Pentheus for a wild beast, and a band of them,
headed by his own mother, Agave, tear him to pieces.
Throughout the Bacchae there is (in Professor Murray's
words) " a sharp antagonism between the two spirits of
the Chorus, first, as furious Bacchanals, and secondly
as exponents of the idealised Bacchic religion of Euri-
pides." These two antagonistic aspects of the play are
represented in the two dreams. In the first the crowd
of children represent the chorus of furious Bacchanals, for
the Bacchic possession gives to all, young and old, the
spirit of exultant, irresponsible youth. It is the extreme
youth of the children which prevents their realisation
of what is going on, so that they rejoice in the excitement
of seeing the Cow attack their companions ; as Agave
and her sisters, in their madness and delusion, murdered her
son Pentheus and exulted in the deed. The second dream
seems to symbolise the freedom and peace of the initiate,,
one " who hath fled the tempest and won the haven."
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 51
I propose to examine the first dream in detail, and
will begin with its first associations :
—
The children. Their extreme youth, like the madness
of the Bacchants, made an obstacle to their perception
of, their communion with the external world. The
obstacle between us and the babe is like that between
us and the disembodied :
—" Like a child from the womb,
like a ghost from the tomb." Birth and re-birth.
The man reminded me of a typical Dissenting deacon.
The worshippers of Dionysus were heretics or dissenters ;
the " inspiration " of some of the early Quakers and
Anabaptists was not unlike the Bacchic or Orphic pos-
session in a modern form. Dissenters claim freedom of
thought, and free development of individuality. The man
seems to represent a Puritan.
His Pike : an antique weapon, suggesting the Civil
Wars ; Cromwell ;
Dunbar ;
" Peace hath her victories no
less renowned than War." The French word pique,
meaning both " pike " and " spade " (hi cards) ; thus
suggestive both of war and peace.
The Cow, who attacks the children and is then herself slain,
is primarily Dionysus in his double capacity of the God and
the Victim, "the slayer and the slain "
;
although in the play
not Dionysus, but Pentheus, is the victim, and he is slain,
not by Dionysus himself, but by his tools, the Bacchants.
We may find the first explanation of the change of
sex in the dream in the fact that a certain confusion of
sexes is inherent in the myth : (1) Zeus fosters the infant
Dionysus in his own body and brings him to a miraculous
second birth ; (2) Dionysus himself is represented as
beardless and like a woman, with effeminate long curls ;
(3) Pentheus disguises himself as a woman, to spy on
the women's secret rites.
But more profound reasons are to be found in the
highly complex character of the Cow, as revealed by the
analysis. The first associations with it were asj follows :
—
Nursery rhymes, e.g.
" Thank you, pretty cow, that made
Pleasant milk to soak my bread."
52 Alice Johnson. [part
" The friendly cow, all red and white,
I love with all my heart ;
She gives me cream with all her might,
To eat with apple-tart."
" Where are you going to, my pretty maid ?
I'm going a-milking, Sir, she said."
Milk for babes.
" This is the cow with the crumpled horn,
That tossed the dog. ..."
" There was an old man who said, '
How
Shall I flee from this terrible cow ?
'
"
" The cow jumped over the moon."
Mythological connection of the crescent moon with
cow's horns : Io, the cow-maiden.
Europa's bull.
The Minotaur : Watts 's picture.
Io, the Argive maiden, was, like Semele, beloved of
Zeus. She was transformed into a cow, and driven in
a state of frenzy over the world by a gad-fly, till she
found a resting place in the Nile Delta. There her
reason was restored and a son was born to her—the
founder of a new race. " To the mythologist Io is pro-
bably one of the many shapes of the horned Moon, the
wanderer of the sky. She was identified by the Greeks
with the Egyptian Isis, and her son—conceived miracu-
lously by the touch of the hand of Zeus—with Apis, the
sacred Egyptian bull." 1
Io, the Cow-maiden, rushing to and fro in her frenzy,
seems to be one of the factors of the Dream Cow.
The slaying of the Cow : its throat is cut. Cf. the
chorus in which the Bacchants invoke vengeance on the
blasphemer Pentheus :
—
Hither for doom and deed !
Hither with lifted sword,
Justice, Wrath of the Lord,
Come in our visible need !
1 Prof. G. Murray, Rise of the Greek Epic, pp. 247-248.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
53
Smite till the throat shall bleed,
Smite till the heart shall bleed,
Him the tyrannous, lawless, godless,
Echion's earth-born seed !
(The Chorus-Leader continues :)
Appear, appear, whatso thy shape or name,
O Mountain Bull, Snake of the Hundred Heads,
Lion of Burning Flame !
O God, Beast, Mystery, come !
Allusion has already been made to the Bacchic or
Orphic identification of the Victim with the God, whose
multiformity is here indicated.
Another famous bull-slaying is alluded to in the associa-
tions : the Minotaur, or Man-Bull, of the Cretan labyrinth,
slain by Theseus, who cut its throat with the sword
furnished to him by Ariadne.
A further, and perhaps more essential, factor in the
dream-sacrifice is to be found in the representations of
Mithras, the Persian Sun-god,1
killing the Bull, the evil
principle. The God is generally represented as a youth,
kneeling on a bull, whose throat he is cutting. In another
aspect the Mithraic Bull is the first living creature, and
its death gives rise to the whole animate creation. So
various creatures, such as a snake, a dog, and a lion or
scorpion, generally appear in the groups, feeding on its
vital juices. Thus, either Mithras, by sacrificing the Bull,
or the Bull, by being sacrificed, is the Creator of the
universe; or rather, both of them fulfil this function.
Here, again, is the same identification of the God with
the Victim as in the Dionysiac doctrines, and the same
cycle of birth, death, and re-birth.
In the Mithraic, as in the Orphic, doctrines, all men
were equal in the sight of God ;
2
there was " neither
Jew nor Greek, neither bond nor free, neither male nor
female." All might become initiates,—might, by the due
1 For the Mithraic religion, see, e.g., Cumont's Mysteries of Mithras.
2 The religion of Mithras, introduced from Asia into the Roman
Empire, became especially (though not exclusively) the religion of the
Roman army, and an instrument for knitting together the men of the
many different tribes and races of which the army was composed.
54 Alice Johnson. [part
rites, be purified from their sins, and so obtain im-
mortality.
The seating of the Cow, as if in a dentist's chair. The
seating is perhaps derived from an illustration in Miss
Harrison's Prolegomena to the Study of Greek Religion,
p. 483, of a seal-impression, found in Crete, of a supposed
bnll-god seated on a throne of camp-stool shape. It is
not certain that the creature is a bull, but the text
refers to similar sealings of a seated Minotaur,—the
Minotaur being, says Miss Harrison, " own cousin " to
the Bull-Dionysus of Thrace. Pentheus, according to
the genealogy of the play, was literally first cousin to
Dionysus.
The dentist's chair. The scene of the dream was close
to the house of a dentist to whom I used to go in Cam-
bridge ; and seven days before it occurred I had had
several teeth out in London. But, as remarked above,
the recent incidents that are introduced into a dream
are generally uninteresting in themselves, and selected only
because they can be woven into the fabric of some
interesting thing. The inclusion in the Cow associations
(see above) of Europa's Bull carries us back to the
legendary foundation of Thebes. Europa, daughter of
the Phoenician king Agenor, was carried off by Zeus in
the form of a Bull to Crete, where she became the mother
of Minos. Her brother Cadmus was sent to look for her
and enjoined not to return without her. Unable to find
her, he went at last into Boeotia, where he encountered
a monstrous dragon, the son of Ares (Mars), which he
killed. He was commanded by Athena to sow the dragon's
teeth in the ground ; out of these armed men sprang up,
who all killed each other except five. The five survivors
helped Cadmus to build the city of Thebes, and became
the ancestors of the Thebans. One of them, named
Echion, married Agave, daughter of Cadmus, and became
the father of Pentheus. So the struggle in the play is
between Pentheus, the son of an earth-born warrior, and
Dionysus, the son of a divine father. (See, in the
Chorus from the Bacchae quoted above, " the tyranno^^s,
lawless, godless, Echion's earth-born seed.")
XiXXV.] Dream-Awilysis
.
55
Cadmus, the grandfather of both, who acted as a dentist
to the Dragon, is an important character in the play.
The Churchyard, in which the Cow was slain. The
scenery of the Bacchae is thus described by Professor
Murray :
" The background represents the front of the
Castle of Pentheus, King of Thebes. At one side is visible
the sacred Tomb of Semele." The presence of this sacred
Tomb is felt throughout the play. Semele, says Dionysus,
has been slandered by her sisters :•
—
" My mother sinned, said they ; and in her need
With Cadmus plotting, cloaked her human shame
With the dread name of Zeus ; for that the flame
From heaven consumed her, seeing she lied to God."
So he comes to Thebes
" To save my mother's fame, and crown me here
As true God, born by Semele to Zeus."
And for this purpose he does not shrink from means
that have been used by many other religions, down to
the historic age of the Inquisition, or even later.
In his Euripides and his Age (pp. 181-197) Professor
Murray gives his view of the relationship of the dramatist
to this play in words which might be taken almost un-
altered to describe the psychological relationship of a
dreamer to his dream. The passage is too long to quote,
and I will not spoil it by attempting to summarise it.
But there is one point in it which probably influenced
my dream,—Prof. Murray's comparison of the Bacchae to
a hypothetical play written by some " great, free-minded,
modern poet ... in the style of the old Mysteries, on
some legend of a mediaeval saint,"—a tradition which
should fix the incidents to be introduced, while itself
forming a vehicle through which the poet can express
himself all the more freely because the incidents are not
of his choice or of his invention. The churchyard scenery
of my dream-drama suggests Miracle-plays, which, being
—
like the Greek tragedies-—a kind of religious ceremonial,
were often performed in churches or churchyards. They
were, as we know, always crude, often more or less
56 Alice Johnson. [part
farcical, and not infrequently degenerated into a coarsely
grotesque treatment of the most sacred subjects ; for they
were intended to appeal to the common people, and
perhaps—like the modern theatre—aimed at a lower
point than was necessary for that purpose. The dream
has a farcical and rather childish element in it, —an
atmosphere comparable to that of a Miracle-play.
There is also a specific childish association of mine
with this particular churchyard, perhaps worth mentioning
here. In the street beyond the church and adjoining it,
the inner side of the pavement (by Corpus College) is
raised some two feet above the rest. This structure was
known to us in my nursery days as " The High Place,"
and I vaguely supposed it to be somehow connected
with the " high places " in the Bible where sacrifices
were offered to idols ;
e.g., to the golden calves set
up by Jeroboam (I. Kings XII. 28-33). The slaying
of the Cow in the dream is obviously sacrificial, and
in spite of the superficial farce, the underlying purpose
of the sacrifice is certainly serious. We have seen that
it has elements derived both from Dionysiac and Mithraic
sources, and that it should take place in the churchyard
points to those numerous analogies between the Dionysiac
or Orphic mysteries and rites and the Christian sacraments
which are indicated in the quotations from Prof. Murray's
Introduction to the Bacchae given above. The similar
analogies between Mithraic and Christian rites are well
known.
There is, moreover, a special appropriateness in the
location of the dream considered as a Miracle-play or
Mystery. For miracle-plays were especially connected
with the festival of Corpus Christi, and the guild of
Corpus Christi in Cambridge, which founded Corpus
Christi College in 1352, is known to have been concerned
in such plays at about that time. Now St. Botolph's
Church and churchyard adjoins the College, and in early
days a close connection existed between the College and
the church.
So far as I am consciously aware, I did not at the
time of the dream know of this early connection between
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 57
the College and the church ; nor that miracle-plays were
associated with the Roman Catholic festival of Corpus
Christi. I had in my analysis of the dream made the
comparison with miracle-plays some time before I came
across these facts, which confirm the comparison. But of
course they may have been within my subliminal knowledge.
There is another important element in the dream
hitherto not mentioned. The Dionysian Bull has, it seems,
been transformed into a Cow, and I mentioned above
that a certain confusion of sexes was inherent in the
myth ; also that Io, the Cow-maiden, seemed to be one
of the factors of the Cow. But the Cow is slain on, or
close to, the equivalent of the Tomb of Semele (i.e. in
the churchyard) ; she must then be also Semele. Semele
had asked Zeus to appear to her in his full glory, in
order to prove that he was a divine and not a mortal
lover ; he came as a blaze of miraculous lightning, in the
ecstasy of which she died. So we have in the dream-
churchyard the " Tomb of the Lightning's Bride." And
the weapon that kills her is the Thunderbolt of Zeus.
It follows that the man who wields it is, in one aspect,
Zeus. If this seems at first sight surprising, I would
refer once more to the analogy of miracle-plays, in which
an ordinary citizen might represent the Deity. I would also
suggest that the drama of a dream is like private theatricals
played by a limited family party, where " one man in his
time plays many parts, His acts being seven ages." Only
in a dream the parts are played simultaneously instead of
successively, which makes them difficult to follow.
Those characters of the Man which belong to his early
ages are revealed by his relationship to the different
characters of the Cow :
To Semele and to Io he is Zeus.
To Dionysus and to Pentheus he is a Bacchos, an
Initiate, a sacrificial priest of the Orphic Mysteries.
To the Minotaur—the most degraded form of the Bull,
the utterly and irretrievably animal form 1
—he is Theseus.
To the Mithraic Bull, he is Mithras ; the initiate who
is one with the God becomes here the God himself.
1
As represented by Watts ; see associations, above, p. 52.
58 Alice Johnson. [part
The Man takes part in a primitive, even revolting,
ceremonial of sacrifice ; but he is also the healer of the
children. He heals them by a sort of magic, of the
nature of a rite of purification,—and rites of purification
were a specially important part of the Orphic cult ; but
the actual blood of the slain victim, " the blood of bulls,"
is not used in the rite ; the pike has to be cleansed
from the blood before it can become an instrument of
healing. The symbolism of purification by blood in the
New, even more than in the Old, Testament and in
hymns always appeared to my childish mind particularly
revolting, while at the same time I imagined it wrong
to have such feelings. This may have been one cause
of the cleansing required hi the dream, which, however,
has probably a wider significance.
The Man in his modern aspect (see associations, above,
p. 51) appears as a Puritan,—presumably an Ironside.
But, unattractive as he looks, he retains something of
his old character of the Orphic 1
: for the greatest poet
of the Puritan age was himself a Puritan.
The dream as a whole may be described as a rather
crude essay in comparative religion. The main doctrine
which connects together the various religions alluded to-
—
the Dionysiac or Orphic, the Mithraic, and the Christian
—
is a belief in immortality. This, being the chief interest
of the dreamer, is, I think, the predominant underlying
idea of the dream.
The Problem of Personation.
The jDsychoanalytic doctrines, both of Freud and of
Jung, assume that the dream is a symbolical summary
of the psychological state of the dreamer at the moment,
and that all the dream characters are dramatisations of
his characteristics, impulses, moods, or feelings. It is of
course to be understood that the dream-personality does
1
Orpheus, the sober ascetic, "the scrupulous moralist and reformer,"
the " poet, seer, musician, theologist," (as described in Miss Harrison's
Prolegomena, p. 472), reminds one curiously in some respects of Milton.
IXXV.] Dream-Analysis 59
not as a rule represent the dreamer in any complete way,
but only one aspect of him, or one of his feelings or
wishes.
The same view might be taken of literary compositions ;
it might be maintained that all the characters of a drama
represent the dramatist himself, or some aspect of him ;
and there is, no doubt, a certain degree of truth in this
view. But there is in most cases room for much difference
of opinion as to how far it is true ; and while dreams
are probably as a rule more intimately concerned with
the dreamer than literature is with the author, the
difference appears to me one of degree rather than of
kind.
Freud says :
" Every dream is absolutely egotistical ;
in every dream the beloved ego appears, even though it
may be in a disguised form. The wishes that are realised
in dreams are regularly the wishes of this ego ; it is only
a deceptive appearance if interest in another person is
thought to have caused the dream." 1
Dreams may no doubt be interpreted on this basis, just
as we could interpret every waking thought and action
as actuated by purely egotistic motives. But I cannot
discover any ground, either in Freud's dreams, as analysed
in his book, or in my own, for saying that the interest
in other people displayed in the dream is merely a decep-
tive appearance. Whatever interest we—whether waking
or sleeping—take in other people must have an egotistic
element in it, and we may, if we choose (as Freud does
in the case of his own dreams), pick out this element and
treat it as the predominant one. But if we do, I think
we run the risk of ignoring other and equally true and
important elements ;
just as to ignore everything but the
egotistic element in literature would give a very one-sided
view of it.
I believe, however, that personation plays an important
part in dreams, and I give next two illustrative cases,
in both of which two real individuals, myself and the
analyst, stand behind the dream-personalities. It is
natural that the analyst should often be represented in
1
The Interpretation of Dreams, p. 227.
GO Alice Johnson. [part
dreams, and such dreams show in a dramatic form the
relationship at the moment of the dreamer to the analyst,
or rather, perhaps, to the process of analysis. I need
hardly add that the representation of the analyst in such
a dream is not to be taken any more literally than th&
representation of the dreamer.
Dream. " Queen Victoria."
My nephew R. was to have some very slight operation,,
something not much more serious than having a tooth out.
Just then Queen Victoria came in and hearing that the opera-
tion was to be performed, asked me to let her know how it
went off, which I promised to do. After it was over, I
discussed with my family how to write to the Queen. My
idea was to begin, " Madam," and go on as one would to
anybody else. They said that, if I did so, I must write a
covering letter, beginning, " May it please your Majesty," and
altogether formal and ceremonious. R. objected to my sending
any letter to the Queen ; he cried and clung to me, imploring
me not to write, as he said it was such a silly fuss to make
about nothing. I said I must write, because I had promised
to do so.
The trivial operation of this dream is no doubt the
process of psychoanalysis, which was then being practised
on me ;
Queen Victoria, the superior and benevolent
person who is interested in the result of it, is the analyst
(a medical woman) ; the other characters represent my
different feelings about the process. The subject was
then new to me ; I found it an effort to give my attention
to it, and in some moods probably wished to have nothing
to do with it. This unreasonable side is dramatised as
the boy (who appeared in the dream to be much younger
than he really was at the time) ; he objects to having
anything to do with the analyst. The "family" do not
go so far as this, but they are still dubious ;
they will
only deal with the analyst in a formal and ceremonious
manner, preferring not to come to close quarters with
her. The " I " of the dream plays the most sensible
part, determining not to shirk the difficulties of the
XXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 61
situation, (for I was really much interested in psycho-
analysis). One object of the representation of Queen
Victoria is probably to make it appear difficult ;
it is,
for one unaccustomed to royal society, an excuse for
finding it difficult. Yet the idea that Queen Victoria is
only a sort of joke is, I fancy, floating about somewhere
in the background of the dream ; for my first association
with the phrase, " May it please your Majesty," was
Alice's Adventures in Wonderland. I found on looking
up the book about two years later that it represented
my sentiments much more closely than I had consciously
recollected ; the context of the phrase being as follows :
[The Queen of Hearts asks Alice :]
"What's your name, child ?
"
" My name is Alice, so please your Majesty," said Alice
very politely ; but she added to herself, " Why, they're only
a pack of cards, after all. I needn't be afraid of them."
"Alice's Adventures" are dream-adventures, and Alice
is my name.
The address " Madam " was associated in my mind
with Tennyson, because letters from him to the Queen,
beginning " Madam," are published in his Life, which I
have read more than once.
This dream, then, is associated with two typically
Victorian writers, Lewis Carroll and Tennyson ; its atmos-
phere is •
exclusively domestic ; and—to stamp the whole
—
we have the entry on the scene of the Queen herself.
About six weeks afterwards came another dream, which
was only considerably later perceived to be supplementary
to the one just given, as follows :
—
Dream. " The Kaiser."
I was in a room with a number of people, among whom
were the Kaiser and Mrs. Salter. Seeing that no one was
going to introduce me to the Kaiser, I bowed to him, and he
shook hands with me. His manner was polite, but not gracious ;
he did not smile. He offered to let me look over a book
the Bible) with him. We were standing on a raised dais.
On the floor below a man (? King Ferdinand of Bulgaria) was
62 Alice Johnson. [part
standing, facing us, and reading aloud out of another copy
of the same book, like a man reading a Lesson in church.
The Kaiser was supervising and prompting him, and frowned
and gesticulated at him. Ferdinand was confused, had difficulty
in finding his place to begin with, and lost it hopelessly
towards the end.
Meanwhile I was trying to think of a topic of conversation
with the Kaiser, and thought of asking him whether he had
seen the papers that morning. (The chief topic in the papers
had been the refusal of the English fishermen of the King
Stephen to save the German airmen of the wrecked Zeppelin.)
I forgot at the moment that his sympathies would be on a
different side from mine.
Afterwards I saw Mr. Piddington, and remarked to him
that it would have been rather funny if I had asked the
Kaiser that question. I also told him that I was disappointed
not to see the Kaiser looking more ill (as there had lately
been rumours that he was seriously ill) ; he had been very
pale, but seemed fairly strong.
In this dream the Kaiser represents the analyst, while
the analysed person is represented by two characters,
" I " and King Ferdinand of Bulgaria. (If this does not
seem altogether complimentary to the analyst, at least
it is hardly more so to the dreamer ;
—the honours are
even.) The book which the Kaiser and " I " were looking
over together and which Ferdinand was reading aloud is
evidently the theory of psychoanalysis. Most books on
this subject are written in German ;
hence, probably, the
introduction of the Kaiser. The subject has two main
aspects, the therapeutic and the psychological, the
latter being the aspect which connects it with psychical
research, and which is therefore the more interesting one
to me. On the therapeutic or purely psychoanalytic side,
I am in the position of a pupil of the analyst's, and
this seems to be symbolised by the relation of Ferdinand
to the Kaiser.
One of my first associations with Ferdinand was that
his action reminded me of the behaviour of Bill the
Lizard at the trial of the Knave of Hearts in Alice's
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
63
Adventures in Wonderland. Following this line, I thought
next of the picture of Bill the Lizard, coming out of the
chimney, which he had tried to enter from the top,
—
the wrong way for a chimney sweep. This suggests the
epithet " chimney-sweeping " used by Fraulein O. for the
process of psychoanalysis, in a case in Breuer and Freud's
Studien vher Hysterie, summarised by Myers in Human
Personality, Vol. I. p. 55 :
" '
The talking cure '
or '
chimney-
sweeping,' as Fraulein 0. called it, was practically equi-
valent to confession under hypnosis." A reminiscence of
the same phrase appears in a Holland script as follows :
" Is she asleep ? No, she's talking. That chimney
smokes." Having traced this script phrase to the sentence
in Human Personality, I have ever since associated the
two together, so that a smoking chimney, or smoking,
stands in my mind as a symbol of psychoanalysis. 1
In regard to the bearing of psychoanalysis on psychical
research, my relation to the analyst is different, since
psychical research is my special province. Hence the
" I " of the dream, regarded as a psychical researcher,
stands on a level with the Kaiser. In this subject we
are opponents, in the sense that our opinions do not
coincide, and the disagreement is represented in the dream
by the different sentiments about the wrecked Zeppelin.
The presence in the dream of my colleagues, Mrs. Salter
and Mr. Piddington, shows that psychical research is an
important" element in it. They and " I " are in the same
way opposed to the Kaiser,—that is, to the psycho-
analyst's view of psychical research,—though we keep up
polite relations with him.
The German element in this dream has a special signifi-
cance. A transmutation of a German into an English
subject has been described above in the Burne-Jones's
" Golden Stairs " dream (p. 46). Somewhat later in the same
series, I dreamt that I was back at College, wandering
about with nothing particular to do, but planning to study
German. The dream was rambling and incoherent, but
gave me the impression of dealing in a confused way
with psychoanalysis, among other things. On the other
1
The symbol recurs in the dream of " The Bus," given below, p. 92.
64 Alice Johnson. [pabt
hand, on two occasions, French and Italian—the languages
of our allies—have appeared in dreams relating to the
special subjects of the automatic scripts, that is, to
psychical research.
Further Analysis.
On referring nearly two years later to Alice's Adventures,
which, as a child, I knew almost by heart (and which,
it may be remembered, has played a great part in political
caricatures), I found it accounted for more of the setting
of the dream than I had realised. This exemplifies the
general view—frequently confirmed in my experience
—
that the dream-memory is more extensive and more
accurate than the waking memory. In the picture of
Bill the Lizard alluded to in the associations, I found
that there are two chimneys in one stack ; Bill the
Lizard is in the air above one, while clouds of smoke
are coming out of the other. So it fitted more closely
than I was consciously aware of to the Holland script
johrase, " That chimney smokes."
I had noted that Ferdinand reminded me of Bill the
Lizard at the trial of the Knave of Hearts (at which
Alice was an interested spectator and was called upon to
give evidence). Bill was one of the jury, who took notes
on slates. He lost his slate-pencil and " was obliged to
write with one finger for the rest of the day ; and this
was of very little use, as it left no mark on the slate."
Later the Queen of Hearts, who sat by the King as Judge,
and was constantly ordering off persons in the court to
execution, threw an inkstand at the Lizard :
" The un-
fortunate little Bill had left off writing on his slate with
one finger, as he found it made no mark ; but he now
hastily began again, using the ink that was trickling
down his face, as long as it lasted."
Now if King Ferdinand is Bill the Lizard, it is evident
that the Kaiser is the Queen of Hearts. The picture of
the trial shows the Queen of Hearts sitting on the dais
(with the King), and the jury-box, in which Bill sat, on
the floor below, looking not unlike a reading-desk in
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 65
church. So in the drearn the Kaiser stands on a dais,
and Ferdinand on the floor below is compared to "a man
reading a Lesson in church."
Thus it appears that the whole dream is a parody of
the Trial scene in Alice's Adventures, as the dream of the
Cow, above, was seen to be a parody of the Bacchae ;
though in the latter case the parody was perceived by
the dreamer immediately after waking, while in the former
it was not observed till about two years after the dream.
The dream Queen Victoria, however, had been, as we
saw, associated in the first analysis with the Queen of
Hearts. This makes it still more certain that Queen
Victoria and the Kaiser are essentially the same person,
or different aspects of the same person, viz., the analyst.
The Queen of Hearts' favourite remark is " Off with his
head I" Cf. the insistence of the psychoanalyst that the
emotional factor is the only one that counts in dreams.
But as in the Cow dream there are other elements
besides those derived from the Bacchae, so in these dreams
there are other elements besides those derived from Alice's
Adventures, and in particular the " German " element.
The dreamer, it seems, objects in some respects to psycho-
analysis, and the objection to it is represented in both
dreams under the guise of hostility to Germany. In the
second dream the hostility is open ; in the first it is veiled
by the apparently "All-British" atmosphere, and by the
fact that the word " Victorian " stands for something
typically English, although Queen Victoria actually was
of predominantly German descent, and the majority of all
her family connections were and are German. In the dreams
there is much less hostility to her than to the Kaiser,
but the hostility is clearly there, although the partially
German dream-person is felt to be less objectionable than
the wholly German dream-person. This distinction points
clearly to the two schools of psychoanalysis,—the purely
German or Vienna school of Freud, and the semi-German
or Zurich school of Jung. The objection is no doubt to
the sexual basis of the theories of both schools.
The Freudian position in regard to sex reminds one of
those extreme spiritualists who used to put down anything
E
66 Alice Johnson. [part
they could, not understand, such as Maskelyne's con-
juring tricks, to the agency of spirits. The general
attitude of this school is indicated in the dream by the
Kaiser being represented with a Bible,-—a book, that is,
for which infallibility is claimed. For the Freudian,
like the theologian, is apt to regard any disagreement
with his views as due to " resistance,"-—by which I
understand him to mean resistance to the Truth.
The Zurich school, 1
as is well known, lay much less
exclusive stress than do the Viennese on the sexual
elements in the unconscious, as supposed to be revealed
by psychoanalysis. While holding that the sexual element
is always to be found, they consider that in many cases
symbols which are primarily sexual are not to be inter-
preted exclusively as such, but, according to the free
associations of the dreamer, as standing for many quite
different ideas and feelings.
To me it ajmears that even this school considerably
exaggerate the supposed sexual symbolism. As, some
half-a-century ago, it used to be maintained by some
mythologists that religious symbols of all kinds repre-
sented the sun and pointed to a world-wide primitive
sun-worship, so it is now held by analysts that any and
every object or action, thought of or dreamt of, has,
primarily, at least, a sexual significance. In support of
this theory, they point to the prevalence of the sexual
element in myths, from which they argue that all natural
phenomena were conceived of by primitive man as sexual.
On the other side it may be argued that since, from the
narrowness of his experience, primitive man has very
few metaphors at his command, it is natural that the
sexual one should very often occur. But, as a matter
of fact, the eating and the fighting motifs, the life-and-
1
Readers who wish to understand the theories of the Zurich school
may be referred to Dr. Jung's Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology
(Authorised translation, edited by Dr. Constance E. Long, second edition,
1917). It is impossible to summarise so complicated a subject, and
quoted extracts are liable to mislead in the absence of their context.
What follows is therefore not put forward as an authoritative state-
ment of Dr. Jung's views, but merely indicates my own provisional
attitude towards them.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis . 67
death motif, and the parent and offspring motif are also
very frequent. It cannot be denied that all these are
ideas at least as primary as the sex idea ; from the point
of view of biological evolution, they are indeed more
primary, for the asexual mode of generation, both in
plants and animals, long preceded the sexual mode, which
only developed slowly, sporadically, and gradually. Why
then should all primitive symbols be referred back to sex ?
Jung is of course aware that the theory cannot be
justified on grounds of biological evolution, and has
indeed laid stress on this fact in some of his criticisms
of Freud. But he maintains that innumerable fantasies
are the desexualised manifestations of originally sexual
interests (see his Psychology of the Unconscious, p. 461),
and that while the position cannot be justified biologi-
cally, it remains true psychologically {op. cit. p. 459).
Now from the nature of the case, our knowledge of
psychological evolution is both more meagre and far
more speculative than our knowledge of biological evolu-
tion. It appears to me, therefore, very doubtful whether
any conclusions should be founded on supposed facts
of mental evolution which are, at least apparently, con-
tradicted by much better established facts of physical
evolution.
Confining himself, however, to the mental standpoint,
Jung maintains that sex has more importance mentally
than physically, or more in imagination than in reality.
Consequently it plays a larger part in myths and in
fantasies than in real life. Consequently every item in
any myth that has ever been explicitly used as a sexual
symbol must be held to have that meaning implicitly
in all cases where it is not explicit. And in particular,
any explicit repudiation of the sexual interpretation is
to be regarded as a " repression " and therefore as strong
evidence of an implicit acceptance of it, —on the principle,
apparently, of " Heads, I win ;
tails, you lose." Practi-
cally everything in myths and fantasies having thus been
shown to be of sexual import, it follows that these prove
conclusively the ubiquitous and overwhelming importance
of sex,—which, by the way, was assumed to begin with,
68 Alice Johnson. [part
as a basis for the whole theory. The argument, in fact,
is in a circle ; the question is begged to begin with.
As an instance of the application of this method of
reasoning, I may refer to Jung's discussion of the sym-
bolism of the arrow {Psychology of the Unconscious, pp.
321-329). He puts together such cases as the sensations
felt by the stigmatised nun, Katherine Emmerich ; the
comparison of children to arrows in Psalm CXXVII. 4
;
the lance or arrow-head as the symbol of men ; the arrows
of Cupid ; the arrows of the sun ; the martyrdom of
St. Sebastian, etc. Of all the instances given, the arrows
of Cupid alone are explicitly sexual symbols ; that is,
they are the only ones which refer to the relation between
the sexes ; for it is obvious that the arrow or lance as
a symbol of men is a weapon borne by men qua fighters,
not qua males. To the plain man it would also seem
obvious that arrows are attributed to Cupid simply because
he is thought of, and indeed often spoken of, as a
victorious warrior. In other words, the symbolism is
primarily derived from fighting, and secondarily sexual,
—
not the other way about. Yet on the basis of all these
cases in which Jung (following Freud) chooses to treat the
iveapon as a sexual symbol, he maintains that the prevalence
of the arrow in myths and stories is one among many
proofs—all based on the same circular method of reasoning
—that their symbolism is always either sexual, or derived
from sexual bases, modified into something else.
The question is not whether this interpretation is
morally shocking, but simply whether it is intellectually
justifiable. It appears to me that it cannot be upheld
on grounds either of science or of logic. On the moral
side, Jung—and this is where he parts company with
Freud—regards his theory as providing a basis for the
continued progress of the human race through the proper
development and due direction—the "sublimation"— of
the sexual instinct. What strikes one in his conception
is not that he overvalues sex—it would be, perhaps,
impossible to do so—but that through deriving so much
from it, he practically undervalues all other elements in
life, so that his whole view seems out of proportion.
LXXV.l Dream-Analysis
.
69
It is this, apparently, which suggested the dream-
parallel between him and Queen Victoria. The ordinary
Victorian literature deals with little else but love interests,
and implies that —especially for women—nothing else in
life really matters. Much other literature, of course, did
and does the same ;
but, in England at least, we have
gradually become conscious of the distortion in the
point of view of the typical Victorian, as other elements
have been gradually growing in interest,—especially for
women. " There is one glory of the sun, and another
glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars : for
one star differeth from another star in glory." It is
well for the human race to include in its sky the sun,
the moon, and all the stars.
Though some dreams show, on analysis, an extra-
ordinary complexity of meaning, indicating that much
thought has gone to their make-up, there appear to be
many other comparatively simple dreams, of which the
following is an instance :
Dream. "The Tableau Vivant."
A friend of mine, Miss S., and I were acting a sort of
tableau vivant. She was dressed in a bright-coloured semi-
evening dress, and was supposed to represent a happy wife.
I was in a sad-coloured dress, with a white counterpane
draped over my shoulders, and was supposed to represent
an unhappy wife. We stood together in the doorway of my
old home at Cambridge for the people in the street to see us.
There were a good man}- people walking about, but no one
seemed to take any particular notice of us. I said to my
friend, rather sadly, " No one will ever be able to guess
what we are supposed to be." She replied cheerfully, " Oh
yes, I think they will." In order to make it somewhat more
apparent, we went and stood in the next doorway (belonging
to the same house). Then, to make it plainer still, we walked
a little way up the street. As I walked, the counterpane
fell off my shoulders on to the pavement. A man picked it
up, shook it, to shake off the dust, and handed it back to me.
70 Alice Johnson. [part
I concluded on waking that the dream was intended
as a skit on psychoanalysis and dream-interpretation ;
for the supposition that my friend and I rejjresented a
happy and an unhappy wife seemed purely arbitrary.
There was nothing to show for it ; we might just as well
have stood for any other two women in fiction or in real
life. The whole thing was painfully unconvincing ; and
this, I thought, will probably be the impression pro-
duced on the reader by my own cases of dream-analysis.
In trying to analyse this dream, the only association
I could think of was that my counterpane falling off
me on to the pavement reminded me of Sir Walter
Raleigh throwing down his cloak so that Queen Elizabeth
might pass dry-shod over a muddy path on her way to
her barge in the Thames. According to the version of
this story in Kenilworth, Raleigh declared afterwards
" This cloak shall never be brushed while in my posses-
sion."
For a long time I tried in vain to think of any other
associations. At last it occurred to me that my white
counterpane had probably been suggested by the white
satin dress of Tilburina and the white linen of her Con-
fidant in Sheridan's play, The Critic; or, a Tragedy
Rehearsed. The " tragedy," in which Tilburina and her
Confidant are characters, is called The Spanish Armada,
and I found, on looking it up, what I had forgotten
—
that among the other characters are Sir Walter Raleigh
and the Thames. The special point which led to the
utilisation of this play in a skit on psychoanalysis is
probably the famous description of Lord Burleigh's shake
of the head, by which, " if [it is explained] he shook
his head as I taught him, he gave you to understand
that even though they had more justice in their cause,
and wisdom in their measures—yet, if there was not a
greater spirit shown on the part of the people, the
country would at last fall a sacrifice to the hostile
ambition of the Spanish monarchy."
It seems, then, that there is nothing very subtle or
complicated in this dream. Also, so far as can be judged
from it, when a dream is simple, the associations with
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 71
it are few and simple. They do, nevertheless, help to
reveal whatever meaning it may possess,—as, in this
instance, by pointing to Sheridan's Critic as the source
of the scene.
Dream. "The Two Dolls."
I saw two little dolls, with round flat bodies and round
flat faces, face to face with each other. The faces had no
proper features, but little rows of letters across them, which,
as I could not distinguish the letters, looked like shading,
intended to represent features. There was very little expression
in the faces, but as far as it went, it was rather unpleasant,
having a faint suggestion of coarse sneering about it.
On the morning before the dream, I had paid a visit
to my oculist, and had had my eyesight tested in the
usual way by looking at rows of letters of different
sizes. The letters on the dolls' faces were like the rows
of smallest letters, which were indistinguishable to me,
even with the strongest glasses.
At Chicago, several years earlier, I had been given a
large rag doll to take home to a little girl in England,
named Rachel. A friend whom I met that morning at
the oculist's had spoken to me of this girl. The Chicago
doll was similar in its general shape to my dream-dolls,
but a good deal larger. With it was given a sort of
replica of itself, consisting of a rag cover just like the
cover of the first, but without any stuffing and con-
sequently quite flat. This struck me as an interesting
variant on the dolls of my own childhood.
The dream-dolls also reminded me of the speech of
Aristophanes, in the Symposium, which purports to de-
scribe the origin of the human race, as follows :
1
The original human nature was not like the present, but
different. The sexes were not two, as they are now, but
originally three in number ; there was man, woman, and the
union of the two. The primeval man was round, his back
1
Abridged from Jowett's translation of The Dialogues of Plato, Vol. I,
pp. 559 et seq.
72 Alice Johnson. [part
and sides forming a circle ; and he had four hands and four
feet, one head with two faces, looking opposite ways, set on
a round neck and precisely alike. He could walk upright as
men now do, backwards or forwards as he pleased, and he
could also roll over and over at a great pace, turning on his
four hands and four feet, eight in all, like tumblers going
over and over with their legs in the air ;
this was when he
wanted to run fast.
Now the sexes were three, and such as I have described
them ; because the sun, moon, and earth are three ; and the
man was originally the child of the sun, the woman of the
earth, and the man-woman of the moon, Avhich is made up
of sun and earth, and they were all round, and moved round
and round like their parents. Terrible was their might and
strength, and the thoughts of their hearts were great, and
they made an attack upon the gods.
At last Zeus discovered a way to humble their pride and
improve their manners. He determined to cut them in two,,
so that they should walk upright on two legs, and then
caused Apollo to turn the face and half the neck round, and
mould the halves into bodies of the present human form. So
it came to pass that each of us, when separated, having one
side only, like a flat fish, is but the indenture of a man,
and he is always looking for his other half. And when one
of them meets with his other half, the actual half of himself,
the pair are lost in an amazement of love and friendship
and intimac3r
, and one will not be out of the other's sight
even for a moment : these are the people who pass their
whole lives together, yet they could not explain what they
desire of one another. For the intense yearning which each
of them has towards the other does not appear to be the
desire of lover's intercourse, but of something else which the
soul of each evidently desires and cannot tell, and of which
she has only a dark and doubtful presentiment.
Suppose Hephaestus, with his instruments, to come to the
pair and to ask them whether their desire was not to be
melted into one, so that they might be always together and,
after their death, in the world below still be one departed
soul instead of two, there is not a man of them who would
not acknowledge that this meeting and melting into one
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
73
another, this becoming one instead of two, was the very
expression of his ancient need. And the reason is that human
nature Mas originally one, and we were a whole, and the
desire and pursuit of the whole is called love.
My words include men and women everywhere ; and I
believe that if our loves were perfectly accomplished and each
one returning to his primeval nature had Ins original true love,
then our race would be happy. Wherefore we must praise
the god Love, who is our greatest benefactor, both leading
us in this life back to our mm nature, and giving us high
hopes for the future, for he promises that if we are pious,
he will restore us to our original state, and heal us and make
us happy and blessed.
My dream-dolls had letters on their faces for features,,
and " letters " suggest literature, and hence that a
literary origin is to be looked for. But they did not
correspond closely in shape with the halves of Aristo-
phanes' primeval man ; nor did they correspond exactly
to the two dissimilar Chicago dolls. They represent a
sort of compromise between the two pairs ; that is, they
are compounded 'of the elements of both.
With the Chicago dolls my first associations were :
The name of the dolls' owner, Rachel, suggested to me
a passage in the Purgatorio (XXVII. 100-109) about
Leah and Rachel. Dante in a dream sees a lady gather-
ing flowers, who tells him : "I am Leah, and go moving
my fair hands around to make me a garland .... but
Rachel my sister ne'er stirs from her mirror, and sitteth
all day. She is fain to behold her fair eyes, as I to
deck me with my hands ;
her, contemplation ;
me,
action, doth satisfy."
This passage is closely associated in my mind with a
Holland script (quoted in Proc. Vol. XXVII. p. 110),
in which it is alluded to as follows :
" Do you remember
that exquisite sky when the afterglow made the East
as beautiful and as richly coloured as the West ? Martha
became as Mary and Leah as Rachel." Martha and
Mary are the traditional Xew Testament types of the
active and the contemplative life
—" the good and the
74 Alice Johnson. [part
best," as Dante calls them—as Leah and Rachel are the
Old Testament types. In the Convivio (IV. 17 : 85-111) he
uses Martha and Mary for these types, as in the Commedia
he uses Leah and Rachel. The Holland script, in combining
them, suggests the Convivio 1
as well as the Commedia.
The Convivio (Banquet) of Dante, in which he cele-
brates the praises of his mystical lady, Philosophy, has
a link, at least through its title, with the Symposium,—
the speeches in praise of love delivered at the Banquet
of Agathon (although Dante was certainly not acquainted
with the Symposmm),—and this link seems to be im-
plicit in the dream.
Rachel, face to face with her image in the mirror,
is like the dream dolls, face to face with each other.
But since the image is not of the same nature as the
object reflected, Rachel and her image are like the two
dissimilar Chicago dolls, not like Aristophanes' pair of
similar beings.
The script just quoted alludes also to the East and
West facing each other, and the colours of the Western
sunset reflected in the East. A similar opposition of
East and West is described in a slightly earlier Holland
script (see Proc. Vol. XXVII. p. 107) and forms a cross-
correspondence with a script of Mrs. Verrall's, also alluding
to a reflection of sunset colours which makes the East
like the West (op. cit. pp. 109-112).
This second instance of what Mr. Piddington in an
earlier discussion of the same scripts (Proc. Vol. XXII.
p. 280) called the union or identification of opposites is
again, I think, symbolised by the two Chicago dolls,—
•
partly because of their dissimilarity, partly because they
were brought from the West as a present to the East.
The child to whom they were brought also represents
a union of East and West, since one of her parents is
English and the other American.
Among the first of the dream associations with Aristo-
phanes which I noted was Browning's Aristophanes'
1
Apology.
1
Reflection in a mirror is a favourite image of Dante's, and the
allegory of Rachel (Contemplation) gazing at her fair eyes in the mirror
is explained in Conv. IV, 2: 143-162.
LXXV.] Dream-A nalysis. 75
This is closely associated by me with another Holland
script of the same period, containing an allusion to it
(see Proc. Vol. XXVII. pp. 139-142). The poem includes
a translation of Euripides' Hercules Furens, and the Hol-
land script forms a Cross-correspondence with two scripts
of Mrs. Verrall's alluding to the Hercules Furens {cp. ext.
pp. 128-129). The whole of these latter scripts seem to
be included in the implicit thoughts of the dream, but
I will here emote the salient points only :
{Extracts from Mrs. Verrall's scripts of March 4 and 25, 1907.)
Hercules Furens . . . ask elsewhere for the Bound Hercules
HjOa/cA;/? \vojuei>o$ [the Unbound Hercules] is the sequel.
Binding and loosing . . .
Claviger the bearer of the Key and Club [i.e. the symbols
of moral and material force] . . . The Club and Key—East
and West . . . The Hercules story comes in there . . .
Remember the Virgilian line indignantis sub umbras. To
you they are shadows, like the shadows in Plato's cave, but
they are shadows of the real. [Here follows a Latin sentence,
part of which is translated as follows :] In dreams sometimes
you see the flitting bodies of Shades rather for bodies it were
better to say souls. The immortal things that touch your
mind in sleep, seize them . . .
There and thus does this mortal put on immortality, by
keeping hold of the things, the true things, seen in sleep.
Heracles is supposed to have been an oriental deity,
imported into Greece from Babylonia ; his club, at least,
is an oriental element. He is therefore a type of the
union of East and West. Analysis of the script shows
further that it contains references to :
(1) Odyssey, XI.
601-3, where a distinction is drawn between the shade
(e'tSooXov) of Heracles 1
in Hades, and Heracles himself
1
It is perhaps worth noting that there is an association (familiar to
me) of Heracles with dolls or puppets in Ovid's story (Fasti V. 631)
that he was the first to throw dummy figures, made of rushes, instead
of live human beings, from the Sublician Bridge into the Tiber, as
sacrifices to the gods. Note also the assonance between doll and idol
(derived from the Greek eidolon), though there is no etymological con-
nection between the two words.
76 Alice Johnson. [part
(qJto?) in Heaven ; (2) the mystical interpretation of
these lines in a passage of Plotinus :
" The shade of
Heracles, indeed, may talk of his own valour to the
shades ; but the true Heracles in the true world will
deem all that of little worth ;
being transported into
a more sacred place, and strenuously engaging, even
above his strength, in those battles in which the wise
engage "
; (3) Plato's allegory of the prisoners in the
cave, who are fixed so that they can see the shadows
only of real objects outside it ; when released, they
" will first see the shadows best, next the reflections
(e'iSwXa) of men and other objects in the water, and
then the objects themselves (avrd)."
The phrase, " To you they are shadows, but they are
shadows of the real," is not only Platonic, but also
expresses the . view of the veridical hallucination held
by most 8.P.R. investigators, —viz. that the appearance,
aJthough hallucinatory, is not subjectively originated, but
is the result of telepathy from another mind, whether
embodied or disembodied. This conception appears to be
one of the ideas behind the crude imagery of the dream.
The idea of the contrast between the autos and the
eidolon is rooted in my mind (and therefore likely to
appear in my dreams) on account of certain references
to the eidolon in some early Holland script, discussed in
my first report on it {Proc. Vol. XXI. pp. 215-218).
One passage in this script refers to a supposed occasion
when the surviving spirit saw his still living friends
as "flat cardboard figures,"-—a curiously literal version
of the imaginary reversal of the point of view of the
living.
The concej^tion towards which all these ideas—implicit
in the dream—are converging is, I think, the speech in
the Symposium which stands in the sharpest contrast
to that of Aristophanes—the speech in which Socrates
himself sets forth what he has learnt of Love from the
prophetess Diotima. " You hear people say," says Dio-
tima {Symp. 205) referring to Aristophanes' myth, " that
lovers are seeking for their other half " ; but she dis-
claims this doctrine.
LXXV.j Dream-Analysis. 77
Through the mouth of Diotima,1
Plato insists that it is
an unfailing sign of true love that its desires are for ever ;
nay, that love may be even defined as the desire of the
everlasting possession of the good. And in all love's acts he
finds the impress of man's craving for immortality,—for im-
mortality whose only visible image for us on earth is the
birth of children to us as we ourselves decay. " And then,"
says Plato, rising, as ever, from visible to invisible things,
" if active bodies have so strong a yearning that an endless
series of lovely images of themselves may constitute, as it
were, an earthly immortality for them when they have worn
away, how greatly must creative souls desire that partnership
and close communion with other souls as fair as they may
bring to birth a brood of lofty thoughts, poems, statutes,
institutions, laws,—the fitting progeny of the soul ? . . .
He, then, who to this end would strive aright, must begin
in youth to seek fair forms, and should learn first to love one
fair form only and therein to engender noble thoughts. [He
must then go on to love the beauty of the soul, and the
beauty of actions, and of laws and of sciences, till] setting
sail into the ocean of beauty and creating and beholding
many fair and glorious thoughts and images ... he may
perceive that there is one science only, the science of infinite
beauty. For he who hath thus far had intelligence of love,
and hath beheld all fair things in order and aright,—he draw-
ing near to the end of things lovable shall behold a Being
marvellously fair, for whose sake in truth it is that all the
previous labours have been undergone . . . And whoso being
led on and upward by human loves begins to see that Beauty,
he is not far, I say, from reaching the end of all . . . What
would it be were it granted to any man to see Very Beauty
clear ; —incorruptible and undefiled, not mingled with colour
or flesh of man, or with aught that can consume away, but
single and divine ? Could man's life, in that vision and
beatitude, be poor or low ? Or deemest thou not (said she)
that then alone it will be possible for this man, discerning
spiritual beauty with those eyes by which it is spiritually
discerned, to beget no shadows of virtue, since that is no
shadow to which he clings, but virtue in very truth, since
1
F. W. H. Myers, Human Personality, Vol. I. pp. 113-115.
7s Alice Johnson. [part
he hath the very Truth in his embrace 1 And begetting and
rearing Virtue as his child, he must needs become the friend
of God ; and if there be any man who is immortal, that man
is he."
So in the Platonic philosophy, this Divine Beauty or
Wisdom is the reality of which all beautiful objects are
shadows or reflections.
In Human Personality, the passage just quoted follows
an extract from Prof. Pierre Janet's UAutomatisme
Psychologique, setting forth " the physiological or materialist
conception of the passion of love,—where love's subliminal
element is held to be of the organic type,"—which Myers
calls the " planetary " conception of love, as contrasted
with Plato's " cosmical " conception.
Summary of Analysis.
To sum up the analysis of this dream, we have :
(1) The following pairs of opposites, in which the
members of the pair may be said to be of the same
value or the same nature ; or to be supplementary to
one another, so that, combined, they form a complete
or perfect whole :
Leah and Rachel ;
Martha and Mary ;
Action and Contemplation ;
West and East ;
Key and Club.
These ideas or images in combination are foreshortened
into the more superficial stratum of the dream-thoughts,
and there symbolised by Aristophanes' two halves of the
£>rirneval man, who between them constitute the complete
human being.
(2) The following pairs in which one member of the
pair is only a temporary and evanescent reflection,
shadow, or image of the other ; and has value only as
representing it :
The Reality and the Shadow of Diotima's discourse,
Plato's Cave, etc.
LXXV.] Dream-Atmlysis. 70
The Autos and the Eidolon of Heracles, etc.
The Western sunset reflected in the Eastern sky.
Rachel and her Image in the Mirror.
These pairs are represented or summed up in the
superficial stratum of the dream-thoughts by the Chicago
doll and its flat replica.
There are points of connection between the two lands
of pairs, corresponding to the fusion of the two types
into the one pair of dream-dolls. Thus Rachel comes
into both ; as do East and West ; also Heracles, as
Club-bearer in the first set, and as autos and eidolon in
the second.
In other words, there is not in the dream a perfectly
clear-cut conception of the two types ; no absolute line
is drawn between them. The dream leans, it would
seem, to Myers's conception of the " planetary " and
" cosmical " aspects rather than to the extreme mystical
standpoint.
The analysis just given represents the view arrived at
after several attempts, made at intervals, to interpret
the dream on the basis of my associations. On so
complicated a dream (as it turned out to be) fresh lights
are often thrown by repeated analyses, each of which
generally reveals points that had not been noticed before.
It is instructive for the dreamer to keep records of all
his analyses, but it would generally be tedious for the
reader to have them all reproduced. Sometimes, how-
ever, the final interpretation can hardly be appreciated
without a knowledge of the stages through which it has
been reached, and this seems to me the case with the
next dream, which was as follows :
Dream. " The Fabulous Horse."
I was going on an excursion with two or three other people.
We were only going up and down a broad path, some fifty
yards or less in length. I had to ride on a horse, which I
was rather afraid of, having never been on horseback before ;
but I found it quite easy to manage. I had to make a
backward and forward movement with my leg or arm, and
80 Alice Johnson. [part
then the horse went on, as if it were a mechanical thing.
It only required a little steering besides, as it had a tendency
to run into the right side of the path. Its legs were like
straight wooden sticks.
First Analysis.
The first association of this dream was with an Austrian
friend of mine (now dead), Miss Freund, who had spent
her early life in Vienna (this, of course, points to Dr.
Freud, of Vienna). As she became lame in later life,
she used to ride a hand-propelled tricycle, worked by a
backward and forward movement of the handles, like my
backward and forward movement on the horse. A
tricycle naturally requires steering also. I once tried to
ride one after being accustomed to a bicycle, and found
it very difficult to prevent its running into the side of
the road.
I associated the straight wooden-like legs of the dream-
horse with a child's story-book, called Beechnut, in which
the hero, Beechnut, makes a rocking-horse out of a log
of wood, into which three pairs of long straight poles
(cf. the three wheels of the tricycle) are fixed, to serve
as legs. The horse had no rockers, but the middle pair
of legs was longer than the front and back pairs, so
that it could be rocked backwards and forwards. It
was a remarkably imnatural kind of horse : not a real
horse, but a rocking-horse ; and not even a real rocking-
horse, for it had no rockers, and its legs were straight,
and six in number instead of four.
To have six legs is a characteristic of insects (a fact
that could not fail to occur to the mind of any person
with a knowledge, however slight, of Zoology). Insects
are a much lower class of animals than horses. To
my mind many insects are repulsive ;
they are associ-
ated with dirt and the production of diseases. On the
other hand, metaphors of an imaginative or mystical
kind have been associated with them : they are treated
as symbols of development, or of the soul. E.g., the
development of the caterpillar into the butterfly (i.e. the
IjXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 81
asexual into the sexual form) is regarded as symbolic
of death and resurrection, or the death of the body and
the immortality of the soul. Or the bee—the honey-
maker—is a symbol of the soul (see Virgil, Georg. IV.
220 ff.). Honey the food of the infant god.
The bee commonwealth :
" Obedience—for so work the honey bees. . . . The
singing masons, building roofs of gold."
1
Samson ; the swarm of bees and honey found in the
carcase of the lion he had killed,—the occasion for his
riddle (Judges XIV. 8, 14).
John the Baptist, who fed on locusts and wild honey
(Matthew III. 4),—another insect association.
Drones :
" Was I a drone ? At least there was honey
within my reach, even if I brought none to the hive."
This is a quotation from a Holland script (see Proc,
Vol. XXI. p. 322). The word " drone " had been
observed later to be an anagram for " Roden," viz.
Roden Noel, to whom this and several other scripts
referred. In later scripts R. Noel's name is associated
with Christmas and Christmas carols.
My first attempt to interpret the dream on the basis
of these associations gave the following results :
The dream-horse, which is a composite of a tricycle
and a very unrealistic artificial horse with a definite
bias in a certain direction, represents Freud's theory
of psychoanalysis, which I was endeavouring to master.
The theory appears to me in many respects highly
artificial, and strongly biassed by the idiosyncrasies of
its author.
The connection of the horse with the insect type brings
in a sex association which seems to include both ex-
tremes of the possible functioning of sex,—as an instru-
ment either of the lowest degradation or of the greatest
elevation of mankind.
It appeared to me, however, that the dream-imagery
covered a good deal more than this interpretation, and
that there was some clue in it which I had not yet
found. I therefore put it aside for a time, on the chance
1
Henry V., Act I., Scene 2 : speech of the Archbishop of Canterbury.
F
82 Alice Johnson. [part
that a fresh light might be thrown on it from some
other quarter.
Meanwhile I looked, up the story-book, Beechnut, and
found that my recollection of the rocking-horse was
inaccurate. There was a doubt as to whether it should
have six or eight legs ;
the scholar of the family was
asked to suggest a name for the animal, and he said
that it should be called Hexapod if it had six legs, or
Polypod if it had more than six. Ultimately the horse
was christened Polypod, from which one may infer
(though this is nowhere stated) that it had eight legs.
It must be supposed that my subliminal memory in-
cluded this point, in which case the conception of the
dream-horse was a composite, including a six-legged
creature {i.e. the Insect type) and an eight-legged creature,
to which the nearest parallel in nature would perhaps
be the Arachnida (spiders and scorpions, etc.).
Second Analysis.
The dream took place three nights later than the
dream of the " Two Dolls." On the day after that
dream, I had made a preliminary analysis of it, recog-
nising the Chicago dolls and Aristophanes' pair of beings
as the factors of the comjjosite dream-dolls. But I was
not very familiar with the Symposium, and my conscious
recollection of Aristophanes' speech was so vague that I
noted it merely as " myth of creation of sexes by
? Aristophanes in Symposium." On this topic, again, it
seems certain that my subliminal memory was far more
extensive and accurate ; for when, about four months
later, I got the book again and read it carefully with a
view to working out the analysis of the " Two Dolls
"
dream, I found, to my surprise, that Aristophanes'
primeval man was behind the Dream-horse also. For the
primeval man (see p. 71), like Beechnut's rocking-horse,
had eight limbs, and the way the horse rocked back-
wards and forwards on its eight legs was like the way
the man rolled over and over, backwards or forwards,
on his eight limbs.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
83
We have seen that the rocking-horse was in the first
analysis closely associated with the idea of insects.
Another childish association following (in the second
analysis) from the zoological train of thought was the
picture of the " Rocking-horse-fly " in Through the
Looking-glass}
The Rocking-horse-fly has four legs and two large
gauzy wings ; it is introduced by the following con-
versation :
" What sort of insects do you rejoice in, where you come
from ?
" the Gnat inquired.
" I don't rejoice in insects at all," Alice explained, " because
I'm rather afraid of them—at least the large kinds. But I
can tell you the names of some of them . . . [For instance,]
there's the Horse-fly."
" All right," said the Gnat :
" half way up that bush you'll
see a Rocking-horse-fly, if you look. It's made entirely of
wood, and gets about by swinging itself from branch to
branch."
Here, then, are combined the ideas of the Horse, Fly,
and Rocking-horse (certainly not a usual combination)
which we find combined in the dream ; while the
Looking-glass is, as we have seen, an essential consti-
tuent of the dream of the " Two Dolls," which is so
closely connected with this one.
In the first analysis, the associations with Bees are
especially numerous and prominent. One of the most
familiar facts about bees is their three different forms,
—
the Queen-bee (the female), the workers (imperfectly
developed sterile females), and the drones (males). These
three forms are all alluded to in the dream-associations
(see above) through the quotations from the Holland
script and from Henry V., for the " obedience " preached
by the Archbishop is compared to the supposed obedience
of the bees to their " king " or " emperor."
In the Fourth Georgia (an important factor in the
dream-associations), Virgil gives a picturesque description
1
Cf. allusions to Alice s Adventures in Wonderland in the " Queen
Victoria" and "Kaiser" dreams above, pp. 61, 62, 64-65.
84 Alice Johnson. [part
of the labours of the different kinds of bees and their
devotion to their " king " and to " the tiny citizens of
their Rome " (Georg. IV. 201) ; but naturally he has
no idea that the varieties of form have any relation to
sexual structure. 1
Shakespeare is at just the same stand-
point.
It seems to me that the idea of a certain analogy
between the three forms of bees and Aristophanes' three
sexes had occurred to my subliminal mind. The
analogy is, of course, superficial, since Aristophanes'
third sex was hermaphrodite (a characteristic which is
normal in many classes of the Invertebrata, but not,
I think, in any class of Insects), while the third bee form
is actually female. There is nevertheless a superficial
resemblance between the two cases, and just such a
resemblance as seems calculated to strike the dreaming
mind.
Further, I feel little doubt that Aristophanes' three
sexual forms, which " were all round, and moved round
and round like their parents," (see above), provided a
factor for the three wheels of my dream-tricycle.
But another factor of the Tricycle-Rocking-horse-Insect
idea is, I believe, derived from the famous allegory in
the Phaedrus, in which the Soul (whether of a man or
a god) is described "in a figure " as a composite
nature, made up of a charioteer and a pair of winged
horses. Here the Soul is driving a wheeled vehicle, which
is probably one of the elements going to make up my
Tricycle. The chariot of the Soul is presumably, like
the ordinary form of the Greek chariot, two-wheeled ;
but the Soul itself has three constituents,—another
trinity contributing to the make-up of my Tricycle, which,
like the Soul, requires to be steered (see Dream).
The Soul's pair of horses have, between them, eight
legs,-—another parallel to the eight legs of my Rocking-
horse ; and these horses are winged, like the " Rocking-
horse-fly." It is perhaps worth noting that the wings
of fabulous animals of this kind, if they can be compared
1
The facte about this were first shown by the discoveries of Francois
Huber, about 1787-1790.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
8f>
with anything in nature, are like the wings of insects,
—
not like the wings of birds, which are a modification of
the Vertebrate fore-limbs.
The following circumstances add to the probability
that the Symposium and the Phaedrus were important
factors in the formation of this dream :
(1) The Dream that occurred three nights earlier had
already been interpreted as derived from the Symposium.
(2) Either just before or just after this first dream,
I had been discussing with a friend certain points in
the Symposium and the Dialogue most closely associated
with it, —the Phaedrus (with which I had long been
familiar), so that these two Dialogues had been much
in my mind.
(3) I had also been considering the facts of the evolu-
tion of sex in the lower animals, with a view to their
possible bearing on the theories of Freud and Jung.
This probably accounts for the zoological atmosphere of
one aspect of the dream.
The significance of the Phaedrus elements in the dream
must be further considered.
In the Phaedrus allegory,
1
the horses of the gods are both
noble and of noble descent, but those of the man are one
noble and of noble breed, and the other ignoble and of ignoble
breed, and the driving 6f them of necessity gives a great
deal of trouble to him. The ignoble, ugly, left-hand horse
is always struggling, against the will of the charioteer, to
drag the chariot down to earth ; while the noble and beautiful
right-hand horse strives always to keep it in the upper world,
—
the plain of truth, where pasturage is found which is suited
to the highest part of the soul. There abides the very being
with which true knowledge is concerned, and there the intelli-
gence of every soul which is capable of receiving the food
proper to it rejoices at beholding reality. [The myth is
connected with the doctrine of the transmigration of souls,
the incarnations being separated by periods of a thousand
years each, after which the souls draw lots and choose their
next lives.] The soul of a man may pass into the life of a
1
1 give here parts of Jowett's translation, in an abridged form.
86 Alice Johnson. [part
beast, or from the beast return again into the man. But the
soul which has never seen the truth will not pass into the
human form. For a man must have intelligence of universals,
and be able to proceed from the many particulars of sense
to one conception of reason ; —this is the recollection of those
things which our soul once saw while following God—when,
regardless of that which we now call being, she raised her
head up towards the true being. And therefore the mind of
the philosopher alone has wings ; and this is just, for he is
always, according to the measure of his abilities, clinging in
recollection to those things in which God abides, and in
beholding which He is what He is. And he who employs
aright these memories is ever being initiated into perfect
mysteries, and alone becomes truly perfect.
In these two closely associated Dialogues may be
found Plato's concejDtion of immortality,-—the subject
with which, I take it, the dream is fundamentally con-
cerned.
The Phaedrus contains the Platonic doctrine of reminis-
cence,-—that whatever vision of the real we may have
in this life is " the recollection of those things which
our soul once saw while following God,"—and the doctrine
of successive re-incarnations, each of which is a state
of probation, finally ending in a permanent release from
" that living tomb which we carry about, now that we
are imprisoned in the body."
But (says Jowett 1
) while the Phaedrus looks backwards
and forwards to past and future states of existence, in the
Symposium there is no break between this world and another ;
and we rise from one to the other by a regular series of
steps or stages ... At first immortality means only the suc-
cession of existences [i.e., of generations ; see quotation from
the discourse of Diotima given in the analysis of the " Two
Dolls " dream, p. 77] ; even knowledge comes and goes.
Then follows, in the language of the mysteries, a higher and
a higher degree of initiation ; at last we arrive at the perfect
vision of beauty . . . eternal and absolute ; not bounded by
this world, or in or out of this world, but an aspect of the
1
Introduction to the Symposium.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 87
divine, extending over all things and having no limit of space
or time . . . Plato does not go on to ask whether the individual
is absorbed in the sea of light and beauty or retains his
personality. Enough for him to have attained the true beauty
or good, without enquiring precisely into the relation in which
human beings stood to it.
It is this conception of immortality, or the gradual
evolution of the conception of immortality, that links
the Platonic elements of the dream with the element
derived from the Fourth Georgic,—the Bee as a symbol of
the Soul (see first analysis, above, p. 81). The story of
Samson finding the swarm of bees in the lion's carcase
closely resembles the story of Aristaeus, who, after all
his bees had been killed by disease, found fresh swarms
in the bodies of the sacrificed oxen (Georg. IV. 550 ff.).
The bee
1
is a creature of special sanctity among the ancients
and has special associations with birth, death, and re-incarna-
tion . . . Re-incarnation could hardly be more clearly suggested
than by the story in the Fourth Georgic of the miraculous
birth of bee-life from the dead body of a bull, after due
propitiation by Lethean poppies has been made to Orpheus.
Earlier in the same poem (206-208) we are reminded that,
though the individual bees perish, the race remains immortal.
Most significant of all is .the suggested explanation of the
special virtue of the bee in the view of '
certain persons
'
(219-227) that the bees partake of ethereal draughts, this
same ethereal element being described in the great speech of
Anchises as the only part left to the soul after its complete
purgation {Am. VI. 747). It is clear, therefore, that the bee
in Virgil's mind was closely associated with the idea of the
re-incarnation of the purified soul, and the comparison of the
souls gathering round Lethe to hovering bees gains suggestive-
ness from this fact.
To continue the dream-associations revealed in the
first analysis :
For " honey the food of the infant god," see Georg. IV.
149. The infant god is Zeus, who was hidden by his
1
See " Two instances of Symbolism in the Sixth Aeneid," by M. de G.
Verrall ; The Classical Review, Vol. XXIV. p. 43 ;
March, 1910.
88 Alice Johnson. [part
mother Rhea,—to save him from being devoured by his
father, Saturn, or Chronos,—in a cave on Mount Ida
in Crete, and was there tended by nymphs, who fed
him on goats' milk and honey. So the god, rescued
from all-devouring Time, became an Immortal.
The dream-associations show also an allusion to Christ-
mas and the Child associated with the prophecy of
Isaiah (VII. 15), " Butter and honey shall he eat."
As to Mount Ida, the Christian name of Miss Freund,
the lady who rode the tricycle, was Ida. As mentioned
above, I had in the first analysis of the dream noticed
the similarity of the names " Freund " and " Freud."
But, though I was perfectly familiar with the story of
the infant Zeus being fed with honey on Mount Ida,
and with the fact that Miss Freund's name was Ida, it
was several months before I consciously put these two
things together, and observed that they must have been
connected in my subliminal. I think it is a fair conclu-
sion that the other famous Mount Ida (in Asia Minor,
near Troy, referred to in Georg. IV. 41, as the Phrygiati
Ida), celebrated as the scene of the rape of Ganymede,
must also have been in the dream-thoughts.
In the later Roman tombs and monuments 1
Ganymede
borne up to heaven by the eagle is supposed to be a
symbol of the soul liberated from earth. The analogy
with the Phaedrus Soul carried up to heaven by its
winged horses is obvious. There is also at this point
a link with the " Golden Stairs " dream and the picture
Der Tod als Freund associated with it (see above, p. 44).
I had not noticed this link till the analyst, reading my
account, observed the coincidence of the name Freund
being implicit in both dreams, the interval between which
was about nineteen months.
In Purg. IX. 19-30, Dante dreams that he is on Mount
Ida and is carried up to heaven, like Ganymede, by an
eagle. On waking, he finds that he has, in his sleep,
been carried up the lowest part of the Mount and placed
just below the Gate of Purgatory. The Eagle, says
A. J. Butler in a note on this passage, is " the emblem
1
Mrs. Arthur Strong, Apotheosis and After-Life, p. 229.
LXXV.] Dream-A nalysis
.
89
from the earliest Christian times of the soul which most
aspires to meditate on divine things, and as such [was]
adopted as the special '
cognisance '
of St. John the Divine."
This is the first of the three dreams in the Purgatorio ;
the last of them is Dante's dream about Leah (XXVII.
97-108), which was an important element in the associa-
tions of the " Two Dolls " dream (see p. 73). These
Dante associations, then, form another link between
that dream and the present one, affording further evidence
of the continuity of thought between them.
Further, the Platonic and Virgilian doctrines of immor-
tality bound up with a Purgatorial scheme, which we
found included in the dream-thoughts, can hardly have
failed to suggest Dante's treatment of the same topic.
The chief feature which distinguishes Dante's scheme
from earlier ones is the emphasis laid on the individual
element,—on the persistence of individuality, of person-
ality. It has been remarked (by, I think, Dean Church)
that all the characters in the Commedia (apart from
mythological monsters and heroes of antiquity in whose
actual historical existence Dante may have believed)
are real persons, either historical or his own contem-
poraries ; —they are not types, although they may be
taken incidentally to typify virtues or vices. Dante,
" who loved well because he hated," had a vivid realisa-
tion of individuals, and an intense interest in their
individual fates.
In accordance with this modern sense of the value
of the human being, as such, is the disappearance of the
doctrine of the transmigration of souls ; for it is difficult,
though not, of course, theoretically impossible, to reconcile
a number of successive incarnations, involving a number
of successive forgettings, with the persistence of the
individual, whose characteristics must be so intimately
bound up with his memories. No doubt the doctrine
is absent from Dante because it is not a Christian
doctrine 1
; but its absence is in complete harmony with
his whole tone of mind.
1
See, however, the legend of Trajan, whose soul, by a special miracle,
was delivered from Hell and re-incarnated (Par. XX. 43-117).
90 Alice Johnson. [part
Summary.
To sum up the factors of this dream :
The Dream-horse is composed of (a) The Rocking-horse,
and (b) The Tricycle.
(a) The Rocking-horse comprises :
(1) Hexapod = Insect ; —Butterfly, Bee.
The Bee has three forms ; cf. Aristophanes' three sexes.
The Bee symbolises the Soul.
(2) Polypod = Aristophanes' eight-limbed man, and the
Phaedrus Soul's two four-legged horses.
Hexapod and Polypod combined = The " Rocking-horse-
fly,'' and the Phaedrus Soul's winged horses.
(b) The Tricycle comprises :
Several trinities, viz. :
(1) Three pairs of Hexapod legs ; and
(2) Three forms of Bees ; and
(3) Aristophanes' three sexes, who moved round and
round ; and
(4) The three elements of the Phaedrus Soul, viz. the
Charioteer and two horses.
(5) The Chariot of the Soul, as a wheeled vehicle.
(6) Ida, the name of the owner of the Tricycle,
suggesting Mount Ida, with which are associated :
(7) The Infant God fed by the Bees ; and
(8) Ganymede carried up to heaven by the Eagle, as the
Phaedrus Soul is carried up by its winged horses ; and
(9) Dante carried up to the Gate of Purgatory by his
Dream-Eagle.
Aristophanes' myth refers to the constitution of the
bod}^, the Phaedrus myth to that of the soul. So the
intimate association of elements derived from both in the
Dream-Horse must symbolise the connection between the
body and the soul.
On the other hand the antithesis between Body and
Soul is no doubt conceived of in the dream as analogous
to the antithesis in the " Two Dolls " dream between
the Shadow and the Reality, or the Eidolon and the
Autos, or the Planetary and the Cosmical (see pp. 78-79).
LXXV.] Drea ra-A nalysis
.
01
Supplement to the Analysis of the " Two Dolls " dream.
It happens not infrequently that the analysis of one dream
throws light on a preceding one. Thus, after discovering
in the " Fabulous Horse " the Rocking-horse-fly element,
derived from Through the Looking-glass, I noticed that
this fitted in with the Mirror or Looking-glass element
in the " Two Dolls." It then became apparent that
another element in the same book must have contributed
to the " Two Dolls," viz. Tweedledum and Tweedledee.
They, it may be remembered, show Alice the Red
King lying asleep in the forest, and tell her that he is
dreaming of her ; and they add, to her great indigna-
tion, that she is only " a thing in his dream," and that
if he were to wake, she would " go out like a candle "
;
the " real " situation of course being that Alice is the
dreamer, and the Red King a " thing " in her dream.
The idea is one calculated to appeal equally to the
Philosopher in the Child and the Child in the Philosopher.
Tweedledum and Tweedledee are also interesting,
because one can never feel sure whether they are the
same person or not. Are they one or two ? Or are they,
perhaps, alternating personalities ? In that case, which
of them is the " real " person ? Or are they of what
is called the " co-conscious " type ?
All these problems- connected with Tweedledum and
Tweedledee, as well as the metaphysical theory they
propound to Alice, fit in closely with the whole of the
dream conception,—the question, What is " the real " ?
While the two dreams just given are examples of
complicated abstract ideas combined and compressed into
simple images or metaphors, the next one returns to
what was called above " the j^oblem of personation."
It contains a dream-character who turns out on analysis
to be a composite of several persons. It also illustrates
the occurrence in dreams of puns and other plays on
words, which Freud considers an important factor in
dream formation. These, however, belong not to the
" manifest," but to the " latent " content of the dream
92 Alice Johnson. [part
(as in other cases in my exjDerience, e.g., "Mount Ida"
above), and so are revealed only through the analysis.
Dream. "The Bus."
I was in a bus. There was a young woman there ;
also,
I think, a woman conductor. I turned to one side and saw
that a man, whom I had not noticed before, was sitting by
me, smoking a pipe. A few of the ashes fell on my dress.
I shook them off, and said to the man, " Excuse me, but
smoking is not allowed inside the bus." He glared at me,
but said nothing. I felt a little nervous, but determined to
call to the driver if he did not leave off smoking. I intended
to do this by pulling a string, as one might in a train to call
the guard. The man was wearing a soft slouch hat with a
wide brim that partly hid the upper part of his face. He
looked like a sailor, or some one who had wandered about the
world a good deal. The strangest part of him was his eyes, which
were extraordinarily bright and glittering. He half closed them
when he glared at me, which emphasised the effect of glittering.
My first associations with this dream were : Gaboriau's
Monsieur Lecoq, which I was then in the middle of
reading. As I am interested in detective stories, and
familiar with the Sherlock Holmes series, it had natur-
ally occurred to me to compare the French detective,
Lecoq, with the English, Sherlock Holmes, who smokes
to excess. The glittering eyes of the man in the bus
also suggested to me almost at once the " Ancient
Mariner." I therefore regarded him primarily as a com-
posite of Sherlock Holmes and the Ancient Mariner.
The Ancient Mariner was intended by Coleridge as a
story of the supernatural, not as a study in psychology.
But, as he himself pointed out.
1
the emotional state
1
It was planned as one of a series of poems, in which " the incidents
and agents were to be, in part at least, supernatural ; and the excellence
aimed at was to consist in the interesting of the affections by the
dramatic truth of such emotions, as would naturally accompany such
situations, supposing them real. And real in this sense they have been
to every human being who, from whatever source of delusion, has at
any time believed himself under supernatural agency " (Biographia
Literaria. chap. XIV.).
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 93
of the hero is obviously like that of a person suffering
from delusions or obsessions. The poem then may be
treated as a case of self-analysis,—for the analyst is
also the analysed person, who attempts to relieve his
mind by the process. He succeeds for a time ;
but
the confession, or analysis, has to be constantly repeated
and, it appears, will have to be repeated at intervals
throughout the rest of his life. The Ancient Mariner
of the dream is doubtless conceived of from this point
of view ;
and, like most dream-characters, he stands for
more than one person.
He stands first for Freud, whose book on The Inter-
pretation of Dreams (which I was then studying) is
largely concerned with an analysis of his own dreams.
The story of the Ancient Mariner, moreover, has a
general resemblance to the legend of the Wandering
Jew, and Freud's analysis shows how strongly his own
emotional attitude in life is coloured by the fact of his
being a Jew, in a country where the Anti-Semitic senti-
ment is still strong.
The other dream-character, Sherlock Holmes, the de-
tective, represents the analyst only, not the analysed
person. Primarily he too stands for Freud, for he not
only smokes,1
but is also addicted to the use of cocaine.
Cocaine is associated by me with Freud, because, as I
had read two or three days before the dream (see The
Interpretation of Dreams, pp. 143-144), he had written
" an essay on the coca plant, which drew the attention
of K. Koller to the anaesthetic properties of cocaine. . . .
Shortly after Roller's discovery, my father had ....
become ill with glaucoma ; he was operated upon by my
friend, the eye-specialist, Dr. Konigstein. Dr. Koller
attended to the cocaine anaesthetisation, and thereupon
made the remark that all three of the persons who had
shared in the introduction of cocaine had been brought
together on one case." This statement occurs in the
course of an analysis by Freud of one of his own
dreams ; he also says that he had been thinking that,
1
For the association of "smoking" with psychoanalysis and Freud,
see " The Kaiser " dream, above, p. 63 ; see also below, p. 95.
94 Alice Johnson. [part
if he ever had glaucoma, he would go to Berlin to be
operated on.
Further analysis of my dream reveals a number of links
between it and this case of Freud's, and it is noteworthy
that the links consist chiefly of plays on words, (of which
he gives many examples in his cases). Thus, a berlin
is defined in my dictionary as "a four-wheeled vehicle
[like a bus] of the chariot kind, first made at Berlin "
;
glaucoma is a disease of the eye caused by "an opacity
of the vitreous humour, giving the eye a bluish-green
tint," the word being derived from the Greek glaukos,
bluish-green or sea-green. The Greek word (see Liddell
ana Scott's Lexicon) is used especially of the sea and
of eyes. In the latter case, it originally meant glaring
or gleaming, with the collateral notion of fierce. Glaucus
was a fisherman, who became a sea-god (Ovid, Met. XIII.
898). Cf. my Ancient Mariner, with the glittering eyes,
in the four-wheeled vehicle.
Freud's dream (op. cit. p. 142) was that he had
written a monograph on a plant ; the slang meaning
of the word " plant " in English is a hoax. In my
dream, the man smokes ;
" to smoke a person," in slang
language, means to hoax him.
Freud, if he went to Berlin as he was imagining, would
go by train. In my dream I think of calling the driver's
attention by pulling a cord, and think of this as the
means of communication (with the guard) used in trains.
Another series of associations starts from some phrases
in a Holland script (quoted in Proc, Vol. XXII. p. 215),
which apjmrently suggested several factors in the dream :
Is she asleep ? No, she's talking. That chimney smokes . . .
I want you to understand me but I have so few chances to
speak.—it's like waiting to take a ticket and I am always
pushed away from the pigeon-hole before I can influence her
mind ... A peck of pickled pepper . . .
A faint far glimmer
a flickering light
Five different influences
have tried to write
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
95
In the Holland script, " she " generally means the
automatist, and " I " the " control," i.e., the influence
purjjorting to inspire the script. Transferring this
conception to the dream, it would seem that " she
"
is the dreamer, who, in the dream, is " talking " ; while
the "control"—the "five different influences" of the
script—is the other chief dream-personage, the man,
who is a composite of several different characters, and
whose glittering eyes are perhaps partly suggested by the
" flickering light " of the script . Also there were five
persons in all in the bus (including the driver).
" Waiting to take a ticket " may happen in a bus,
but the script phrases seem to apply rather to taking
a ticket for a train at a railway station.
" Is she asleep ? No, she's talking. That chimney
smokes " is, as mentioned above, (see the analysis of
" The Kaiser " dream, p. 63) a reminiscence of a sentence in
Human Personality, Vol. I. p. 55, relating to a case
in Breuer and Freud's Studien iiber Hysterie ;
" '
The
talking cure,' or '
chimney-sweeping,' as Fraulein 0.
called it, was practically equivalent to confession under
hypnosis." The chimney that emokes, then, is one that
wants sweeping, or that has not yet been swept ; —that
is, there is something wrong, something incomplete or
unsatisfactory, in the analysis.
In the dream, objection is made to smoking " inside
the bus." Now " bus " is an anagram for " sub," which
both Mrs. Holland and I constantly used, in corre-
sponding with each other, as an abbreviation for " sub-
liminal." The idea seems to be that the subliminal
thoughts should be clear, not smoky ;
smokiness, or
obscurity, should occur only on the roof of the bus,
—
the supraliminal.
" Bus," again, is the abbreviated form of " omnibus,"
—a word suggesting Jung's view that there is a stratum
of the subliminal which is common to everybody.
Another association between the smoking man of the
dream and Mrs. Holland occurred to my mind later.
It consisted in a phrase in a script of Miss Verrall's
(Mrs. Salter), as follows :
" An old Dutch pipe with a
!><; Alice Johnson. [part
curved stem—Dutch windmills." A note by Mr. Pidding-
ton on this phrase suggests that it is a veiled reference
to Mrs. Holland. There are in Miss Verrall's scripts,
so far as known to me, only three other references to
the country or people of Holland, one of which is as
follows :
" Round the world for ever and aye 1
—der
fliegender Hollander." The Flying Dutchman is of course
a variant of the Wandering Jew, who is associated above
with the Ancient Mariner. It is to be understood that Miss
Verrall's, like Mrs. Holland's, scripts, together with a great
quantity of unpublished notes on them, are extremely
familiar to me, so that when I think of any one of them,
it cannot fail to remind me of many other connected ones.
The smoking man was first associated by me with
Gaboriau's Monsieur Lecoq, and his twofold character as
the analyst and the analysed person corresponds with the
two chief characters in the book,-—the detective, Lecoq,
and the accused person (le prevenu), Anne-Marie-Martial,
Marquis de Sairmeuse, who calls himself " Mai," and
whose real name and history Lecoq is trying to discover.
The comparison of the analyst to a detective and of
the analysed person to a supposed criminal may be
thought odd, even if, as in the case of this story, the
person accused of the crime is acquitted in the end.
The situation arises, of course, from the procedure of the
Trench criminal law, as distinguished from the English :
in the former, the accused person is assumed to be
guilty and has to prove himself innocent ; whereas in
the latter he is assumed to be innocent until the crime
is proved against him. I think that the dream-self
selected a French rather than an English detective story
on this very account, as representing the Freudian atti-
tude. For Freud's method of procedure, in his Inter-
pretation of Dreams, certainly lends itself to the view
that he is searching for what he calls primitive—or
what others might call degenerative—tendencies, and that
he takes up the position of assuming always that they
exist and that the burden of proof rests throughout on
his opponents.
1
Matthew Arnold, The Forsaken Merman.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
97
Both Lecoq and " Mai " have glittering eyes, like the
Ancient Mariner ; and on one occasion they travel
together in a police van, in which there are three other
persons, making five altogether, as in my bus.
In view of the plays on words already noted, in-
cluding the anagram " bus " for " sub," the following
may also be pointed out :
(1) The name " Ancient Mariner " resembles the name
" Anne-Marie-Martial."
(2) This latter, again, resembles " Anna," the Christian
name of Fraulein O., the inventor of the epithet
" chimney-sweeping " (see above), who suffered from an
affection of the eyes, among other symptoms.
(3) The initials of " Ancient Mariner " reversed give
the first two letters of the prisoner's pseudonym " Mai."
(4) An anagram for "Mai" is "I am,"—that is, the
dreamer is one of the persons concealed in the composite.
(5) The first three letters of Lecoq's name, reversed,
give the initials of Dr. Long, the analyst whose paper
precedes mine, and who follows the school of Jung.
(6) Lecoq is very often described as the " jeune agent."
The initials of these words, reversed, give my own initials.
(7) The French word " jeune " corresponds to the
German " jung," suggesting the analyst Jung, who writes
both in French and German.
I need hardly remark that the above resemblances or
coincidences are 'purely accidental ; an unlimited number
of such could be found in many other directions, and
no significance of any kind is to be attached to them
in themselves. But I believe that my subliminal selected
Gaboriau's book to assist in the make-up of the dream
partly because—in addition to the fact that the story,
with its two principal characters, lent itself to the general
dream-scheme of the analyst and the analysed person
—
there happened to be these coincidences between the
names of the characters and the names of those analysts
and analysed persons who would naturally occur to my
mind. Thus, by the side-wind of these purely accidental
coincidences, several instances of the analyst and analysed
types are introduced into the composite.
G
98 Alice Johnson. [part
It seems that the dreamer appears in this group of
persons as being more in sympathy with the Swiss than
with the Vienna school of psychoanalysis. What is found
objectionable in the dream-man is his smoking—the
characteristic that especially connects him with Freud.
This is represented in the dream as causing confusion
and obscurity in a region that should be clear. 80
Freud's constant and, as I think, greatly exaggerated
emphasis on the sexual side of life seems to me to
obscure the very issues which he is attempting to clear up.
Summary.
The analysis shows that this dream is concocted
primarily from four sources :
(1) Coleridge's Ancient
Mariner ; (2) Gaboriau's Lecoq, involving Sherlock
Holmes ; (3) Freud's Interpretation of Dreams ; (4) the
Holland script quoted on p. 94.
By combining ideas derived from all these sources,
we arrive at the notion of two generic or typical persons,
the analyst and the analysed person ; and these two are
fused, by a process which we may compare to a chemical
synthesis, into the single composite dream-character, the
Smoking Man.
Reversing the process, we find that the Man may be
decomposed into two main characters : (a) Sherlock
Holmes, who represents the Analyst only ;
(b) the
Ancient Mariner, who still combines the two types of
Analyst and Analysed person.
The two characters-—themselves composite—may in turn
be decomposed further into their factors or elements,
and we find that in both cases the factors are held
together by invisible threads of connection, which we
may compare to the forces of chemical affinity or attrac-
tion. The connecting threads consist in plays on words,
—
only revealed through the analysis. The notion of plays
on words has been borrowed by the dreamer from Freud's
Interpretation of Dreams and from the Holland script, which
abounds in them ; it is partly, perhaps, on account of this
common characteristic that the book and the script have
been utilised jointly in the production of the dream.
LXXV.] Dream-A nalysis. yy
Continuing the decomposition of the dream-characters,
we find that : (a) Behind Sherlock Holmes (the detective)
stands Freud (the analyst). They are connected by the
Cocaine association, and by the puns on the slang use
of the words " plant " and " smoking."
(b) Behind the Ancient Mariner stand : (1) Freud,
both as analyst and analysed person, associated with
the Ancient Mariner through : his imagined journey to
Berlin (berlin = bus) ; his feared glaucoma (glaukos = blue-
green, sea-green ;
glittering eyes. Glaucus, the fisherman,
or mariner) ; his Jewish blood (the Ancient Mariner
like the Wandering Jew).
(2)
" Der fliegende Hollander," that is, Mrs. Holland,
considered as an analysed person.
(3) Anne-Marie-Martial, the accused person of Gaboriau's
story ; behind whom stands Fraulein Anna 0., the
analysed person referred to in the Holland script.
(4)
" Mai," the pseudonym of the accused person ;
behind whom stands the dreamer, as an analysed person,
through the anagram " I am."
(5) Lecoq, " le jeune agent," i.e. the detective ; behind
whom stand three persons in the capacity of analyst,
viz. Dr. C. E. Long, Dr. Jung, and the dreamer.
Post-script.
The above dream had been studied with great care,
and several accounts of it had been written out in the
endeavour to make it clear, first to myself and after-
wards to my readers. I had long seen that its scheme
included the two types of analyst and analysed person,
that the latter category included automatic writers as
well as dreamers, and that one automatist, Mrs Holland,
was included in the composite.
In view of all this, it seems odd that I should have
overlooked the connection between the name " Mai "
and Mrs. Verrall, whose name was Margaret, but who
was always called " May " by her friends, including
myself. Also her second name (de Gaudrion) was French,
which might have afforded another clue. Nevertheless,
it was not until some time after the final draft of the
100 Alice Johnson. PART
analysis was written out—and nearly seven months after
the occurrence of the dream—that it suddenly flashed
on me that " Mai " was Mrs. Verrall.
Mrs. Verrall, then, is one of the conglomerate company
in the Bus.
About three weeks after the discovery of Mrs. Verrall
in the " Bus," another equally obvious discovery was
made with the same suddenness, viz. that the Smoking
Man included also Mrs. Piper.
Mrs. Piper's is a name that lends itself to puns, and has
in fact been frequently punned on in the scripts ;
e.g.,
in a Holland script given in Proc. Vol. XXV. p. 273 :
" Piper, sit thee down and write
In a book that all may read
"
—a quotation from Blake's Introduction to " Songs of
Innocence.''' See also allusions to the Pied PijDer of
Hamelin in Miss Verrall's scripts quoted in Proc. Vol.
XXII. pp. 67-68. These scripts and others by Mrs.
Verrall and Mrs. Piper, quoted in the same section as
forming a cross-corres}Dondence with them, are full of
plays on words.
The first play on Mrs. Piper's name that has been
detected in the scripts occurs in an early Holland script,
as follows :
" The next pick of pickled pepper will be rather a
surprising one. Mrs. Piper . . .
."
This of course alludes to the nursery rhyme, " Peter
Piper picked a peck of pickled pepper." Cf. "a peck of
pickled pepper " in the Holland script quoted above
(p. 94) as the source of several elements in the dream.
I at first omitted this phrase from the extracts quoted
from the script, not seeing its significance in regard to
the dream. It affords, I think, a clear proof that Mrs.
Piper was included in the " dream thoughts " as an
analysed person.
I take it that the general idea at the back of this
dream is that, in spite of more or less serious differences
of opinion and of outlook between the different real
persons represented in it, there is much in common
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 101
between them. They are all in the same " Bus "
;
i.e.,
they are all concerned with and deeply interested in the
study of the subliminal, and their views in regard to it
would harmonise in many respects.
The dreams analysed in this paper are all given in the
chronological order of their occurrence, with the exception
of the one next to be quoted. This occurred at a date
about half way between the " Golden Stairs " and
" Bacchae " dreams, but for the purposes of my general
argument is placed here.
Dream. " The Astronomer's Bath."
I was in my lodgings, talking to a former fellow-lodger,
Mrs. L. She remarked that she wanted to take a bath, and
would take one at the astronomer's. I got the impression
that this would be something of an elaborate kind, perhaps
like a Turkish bath. So, knowing that her means were very
limited, I asked " Wouldn't that be rather expensive 1
" She
said, " Yes." I said, " Then why not take a bath in this
house 1
" She replied that, as she was no longer living in
the house, she did not like to do so. I urged her to ask the
landlady's leave for it.
At the end of our talk, we seemed to be standing together
at the top of the backstairs in my old home, outside the door
of my old night nursery.
The following are the chief associations with the items
of this dream which occurred to my mind and were
noted the next morning :
Mrs. L. had to work hard, often beyond her strength,
to keep herself and her children. She could have got
help from her relatives, but preferred to be independent.
I thought her over-scrupulous in making claims for her-
self ;
thus, it was characteristic that she should have
refused to ask for a bath that would cost nothing in
her old lodgings, and preferred to pay for one elsewhere.
A bath : a simple thing ;
talcing a bath is the most
pleasant part of one's toilet ; it would be very dis-
agreeable to be so poor as to be unable to have one.
102 Alice Johnson. [part
But as a child I disliked my bath, because it was always
cold. A bath is a frequent religious symbol. I was
brought up as a Baptist, but was never baptised.
At the Astronomer's : the only one of my acquaintances
that I could think of who had any concern with astronomy
was a relative, then absent at the front, though not near
the fighting line. I was therefore occasionally, but not
acutely, anxious about him. A marked characteristic of
his is an unusual degree of truthfulness and accuracy ;
he is unusually careful not to make a statement unless
he knows it to be correct.
Stars : my own interest in stars is chiefly literary rather
than scientific ;
legendary stars : the Ejnphany star,
" Heaven's youngest-teemed Star,"
1
the herald of a new
epoch. Frequent mythological connection of stars with
birth, e.g., in Virgil's " Messianic " Eclogue (Eel. IV. 6) :
"Now the Virgin 2
returns to earth, and the Saturnian
reign [the age of gold] begins again." 3
The backstairs : associated with childish terrors and
imaginings ; a dark and gloomy place, haunted by the
unseen presences of giants, robbers, and wild beasts.
Half way up the stairs led into a dark cupboard, which,
I believed, opened into a " secret room." I often visited
this imaginary room in dreams, but it remained shadowy
even then. The only real danger of the backstairs was
that one sometimes met black beetles there,-—the most
terrible objects that could be met anywhere. The front
stairs, on the other hand, was a safe, well-lighted, and
cheerful place ; but by going up the backstairs one saved
the front stairs carpet, and so acquired merit. And at the
top one reached the safe and j)leasant haven of the nursery.
These earliest associations with the dream obviously
fail to explain its central problem, the " Astronomer's
Bath." I went on turning this over in my mind at
intervals, and thinking of various literary and legendary
ideas—ancient and modern—about stars ;
e.g., the con-
1
Milton, Hymn on the Morning of Chrises Nativity.
2 The constellation Virgo is identified with Altcri, Astraea, or Justice.
For Justice taking leave of earth, cf. Georg. II. 474.
3 Cf. Milton's Hymn on the Nativity, stanzas XIV., XV.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
103
ception of the system of stars as exemplifying perfect
obedience to divine laws ;
—" His will is our peace " ;
1
and other of the numerous allusions, literal or symbolic,
to astronomy in Dante. I had once begun to make a
list of all his references to the constellations, and
shortly before the dream had read a book, by M. A.
Orr, called Dante and the Early Astronomers, which shows
his intimate acquaintance with the science of Astronomy,
so far as it was known at his time, and the almost
invariable accuracy of all his allusions to such specific
facts as the relative positions of stars, sun, and moon,
in the heavens at different times of the day and night
and at different seasons of the year, the precession of
the equinoxes, etc. (Cf. above, my associations with the
" Astronomer.") All this had interested me for the light
it threw on Dante's many-sided character.
It was not, however, until several months after the
dream that it suddenly flashed on me that my " Astro-
nomer " was Dante himself, and—at the same time
—
that his " Bath
:
'
was the river of Lethe, " which takes
away from men the memory of sin " (Purg. XXVTII. 128),
with its twin stream Eunoe, which restores the recollection
of good. The impression came to me with the same feelings
of sudden recognition and absolute certainty of the correct-
ness of the recognition as in the case of the " Bacchae
"
dream, described above, p. 47 ; the only difference being
that the " Bacchae " was recognised immediately after
waking, and Dante not until several months later. Con-
sidering that my subliminal self must have known
perfectly well all the time who the " Astronomer " was,
it strikes me as noteworthy that the knowledge was
withheld so long from the supraliminal.
As to Lethe, it will be remembered that after Dante
has climbed all the terraces of the Purgatorial Mount,
he enters the Earthly Paradise or Garden of Eden at
the top, and advancing into it finds his way barred by
the stream of Lethe, on the other side of which he
sees in turn Matilda, the mystic procession of the Divine
Car, and Beatrice with her attendant nymphs.
1
Par. III. 85.
104 Alice Johnson. [part
The next step in the analysis of the dream was taken
some months later in the recognition of the Backstairs as
an " infantile " symbol of the Purgatorial Mount which
has to be climbed before Lethe can be reached. With
its imaginary monsters and other perils the Backstairs
represents the horrors of Hell and the pains of Purga-
tory ; and it leads to the nursery at the top, which by
comparison was an Earthly Paradise, and which contained
the bath. As observed in the dream, the " bath "
(whether the nursery one or Lethe) was " rather ex-
pensive " ; much had to be gone through before one
could arrive at it.
The apparently childish character of this analogy is on
a par with many metaphors in the dreams treated of in
the present paper. Its appropriateness in this case will
be seen if we consider that the necessity for some sym-
bolic new birth is a conception inherent in many
religions, including the Christian :
" Except a man be
born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God " (John
III. 3).
The Earthly Paradise represents a return to the state
of primeval innocence ; it was the " place chosen for
nest of the human race " (Purg. XXVIII. 77), the place
of " the golden age and its happy state " (ibid. 140).
It is a Paradise of the archaic—one maj perhaps say,
the infantile—type, the return to a supposed ideal past.
But, in the Divina Commedia, it is not the goal, but only
a temporary resting-place where the soul is prepared for
the real Paradise beyond. " Thou shalt be (says Beatrice
to Dante) for a short time a dweller in this forest, and
with me for ever thou shalt be a citizen of that Rome
whereof Christ is a Roman " (Purg. XXXII. 100-102).
The Bath.
It is odd that Dante should in the dream be desig-
nated " the Astronomer,"-—almost as odd as if one were
to allude to Milton as " the Astronomer." It is equally
odd that Lethe should be described as "a bath," for the
root-idea of Lethe is a water which men drink, in order
to forget their woes, not a water in which they bathe.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 105
Dante, however, lays stress on the cleansing property
of the water. He is drawn by Matilda into the stream
up to his neck (a gola, Purg. XXXI. 94) ; when he is
nearly over, he hears the words Asperges me 1
being sung
(1. 98) ; then Matilda dips his head and makes him
swallow some of the water ;
finally she draws him out
and leads him bathed (bagnato, 1. 103) into the circle
of the four nymphs, handmaids of Beatrice. Further,
when Dante first enquires about Lethe in Hell, Virgil
tells him (Inf. XIV. 136-138) :
" Lethe thou shalt see,
but out of this abyss, there where the spirits go to wash
themselves (a lavarsi) when their guilt has been removed
by penitence."
This, I rejDeat, is not the usual conception of Lethe.
In the sixth Aeneid (as in Plato's "Vision of Er") it
is only after the spirits have been purified by purgatorial
pains that they are allowed to come and drink of the
waters of Lethe (Aen. VI. 735-751). Similarly in the
Purgatorio, Dante goes through all the stages of purifi-
cation from sin ; the marks of the seven deadly sins on
his forehead (Purg. IX. 112) have been erased one by one
at the top of each of the Seven Terraces (Purg. XII.
98, 121-134, etc.), making his ascent of the Mount con-
stantly easier, and he has gone through the purging
fire at the top, before he enters the Earthly Paradise
and comes to Lethe. The function of his Lethe is not
to purify from sin, but to take away the memory of sin.
Washing does not seem a natural way of doing this,
and the fact that Dante, unlike earlier writers, speaks
of being washed in Lethe is one that I had never con-
sciously noticed till the dream drew my attention to it ;
nor is the point alluded to in any of the commentaries
that I have read, before or since the dream.
One reason for the dream epithet of " Bath " is, I
think, to be found in the fact that Dante had a com-
panion in this " bath," viz. the poet Statius, who had
joined him and Virgil on the Fifth Terrace and accom-
panied him through the rest of Purgatory. Readers of
1
Psalm LI. 7, " Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean : wash
me, and I shall be whiter than snow."
106 Alice Johnson. [part
the Proceedings will remember that the Statius episode
was referred to in certain Willett scripts expounded by
Mr. G. W. Balfour in Vol. XXVII. pp. 221-243. In
his opening statement Mr. Balfour refers to some earlier
Willett scripts which purported to give the answer of
Myers to the question :
" What does the word Lethe
suggest to you ?
" The scripts treated of in Mr. Bal-
four's paper had nothing to do with Lethe, but were
interpreted as referring to Purg. XXII. 73-91, in which
Dante speaks of the baptism of Statius, and to two
articles by Dr. Verrall, entitled " To follow the Fisher-
man " and " Dante on the Baptism of Statius," repub-
lished posthumously in his Collected Literary Essays :
Classical and Modem. These scripts purported to be
inspired by Dr. Verrall.
It happens that my personal interest in Dante was
first excited by a conversation with Dr. Verrall, who
remarked in the course of it that he thought Dante's
the only conception of Paradise that could satisfy both
the feelings and the intellect of an educated modern
man (I am not, of course, professing to give his exact
words, but only the gist of what he said). It would
seem, therefore, that my dream contains an implicit refer-
ence to Dr. Verrall, and to this paper of Mr. Balfour's.
Cf. my " Astronomer " and the Willett script of Sept. 8,
1913 {Proc. Vol. XXVII. p. 224) :
" What moves the
stars and all the heavenly bodies ? Dante makes it clear "
;
the allusion being to the last line of the Paradiso :
" The Love that moves the sun and the other stars."
Cf. also my " Bath " and the quotation from the Punch
poem associated with Dr. Verrall (op. cit. p. 237) :
" And when I take my Tavender,
My Tavender or Tub."
The connection between my dream and the Statius
subject is further confirmed by the occurrence among
my first associations with " stars " (see above, p. 102)
of the line from Virgil's Messianic Eclogue :
" Now the
Virgin returns to earth, and the Saturnian reign begins
again " ; for it was to this very passage that Statius
LXXV.] Dream-A nalysis. 107
(Purg. XXII. 70-72) ascribed his (supposed) conversion to
Christianity.
Dr. Verrall in his two papers above mentioned analyses
the grounds for Dante's belief that Statius had been con-
verted and, at a certain specified date, secretly baptised :
" Before, as a poet, I brought the Greeks to the rivers of
Thebes, I had myself received baptism " {Purg. XXII. 88-89),
in, says Dr. Verrall, continuing to expound Dante, " the
river, according to the familiar figure, of baptism. This river
he long hesitated to pass ; he '
halted on the other side,'
as a man who was no hero might, when to be baptised
was to be in danger of death,—though, as he tells us, the
delay cost him centuries of expiation upon the purgatorial
mountain." (Collected Literary Essays, p. 194.)
Here, then, is another " expensive bath," like that of
the dream, where " baptism " is mentioned among the
first associations (see above, p. 102) with the word " bath."
But, Dr. Verrall points out, it is almost certain that
Dante was mistaken in thinking that Statius had ever
been converted ; in that case Statius (like the dreamer)
was never baptised. Note that Baptists, founding them-
selves on the custom of the New Testament and of the
first Christians, practise only adult baptism and retain
the primitive procedure of immersion. In both these
respects Statius and the dreamer, if they had been
baptised, would have been treated in the same way.
There are, thus, two " baths " which may legitimately
be connected with the " Astronomer," Dante, both asso-
ciated with leading incidents in the Commedia (in which
there is, so far as I can remember, no other " bath
"
of any importance) ; both are baths in rivers ; in both
Statius takes part, but Dante only in one. The dream
no doubt refers to both baths, and the further analysis
of it was directed towards discovering the significance
attached to each.
The Lethe " Bath."
This was associated by me with the references to Lethe
in the automatic scripts published in the Proceedings,
especially to :
108 Alice Johnson. [part
(1) The Lethe of Ovid {Met. Book XI. Fable VII.),
which rises in the Cave of Sleep, " through which the
rivulet, trickling with a murmuring noise amid the
sounding pebbles, invites sleep " (11. 603 seq.). From this
Cave dreams issue forth (11. 615-648) to impose themselves
on men (see Proc. Vol. XXIV. pp. 86-144).
(2) The Lethe of Virgil (see Proc. Vol. XXIV. pp. 86-
144; and Vol. XXV. pp. 113-193).
(3) The Lethe of Dante (see Proc. Vol. XXII. pp. 237,
264, 268, 269, foot-note ; and Vol. XXV. pp. 214-216).
The articles on the scripts containing these allusions
were naturally familiar to me, as was the ordinary
mytholog3T
of Lethe. But the Lethe of Dante was the
one in which I had long been most interested, as it
apjDearecl to me that it had special meanings which were
not explained satisfactorily by any of the commentaries
that I had read ; and the dream seems to be an attempt
to carry on further and clear up my somewhat vague,
rambling, and intermittent waking reflections on the
matter.
It aj^pears that the original function of Lethe was
merely to act as a drug or narcotic to deaden the
senses and make men forget trouble and pain. In the
Orphic and later mythology,1
it develops into a rite of
initiation ; the man dies, symbolically or actually, to
live again or to be re-incarnated. Between the two
stages or two lives, he passes through a purgatorial
period and then drinks of Lethe, so that in the second
life he has no recollection of anything that preceded it.
Thus in the Sixth Aeneid, (11. 713-715) :
" Souls to whom
Fate owes a second body drink at the wave of the river
of Lethe draughts that free from care and long oblivion."
" All these, when they have turned the wheel through a
thousand years, God summons in a great multitude to the
river of Lethe, so that without memory they may see
the vaulted sky again, and may begin to wish to return
into bodies " (11. 748-751).
1
See Plato's Myth of Er, Republic, 613e-621d. For an account of the
" Orphic Tablets," see Miss J. E. Harrison's Prolegomena to the Study of
Greek Religion, pp. 573 et seq.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis . 109
This passage is probably the immediate source of Dante's
Lethe, but he diverges at once from his model. To begin
with, he imports into Lethe for the first time, or at least
strongly emphasises, the idea that it causes oblivion of
sin, the original notion being that it caused forgetfulness in
general. Then, with his passion for exact topography, he
does not confine himself (as Virgil does, Aen. VI. 704 ff.) to
the bank where the souls about to be re-incarnated gather
to drink of the water, but works out the relationship
of the stream as a whole to his scheme of the universe,
material, as well as spiritual. Virgil places his infernal
rivers, Acheron, Styx, and Cocytus, near the entrance to
Hades, and Lethe in its purgatorial region. Dante, whose
Purgatory is sharply marked off from his Hell, meets
Lethe first in the lowest depth of Hell, i.e. the centre
of the earth. Here Lucifer is fixed, embedded up to his
middle in the frozen swamp of Cocytus.
This " Creature who was once so fair " has now a
head with three faces, yellow, red and black, under each
of which is a pair of gigantic flapping bats' wings, and
the winds raised by these keep the swamp always frozen,
while his three mouths are perpetually gnawing the three
arch-traitors, Judas Iscariot, Brutus, and Cassius. In
contrast with the crude, barbaric, and almost grotesquely
hideous appearance of this monster is the environment,
which shows his esoteric character. The three infernal
rivers, Acheron, Styx and Phlegethon, are formed from
the tears of the whole human race from its early ages
onwards,1
and they all run down into Cocytus {Inf. XIV.
113-119), into which also the tears of Lucifer himself flow
perpetually (Inf. XXXIV. 52-54).
On another side the swamp receives also the waters
of Lethe, flowing down into it from Purgatory,2
and
1
See the ;i
Literary Parallel " above, p. 40.
2
The ruscelletto of Inf. XXXIV. 130, which flows from Purgatory into
Hell, is nowhere named, but is said to be Lethe in a foot-note in the
Temple Edition, which I have been accustomed to use. At the time of
my dream, I did not know that the point had ever been disputed, so
that for the dream-self the rivulet in question was Lethe. Many of the
commentators say nothing about it. Mr. Edmund Gardner, in the
Temple Primer of Dante, following Dr. Carlyle, says that the rivulet
110 Alice Johnson. [part
carrying thence the memories of sins from which the
purified, souls have been set free. Thus Lucifer suffers
perpetually his own pain and the pains of the whole
human race, and lives in the eternal memory and con-
sciousness of evil.
So. in accordance with the general plan that Purgatory
should be a counterpart to Hell, there is a place and a
function for Lethe in Hell. It is at the top of Purgatory,
and at the bottom of Hell. Its function in Purgatory
is to obliterate the memory or consciousness of evil ; its
function in Hell is the contrary,-—to emphasise and
conserve the memory of evil. For the effect on Dante
himself only, it might be sufficient for him to drink the
water ; but how, in that case, could the water be so
affected as to produce any result in Hell ? So he not
only drinks the water, but also bathes in it, with the idea,
as I conceive, that the evil memories will both be de-
stroyed in himself and washed off him, so that they may
be carried down to Hell.
The scheme has the incidental advantage that the water
running down into the centre of the earth wears a narrow
winding channel in the rock,—a sort of short cut out of Hell,
passage through which is in general not permitted (see
Purg. I. 40-48), and it is through this channel that Virgil
brings " the remains of sin that has been purged in Purgatory back to
Lucifer." Prof. J. A. Stewart describes the whole course of Lethe as
being on the surface of the earth. Mr. H. F. Tozer, in his English
Commentary on Dante's Divina Commedia, says that the rivulet is
generally regarded as Lethe, but expresses doubt of the correctness of
this interpretation.
Longfellow, in a note to his translation, calls it Lethe. A. J. Butler
in a note says, " The brook is generally held to be the outflow of Lethe,
which rises at the summit of the Mountain of Purification," and he
apparently accepts the view. Mr. Paget Toynbee, in his Dante Dictionary,
under " Lete " refers to the " ruscelletto " of Inf. XXXIV. 130, and to
the " cieco flume " of Purg. I. 40, which are undoubtedly the same.
Dr. G-. A. Scartazzini, in his Enciclopedia Dantesca (Milano, 1896), says
that Lethe rises at the top of the Mount of Purgatory, flows through
the Earthly Paradise, falls to the foot of the mountain and from thence
passes through the hollow of a rock down to the centre of the earth.
I think therefore that the balance of evidence is on the side of the
identification of the stream as Lethe.
LXXV. |
Dream-Analysis
.
Ill
and Dante climb up to the surface of the earth, at the
antipodes of the spot whence they descended into Hell,
and find themselves at the foot of the Mount of Purga-
tory.
They do not meet with Lethe again till they come to
the Earthly Paradise, where again it differs in a marked
way from its mythological prototype. Virgil (like Plato)
describes the function of Lethe from a general and
abstract point of view, as a process in the development
of the soul. Dante conceives of the process as applied
to himself, and tries to imagine exactly what effect it
will have. This not merely, I think, for dramatic purposes,
but because he thinks naturally in personal terms. The
twofold stream is thus described to him by Matilda (Purg.
XXVIII. 127-133) :
On this side it descends with a virtue which takes from
men the memory of sin ;
on the other it restores the memory
of every good deed. On this side Lethe, as on the other
Eunoe 'tis called, and works not except first it is tasted on
this side and on that. This exceedeth all other savours.
From a psychological point of view the passage appears
to me of great interest, since the question of Memory is
the central problem of psychology, if not (as Plato hints)
of ethics. What we are conscious of and what we re-
member is only a small selection out of the whole
possible field of consciousness and memory. But
" We forget because we must,
And not because we will." 1
To be able to control the selection, to get rid of
memories of evil and horror that no longer serve—perhaps
have never served—any useful purpose,, and to recover and
retain the desirable ones, would be a great gain both for
happiness and for efficiency.
Dante, having reached the summit of Purgatory, has
already repented of his sins and been purified from them ;
to keep the recollection of them any longer will therefore
be useless and merely hampering. The water of Lethe
1 Freud's view is of course the opposite of Matthew Arnold's.
112 Alice Johnson. [part
delivers him from this useless burden. The memories
from which he was delivered are described in the following
words which he addresses to Beatrice (Purg. XXXIII. 91-
93) :
" I do not remember that I ever estranged myself
from you, nor have I conscience thereof that gnaws me."
This is the only sin which is anywhere explicitly
mentioned as having been forgotten through drinking
of Lethe. I think we may infer that Dante himself
regarded his sins against Beatrice and all that she stood
for in his life, if not as the sum, at least as " the head
and front of his offending."
To my mind the passage has not been fully appreciated
because, in spite of the trend of modern, and especially
of English, scholarship towards the literal interpretation
of the Commedia as oj)posed to the earlier symbolic
interpretation of it, there is still too much tendency to
regard Beatrice in the first place not as herself but as
the representative of Religion, while Virgil is thought of
not as himself but as representing Philosophy. Yet
to an impartial person who reads the whole narrative
with no such preconception it must. I think, appear
that what Dante has forgotten through drinking of Lethe
is the actual events of his life,-—that is, the course of
dissipation into which he fell after the death of Beatrice.
Let us then next consider his personal relationship to
Beatrice as compared with his relationship to the other
chief character of the poem, Virgil.
For Virgil he has a great devotion and reverence ;
but there is nothing reciprocal in the relationship. Virgil
is the man " who goes by night and carries the light
behind him " (Purg. XXII. 67) ; he is not deliberately
showing it to any one, and he does not know on whom
it shines, or who is blind to it. Just such a relationship
may subsist between Dante himself and any one of his
modern readers. Dante does not suppose that Virgil
actually came out of Limbo to enlighten him.
On the other hand,—this it seems to me impossible
to doubt,—it was an essential part of his faith that
Beatrice did actually and literally make a personal effort
on his behalf. For its efficacy, his own co-operation was
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
113
of course necessary ; but the effect produced on him was,
he believed, due to something more than his own un-
assisted efforts and aspirations. In the language of
psychical research, Beatrice is a " communicator " ;
Virgil is only a " control." Throughout the Inferno,
and the greater part of the Purgatorio, Virgil " controls
"
for Beatrice ; afterwards she " controls " for herself.
Now. after drinking the water of Lethe, Dante forgot
that he had ever sinned against her ; he could not
therefore realise in any adequate way her efforts for his
salvation. The water of Eunoe was necessary to restore
to him the realisation of this. The idea of Eunoe as
the indispensable counterpart of Lethe is the most essential
and original 1
pait of his whole conception.
It is strange that two such scholars as Mr. Paget
Toynbee and Prof. J. A. Stewart 2
should have taken
Purg. XXVIII. 129 (" dall' altra, d'ogni ben fatto la
rende ") to mean that what is restored to the penitent
by the water of Eunoe' is the memory of his own good
deeds, the advantage of which (according to Prof. Stewart)
is that it enables him to preserve the continuity of his
conscious life when he passes into Paradise. The final touch
that is to fit Dante for Paradise is not, surely, the contem-
plation of his own virtues, but the virtues of Beatrice.
The functions of Lethe and Eunoe had already been
explained to him by Matilda (Purg. XXVIII. 121-132, see
above) ; but he had forgotten her explanation, and when
he saw the streams again, " parting like friends that
linger," he had to ask what they were. It is explicitly
stated that this forgetfulness was not due to the action
of Lethe,—it was a case of what might be called normal
forgetfulness. Then, by the direction of Beatrice, Matilda,
to " requicken his fainting virtue," leads Dante and
1
It has some resemblance to the Platonic notion of anamnesis or
reminiscence,
—" the recollection of those things which in time past
[i.e., in some previous existence] our soul beheld when it travelled
with God,"—and to the Orphic Fountain of Memory, but was probably
invented by Dante independently of any mythological tradition.
2
Paget Toynbee, A Dante Dictionary, under " Lete."
Prof. J. A. Stewart, The Myths of Plato, pp. 157-8.
ii
114 Alice Johnson. [part
Statius to Eunoe and makes them drink of " the sweet
draught which never would have sated me. ... I came
back from the most holy waves, born again, even as new
trees renewed with new foliage, pure and ready to mount
to the stars " (Purg. XXXIII. 138-145).
We find as a fact that in the Paradiso the souls have
still some recollection of the faults of their lives on earth ;
e.g., Piccarda remembers that her vows were slighted
(Par. III. 56) ; Justinian remembers that he once held
heretical opinions (Par. VI. 14) ; and the effect of their
past lives is symbolised by their presence in the lower
heavens, though it is explained that this is only an
allegorical appearance (Par. IV. 34-43).
It is in the Third Heaven, the Heaven of Venus, that
the effects of the drinking of Lethe and Eunoe' are most
clearly hinted at, though never specifically alluded to.
Cunizza of Romano says 1
(Par. IX. 32-35) :
Here I shine, because the light of this star had the mastery
of me. But gladly I allow to myself the occasion of my
lot, and it gives me no annoy.
Folco of Marseilles, the Troubadour, says (Par. IX.
95-108) :
This heaven is stamped with me, as was I with it . . . Here,
however, one repents not, but smiles, not for the fault, which
returns not to the mind, but for the goodness which ordered
and foresaw. Here one gazes into the art which makes beauti-
ful with so great affection, and the good is discerned whereby
the world on high turns that below.
In a note, Butler explains this speech to mean :
We feel no repentance for our fault, which indeed we have
forgotten ; but we contemplate with joy the wonderful order
of God's providence, which makes that love wherein we for-
merly erred an honour to us ; and we discern this same love
in its highest manifestation, namely, as the power by means
of which the whole course of the world is governed.
Cf. the " Astronomer," who ends his poem with the words :
" L'Amor che move il sole e l'altre stelle."
1
Of this and the next quoted passage I give Butler's translation.
3LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
115
I may quote also a comment by Mr. Edmund Gardner 1
on the speeches of Cunizza and Folco :
Grief for past sin is absorbed in happiness in the divine
mercy and in gratitude for forgiveness. For, in Dante's
allegory, both Lethe and Eunoe have been drunken of. In-
tellectual remembrance of these past evils remains to the
soul, but, as far as regards sensible experience, they are
wholly forgotten : La col/pa a mente non torna. " In the City
of God," says St. Augustine, " the soul will be oblivious of
sin, oblivious of sufferings, and yet not so oblivious of its
deliverance as to be ungrateful to its deliverer."
The personal application of this conception to Dante
himself is indicated by the fact that a thread of his
own history is interwoven into the scenes of the Heaven
of Venus through the allusion to his Ode, " Ye who by
understanding move the Third Heaven," (Par. VIII. 37) ;
for this Ode is in one of his sonnets associated with
" that Lady in whom I went astray," who is almost
certainly the " Lady of the Window " of the Vita Nuovav
§§ 36-39.2
But the passage which perhaps above all others shows
the inspiration of Eunoe' is Dante's last address to Beatrice
in the Tenth or Highest Heaven (Par. XXXI. 79-93) :
" 0 Lady, in whom my hope is strong, and who didst
endure for my salvation to leave thy footprints in Hell, for
all the things that I have seen I own the grace and the
virtue by thy power and by thy goodness. Thou hast from
a slave drawn me to liberty through all those ways, through
all the modes which had the power to do that. Preserve
the great work that thou hast wrought in me, so that 1113^
soul which thou hast healed may be unloosed from the body
well-pleasing to thee." Thus I prayed ; and she, so far away
as it seemed, smiled and looked upon me ; then she turned
back to the eternal fountain.
1
Dante's Ten Heavens, p. 87.
2 For a full exposition of this point, and of the relation of the Ode in
question to G'onv. II., see Appendix II. of Mr. P. H. Wicksteed's trans-
lation of the Convivio (Temple Edition, pp. 428-435), and his translation
of Witte's Essays on Dante, pp. 423-432.
116 Alice Johnson. [part
To sum up : The idea behind " the Lethe Bath " is,
I take it, that the perfect life—the goal of human
endeavour—involves the oblivion of evil and the perpetual
and vital consciousness of good,—the good to which
Dante was led by Beatrice.
The " Bath," or Baptism, of Statms.
This—the other factor of the Dream Bath—is in Dante's
scheme anterior to the Lethe Bath. As the latter is
intimately bound up with his relationship to Beatrice,
so the former is bound up with his relationship, and the
relationship of Statius, to Virgil.
One of the problems which most exercised Dante's
mind was the fate of the " virtuous heathen," many of
whom he saw in Limbo, the first circle of Hell, where,
Virgil tells him, they are " only in so far afflicted that
without hope we live in desire " (Inf. IV. 42). These
were " men of much worth " and " great sadness took
[him] at the heart on hearing " of their condition and their
permanent exclusion from heaven. In the same Canto
(52-63) Virgil describes Christ's descent into Hell, from
which he liberated certain souls, so that a large number
of Old Testament saints rose to Heaven. This of course
is in accordance with the traditions of the Christian
Church ; what is interesting is Dante's own choice of
heathen that were saved. Apart from the Emperor
Trajan, whose legend formed part of the Church tradition,
all the others are vouched for, or closely associated with,
Virgil. They are :
(1) Statius ;
(2) Cato, the warder of Purgatory (Purg. I. 31) ; i.e.
Cato of Utica, described by Virgil in Aen. VIII. 670,
as dispensing laws to the departed spirits of virtuous
men ;
(3) The obscure Kipheus (Par. XX. 68, 100-148) whom
Virgil in Aen. II. 426, calls of all the Trojans the man
most just and most observant of the right.
Ripheus appears in the Sixth Heaven, that of Jupiter,
the distinguishing Virtue of which is Justice, and here
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
117
Dante tries to find an explanation of the apparent arbi-
trariness of the Divine selection of the virtuous heathen
for salvation or the reverse. He appeals to the souls
there, who, if any, should understand the nature of
Justice, to " solve the great fast which long hath held
me hungering, because on earth I found no food for it
"
(Par. XIX. 25-27). They understand his question intui-
tively :
1 " Thou didst say :
'
A man is born upon the
bank of Indus, and there is none to tell of Christ, nor
none to read, nor none to write ; and all his volitions
and his deeds are good so far as human reason seeth,
sinless in life or in discourse. He dieth unbaptised and
without faith ; where is that justice which condemneth
him ? where is his fault, in that he not believes ?
'
"
The question may not present itself in the same terms
to a modern reader, but the problem is the same,—
a
problem especially acute at the present day,—how can
the sufferings of innocent persons, brought on them not
by their own fault, be reconciled with a just governance
of the universe ?
It was perhaps the very intensity of his feeling on
this subject,-—the feeling that an answer to the question
must be found, must somewhere exist, —that led Dante
to inscribe over the gate of his Hell the strange words
(Inf. III. 4-6) :
" Justice moved my High Maker ; Divine
Power made me, Wisdom Supreme, and Primal Love."
But he cannot permit himself to formulate anything
beyond the declaration with which the spirits in the
Heaven of Jupiter end their discourse (Par. XX. 133-135) :
" Ye mortals, hold yourselves straitly back from judging ;
for we, who see God, know not as yet all the elect."
Now, of course, the one of all others for whom Dante
desired salvation was Virgil ;
but a man of his intellectual
honesty could not, in the circumstances of his time,
reconcile it with his conscience to believe that Virgil
was saved. So he endeavours to satisfy his love for
Virgil by everything possible short of this. He takes
him as his Master and Leader up to the top of the
1
Here, as frequently throughout the Cow/media, telepathy as a normal
mode of communication between spirits is assumed.
118 Alice Johnson. [part
Mount, and sheds bitter tears at their parting there.
And in particular he chooses, as an instance of the
soul rising to Paradise on its release from Purgator}^
" Statins, the most successful of the imitators of Virgil,"
who (says Dr. Verrall 1
) "for Dante and his contem-
poraries was perhaps, after Virgil, the most interesting
figure in literature." Dr. Verrall, as mentioned above,
has analysed the evidence on which Dante based his
belief that Statius was a Christian and shown its inade-
quacy. I venture to add the conjecture that there was
a special motive which led Dante to seize eagerly on
whatever evidence he could find,—viz. the desire to do
honour to Virgil by ascribing to him not only the poetical
inspiration, but also the conversion of Statius.
" The sparks (says Statius, Purg. XXI. 94-98 :) which
warmed me, from the divine flame whence more than a
thousand have been kindled, were the seeds of my poetic
fire : of the Aeneid I speak, which was a mother to me
and was to me a nurse in poesy." So much is matter
of common knowledge ;
but, he adds, (Purg. XXII. 64-
73) :
" Thou first didst send me towards Parnassus to
drink in its caves, and then didst light me on to God.
Thoii didst like one who goes by night and carries the
light behind him, and profits not himself, but maketh
persons wise that follow him, when thou saidst :
'
The
Avorld is renewed, justice returns and the first age of man,
and a new progeny descends from heaven.' Through
thee I was a poet, through thee a Christian."
Virgil himself is shut out from Paradise ; but as through
the help of Beatrice Dante gained entrance there, so
through the help of Virgil this spiritual son of his, Statius,
has been admitted. Admittance is gained through the two-
fold " Bath," the first stage of which is (in this case)
Baptism. Then follows the long sojourn in Purgatory, till
the moment comes when the purgation is completed. At
this moment the man's will, 2 hitherto torn between two
conflicting desires,-—the desire to pay the penalty of his
sins and the desire to pass on to the next stage,—turns,
unimpeded, to the single purpose of rising to the life of
1
Collected Literary Essays, p. 154. 2 Purg. XXI, 40-69.
LXXV.] Drea m-Analys is
.
119
Paradise, on the threshold of which he goes through the
second and last stage of the "Bath," viz. Lethe and
Eunoe.
Other Dante Dreams.
My contemporary notes of dreams for a period of
37 days show that during that time eight dreams (in-
cluding the "Astronomer's Bath") occurred, relating,
either directly or through their first associations, to Dante
topics. I give these briefly in chronological order :
(1) A phrase which, so far as I could remember, ran
thus :
" If only one could get crowned, one could go
ahead." It was clear in the dream that to be " crowned "
did not mean to have authority over, or to be superior
to, other people ; it meant a position of freedom and
independence for oneself. Many months later I traced
it to Purg. XXVII. 142 : "I crown and mitre thee over
thyself " (the crown and mitre being the symbols of
temporal and spiritual authority),—Virgil's last words to
Dante, after he had brought him to the top of the Mount
of Purgatory.
(2) Dream of the " Golden Stairs," one association with
which was the Jacob's Ladder of the Paradiso, see
above, p. 44.
(3) Dream of the Pool of Bethesda, associated with
Jacob's Ladder (because of the angel that came down
and troubled the water, see John V. 4), and hence with
the Paradiso.
(4) Some vague phrases, including the words :
" Con-
quering combatants—Leah and Rachel " ; associated with
Dante's dream of Leah, see Purg. XXVII. 100 ff. The
same topic re-ajypears much later in the " Two Dolls
"
dream, see above, p. 73.
(5) Dream of " The Astronomer's Bath."
(6) An apparently vague and incoherent dream which
I could remember only in a very fragmentary way as :
Something to do with Bergson ;
forgetting something makes
a confusion and catastrophe, as when in a novel a misunder-
standing makes things go wrong. A phrase : "I will keep
to myself the gates, while thou, the ancient thou " The
120 Alice Johnson. [part
phrase seemed to break off here. " Thou " was somehow
connected with a desolate wintry landscape.
The combination of Bergson and " forgetting " suggested
to me at once his work on Memory. This fits in closely
with the Lethe and Eunoe associated with the " Astro-
nomer's Bath," although I did not identify the " Bath
"
until several months later.
The first associations with " gates " were Blake's lines :
" Entering through the gates of birth, And passing
through the gates of death " ; and the description in
Purg. X. 41-42, of a sculpture representing the Annunci-
ation :
" There she was fashioned who turned the key
to open the supreme love."
Later associations were with the Gates of Hell (Inf.
III. 1-12) and of Purgatory (Purg. IX. 76). " The ancient
Thou " is probably a reminiscence of the last lines of
the inscription over the Gate of Hell :
" Before me were
no things created but eternal, and eternal I endure ;
leave all hope, ye that enter."
(7) A dream, one of the chief associations with which
was Rossetti's picture, Beata Beatrix.
(8) Dream of the seven-branched candlestick ; associ-
ated with the seven candlesticks borne at the head of
the Procession of the Divine Car in Purg. XXIX. 43.
During the period in which these dreams occurred,
I was aware that allusions to Dante were occasionally
cropping up ; but having failed to decipher the first
and fifth dreams of the series I had no idea of the
extent and significance of the allusions. When they are
put together, it becomes clear that much subliminal or
dream thinking on these topics had, unknown to my
waking self, been going on, which tends to confirm in
a general way the significance I attach to the " Astro-
nomer's Bath,"—it tends, that is, to show that the meanings
existed in the dream, and were not only read into it
afterwards.
General Conclusions.
In the Introduction to this paper I said that I had
been unable to find in my dreams any evidence of the
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 121
working of Freud's " Censor." It may be well here to
explain further what was meant by this statement.
Cases are quoted above in which the analysis shows
that sexual topics, not in the " manifest " content of
the dream, exist in its " latent " content. Considering
how much human affairs in general are bound up with
the subject ;
considering also how strongly it is pressed
on one's attention in the process of being analysed, it
would be extraordinary if this were not so. And one
may be sure that if the element could not be found,
Freudians would point to its absence as the strongest
possible evidence of the influence of sex on the mind of
the dreamer, as shown by the repression.
But the sexual topics revealed in the analysis of these
dreams contain nothing calculated to shock the waking
self. Why, then, should they be " censored " ? Further,
a great variety of other, non-sexual, topics are veiled
in the same way, and only revealed through analysis.
The veiling, it is to be noted, does not occur only in
the dream itself ; it may, or may not, be continued long-
after waking ; one may remain for months blind to some
obvious interpretation. Examples of this are given above.
E.g., in the " Fabulous Horse " dream, I recognised at
the outset of the analysis that Miss Freund's surname
stood for Freud (and consequently for his theories), but
did not see that her Christian name stood for Mount
Ida. In the " Bus " dream, I noticed Mrs. Holland as
a factor of the smoking man, but not Mrs. Verrall or
Mrs. Piper. I recognised the " Bacchae " immediately on
waking, but took some months to discover the
" Astronomer's Bath."
These examples are typical of a very large number of
similar ones in my records, and they seem to me to
negative any theory of " censorship." They can only
be explained on this theory by the argument : Sexual
matters are concealed in dreams ; therefore what is
concealed in dreams is sexual. This is the logical fallacy
that appears to me to permeate the Freudian doctrine.
I would suggest as a substitute for the Censor theory
a hypothesis based on two generally accepted facts :
122 Alice Johnson. [part
(1) that it is of the essence of the dream-self to clothe
its ideas in pictures, images, or metaphors, rather than
in language ; it does not follow connected logical lines
of thought ; and (2) that many parts of a dream (as
observed in the Introduction) are forgotten on waking.
The first characteristic does not necessarily involve
any lack of clearness in the presentation ; on the con-
trary, metaphors are often the best vehicle for conveying
vivid impressions to the mind.
Secondly, the remembered fragments of a dream are
comparable to peaks of a mountain range, emerging from
a mist that covers all but their summits ; we cannot
see how to pass from one peak to another. So, in the
waking memory of a dream, many of the connecting
links are lost, and what remains is naturally incoherent.
There is, then, ground for thinking that, if we could
remember all the parts, the meaning of the metaphors
would be clear.
Freud, if I understand him aright, holds that the
forgetfulness is, in effect, deliberate,—that it is due to
the action of the Censor. My hypothesis is that the
recollection is deliberate,—that it is due to the desire
of the Self to understand itself.
I believe the recollection to be deliberate partly
because, in the course of a dream, one is often conscious
of an effort not to lose the thread of what is happening.
This can hardly be a mere mechanical effort to remember ;
it must be also, I think, an attempt to understand. It
is an effort of what may be called the half-waking self.
In my belief, the dream-self co-operates with this half-
waking self, sharing in its desires and aims. In accord-
ance with their common aim, a dream-image is con-
structed, into which, by virtue of its symbolic character,
manifold meanings can be compressed. The image, on
account of its simplicity, will be comparatively easy to
remember ; —all the more if something slightly bizarre,
incongruous, or grotesque, is tacked on to it, likely to
attract the attention and curiosity of the half-waking or
waking self, and so to fix it in the memory. The jest,
silly or childish in itself, conceals a serious purpose.
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis
.
123
But if the dreamer were not amused by the jest, he
would not take the trouble to look behind it for its
serious meaning. This may perhaps partly account for
what psychoanalysts call the " infantile " element in
dreams. The childish ideas are often peculiarly suited
for the purpose of metaphor.
The following is a recent dream which I cpiote in
illustration of my hypothesis :
Dream. " The Lock of Hair."
I was at a meeting at which one of the Classical Lecturers
on the Staff of Newnham College had to give a discourse on
Virgil. It appeared that there was some particular Virgilian
subject on which she had to speak. This was represented
by a diagram on a black-board, vaguely resembling a geo-
metrical diagram, on the right side of which was a wavy
figure, drawn in bold and clear- outline. This was said to
be a lock of hah. It seemed the most important part of
the subject.
After waking, I remembered some recent correspond-
ence on literary subjects, classical and other, with a
relative who was serving with the Red Cross in France.
A letter received from him four days before the dream
referred to Virgil's conception of the character of Dido.
It then became clear that the dream alluded to her death.
Dido was mortally wounded, but (Aen. IV. 698 :)
" Pro-
serpine had not yet reft the yellow lock from her head."
At last Iris, sent by Juno to release the spirit from the
body, severs the lock, as an offering to Dis, and the
release is accomplished.
The same symbolism occurs in a passage in Horace,
familiar to me, and appropriate to the general circum-
stances of the correspondence above mentioned, as follows
(C. I. 28, 15-20 T
) :
But one and the same night awaits us all, and the path of
death must once be trodden. Some the Furies give to make
shows for grim Mars. The greedy sea is the destruction of
1
E. C. Wickham's translation.
124 Alice Johnson. [part
those who go in ships. Of young and old without difference
the funerals crowd along. There is no head that imperious
Proserpine ever feared to touch.
Wickham notes on this :
None could die (acc. to Virg. Aen. 4, 698) till Proserpine
had cut a lock of hair from his head ; the idea being that
the dying man was a victim offered to the powers below,,
as it was usual to begin a sacrifice by cutting some hairs
from the forehead of the victim and burning them, Virg..
Aen. 6, 245.
The last reference is to the sacrifice made by the
Sibyl on behalf of Aeneas before his journey into Hades.
The death of Dido is of course one of the most striking
and dramatic scenes in the Aeneid. The waking self
would probably picture it amid the main accessory cir-
cumstances : the great funeral-pyre built up by Dido's
command in the inner court-yard of her palace, ostensibly
for the purpose of working love-charms, but really for
her own death ; the piling up on it of the relics asso-
ciated with Aeneas, including his sword ; Dido falling
on the sword, and the pyre bursting out in flames, as
the Trojan fleet escapes into the distant seas.
It is certainly not beyond the powers of the dream-
self to produce such a picture. But the dream leaves
all this on one side, and selects the far less striking
incident of the severed lock. This incident, being symbolic,
comprises within itself more meaning than almost any
of the other events. By means of the figure of the
lock of hair and the single word " Virgilian," the dream
gives the whole story in a nutshell,—and within the
compass of a very small nut. So simple an image was
probably easy to remember, and at the same time it
excited the curiosity of my waking self ; I at once
began to ask myself : What is there in Virgil about
a lock of hair ? and soon hit on the answer to the
question.
In the course of this dream, I went through the experi-
ence described above of being aware, in a half-waking,,
half-sleeping state, that I was forgetting parts of it
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 125
I was also aware of the effort to remember ;
and I am
strongly inclined to think that my dream-self tried to
make me remember.
Analysis of the dreams makes it continually clearer
that they are occupied with the same subjects ,
—the
same interests, questions, and problems,—as occupy my
waking thoughts. 1
Of these, unfamiliar aspects are con-
stantly presented, so that I do not in the dream
recognise the subject. When it is recognised, I generally
find that the dream has shed a fresh light on it of a
kind which is often—to me-—extremely interesting. Since
the dream-metaphors fulfil the function of giving me
new ideas, it seems reasonable to suppose that the dream-
self has selected them for this purpose,—that they are
intended to reveal, and not to conceal.
In the cases treated of in this paper, two facts come
out through analysis by the association-method which
seem to me to afford strong evidence for the validity
of the method :
(1) The associations with the items of a dream often
point to some literary source which is not apparent in
its " manifest " content. When this source is referred
to, it is generally, if not always, found that some other
items of the dream (or other associations with them),
besides those first discovered, have also been derived
from it. Frequently the dreamer finds that literary details
which he has forgotten and which are only recalled to
his memory by referring to the book, account for these
other dream-items or associations Not infrequently he
may find them accounted for by details which he cannot
remember ever having read before.
This, of course, is to be expected, since we all know
that the subconscious memory is far superior to the
conscious.
But the facts furnish evidence confirmatory of the
associations, since, the more independent items we can
1
E.g., the story of Dido is of special interest to me partly because
of references to it in the scripts ; see Mr. Piddington's paper on " Cross-
correspondences of a Gallic Type," in Proc. Vol. XXIX. pp. 30-38.
126 Alice Johnson. [part
find corresponding to details in a book, the more probable
it becomes that the dream has drawn on that book
for its imagery or dream-thoughts. And if this can be
considered proved, other inferences about the dream may
often be legitimately drawn.
Incidentally we may observe that dreams derived from
literary sources lend themselves in a peculiar degree to
a scientific and precise psychological treatment, since it
is easier to test one's memory of a book than of many
other things.
(2) The associations often reveal connections between
dreams which their " manifest " contents fail to show.
Thus we have above the close relationship between the
" Queen Victoria " and " Kaiser " dreams, and the carry-
ing on of the " smoking " symbolism (more than a year
later) into the " Bus " dream ; which also contained,
as shown by the analysis, characters corresponding to
the dream-Queen-Victoria and Kaiser. We have also the
intricate relationship between the " Two Dolls " and the
"Fabulous Horse"; and we have a long series of Dante
associations. The Dante topic occurred (though for long
undetected) on the first night on which I attempted to
analyse my dreams and continued at intervals up to
the present day.
These are only a few examples out of a very large
number of such connections between dreams in my
records. In fact I suspect that the dreams, if fully
analysed, would be seen to form a single continuous
scheme of interconnected subliminal mental activity.
When the dreamer has made out the meaning (for him)
of some image or symbol which interests him,—that is,
when his normal waking consciousness has apj)rehended
it,-—it seems not unnatural that it should re-appear in
his future dreams. Thus the " smoking " symbolism of
the " Kaiser " dream had been made out by me long
before it re-appeared in the " Bus," and it has occurred
more than once since. Symbols of this kind, when
repeated, often appear with some additional feature,
derived apparently from the normal waking thoughts
about them. Thus, the "smoking" appeared in a recent
lxxv.] Dream-Analysis. 127
dream as a smoking chimney,—after I had observed,
while awake, that the origin of the symbol was a smoking
chimney, not (as in the " Bus " dream) a smoking man.
Such an interweaving or interaction of sleeping and
waking thoughts might be expected to occur. The con-
tinuity between the dream-thoughts in such cases seems
to be assisted by, or may be entirely due to, their re-
inforcement by the waking thoughts.
But what is more interesting is the continuity found
between dreams in cases where the dream-thoughts have
remained almost unnoticed, or at all events have not
been consciously interpreted, by the waking self. Thus,
my " Queen Victoria " was consciously associated in a
slight and vague way with the Queen in Alice's Adven-
tures in Wonderland. I knew quite well, but did not
consciously think, that this Queen was the Queen of
Hearts. I thought very little about her and much more
about Queen Victoria. The sequel seems to show that
my subliminal, or my dream-self, had gone on thinking
about the Queen of Hearts ; it had thought of the
absurdity of the Queen of Hearts saying, " Off with his
head,"—an antithesis which, obvious as it is, had not,
I feel sure, ever occurred to my conscious mind ;
1
it
saw how other details in the story could be turned to
account, and constructed a second dream-scene out of it.
Again, long before the analyses of the " Queen Victoria
"
and " Kaiser " dreams had shown how many details in
the story had been used, its sequel, Through the Looking-
glass, had already been utilised in the " Two Dolls " and
" Fabulous Horse," though this fact, again, was only
discovered at a late stage of the analysis of these dreams.
The complicated web of allusions to Dante and Plato
in the same dreams affords further evidence of the sub-
liminal carrying on of thoughts from one dream to
another, with apparently very little assistance from the
supraliminal. E.g., the idea of using Aristophanes' myth
again in a quite different form, and the idea of combining
1
I mentioned this to a friend, who said that the idea was new to
him also. He added that this was probably because we both knew the
book by heart, not by head.
128 Alice Johnson. [part
it with the PJmedrus myth, must have been completely
.subliminal.
The " Fabulous Horse," again, through the association
with " Ida Freund " implies Mount Ida and Ganymede
as a symbol of the soul liberated from earth. This
connects with " Der Tod als Freund," associated with
the much earlier dream of " The Golden Stairs," a link
which, as stated above, p. 88, was not detected till the
analyst read the paper and drew my attention to it.
Reference was made in the Introduction to the question
whether the ideas that emerge in the analysis were really
in the dream-thoughts, or whether—-as a critic might
suppose—they had merely been read into the dream
afterwards. Freud says (The Interpretation of Dreams,
p. 157): "All criticisms upon the dream and remarks
about it, although they have secured a place in waking
thought, regularly belong to the latent dream content."
This statement, which at first sight may appear dogmatic,
is expanded and discussed in his very interesting and
instructive chapter on " The Dream-Work," from which
I quote the following (pp. 262-263) :
It is true, of course, that particular thought connections
first arise only during analysis ; but one may always be sure
that such new connections have been established only between
thoughts which have already been connected in the dream
thoughts by other means ; the new connections are, so to
speak, corollaries, short circuits, which are made possible by
the existence of other more fundamental means of connection.
It must be admitted that the huge number of trains of thought
revealed by analysis have already been active in the forma-
tion of the dream, for if a chain of thoughts has been worked
out, which seems to be without connection with the formation
of the dream, a thought is suddenly encountered which,
being represented in the dream, is indispensable to its inter-
pretation—which nevertheless is inaccessible except through
that chain of thoughts.
I understand this to mean that, though we can have
no positive proof that the whole of the chain of thoughts
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis. 129
suggested by a given association has taken part in the
formation of the dream, the existence in the chain of
a single link which seems clearly to have entered into
the dream affords presumptive evidence that the whole
chain has so entered.
While there is, I think, much to be said for this view,
the argument seems to dismiss too lightly the possibility
that the coincidence between a single item in the chain
of associations and a single dream item may be merely
accidental.
In any case it must be difficult to discover exactly
what was in the dream thoughts and what was
not,—to discover, that is, whether a given idea was
thought of before the dream or after it. The difficulty is
increased by the continuity of thought (as shown in my
cases) between dreams. Whenever a dream-thought can
be clearly traced to an earlier dream, we can at least feel
sure that we have not read it into the later dream. We
cannot say when it first arose ; but we can point to a
definite date on which it was already in existence.
The dream has in it something intangible, Protean,
elusive. No charm yet devised can actually seize and
hold it fast till it delivers up its secret. Theoretically
we might expect that by some such means as hypnotic
suggestion the dreamer could be put back into the
dream condition and could then give a full account of
the dream and of what it meant to him ; or that it
might be fully re-constructed through automatic script
or crystal-gazing. For we know that lapsed memories
are often recovered by such methods and one can hardly
doubt that the lapsed memories would supply many
clues. But if, as the psychoanalyst conceives, the
memories and the ideas attaching to them are deejDly
rooted in the subsoil of the whole personality, it will
not be enough to remove the surface soil from the roots.
It is not enough to consider the dream apart from the
dreamer. The value of the association method lies in
the light it throws on the intimate relationship) of the
dreamer to the dream.
The analysis does not profess to re-construct the dream
130 Alice Johnson. [part
as it was dreamt ; it may be that the task is inherently
impossible. What the analysis does is to reveal many
ideas and combinations of ideas which, it may fairly be
presumed, have entered into the formation of the dream.
There is no positive proof—from the nature of the case
there can be no positive proof-—that they have so entered.
Though his associations are facts known to the dreamer,
their application to the dream, and its consequent inter-
pretation, may often to the dreamer himself seem obscure
and conjectural ;
many of the associations appear at
first sight to have no bearing on the dream. Gradually
light emerges on one after another and the dreamer
begins to see a real and vital connection between these
ideas which he knows to have existed in his mind and
the dream which appeared so remote from them. The
process which begins in doubt and ends in conviction
is liable to be reflected in his exposition of his analysis ;
he begins by suggesting as a possible interpretation what
at a later stage he assumes as a certain one ; and to
a critical reader the proceeding must appear suspicious
or arbitrary. What convinces the dreamer is the cumu-
lative effect of seeing one point after another—not in
one case only, but in case after case-—fall into place
as part of what looks like an elaborate and coherent
scheme. It is difficult to convey such a cumulative
effect to the mind of an outsider ; hence the analyst's
despair of convincing the man who has not experienced
it. I have tried to overcome the difficulty by describing-
many instances at what T am afraid may appear an
inordinate length.
There remains the more fundamental difficulty of
explaining the stress laid on certain apparently trivial
details and not others. The reader may say : —You
choose certain items from the dream and from the
associations and make a sort of story out of them ;
obviously you could, if you liked, select other items
and make quite a different story out of them. The
only answer I can make is : I admit that I select to
some extent both from the dream and from the associa-
tions,—the selection being, I may remark, largely involun-
LXXV.] Dream-Analys is
.
131
tary. I select the tilings that appeal to me—that are
interesting to me. I cannot explain why certain things
are so much more interesting and important to me than
others ; I only know that it is so.
I follow this semi-automatic process of selection and
I find, to my surprise, that it leads me to a story which,
to me, is interesting and to me seems the story predestined
to be made out of those materials. Later I select again
from the same stock in the same semi-automatic manner,
and am led on again to a further story. But I never go
back on my first story ;
this always turns out to be the
preliminary stage of, or one episode of, the second.
Other people, I dare say, could make a different story
out of it, but I cannot. This, and no other, is my story, —
" a poor tiling, but mine own." This, then, I believe
to be the real meaning of my dream.
The hypothesis of the latent- content revealed by the
associations remains and must remain a hypothesis only.
Its justification is that, as I have endeavoured to show,
it offers a plausible, a reasonable and a self-consistent
view of the facts. It seems to me then that the method
may be usefully added to other methods for investigating
the subliminal with which we have long been familiar,
—
the various hypnotic methods, the study of different kinds
of dissociations of consciousness, of automatic writing and
other forms of automatism. I regard it not as a substitute
for, but as a supplement to, whatever lines of research
we may believe to be sound and reasonable and which in
practice we have found fruitful.
I have also endeavoured to show that we may accept
the method as an admirable tool for working purposes
without accepting the results obtained by any particular in-
dividual through his use of the tool (an argument which
of course cuts both ways). In my brief and admittedly
inadequate discussion of some of the results obtained by
psychoanalysts, I have referred to what appear to me
to be serious flaws, due-—as it seems to me-—to premature
attempts at the simplification of extraordinarily complex
facts,—the attempt to refer to one cause phenomena that
may be due to a mixture of several causes.
132 Alice Johnson. [part
But in a discussion it is generally easier to express
disagreement than agreement. Every one admits the
great importance of sex in human life, whether in normal
or abnormal conditions, though it must be a matter of
opinion whether some have exaggerated, or whether others
have minimised its range. Meanwhile the controversy
that has raged round this particular point, and the
violence with which both sides have carried it on, have
tended to obscure the wider issues of the subject. It
has to be remembered that psychoanalytic theories are
based on the study of pathological cases, whereas
psychical research deals primarily with persons in a
normal condition. But, as Mr. Myers long ago pointed
out, it is useful to study abnormal and normal psychology
side by side, for the sake of the light they may throw
on one another. While in many respects psychoanalysis
confirms what was already familiar to those who have
followed the work of the S.P.R. from the beginning, and
on the other hand psychical research confirms much
psychoanalytic work, the two groups of workers under-
take different groups of phenomena and start from
different points of view. Collaboration between them
should therefore be mutually profitable. For we are all
—
they and we-—as one of my dreams indicated, in the same
" Bus." We are all engaged in the investigation of the
sub-conscious ; we are all bound on the same quest ;
and there is much in common between us.
A few words must be said in conclusion as to the
bearing of this paper on the automatic scripts,—
a
question touched on in the Introduction, but which I
propose to defer to a future article.
The general upshot of my argument is in accordance
with the view long held by most S.P.R. investigators
that the subliminal mental activity manifested in scripts
is of the same nature as that manifested in dreams.
It leaves untouched the question of who directs the
activity. In the absence of positive evidence to the
contrary, we must of course assume that the automatist
LXXV.] Dream-Analysis . 133
(or dreamer) directs his own mental activity. Evidence
to the contrary depends not on the form, but on the
content, of the automatic product ; it turns on the
question whether any knowledge of verifiable facts,
provably unknown by normal means to the automatist,
is manifested. In the dreams here given, there is no
evidence of this ; whereas in the scripts discussed in
our Proceedi?igs such evidence often exists, especially that
furnished by the cross-correspondences.
If, as I believe, these scripts are the joint production
of the automatists and an intelligence external to all of
them, it is of great interest and importance to under-
stand the part played by the automatists, without which
no understanding is possible of the part played by the
external intelligence.
The present paper, like Mrs. Sidgwick's article on
" The Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena
"
(in Proc. Vol. XXVIII.), relates only to the psychology
of the automatist.
134 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PAKT
III.
PSYCHOLOGY OF THE UNCONSCIOUS AND
PSYCHOANALYSIS.
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Psychology of the Unconscious. A Study of the Trans-
formations and Symbolisms of the Libido, by Dr.
C. G. Jung, 1916.
Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology, by C. G. Jung,
M.D., LL.D., (Second Edition), 1917.
The title given to the English translation of Jung's
" Wandlungen nnd Symbole der Libido " may mislead
some of those who intend to read it. Psychology of the
Unconscious may suggest to them topics and interests
of which they will find here no trace. Nor will the
subsidiary title, " A Study of the Transformations and
Symbolisms of the Libido," convey very much to their
minds as to the probable subject-matter of the work,
unless they already have some knowledge of psycho-
analytic investigations. They may know that the term
libido is of frequent occurrence in the writings of psycho-
analysts, and they may know the sense in which it is
most generally used by them, but they may be unpre-
pared for the possibility that a study of its transformations
and symbolisms can be described as Psychology of the
Unconscious.
These two conceptions,—the conception of the uncon-
scious and the conception of the libido—have each a
history, and it may help us to approach Jung's work
at the proper angle and to view it in right perspective
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 135
if we follow briefly the course of the speculations and
investigations that have led up to the points of view
from which these two conceptions may be regarded at
the present time.
In the most superficial and uncritical attempts to
examine or explain mental process we are led to assume
the existence of something more than is revealed to us
by introspection. We recognise that there is more in the
mind than is at any moment present in consciousness.
We can draw on our memories of past experience, and the
question arises : How are we to conceive those traces of
past experience ? What is the medium in which they inhere ?
It is around the facts of mental retention that the problem
of the unconscious first arises in psychological inquiry.
If we feel compelled on methodological grounds to try
to explain mental retention in psychological terms, we
may assume that past conscious process is conserved as
mental traces or psychical dispositions which are in the
mind but out of consciousness. And this we may do
without reference to any knowledge we may already have,
or may hi the future acquire, of the relations that exist
between the mind and the nervous system. But the
difficulty of conceiving any form of psychical existence
outside consciousness has led many psychologists to adopt
some other explanation of the conservation of past ex-
perience. There are at least two mam forms of explana-
tion which have been put forward as alternatives.
One form is that which would explain mental retention
by the persistence of neural modifications which are
assumed to be the concomitants of all mental process.
It may be described as the hypothesis of physical or
physiological dispositions. This is the view which is most
favoured by physiologists, but its adoption implies a
denial of the possibility of giving a direct explanation
of experience in psychological terms. It is inconsistent
with the view that the mind itself has a structure, and
it reduces all mental life to a series of disjointed mani-
festations whose only connecting links are the structural
and functional interrelations of the material systems
whose activity is accompanied by consciousness.
136 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
Many psychologists, moreover, refuse to admit accounts
of material modifications into psychological explanation.
But if unconscious psychical dispositions are denied, and
if physical dispositions are held to be irrelevant, it
becomes necessary to postulate dispositions that are not
unconscious and are not merely physical. We must
assume that past experience is conserved as a system
of persisting modifications of consciousness which are of
such low intensity that they have no power to influence
the direction of attention.
It is to modifications of consciousness of this kind
that Professor James Ward alludes in his hypothesis of
subconscious presentations. "It is a fact easily verified,"
he says, " that we do not distinguish or attend separately
to presentations of less than a certain assignable in-
tensity. On attaining this intensity presentations are
said to pass over the threshold of consciousness, to use
Herbart's now classic phrase. What are we to say of
them before they have attained it ? After they have
attained it, any further increase in their intensity is
certainly gradual ; are we then to suppose that before
this their intensity changed instantly from zero to a
finite quantity, and not rather that there was also a
subliminal stage where too it only changed continuously ?
The latter alternative constitutes the hypothesis of sub-
consciousness." 1
The facts that give support to the hypothesis of sub-
conscious presentations are well recognised by psycho-
logists. Some of them have to be taken into account
in any description of mental process. When, for example,
we are engaged in a train of thought or a course of
observation, there is much in consciousness that is not
referred to the object presented. There is a felt back-
ground of presentations which are not discriminated
because they are not attended to. There is always the
mass of organic sensations and many impressions received
through the special organs of sense, which have no
significance for the thought of the moment, except in
so far as they form a setting and give a colour to the
1
Encyclop. Brit. 10th edit. Vol. XX. p. 47.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 137
total mental state. Such undiscriminated experiences are
sometimes referred to as subconscious.
It may be maintained, however, that all such mental
states, in so far as they are conscious at all, must be
regarded as being above the threshold ; that the vague-
ness or indistinctness of the contents of the margin or fringe
of consciousness is due to a want of distinctness of
representation of the objects they stand for, not a lower
degree of consciousness as such ; that the threshold is a
knife-edge which sharply delimits consciousness, and that con-
sciousness per se is something that does not admit of degrees.
A contrary opinion is expressed by some writers, as
for example, by Professor Lloyd Morgan, who, since he
believes that mental process and cerebral process are
but one process viewed from different aspects, feels bound
to suppose that below the threshold of consciousness
there is something of the same order of existence as
that which lies above the threshold. To this part of
the total field he gives the name of Infra-conscious. This
infra-consciousness is in his view " not merely negative,
but something positive and existent,—what, for want of
better terms we may call the not-yet or the not-quite
conscious." 1
As has been already said, many writers refer to that
part of the supraliminal field of consciousness which is
marginal as subconscious, but in Dr. Ward's hypo-
thesis of subconscious presentations he must be held to
refer more particularly, as does Dr. Lloyd Morgan when
he speaks of the infra-conscious, to hypothetical mental
modifications, partaking of the nature of consciousness,
yet occurring beneath the threshold. The evidence in
favour of a subconsciousness of this kind is mainly in-
direct, and its cogency is perhaps due to the satisfaction
it gives to the demand for continuity in the psychical
series, rather than to the strength of the arguments that
can be brought forward in support of this interpretation
of the facts.
But this hypothesis of modifications of consciousness
occurring below the threshold has an interest and an
1
Introduction to Comparative Psychology, p. 34.
13S T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
application outside the problem of mental retention. It
prompts us to inquire if there is available any empirical
evidence of the occurrence of conscious process of any
kind that is not discernible on introspection. So far as
the psychology of the normal is concerned there are
practically no facts which can be brought forward in
support of such a view, that cannot be explained more
or less satisfactorily in some other way. But the question
is pressed upon us with great insistence when we enter
the domain of abnormal psychology. We find that many
of the conceptions arrived at in the study of the normal
mind do not seem to fit the facts of observation and
experiment in this strange territory. Our notion of the
mind as one and indivisible, of consciousness as a unity
subject to subdivision only in so far as different parts
of its content may be more or less attended to and
discriminated, of the threshold as a line sharply dividing
the conscious from the unconscious,—all seem to fail us
when we come to examine the mental peculiarities of
abnormal persons or of normal persons under certain
unusual conditions.
The data of abnormal psychology which are supposed
to afford some answer to the question of what goes on
beneath the threshold—the problem of the subliminal
as we may call it—are of a varied and conflicting
character ; and certain conceptions which are not felt
to be necessary in the description of the structure and
process of the normal mind have been widely employed
in their elucidation. The most important of these con-
ceptions is the hypothesis of " dissociation of conscious-
ness " elaborated by Pierre Janet in explanation of the
subconscious phenomena exhibited in hysteria.
The presence of consciousness existing below the
ordinary threshold may be discovered on examining the
nature of the anaesthesia that is such a common feature
of hysterical disorders. But instead of being of the low
intensity ascribed by writers on normal psychology to
all modifications of consciousness that may take place
below the threshold, these subconscious mental activities
may be found to be more intense than those that occur
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 139
above the threshold. For example, the limb thit is
anaesthetic for the supraliminal consciousness is found to
be hyperaesthetic when the subliminal is interrogated.
According to Janet hysterical anaesthesia of a limb
is due to a dissociation from the personal consciousness
of the system of sensations connected with the limb.
And in the same way in other hysterical affections,
larger or smaller systems of ideas fail to get incorporated
with the mass of ideas synthesised in the personal con-
sciousness, and seem to take on independent functioning
on their own account. In Janet's opinion all subconscious
phenomena are due to the presence of such dissociated
states, and all manifestations of subconscious mental
activity are evidence of hysterical dissociation.
Some of the most convincing evidence of the occurrence
of conscious process below the ordinary threshold is
afforded by certain hypnotic phenomena and in one form
of the condition known as double or multiple personality.
And the most striking characteristic of the consciousness
so disclosed is that it is a " clear " consciousness which
exists concomitantly with the clear consciousness of
waking life. It is, like the subconsciousness of hysteria,
a form of psychical existence so manifestly different from
the hypothetical modifications of consciousness of low
intensity to which the term subconscious has been
applied by writers on normal psychology, that it is
necessary to call it by some other name in order clearly
to mark the difference between the two kinds of sub-
consciousness. Dr. Morton Prince has proposed that it
should be called a co-consciousness. This term does away
with the implication of diminished intensity conveyed by
the prefix of the word subconscious, and at the same
time it emphasises the concomitance of the subliminal
conscious process with that which goes on above the
ordinary threshold.
Many experiments and observations have been recorded
by different investigators which all point to the same
conclusion. They point to the possibility of conscious-
ness becoming split up so as to give rise to two or more
mutually independent systems of thought, instead of
140 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
going along in one unitary stream. And since the personal
consciousness existing above the ordinary threshold has
no awareness of the thoughts of the secondary system,
the latter system is spoken of as being dissociated, just
as the subconscious sensations or ideas of hysteria are
said to be dissociated.
But this notion of dissociation as applied to isolated
groups of sensations or ideas is very hard to grasp.
Janet's view of a dissociated idea growing and develop-
ing on its own account seems ojyposed to the very first
datum of psychological investigation,—the fact that the
only sensations, or ideas, or thoughts of which we have
any knowledge are the sensations or ideas or thoughts
of some personal self. If, as Janet says, the ensemble
of sensations coming from an arm or leg may become
dissociated from the totality of consciousness, and yet
give evidence of still possessing consciousness on their
own account we feel bound to ask, If these sensations
are felt, who feels them ? Janet would seem content
to leave them floating about in the void without being
claimed or owned by any thinker. But other writers
who are convinced of the fact of co-consciousness arc
less easily satisfied. Consequently we find that some
psychologists get over the difficulty by postulating the
existence, below the ordinary threshold, of a self to whom
those feelings and thoughts belong. And as a logical
correlate of such a supposition in the case of abnormal
co-consciousness the possession of a secondary self must
be postulated for every one. Writers who take up this
position enunciate views on the nature of the sub-
conscious which are based on the supposition that the
phenomena observed in abnormal states may be regarded
as revealing the existence of modes of consciousness that
are common to every human mind.
It was on a supposition of this kind, supported, it
is true, by evidence drawn from other fields of investi-
gation, that Frederic W. H. Myers based his hypo-
thesis of the subliminal self. Although Myers expressly
denied that by this term he meant to imply that there
are two correlative and parallel selves existing always
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 141
within each one of us, yet his work has been held by
many of his critics and adherents to teach this doctrine,
and the weight of his authority has been made use of
by popular writers in support of opinions of the crudest
character regarding the existence and the nature of a
subconscious self.
When Myers introduced the term subliminal self the
word subliminal was already in use in psychology to
define those sensations which are too feeble to be indi-
vidually recognised. He proposed to extend the meaning
of the term so as to make it cover all that takes place
beneath the ordinary threshold ;—not only those faint
stimulations whose very faintness keeps them submerged,
but also " sensations, thoughts, emotions, which may be
strong, definite, and independent, but which, by the
original constitution of our being, seldom emerge into that
supraliminal current of consciousness which we habitually
identify with ourselves." By the subliminal self he meant
that part of the self which is commonly subliminal, and
he believed that no self of which we can here have
cognisance is in reality more than a fragment of a larger
self,
—" revealed in a fashion at once shifting and limited
through an organism not so framed as to afford it full
manifestation." 1
A conception of a subliminal self in some way similar
to that of Myers has been advocated by Dr. Boris Sidis
as a result of his investigations on the Psychology of
Suggestion. He maintains that in everyone there is a
subconscious or subwaking self below the threshold of
the waking self -consciousness. In the subconscious, he
like Myers, includes both co-consciousness and those
faint stimulations whose very faintness keeps them sub-
merged. He says, " In many cases it is not easy to
determine what the exact character of the subconscious
manifestation is, how far it is conscious, dimly conscious,
how far it has gone toward the development of an
independent personality, and how far it shades in the
direction of the purely physiological." 2
He is mainly
1
Human Personality, Vol. I. pp. 14-15.
9
-Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XXVI. p. 339.
142 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
concerned to show that the subconscious is not an " un-
conscious,"-—it is not a physiological automatism. " The
subconscious is a consciousness, a secondary consciousness,
a sort of secondary self, the self being understood by me
as a diffused consciousness." 1
What Sidis means by a diffused consciousness is not
easy to grasp, nor is it easy to understand what sort
of self can be formed out of such material. Especially
does he fail to make clear the status of those ideas and
feelings which are " clear " in co-consciousness. He would
ascribe their occurrence under certain conditions to a
cleavage between the two selves, and the consequent
attainment of self-consciousness by the originally diffused
consciousness of the subconscious. But how the trans-
formation of a diffused consciousness into self-consciousness
is brought about he does not tell us.
A new avenue of approach to the problem of the
subliminal was opened up by Sigmund Freud in the
course of the elaboration of his psychoanalytic technique ;
and his theoretical formulation of his views on what
he has termed " The Unconscious " is having an in-
creasingly marked effect on contemporary psychology.
Freud does not make use of the metaphor of a threshold
in his descriptions, but he confines the use of the word
" conscious " to those mental processes of which we are
aware at a given moment.
Consciousness in Freixd's writings means and means only
what is, as we should say, supraliminal at the moment.
On the other hand, everything that is subliminal at the
moment he calls unconscious—in the wider of two senses
in which he uses this word. Ordinarily, he says, ideas
are latent in the unconscious because their activity is
slight, because they are weak ideas, aiid when they become
active and strong, they become conscious. But psycho-
analysis has shown that some ideas may be active and
strong and yet never emerge into consckmsness. Thus
latent ideas of two kinds exist beneath the threshold,
and since they behave so differently when they become
strong, Freud proposes to call foreconscious or pre-
1
Ibid. p. 326.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 143
conscious those which on becoming strong become conscious,
while he reserves the term unconscious (proper) for those
which do not emerge into consciousness no matter how
strong and active they may be.
This distinction between preconscious and unconscious
ideas is not a primary one. Both kinds of ideas are
unconscious from the point of view of the conscious
personality. But it is claimed that psychoanalysis clearly
shows that it is only when an idea is unacceptable to the
conscious personality that it is doomed to remain un-
conscious. Its repulsion from consciousness, its imprison-
ment in the unconscious, is due to living forces—to
repression, and the psychoanalyst's attempt to drag it
into consciousness is met with what is known technically
as resistance.
Freud's views on the unconscious and its relation to
repression were derived in the first place from the analysis
of hysterical patients, but his investigations on dreams
and other peculiarities of mental process in healthy people
convinced him that unconscious ideas in this restricted
sense exist in every human mind,—not merely as isolated
and occasional occurrences, but as a vast and ever present
interconnected system. It is to this system that he
applies the term The Unconscious.
This is not merely another name for the subconscious
considered as faint states of consciousness or for co-
consciousness, nor can it be regarded as synonymous with
psychical dispositions or still less with physical disposi-
tions. Freud claims the right of psychology to describe
mental process in psychological terms and repudiates the
notion that it is necessary or permissible to fall back on
material systems to fill up the gaps in the conscious
series. The unconscious is psychical but it has a dynamic
character which distinguishes it from the relatively static
systems of psychical dispositions.
Hitherto upholders of the doctrine of subliminal activity
have not claimed that there are any distinctive peculiar-
ities in the contents of that part of the mind which is
ordinarily subliminal. To Myers it appeared to be both
a lumber room and a treasure house. But on this
144 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
question Freud expresses himself with conviction, in one
of those sweeping generalisations which have so often
been a stumbling block to his readers. The unconscious,
he says, contains nothing but wishes and such psychic
formations as may have grown around them. These
wishes are instinctive impulses, or original components
of the instincts, that have been repressed. Originally
the gratification of these impulses afforded pleasure, but
in the course of the upbringing of the child they have
been discarded or supjDressed in deference to the require-
ments of the social environment, the moral and cultural
tradition into which he was born. Their further appear-
ance in consciousness would be accompanied by pain
rather than by pleasure, so a censorship is set up by the
preconscious which ensures that these unacceptable wishes
shall not penetrate into consciousness. Yet they continue
to exist in the unconscious and, according to Freud,
form the very foundation of our being. " These uncon-
scious wishes establish for all subsequent psychic efforts a
compulsion to which they have to submit and which
they must strive if possible to divert from its course
and direct to higher aims." 1
Any hypothesis put forward in explanation of subliminal
mental activity ought to take account of the evidence
which supports the conception of co-conscipusness. Some
writers believe the fact of consciousness to be so well
attested in those activities which have been called co-
conscious, that no hypothesis of unconsciousness can ever
entirely cover them. The occurrence of co-consciousness
may not be really incompatible with any of the funda-
mental conclusions at which Freud has arrived as to the
structure and functioning of the mind. But as a matter
of fact Freud categorically denies that co-consciousness
ever occurs. In reference to the hypothesis of dissociation
and co-consciousness he says : "I venture to urge against
this theory that it is a gratuitous assumption, based on
the abuse of the word '
conscious.' We have no right
to extend the meaning of this word so far as to make
it include a consciousness of which its owner himself
1
Interpretation of Dreams, p. 479
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 145
is not aware. . . . The cases described, as splitting of
consciousness, like Dr. Azam's, might better be denoted
as shifting of consckrasness,—that function—or whatever it
be-—oscillating between two different psychical complexes
which become conscious and unconscious in alternation." 1
Thus we see that Freud feels compelled to deny the
occurrence of co-consciousness, not only in hysteria and
in post-hypnotic phenomena, but even in those cases
of double or multiple personality in which its occurrence
seems to be most clearly attested. For the explanation
he proposes in Azam's case is only applicable to the
simply alternating type of multiple personality and does
not help us at all to understand those of the co-conscious
type in which two different psychical complexes give
evidence of being simultaneously conscious.
It is when we examine Freud's view of the uncon-
scious as containing nothing but wishes that we meet
with a notion which begins to render intelligible Jung's
description of " Psychology of the Unconscious " as "A
Study of the Transformations and Symbolisms of the
Libido."
At the beginning of his psychoanalytic work Jung
accepted, or appeared to accept, all the main formu-
lations of Freud in regard to the content and mechanism
of unconscious functions. The unconscious wishes which
formed the core of all unconscious psychic formations
were maintained by Freud to be of the nature of sexual
desires and longings. To indicate these desires and
longings he proposed to use the term Libido. Jung in
his later work has used this term in a much wider sense,
the understanding of which will be best attained by
examining the history of the use of the term libido in
psychoanalytic writings.
Unlike "the unconscious" the word "libido" was
practically unknown as a technical term in psychology
until Freud introduced it. It was, of course, frequently
used in medical and medico-legal works where it had
the ordinarily accepted meaning of libido sexualis,—with,
1
Proceedings S.P.R. Vol. XXVI. p. 315.
146 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
however, the implication of its English derivative, libidi-
nous—inordinate desire or lust. In the opening words
of his Three Contributions to the Theory of Sex
Freud defines his use of the term. He says :
" The
fact of sexual need in man and animal is expressed in
biology by the assumption of a '
sexual impulse.'
"
This impulse is made analogous to the impulse of
taking nourishment and to hunger. The sexual expres-
sion corresponding to hunger not being found colloquially
science uses the expression " libido." The use of the
term was thus clearly assigned and restricted to " the
sexual," and the chief ground of the criticism which
arose on every side respecting Freud's views is to be
found in the extended connotation which he appeared to
give to the word sexual. For it seemed plain, and indeed
he himself admitted, that he was using this word in a
sense different in some ways from that in which it is
ordinarily used. The fact that " infantile sexuality
"
and the disturbance of its development are all important
in his theory of the neuroses, is in itself sufficient to
show that he has departed from ordinary usage. For
in the popular conception sexuality is never ascribed to
infancy.
The extent to which he departs from ordinary usage
is perhaps best illustrated by reference to bis inclusion
of " thumb-sucking " among the manifestations of infantile
sexuality. And reference is here made to this, not for
the purpose of affirming or denying its legitimacy, but with
a view to understanding what is implied when the term
libido is used in Freudian writings, and thereby getting
a clearer notion of the innovations introduced by Jung.
In calling sexual such pleasure -giving activities as
thumb-sucking it would at first sight seem as if Freud
implied that all pleasure is at root sexual in character.
This implication is accepted by Dr. Beatrice Hinkle in
her excellent introduction to Jung's Psychology of the
Unconscious, where she says Freud " apparently identifies
the pleasure principle and the sexual instinct and con-
siders that the former is primarily rooted in the latter." l
i
Psychology of the Unconscious, p. xxii.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 147
Freud asserts, however, that pleasure to be called
sexual must be pleasure of a definite and perhaps peculiar
quality. Pleasure of this peculiar quality may be obtained
from various regions of the body, and these regions he
calls erogenous zones. The erogenous quality adheres
chiefly to definite regions of the skin or mucous mem-
brane, but any region may assume the function of an
erogenous zone. He is indeed inclined to attribute the
" quality of erogenity " to all parts of the body and
inner organs. It is because he believes this peculiar
quality of pleasure is obtained by the child in thumb-
sucking that he sees in this habit an instance of infantile
sexuality.
The term libido as used by Freud would thus express
at least the craving for this peculiar quality of pleasure,
a craving which exists and is capable of satisfaction from
infancy to old age. This craving would appear, in the
ultimate analysis, to be the driving force behind all
manifestations of sexual activity whether infantile or
adult, and therefore of all those activities of our moral
nature whose rise and development may be traced to
a sexual source. This is the real Freudian libido, and
when we find, as he himself has explicitly declared, that
Freud's use of the word sexual includes every mani-
festation of altruistic love and endeavour, it is well to
remember the egoistic and hedonistic source from which,
in his view, all such strivings spring.
In the child the sexual impulse, according to Freud,
is complex. It is made up of many components which
have different sources, and it has no connection with the
function of reproduction. In the course of normal
development its subservience to this later function is
attained, and in the process many of the original infantile
components undergo energetic repression under the influ-
ence of mental forces like shame and disgust which
arise in the course of moral and cultural education. The
overstrong excitation of any of these components in child-
hood leads to a fixation which forms a weak spot in the
psycho-sexual make-up of the adult, and if the libido
is denied its normal outlet it turns and flows backwards,
148 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
and in its " regression " reawakens the repressed impulse
components still existing in the unconscious. These,
owing to the repression, cannot appear in consciousness,
but they find surrogate satisfactions in the production
of neurotic symptoms. It is in this sense that Freud
maintains that neurotic symptoms derive their energy
from the sexual life. They are substitute manifestations
of the infantile sexual activities of the patient.
The regressive flow of the libido entails a withdrawal
of libido from application in the " real " world and its
utilisation in a world of phantasy. The function of
" adaptation to reality " is thereby narrowed and the
waiit of adaptation evinced by psychoneurotic patients
corresponds exactly to the amount of libido withdrawn
from application in the real world. That part of the
adaptation to reality which is lacking in the psycho-
neurotic is a part that is normally maintained by affluxes
of libido, and the libido withdrawn from reality in these
patients is libido sexualis as defined by Freud.
Jung admits the correctness of this view in so far as
it is applied to the psychoneuroses of which hysteria
may be taken as the type ; but he thinks Freud's theory
of the libido is not applicable to the true psychoses such
as dementia precox or paranoia. For in these mental
disorders the failure of adaptation to reality goes far
beyond what can be accounted for by the withdrawal of
" libidinous affluxes " alone. If we are to apply the
libido theory in explanation of the psychology of dementia
precox, we must either understand adaptation to reality
as a whole to be a function of sexuality, or we must
extend the meaning of the term libido so as to include
under it not only libido sexualis but also " objective
interest in general."'
The latter course is that which Jung has followed.
Instead of starting from the empirical standpoint of
Freud, who " accepts the multiplicity of instincts among
which is the sexual instinct as a special phenomenon,"
Jung approaches the question from the genetic stand-
point, and regards the multiplicity of instincts as issuing
from a relative unity which he terms the primal libido.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 149
He postulates " a continuous life impulse, a will to live,
which will attain the creation of the whole species through
the preservation of the individual."
In the stage of childhood, Jung says, the libido is
almost wholly occupied in the instinct of nutrition. With
the development of the body new spheres of application
for the libido are successively opened up. The last and
most important sphere of application is sexuality. In
phylogeny this transformation of the primal libido presents
itself as an energy of growth which forces the individual
towards division, budding, etc.—as an impulse of pro-
creation. Further transformations of the primal sexual
libido so arising occur when, with the growing complexity
of life conditions, part of the energy originally devoted
to the production of the reproductive elements become
deflected into other channels so as to subserve " the
secondary functions of allurement and protection of the
young." By such transformations Jung claims that the libido
so deflected becomes desexualised, and he thus hopes
to escape the unwelcome conclusion that the " function of
reality " is phylogenetically preponderatingly of sexual
origin. Yet he says, " It can be a surprise only to those
to whom the history of evolution is unknown to find
how few things there really are in human life which
cannot be reduced in the last analysis to the instinct
of procreation. It includes very nearly everything, I
think, which is beloved and dear to us." 1
It is at first sight difficult to see what Jung gains
by desexualising libido which in the last analysis is shown
to be of sexual origin. Of more significance would have
been his extension of the term libido to that part of the
life impulse which does not follow the path of sexual
libido but remains at the nutritional plane, if such
extension of the application of the term proved to be
useful in the elucidation of the pathogenesis of the
psychoses. But this he does not appear to claim. What
he does claim is that his conception of the part played
in the function of reality by the primal sexual libido
that has become desexualised in the course of phylogeny
1
Psychology of the Unconscious, p. 145.
150 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
" will prove of especial advantage in the important field
of the introversion psychoses." In these he maintains
that " reality is deprived, not merely of an immediate
(individual) amount of libido, but also of an already
differentiated or desexualised quantity of libido, which,
among normal people, has belonged to the function of
reality ever since prehistoric times." 1
Thus although Jung wishes to restrict the use of the
word sexual to the " immediate sexual," and declines to
call sexual those functions and activities of sexual origin
which have become desexualised, it is impressive to find,
on his own showing, that in its ultimate analysis the
libido which is misapplied both in the neuroses and in
the psychoses is derived from that primal sexual libido
which phylogenetically arises as an " impulse of pro-
creation."
If Jung's purpose in formulating his theory of the
libido was, as Freudians declare, to escape the oppro-
brium of their sexual theories, it may perhaps be asserted
that he has increased the difficulties of his own exposi-
tion and prejudiced the acceptance of his views by
committing what many will consider an error of the same
kind as was ascribed to Freud when he departed from
ordinary custom in his use of words. The originally
" sexual " character of the " impulse of procreation
"
may be too readily conceded because of the connection
between sex and reproduction in the later stages of
phylogeny. Such a concession is the more easily made
because it falls into line with the usage of ordinary
speech. Yet it may legitimately be objected to on the
ground that reproduction by simple cell division or budding
is phylogenetically prior to sex. Moreover, a somewhat
similar concession was widely denied to Freud when he
extended the use of the word sexual to activities that had
no apparent connection with reproduction. In the one
case we are willing to call sexual, processes that have in
their beginnings nothing to do with sex. In the other
we are unwilling to call sexual, impulses that in their
beginnings have nothing to do with reproduction.
1
Psychology of the Uncomciovs, p. 153.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 151
Had Jung been as enamoured of a sexual terminology
as the Freudians appear to be, he might have applied
the libido theory to the psychoses by still further ex-
tending the application of the word sexual, instead of
by extending the meaning of the word libido so as to
make it synonymous with the primitive life impulse.
Here as elsewhere in his recent work Jung appears to
shirk the consecmences of his own analyses.
The transformations of the libido which Jung holds to
be the true subject-matter of the psychology of the
unconscious are those deflections of the sexual libido from
the sexual territory into associated functions or analogous
activities which have occurred in the past history of the
race. He gives many instances in which such a deflec-
tion has taken place and he traces the history of the
symbolism resulting therefrom in the cults and super-
stitions of ancient peoples and in the myths and religions
of more modem times. He is obviously, however, some-
what at a loss to account for the origin of these deflec-
tions of the libido. Why should primitive man allow his
sexual libido to be turned away from its natural destina-
tion, and employ itself so strenuously in substitution
actions such as, for example, fire production or the
cultivation of the earth ?
In his work on the Transformations of the Libido Jung
expresses his belief that primitive man was compelled
to such sublimations of his libido by an internal resistance
against sexuality. He does not consider that it was due
to any outer opposition or to any real obstacle, but that
it was due to an internal resistance based on an original
division of the will.
In his later studies he makes more explicit the im-
plications of this doctrine. He holds, with the best
anthropological authorities, that man was from the be-
ginning a social animal and that altruism is necessarily,
therefore, as innate and as primordial as egoism in the
soul. The beginnings of sexual morality shown in the
prehistoric deflections of the libido to other aims, were
imposed upon man by his own nature. " It should,
152 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PART
indeed," he says, " never be forgotten—and the Freudian
School needs this reminder-—that morality was not
brought down upon tables of stone from Sinai and forced
upon the people, but that morality is a function of the
human soul, which is as old as humanity itself. Morality
is not inculcated from without. Man has it primarily
within himself—not the law indeed, but the essence of
morals." 1
In this quotation we find some indication of
what appears to be a profound opposition between Jung
and Freud in their outlook upon human nature. It may
be compared with the opposition which once existed
between two of the great heresies of the Church—the
Pelagians declaring that man is innately good, the Mani-
chaeans insisting that he is innately evil.
In his work on the Psychology of the Unconscious
Jung approaches the subject of the symbolisms of the
libido in a somewhat novel way. He thinks that at the
present time there is need for the psychoanalyst to
broaden the analysis of individual psychologic problems
by a comparative study of historical material relating to
them. Much work has been already done by the applica-
tion of psychoanalytic knowledge to historical problems,
and he now desires to apply the insight so obtained to
the interpretation of individual phantasies of purely un-
conscious origin. He finds the material for his investi-
gation in an article entitled " Q.uelques faits d'imagination
creatrice subconsciente," contributed to Archives de Psy-
chologie (1906, Vol. V.) by an American lady, Miss Frank
Miller.
It is impossible here to indicate even in the barest
outline the course which his investigations take. All that
is possible is to give to the reader just a hint of the
topics discussed, and, by means of a few quotations, of
the kind of conclusions he is invited to accept.
Miss Miller when on a sea-voyage was one night
greatly impressed by the singing of one of the Italian
officers. She afterwards had a dream at the end of which
she had a vision of a poem which she wrote down as
soon as she awoke. The poem was a Hymn of Creation
1
Analytical Psychology, 2nd edit. p. 379.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 153
Miss Miller, in her commentary on the poem gives some
of the associations necessary for the analysis which Jung
undertakes. Among these may be found—The Singer
—
the Morning Stars-—the God of Tone—The Creator—The
God of Light and of Love—a much honoured ecclesiastic
who had puzzled her in her youth by his references to
the Gift of Love (don d'amour).
A quotation from Jung may indicate the line of investi-
gation he follows and the kind of interpretation he gives.
" Miss Miller's problem at this age was the common human
problem : How am I to be creative ? Nature knows but
one answer to that : Through the child (don d'amour !).
But how is the child attained ? Here the terrifying
problem emerges, which, as our analytic experience shows,
is connected with the father, where it cannot be solved ;
because the original sin of incest weighs heavily for all
time upon the human race. The strong and natural love
which binds the child to the father, turns away in those
years during which the humanity of the father woidd be
all too plainly recognised, to the higher forms of the
father, the '
Fathers '
of the Church, and to the Father God,
visibly represented by them, and in that there lies still
less possibility of solving the problem. However, mythology
is not lacking in consolations." 1
At a later date Miss Miller composed another poem
called "The Moth to the Sun." At the end of his
examination of the material supplied by this poem Jung
says :
" Under the symbol of '
moth and sun ' we have
dug down into the historic depths of the soul, and in
doing this we have uncovered an old buried idol, the
youthful, beautiful, fire-encircled and halo-crowned sun-
hero, who, forever unattainable to the mortal, wanders
upon the earth, causing night to follow day ;
winter,
summer ; death, life ; and who returns again in rejuve-
nated splendour and gives light to new generations. The
longing of the dreamer concealed behind the moth stands
for him." 2
In the third and last creation of Miss MiUer we meet with
the personification of the libido in the form of the hero.
1
Psychology of the Unconscious, pp. 62-63. 2
Ibid. pp. 115, 116.
154 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
And the myth of the hero as it appears to Jung is
" the myth of our own suffering unconscious, which has
an unquenchable longing for all the deepest sources of
our being ; for the body of the mother, and through it
for communion with infinite life in the countless forms
of existence. . . . The course of the invincible sun has
supplied the mystery of human life with beautiful and
imperishable symbols ; it became a comforting fulfilment
of all the yearning for immortality, of all desire of mortals
for eternal life. Man leaves the mother, the source of
libido, and is driven by the eternal thirst to find her
again, and to drink renewal from her ; thus he completes
his cycle, and returns again into the mother's womb." 1
It is by thus laying bare the mythological foundation of
the infantile incest phantasy that Jung seeks to break
away from the Freudian interpretation and to regard
this phantasy not as a true sexual inclination towards
the parents but as "a regressive product of the revival
of the archaic modes of function, outweighing actuality." 2
The symbolisms of " the hero," of the " mother and of
rebirth," of "the dual mother role" and of "the sacrifice,"
give Jung the opportunity to digress into discussion of
a great variety of topics ranging over the whole field of
mythology and religion, and only an expert in these
matters is qualified to appraise the value of his con-
clusions. The ordinary reader will find the argument
extremely difficult to follow owing to the seeming absence
of method in the exposition, and the long digressions
which are frequently indulged in. It is due to the reader
that a book of this character should have been provided
with a concise synopsis of the argument and a much
fuller index.
In accordance with the biological trend of thought
which led him to trace back the libido to a primordial
life-impulse, Jung postulates in the unconscious not only
the traces of human experience, both individual and
racial, but also of that of our prehuman ancestors. Chief
stress, is, however, laid on that part of the unconscious
1
Psychology of the Unconscious, pp. 231, 427. * Ibid. p. 463.
xxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 155
which is a heritage from racial experience ;
and, indeed,
it is of that part alone that he thinks it justifiable to
speak as being suitable subject matter of a scientific
psychology. For the individual unconscious is in every
instance something unique and incomparable.
He believes that a man's mind may be regarded as
containing not only the traces of his own individual
experience, but also, in a condensed or epitomised form,
traces of the experience of the whole race. This applies
to modes of mental functioning as well as to the con-
tents of the mind. The thinking of prehistoric man he
believes to have been predominantly a thinking in images
—a dream or phantasy thinking, while directed thinking
—thinking in words, is a modern acquisition. Our dreams
and the phantasy thinking of children and day-dreamers
are thus a sort of re-echo of archaic mental process.
Similarly the phantasy formations which psychoanalysis
has revealed in the unconscious are identical in character
with the conscious thinking of prehistoric man. So also
in regard to the content of the unconscious ; the symbols
of the dream and of the unconscious phantasy show that
man has retained a condensation of the psychic history
of his development.
Jung therefore divides the materials of the unconscious
into personal and impersonal or collective contents. The
personal contents are those that are attributable to
personal experiences—reminiscences of tli9 life-history of
the individual. The impersonal or collective contents are
those primordial images-—or at least the inherited poten-
tialities of such images—which are common to the whole
race. The phantasies arising from this region of the
unconscious have no basis in personal reminiscence.
Now Jung would seem to teach that all the content
of the impersonal unconscious is derived from transfor-
mations of the primal sexual libido, —transformations in
which libido became desexualised by being taken away
from its proper object and applied to other objects " by
means of shifting to an analogy." All the sexual symbols
on which he descants throughoiit his Psychology of the
Unconscious with so much learning and ingenuity are
156 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
nothing but the phantasy correlates which primitive man
had substituted for the original achievements of the sexual
libido. Moreover such diversions of the libido are still
taking place. " Where this operation succeeds without
injury to the adaptation of the individual it is called
sublimation. Where the attempt does not succeed it is
called repression."
The transformations of the libido represented iu the
impersonal unconscious are thus the sublimations of •
our
prehistoric ancestors by which libido became freed from
the immediate sexual and became applied to an ever
increasing range of objects, thereby assisting the dis-
covery of and the adaptation to an ever-widening en-
vironment. In this way arose the rich sexual symbolism
which pervades mythology and dream. The compulsion
towards transformation removed a certain amount of
libido from the real sexual activity and created a symbolic
and practically valid substitute for what was lost.
To this phantastic analogy formation Jung ascribes a
great role in the mental and moral development of man.
"It is a question," he says, " whether the human con-
sciousness has not been brought to its present state
entirely or in great part in this manner. ... It is easy
to believe that the carry over of the libido to a phan-
tastic correlate has led primitive man to a number of
the most important discoveries." 1
We thus see that Jung has introduced into the con-
ception of the unconscious modifications as far-reaching
as those which he advocates in regard to the use of the
terms sex and libido. As we have seen he extends the
application of the word sexual so as to make it co-
extensive with the impulse of procreation and refuses to
call sexual all that has no direct relation to procreation
and all that has no longer, though it may once have
had, such a relation. He takes away from the word
libido the specific character which it has possessed since
classical times and uses it as a generic term to signify
the psychic energy that is common to every form of
mental activity. Lastly, he includes within the un-
1
Psychology of the Unconscious, p. 156.
xxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 157
conscious not only all that we formerly understood by
the subliminal or the subconscious, not only the Uncon-
scious of Freud, originating by repression in the course
of the individual life, but also a vast domain inherited
by each one of us from the collective experience of the
race.
It would seem as if Jung has wandered far from the
original standpoint of psychoanalysis, and there is some
justification for the protest of Freud that he has no
longer any right to describe either his theories or his
practice under that name. There is no conception more
fundamental to the psychoanalytic psychology originated
and developed by Freud than the conception of " Repres-
sion." By repression alone is the existence and nature
of the unconscious of Freud explained, and the overcoming
of the resistances is the one aim of his psychoanalytic
therapy.
But Jung no longer speaks much of the repression.
True, he does occasionally still appear to do it lip-
service, but the rejiression he has in mind seems to have
a totally different nature and a different origin. Here,
again, as in the case of the words sexual, libido, and
the unconscious, he continues to use a term which has
acquired a very specific meaning in psychoanalytic writings
but has so altered its applications that it becomes practi-
cally a different word.
In Freudian psychology the very existence of the un-
conscious was explained by repression. Freud's theory
of the neuroses was built upon this conception. The
neurosis was the product of an unconscious conflict
between the moral nature and the infantile wish-tendencies
repressed in the unconscious. The aim of psychoanalysis
was the overcoming of the resistances, the freeing of the
repressed complexes, and the liberation of the energy
attached to them so that it became available for higher
ends.
Jung gives us an entirely new view of the structure
and functions of the unconscious, a new hypothesis of
psychogenic disturbances, a new therapy and a new
therapeutic aim. The personal unconscious is not for
158 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
him the result of repression due to a conflict with the
moral consciousness but is merely a consequence of the
tendency of every individual to develop one-sidedly in
his mental growth. In his adaptation to life one part
of his potentialities is neglected in favour of the other,
and the neglected part tends to sink into the unconscious.
By analogy with the opposite tendencies which he
finds to be characteristic of dementia precox and hysteria
respectively, he maintains that there are two great
psychological types under which all men may be classed.
In one type—the extravert, of which hysteria is the
extreme example,—there is a centrifugal tendency of the
libido ; in the other type—the introvert, of which de-
mentia precox is the extreme example,—there is a centri-
petal tendency of the libido. " In the one type the
fundamental function is feeling, and in the other it is
thought. The one feels his way into the object, the other
thinks about it. The one adapts himself to his surround-
ings by feeling, thinking coming later ; whilst the other
adapts himself by means of thought, preceded by under-
standing." 1 " Each type has one function that is specially
well developed, the introvert using his thought as the
function of adaptation, thinking beforehand about how
he shall act ; whilst the extravert, on the contrary,
feels his way into the object by acting." 2
In the in-
trovert the potentialities of feeling tend to be unconscious
to the extent that they are undeveloped in the conscious
life. In the extravert the potentialities of thought tend
to be unconscious in a similar way.
Corresponding to their divergence along these different
paths of adaptation the values of the one type become
more and more opposed to those of the other, so that
in the end they become totally incapable of understanding
each other. This fundamental opposition between the two
types is compared to that which William James detected
between philosophers according as they belonged to his
" tough-minded " or his " tender-minded " group.
It is on the basis of this hypothesis of psychological
types that Jung has constructed his theory of the neuroses.
1
Analytical Psychology, 2nd edit., p. 391. * Ibid. p. 402.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 159
He still holds to mental conflict being the proximate
cause of the outbreak of neurosis, but the conflict is no
longer the Freudian conflict between adult and infantile
wish-tendencies, but a conflict between " the adapted
function and the co-function that is undifferentiated, and
that lies to a great extent in the unconscious ; there-
fore in the case of the introvert, between thought and
unconscious feeling, but in that of the extravert, between
feeling and unconscious thought." 1
Thus, for example,
" If a man who naturally adapts himself by thinking is
faced by a demand that cannot be met by thinking
alone, but which requires differentiated feeling, the trau-
matic or pathogenic conflict breaks out. On the contrary,
the critical moment comes to the man who adapts by
feeling when he is faced by a problem requiring differ-
entiated thought." 2
Jung no longer looks for the cause of the neurosis in
the past. He does not ask what infantile fixations have
occurred in the course of psycho-sexual development,
nor what particular infantile phantasies are utilising the
libido withdrawn from adaptation to reality. He looks
for the cause in the present. He asks, what is the
necessary task in the patient's life which he will not
fulfil and from which he recoils. He now seems to make
light of the fact that the " life-task " before which the
neurotic quails is invariably a task inseparable from his
love-life, and he no longer admits, what he once strongly
taught, that the infantile fixations provide the true
explanation why the fulfilment of that particular task
is impossible. The dominating power of the impulses as
a causative factor of neurotic disturbances is now replaced
by the conception of a " psychic indolence " to face life's
difficulties, which seems strangely at variance with the
abounding " will to live " emphasised in the energic
theory of the libido.
Jung's therapeutic practice in its early stages would
seem to differ very little from that of Freud. He still
finds it necessary to trace back by analysis the phantasy
products of the neurosis to their sources in infantile
1
Ibid. p. 405. 2
Ibid. p. 405.
160 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
sexuality,—not because they are the causes of the neurosis
but because the energy which the patient needs for
adaptation is attached to them and is wastefully employed
in their production. But he no longer regards these
sexual phantasies literally. He acknowledges the universal
existence of the " CEdipus complex " though he disbelieves
in its " fixation " as a cause of the neurosis, but be sees
in the incest wish no real sexual inclination towards the
parents but merely a regressive revival of archaic modes
of thought. The symbolism of the neurotic phantasy and
of the dream is the only way of thinking open to the
unconscious, and the unconscious thought of the neurotic
is concerned with the same problem as that which proved
too hard for his conscious thought, namely, the problem
of adaptation, the problem of the life-task. The phantasy
symbolism manifested in the symptoms is an unconscious
attempt at adaptation—an attempt that has failed. The
symbolism of the dream, rightly interpreted, may indicate
the line along which adaptation maj succeed.
Holding such views regarding the causation of neurotic
disturbances and the nature and significance of the un-
conscious phantasies and the symbolism they employ,
Jung is constrained to modify both his therapeutic aim
and his therapeutic method. His therapeutic aim is no
longer the overcoming of the resistances, for the uncon-
scious he is interrogating is not primarily the product of
repression. His method is no longer purely analytic or
reductive, but is supplemented by measures which he
regards as synthetic or constructive. He is no longer
satisfied by the freeing of the libido which has regressed
into the unconscious, but he seeks to help the patient
to find the " life-line " along which his future develop-
ment may most satisfactorily proceed.
The need of supplementing the analytic work by a
constructive synthesis seems to have been impressed upon
Jung by considerations very similar to those which were
widely expressed in the early criticisms of Freud's work.
What good purpose can be served, it was asked, by
stirring up the repressed tendencies which psychoanalysis
reveals ? So now we find Jung asserting that a merely
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 161
reductive analysis succeeds only in reinforcing the primi-
tive trends of a personality, and implying that the patient,
since he cannot obey the fundamental and primitive
impulses of his nature thus laid bare, can do nothing
but sink into a state of resignation and hopelessness.
It is difficult to understand how such an implication
can be made by Jung after so many years of presumably
successful analytic practice upon Freudian lines. If it
be true, as he now maintains, that the sublimation of
the energies liberated by the analysis is possible only in
exceptional cases, and that the disposable energy cannot be
consciously directed to a suitable object but will sink
back into the unconscious, we may well ask : Was it the
cure of exceptional cases only that upheld the enthusiasm
of the pioneers of psychoanalysis ? Did they not lead us
to suppose rather that it was only in exceptional cases
that the method failed ? Do the Freudian analysts of
to-day cure only exceptional cases ? Did Jung himself
cure only exceptional cases before he discovered the
" transcendental function " of his synthetic or constructive
method ?
The absence of statistical records of success and failure
in psychoanalytic treatment may be a not undeserved
reproach when it is made by one who is outside the
psychoanalytic movement ; but when we find a psycho-
analyst justifying his introduction of a new method by
implying that the old method was well known by its
exponents-—though they did not say so—to be of use
only in exceptional cases, we are apt to feel that we have
not been fairly dealt with and become suspicious that the
new method also may be similarly restricted in its appli-
cation.
Freud dealt quite explicitly with the fate of the wishes
which become free by psychoanalysis, and the means by
which they are made harmless, and may become useful,
for the life of the individual. In the first place he claimed
that the repression might be supplanted by a condem-
nation carried through with the best means at one's
disposal. In the maturity and strength of adult life the
patient may conquer without injury to himself those
162 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
impulses which as a child he could only deal with by-
repression. A second possibility is that the unconscious
impulses revealed in the analysis may now follow the
path of sublimation which in the case of undisturbed
development they would have found earlier. A third
possibility which should be kept in mind is that some
part of the repressed wishes have a right to direct satis-
faction and ought to find it in life.
Jung would seem to minimise or deny the two former
possibilities, and to imply that the only result of a merely
reductive analysis is to liberate wish tendencies whose
gratification is prevented by the stern necessities of life.
Hitherto it has been taught that the final stage of a
psychoanalysis is the dissolution of the transference to
the analyst of all the infantile phantasies which have
been projected on to him in the course of the analytic
work. When this had been accomplished satisfactorily
the patient was supposed to be ready and able to utilise
the full libido energy now at his disposal and to apply
it in a new and more adequate adaptation to life. Now,
however, Jung tells us that at this stage of the analysis
the process of freeing the patient from the grip of the
unconscious is not more than half done. The libido
freed in the dissolution of the transference, in so far as
this takes the form of the projection of infantile phan-
tasies derived from the personal unconscious, has open
to it an easier path than the strenuous one of sub-
limation into ethical and social activity. " It sinks down
into the depths of the unconscious, reviving what has
been dormant there from immemorial ages." 1
If now
the analytic process be carried further, new phantasy
formations are projected on to the analyst just as the
infantile phantasies were ; but he no longer appears in
the guise of father, or guardian, or any other form having
a basis in the personal reminiscence of the patient, but
acquires the attributes of god or devil. The libido has
seized upon the primordial images derived from the
history of the race, which form the content of the im-
personal or collective unconscious, and by their projection
1 Analytical Psychology, 2nd edit. p. 411.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 163
on to the analyst a new and more dangerous phase of
transference is begun.
The method of analysis, the " causal-reductive " pro-
cedure, which reduces the dream or phantasy to its
component reminiscences is obviously inappropriate here,
as there are no personal reminiscences to which these
phantasies can be reduced. To attempt to do so, Jung
says, is not only inappropriate but actually pernicious,
—
a fact that has been impressed on him by disagreeable
experiences.
It is at this point that the need arises for that con-
structive or synthetic interpretation of unconscious material
which forms perhaps the most fundamental difference
between the therapeutic methods of Freud and Jung.
Theoretically this interpretation should not be necessary
and should not be applied until all the phantasies based
upon personal reminiscences have been subjected to the
analytic (reductive) procedure. There seems, however, to
be a tendency amongst Jung's disciples to apply the
constructive method from the very beginning of their
analytic treatment and to regard it as the most important
part of their work. But although Jung admits that all
phantasy thinking is open to constructive interpretation,
he himself is careful to insist on the need of analytic
reduction in the earlier stages of therapeutic psycho-
analysis.
The essential features of the synthetic or constructive
method may be illustrated by comparing the two ways
of dealing with the symbols of dreams. Its fuller appli-
cation in the " transcendental function " of coming to
terms with the impersonal unconscious cannot be dealt
with here.
In their treatment of dream symbolism we find revealed
some of the fundamental differences between Freud and
Jung in their outlook upon human nature. These differ-
ences are implicit in the primary conceptions from which
they start out on their psychological quest, and account
in great measure for the differences in the nature of the
treasures which they find. Freud sets out from the
164 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
assumption that the driving force behind all mental
activity is the desire for pleasure and the avoidance of
pain. The gratification of desire is the primary aim of
humanity, and adaptation to the realities of life is a hard
necessity imposed from without. Jung sees the primal
libido as a will to live. The fulfilment of .a task—the
adaptation to life—is the primary incentive. Pleasure
appears in a secondary role as a reward for duty done.
Freud's outlook may be compared to that of Adam
before the fall-—the pursuit of pleasure in a paradise
of desire marred only by the interdict placed upon the
fruit of the forbidden tree. Jung's outlook is rather
that of Adam after the expulsion from the garden, con-
fronted with the task of adaptation if he would live.
For Freud the instigator of the dream is the uncon-
scious wish that seeks gratification, and the function of
the symbol is so to distort this wish that its true nature
is not realised in consciousness. For Jung the dream is
a continuation in the unconscious of the attempt to
solve the problems of adaptation that occupy our conscious
thoughts during waking life. The occurrence of dream
symbolism is explained as a reversion during sleep to an
archaic mode of thinking. The conscious purposive think-
ing of primitive man was a thinking in symbols, and in
the symbolism of dreams the original teleological function
of this mode of thinking is retained. Thus for Jung the
dream is no longer merely a veiled gratification of
repressed desires, but a continuation through the hours
of sleep of that struggle for adaptation which is the
universal and inescapable heritage of life.
Great stress is laid by Jung in his therapeutic work
on the teleological or prospective function of the dream.
The task of adaptation to life is so difficult that its
fulfilment requires the energies of the whole man. Only
by taking into consideration all aspects of the problem,
—
not only those which appeal to consciousness but also
those which have received only unconscious consideration
—is the most satisfactory solution attained. Hence in
the interpretation of dreams Jung looks to the unconscious
for guidance in his therapeutic task of helping his patients
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 165
to overcome the difficulties of adaptation which have led
to the development of their neuroses.
Jung does not tell us why he thinks the dream has
this prospective function. There is, it is true, a certain
amount of evidence to show that unconscious thought is
sometimes directed towards definite aims, and that this
sometimes results in happy solutions of problems that
have defied our conscious thought. But he does not
invoke this evidence in favour of his contention. More-
over, although such perseverance of purpose through the
hours of sleep may occur in persons who have excep-
tional powers of sustained attention, or whose will to
succeed is not easily thwarted, it does not seem to accord
well with the type of character which has been brought
to a neurosis through psychic indolence to grapple with
the difficulties of life. And this it must be remembered
is Jung's explanation of the origin of neurotic maladies. It
would seem more in keeping with the hypothesis of psychic
indolence as the cause of the neuroses that in sleep, when
the need for effort is abated, the mind should revert to less
strenuous forms of activity and secure the gratification in
phantasy of infantile wishes as the Freudians maintain.
But Jung's way of regarding the significance of the
dream content is consistent with his view of the com-
pensatory function of the unconscious. He teaches that
the capacity for making the most suitable adjustments to
life is present in the psyche as a whole ; what is missing
from the conscious is to be found in the unconscious.
It is not that the unconscious attempt at adaptation is
more adequate by itself than the conscious one, but that
only by bringing the unconscious to the aid of the con-
scious is the best possible solution of any of life's problems
to be found. And the solution provided by the con-
structive interpretation of the dream need not be regarded
as the result of thinking directed to this end during
sleep, but is rather a revelation of the subliminal aspect
of the reaction of the psyche as a whole to the immediate
task confronting it.
Although Jung does not tell us why he supposes the
dream to have this forward-looking function, he gives
166 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
us two reasons why he thinks it necessary to impose this
interpretation upon all dreams which in analysis reveal
the fundamental thoughts and impulses of the unconscious
to be infantile wishes, and to read into them a pro-
spective import indicative of a definite line of future
development. His first reason for supplementing the
analytic by a synthetic interpretation is that we cannot
exhaust any psychological material by causal methods
only. We cannot get the meaning of any psychological
phenomenon by analysing it into its causal antecedents.
The mind lives by aims as well, and " what is plainly
directed towards a goal cannot be given an exclusively
causalistic explanation." 1
But the recognition of purpose in our conscious thinking,
—in the sense of aims directed towards the future
—
would not warrant the attribution of such purpose to
our unconscious thought. To do so is to assume the
conclusion which has to be proved. There may be other
grounds for maintaining that dreams are purposive, but
if that be so we must not assume that the purpose of
the dream is the same as the purpose of our waking life.
Any evidence which clearly shows that the dream has a
purpose should also reveal what that purpose is. The
chief danger in dream interpretation would just seem to
be that we may read into the dream the purpose we
assume to be there.
Such at all events is the impression one gets from the
dream interpretations of analysts belonging to different
psychoanalytic schools. According as the analyst has
come under the influence of Vienna or of Zurich the same
dream will be interpreted as showing the fulfilment of
an unconscious wish or as indicating the attitude towards
life which the dreamer should adopt. And even in the
reduction of the dream to a wish, the wish thus found
is not always the same. Freud finds it to be a wish
for pleasure ; Adler finds it to be a wish for power. It
is often asserted, however, that all the different interpre-
tations may be right. It is claimed that the different
parts of the dream may all be so " over-determined
"
1 Analytical Psychology, 2nd edit. p. x.
ixxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious mid Psychoanalysis. 167
that the dream as a whole has more than one meaning.
This may be true, but the fanciful nature of the inter-
pretations given in some records of dream analysis, and
the obvious imposition of the analyst's views in the
unveiling of the symbolism and in the manipulation of
the dreamer's associations, may make the sceptical reader
think that the psychoanalytic study of the unconscious
has become the " tumbling ground for whimsies " against
which we were warned by William James.
Against no part of Freud's work is criticism so readily
aroused as against that which deals with the interpre-
tation of dreams. The reason for this is obvious. One
may hesitate to express an opinion regarding the reduction
of neurotic symptoms to infantile wish fulfilments, for
not every one is acquainted with neurotic symptoms. But
every one dreams and every one is at first inclined to
resent as absurd and intolerable the Freudian interpre-
tation of his own dreams. Some of the misunderstanding
in regard to this matter may be obviated if two considera-
tions are steadily kept in mind. The first is the dis-
tinction between the manifest dream content—the dream
as remembered by the dreamer—and the latent dream
thoughts which contain the real meaning of the dream.
The second consideration is that there are two distinct
technical methods employed in dream interpretation.
Neither method by itself is sufficient for the full under-
standing of the dream. This is only possible, when it
is possible, by the use of both.
The first method, and from one point of view the
more important for the purposes of psychoanalysis, is the
obtaining of the free associations of the dreamer to the
various parts of the dream. By this means the true
dream thoughts related to the actual conflicts of the
moment are revealed. Thoughts of deep personal signifi-
cance, of which no trace is to be found in the manifest
dream content, are thus brought to light. When the asso-
ciations to all the different parts of the dream have been
obtained, the ideas and memories so recalled are found
to be related in such a way that they form a more or
Jess connected and intelligible whole. In this way a
168 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PAET
first approximation to the meaning of the dream may be
obtained and a mass of material is provided for further
analysis. But it is only by interpreting the symbols
which the dream-work so abundantly provides that the
deeper meaning is revealed, ana in this part of the work
the associations of the dreamer offer but little help.
Freud believes that symbols are used predominantly
for the purpose of disguising unconscious sexual wishes,
and he points out that dream symbols are widely found,
having a similar function, in myths and folk-lore and in
the sayings and maxims of all peoples. According to
Jung the value to be attributed to the symbol depends
on the standpoint from which we regard it. From the
standpoint of " causality," that is, tracing backwards the
historical origin of the symbol, he admits its sexual
character. But from the standpoint of " finality," that
is, looking forward to the end or jmrpose of the dream,
he sees in the symbol an attempt to comprehend, by means
of analogy, the solution of the problem with which the
dreamer is confronted in his life. The use of symbols
is merely the mode of expression used by the unconscious.
Symbol formation was the means by which primitive man
succeeded in desexualising his libido, and the symbol
reappears in the language of the dream devoid of its
sexual significance.
Jung's way of regarding the symbol is part of his
attitude towards the dream as a whole. He admits that
everything in the dream has its causal or historic explana-
tion, as everything that exists must have, but he main-
tains that neither the dream nor any other psychological
construction can be fully understood from the causal
standpoint only. " Only on one side," he says, " is the
mind a Has Been, and as such subordinate to the causal
principle. On the other side the mind is a Becoming
that can only be grasped synthetically or constructively.
. . . On the one side it offers a picture of the precipitate
of the past, and on the other side a picture of the
germinating knowledge of all that is to come, in so far as.
the psyche creates its own future." 1
1
Analytical Psychology, '2nd edit. p. 341.
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 169
His acceptance of this point of view has its interest
in that it impels him to declare that its adoption is
opposed to scientific method. If the mind and its
activities cannot be explained on those principles of
causation which are alone applicable in other fields of
scientific investigation, then the conclusions of psycho-
logical inquiry will be lacking in scientific validity accord-
ing to our present conceptions of science. He implies
that the future is not contained in the past and is not
deducible from it even if we were in possession of all
the facts ; and in admitting that the psyche in some
degree " creates its own future " he is apparently in full
retreat from that rigid psychic determinism which was
originally the most fundamental postulate of the psycho-
analytic method. For creation is the bringing of some-
thing new unto the universe and the opening of a door
to contingencies which elude calculation.
In reviewing the first edition of Jung's Analytical
Psychology 1
I ventured to indicate the logical conclusions
to be drawn from his few brief references to this matter.
In his preface to the second edition of this work he does
me the honour of replying at some length to my remarks,
and in the important new contributions to this volume
he makes frequent, more detailed, reference to the same topic.
He maintains that a psychological theory must adapt itself
to the fact that, psychologically speaking, we are living and
working, day by day, according to the principle of directed
aim or purpose, as well as that of causality. He justifies
his desire to hold on to both points of view on the
ground that " our theory of cognition does not need to
remain on a pre-Kantian level. It is well known that Kant
showed very clearly that the mechanistic and the teleo-
logical view points are not constituent (objective) principles,
in some degree qualities of the object, but that they are
purely regulative (subjective) principles of thought, and as
such they are not mutually inconsistent." 2
Perhaps I owe it to Dr. Jung to make the confession
that in my criticism I was acting the part of devil's
1
Proceedings S.P.N. Vol. XXIX. p. 191.
2
Analytical Psychology, 2nd edit. p. xi.
170 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
advocate, and that my own personal convictions are very-
much in accord with the position which he has had the
courage to take up in this matter. But I thought that
what was implicit in his references deserved more ex-
plicit statement from him, and I am pleased to find
that my remarks have been successful in bringing this
about.
The acceptance, however, of this point of view in regard
to that part of the mind which we know by introspec-
tion, and of the implications which it may carry with it,
does not bind us to believe that the same point of view
necessarily holds good when the unconscious is in question.
The unconscious does not speak plainly, and its purpose,
if it has one, is obscure. Our knowledge of its purpose
can only be obtained by interpretation of its cryptic
utterances, and the truth of what we discover must be
open to doubt if, before beginning our investigation, we
have to assume both the presence of the purpose and
the validity of our interpretative methods. And this is
what Jung, in his constructive inteipretation of the dream,
appears to do. Yet here, as elsewhere, we may perhaps
judge our conclusions to be true if we find that they
work.
Jung's second reason for supplementing the analytic
interpretation of the dream by a synthetic or constructive
one is that he considers it necessary in the interests of
the patient. Admitting that we reach very dissimilar
interpretations of the meaning of the dream according
to the point of view adopted, he asks the question : Which
is the better or the truer version ? His criterion of truth
is here an essentially practical one. He considers it his
therapeutic duty to lay hold of any means that will
enable him to train his patients effectually and to fit
them to live. And since he believes that a purely re-
ductive analysis merely helps to reinforce the primitive
trends of the patient's personality, and releases impulses
which cannot be satisfied " without gravely injuring him-
self or his fellow-beings," Jung feels bound to seek out
some symbolic application of infantile trends, out of which
a philosophic or religious attitude towards life may be
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 171
evolved that will help the patient to live up to the best
that is in him.
It would look as if Jung implied that his method must
be right and his version true because his motives are so
good. But the vital necessity, of which he speaks, to
find for his patient a way out of the bog into which
psychoanalysis had led him, gives us no guarantee that
the road he points out is the right one or the best one.
Moreover it seems impossible to reconcile Jung's latter-
day contentions with the knowledge that he himself,
as well as many others, have for years successfully used
Freudian analysis without the need of supplementing it
by any didactic methods. The alleged dangers of reductive
analysis on which Jung now lays so much stress have
been explicitly denied by Freud. He says : "In relation
to this anxiety we must consider what our experiences
have taught us with certainty, that the somatic and
mental power of a wish, if once its repression has not
succeeded, is incomparably stronger when it is unconscious
than when it is conscious, so that by being made con-
scious it can only be weakened. The unconscious wish
cannot be influenced, is free from all strivings in the
contrary direction, while the conscious is inhibited by
those wishes which are also conscious and which strive
against it. The work of psychoanalysis accordingly pre-
sents a better substitute, in the service of the highest
and mos* valuable cultural strivings, for the repression
which has failed." 1
The emphasis laid by Jung on the importance of his
constructive method may prove a real danger to the
rising generation of analysts. They may be tempted to
neglect the need for the thorough analysis which Jung
himself admits to be necessary, and to embark too
precipitately on the constructive course which they
may find ethically and aesthetically more attractive.
They may, by so doing, succeed in temporarily reinforcing
the repression which has failed, but they will have
wandered far, both in attainment and intent, from the
goal of psychoanalysis.
1
American Journal of Psychology, April, 1910, pp. 216-217.
172 T. W. Mitchell 31.D. [part
We are still too near the psychoanalytic movement to
judge truly of the place it may ultimately hold in the
history of thought. More than most new departures psycho-
analysis has been open to attack,—partly by the nature
of the doctrines which it teaches and partly by the almost
cynical indifference to the conventions shown by some
of its exponents in their exposition of these doctrines.
But these give only superficial grounds for criticism or
disagreement. The claims of psychoanalysis are so im-
portant and noteworthy, and have already so great a
weight of evidence in their support, that no one who
seeks the truth in any department of human life and
thought can any longer afford to neglect the methods
and conclusions of this new psychological discipline.
The topics discussed in the previous pages suggest at
least two points of view from which psychoanalysis may
be regarded. In the first place it may be looked at in
the light of its development as a therapeutic method in
the treatment of the neuroses and psychoses. In the
second place it has a wider significance as a method
of psychological investigation. Its therapeutic applications
are justified by its success in conditions where all other
means have failed, but the truth of its theoretic formu-
lations can hardly be considered proved by its therapeutic
usefulness alone. In the long history of man's efforts to
grapple with mental and bodily disease much that was
unessential in the means adopted was often credited
with the cure. And so it may be with psychoanalysis.
Some possibility of this kind is indeed obvious when we
consider that both Freud and Jung obtain therapeutic
success although holding such opposite views on matters
whose interpretation in a particular way was at one
time deemed essential in psychoanalytic theory and
practice. Time alone and the labours of many workers
will in this as in former days sift the chaff from the
grain and make plain what is important and what is
unimportant in psychoanalytic therapeutics.
Considered as a method of psychological investigation
the claims of psychoanalysis are more far-reaching than
when it is regarded merely as a therapeutic method,
lxxv.] Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. 173
and if they are substantiated or extended by future
workers it will have to be recognised that the intro-
duction of psychoanalysis was the most important contri-
bution of modern times to the mental and moral sciences.
For the application and pursuit of this psychological
method bears fruit not only in the domain of purely
psychological problems but also in every field of knowledge,
feeling and action. The claims of its supporters as to
its bearings on philosophy, aesthetics, ethics and religion,
amount to little less than a claim to a new revelation
of the meaning of life.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXVI
1918.
I.
FRESH LIGHT ON THE " ONE-HORSE DAWN "
EXPERIMENT.
BY J. G. PlDDINGTON.
KULTOl TO <y CUViyfl OVy] TOV~iri6vTO<i >)v
uvSpcx; ciienrelv.
Soph. O.T. 393-394.
On an unnamed date in April 1901, a few weeks after Mrs.
Verrall had begun to write automatically, her husband, Dr.
A. W. Verrall, decided to try the experiment of fixing his
mind on certain words with a view to getting them reproduced
in her script. He chose for the subject of this experiment
in thought-transference three Greek words from the Orestes
of Euripides : novoirwXov e? 'Aw (monopolon es Ao). 'E? 'Ato
means " to the Dawn " ; but the word /jlovottwKov has
been variously interpreted. It has usually been derived
from /u>.6voi, " one only," and 7rd>Ao?, which, though mean-
ing a " foal," is often used in poetry for tWos (hippos),
a " horse " ; and so the ordinary rendering has been
" with one horse." Dr. Verrall, however, thought it
" may mean no more than /ulopos, alone or solitary, the
latter part of the word, -71-00X05, being possibly con-
176 J. G. Piddington. Tpart
tm
nected with -n-oAeoiuat, '
to wander '
" (Proc. Vol. XX.
p. 157).
1
I draw attention thus early to this linguistic point not
from any idle desire to interest my readers in an etymo-
logical problem for its own sake, but because it has a
real bearing on the subject. At the same time, it may
not be out of place to remind some members of our
Society, who are inclined to chafe at the frequency with
which classical subjects are discussed in our Proceedings,
that the scripts of our automatists (two of them, by the
way, classical scholars) are, so it is claimed, influenced by
communicators to whom, or at any rate to some of whom,
the literatures of Greece and Rome made an absorbing
appeal ; and that no one could have felt this appeal more
keenly than the originator of the novoirwKov e? 'Aw
experiment.
We have to deal, then, with an experiment initiated by
one classical scholar, which required a response from Mrs.
Verrall, another classical scholar, and to which a response
was—ostensibly, at least—made, not by Mrs. Verrall, but
by a group of classical scholars through her ;
and, pardessus
le marche, the subject selected for the experiment was a
phrase from a classical author.
It would be strange indeed, if, in these circumstances, I
could refrain from eating of the Forbidden Fruit of
classics. But I will do nothing more dreadful than give
the meaning of some Greek and Latin words ; relate in
barest outline an episode in one Greek play, and tell
something more of the story of another ; and quote trans-
lations in good English of some passages from both plays.
I have, moreover, been at pains throughout to make things
easy for the non-classical reader, so that he may not be
handicapped by his ignorance of Greek and Latin.
In Proc. Vol. XX. pp. 156-167 Mrs. Verrall gave an
account of the " One-Horse Dawn " experiment , and dis-
cussed how far it succeeded ; and in an Appendix (id. ib.
pp. 387-394) she reproduced such of her scripts, or such
parts of them, as she thought have reference to the experi-
^n p. 164 Mrs. Verrall speaks of " lonely-wandering " as "the interpre-
tation preferred by my husband."
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 177
ment. I give in her own words the conclusions which she
reached :
No one who reads the detailed account of the writing
of August and September, 1901, can, I think, have any
doubt that there is a connexion between the persistent
efforts of the script and the test that had been devised
by my husband, (p. 165)
And again :
As regards success, it will not I think be denied that
the script made an attempt at the problem—a thing itself
remarkable in the circumstances. Also it came near to
what was set in sound and sense. The script is full, for
the time, of the ideas morning and east, named or sug-
gested in various ways ; more than once occurs a transla-
tion, or something very near it, of the original words
—
'
going towards the east,' '
in the east to the daylight,'
and so on. The language and words too are approached,
the middle word is correctly and repeatedly given ; it
is indicated clearly that the e? is preceded by a compound
of novo-, and it is suggested that the final word begins
with a and ends with o. (p. 166)
And she ends her comments on the experiment thus :
. . . Given the words selected by my husband it can,
in my view, be shown that the script from Aug. 13 to
Sept. 20, 1901, bears unmistakeable evidence of a know-
ledge of their appearance and meaning. But had we not
known the words, they would have been irrecoverable from
the script, although a careful examination would have
shown an effort to communicate something definite, and
something intelligible to my husband. Under these cir-
cumstances it is rash to count as rubbish all that is not
easily understood. We should rather apply in other cases the
patience and scrutiny which were in this case justified.
Good advice this, and noteworthy as coming from an
automatist who was almost always ready to underrate,
and often to disparage, the value of her own phenomena.
It is not, however, the " rubbish " to be found " in
178 J. G. Piddington. [part
other cases," but the " rubbish " in this very One-Horse
Dawn case that I propose to scrutinise on this occasion ;
and chiefly one particular deposit of " rubbish."
In the group of scripts selected by Mrs. Verrall as
relating to her husband's experiment there are repeated
allusions to a solitary old man in a white robe, carrying
a long stick in his hand and " going towards the east."
The only explanations that Mrs. Verrall had to offer of
the many things said about this old man were that
they served to introduce the idea of the east, and the
ideas of solitariness and of wandering contained, according
to Dr. Verrall's view, in the word (xovo-wtakov ; and that
the words /j.ov6<tto\o<; {monostolos) and /xovo^itosvo^ (mono-
chitdnos) applied to the old man represent attempts to
give the word /jlovottwXov. Some of these explanations are,
I think, sound, so far as they go. But in view of the
fact that the references to the old man are frequent, and,
on the whole, clear and definite, it seems unsatisfactory
to have to dismiss the poor old man as no better than
a cumbrous piece of mechanism : a mere lay figure clothed
only with words and epithets suggesting the sound
or sense of ixovo-wushov eV 'Aw. Moreover, if this is really
the best that can be done with him, we have got to
reconcile the relative unimportance of this lay figure with
a statement about him made in Mrs. Verrall's script of
March 27, 1902 (Script R), which is to this effect :
Your husband's thought was good but not complete.
The old man in white was the best part of it but I have
not been able to finish that, and now it has all gone
away. Put it aside it will return some day.
Appended are all the references in Mrs. Verrall's scripts
to the old man in white, together with some other refer-
ences which do not at first sight appear to belong to the
old man, but which nevertheless, or so I hope to show,
really do so. Against scripts or extracts from scripts not
included by Mrs. Verrall in her account of the " One-
Horse Dawn " case an asterisk is placed. The Greek
and Latin of the scripts being often incorrect, translations
are necessarily sometimes conjectural. In the main,
lxxvi.] The "One-Horse Dawn'''' Experiment. 179
however, there is little or no doubt about the meaning
when the words can be translated at all.
MowVoAof e? 'Aw Scripts
relating to
The Old Man in White.
(A) * M.V. 3020 1
{April 10, 1901).
. . . vagatur in montibus degener cum nocru ANT^o^;
koi EXew;. apciToi [or, apara] omnia nigrant ante oculos
nec imago superest erro pererro in solitudine sine solis
flexilla. nihil nihil cessare iam cessare. . . .
(He wanders in the mountains . . . Antiphone and
Helen. Accursed [masc. pi. or neut. pi.] All things are
black before my eyes nor does an image remain. I wander,
I wander about in a solitary place without a gleam (?) of
sunshine. Nothing, nothing, stop now stop.)
(B) * M.V. 3030 {May, 8, 1901).
. . . caecus pererro per prata sine luce benefica. Magni-
ficentior semper oratio sed non possum describere illam,
nescio quid interponit se tuae menti mihique. . . .
(Blind T wander through the meadows deprived of the
genial light. Ever more lofty is the language, but I
cannot describe it [fern. sing.]. Something interferes
between your mind and me.)
(C.) M.V. 3049 {July 31, 1901).
. . . crux in dextra—longaevus senex barba alba
lAovoyjiTuivos sine apparatu—in caput corona 2
non aurea
neque gemmata. viridenti coma eXalov t>/9 TXavKwiriSo?
avTrji nonne vides % albipannosus est. signifer ille—nomine
Iddio. ...
(A cross in his right hand—an old man of many years
with a white beard single -tunicked without adornment—on
his head a crown 2
not of gold nor jewelled. With the green
1
Mrs. Verrall's scripts between March 5, 1901 (when they began) and Dec. 30,
1904, are numbered 3000 to 3307; from Jan. 4, 1905, to their conclusion on
June 24, 1916, they are numbered 1 to 739.
2
Corona properly means a wreath, not a crown; but see Script M below
where the "corona non aurea neque gemmata" is evidently referred to as
"the unjewelled crown."
180 J. G. Piddington. [part
foliage of the olive [reading eXalas for eXalov] of the gray-
eyed goddess [i.e. Athena] herself. Surely you see ? His
raiment is of white rags. He is a standard-bearer—in the
name of God (?).)
(D) 31. V. 3054 (Aug. 16, 1901).
• • e
'£,/'}"/cri
? TTUpa <JOl KCLl aWo) Til'}.
easier and easier though you do not know. The
cock is inside a circle or perhaps a coin. Try for the
words again. Cano cante clam no carmen cano Canam
somehow belongs, albicapillus and albipannosus—aspera
tibi dictito sed non desperata—si modo interpretatore
utaris commodo.
Long trailing draperies of white—turned to the right,
he carries a long stick in one hand, and a small square bos
in the other. There is a pleasant scent. Someone looks
at him and watches the light fall as he passes from
window to window, going towards the east. A. W. V.
will understand this—I think of him when I say it. You
do not know. Mone inquit alteram ne titubet—non semper
recte fit quod manu incipiet. . . .
(The interpretation is with you and another [masc] I
sing a song " Canam " [i.e. fern. acc. sing, of canus, white]
somehow belongs. White-haired and clothed-in-white-rags
—
I keep on saying to you difficult but not hopelessly difficult
things—if only you will employ a suitable interpreter. . . .
Warn, he says, the other person [fern.] not to stumble
—
what she sets her hand to is not always well done. . .
•)
(E) M.V. 3055 (Aug. 20, 1901).
. . . But to-night I have another message a white shirt
—not sheet—but shirt is not the word stiff and looks new
—the square box might be a book, a little dark book
but there is a strong sweet scent that trails behind. The
light nickers—he does not see you watch as he goes past
—
but it darkens the windows. Wellington—is it the Duke
or the place ? I cant tell—Evers is that right ? He will
know. One summer long ago—how hot it was in the
room. ! . . .
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Daum " Experiment. 181
Now you must see that it is right. The long room with
the many windows is near this hot room—he was outside
—how plain it seems to me ! but you dont know. Arthur
can tell you. . . .
Kai o-Te/uL/uaTa evrjv. ov Sacpveia aWa (pvWa SevSpos [sic\
twos eicei (pevTOVTos (pvTOv/uevov. . . .
(And there were wreaths there. Not of laurel [the word
Sacpvela does not exist, but the meaning is certain] but
leaves of some tree growing (?) there.)
(F) M.V. 3057 {Aug. 28, 1901).
. . . Cappa or Cana is a word that belongs. Cantilupe
is more like—cant ilenam Cantiaris sedile iam sedet super
mundum circumspectans
in the east to the daylight.
happily. Now write the word—it runs round a dial or
font . . . cut on grey stone glyptatus in marmoreo lapide
cultellario . . . stars—five I see. . . .
(He now sits above the world gazing around. . . .
Engraved (?) on a marble stone with a little knife.)
(G) M.V. 3058 [Aug. 29, 1901).
. . . [xaXivSpoSea letter by letter is easier to do but
they are not right yet. Begin again malvidba den-
dron. The shape of the letters is archaic CHT and so
on.—Does he move now ? Cantilect is not so good as
before. Cantiar EC. and a heraldic bird—in colours—the
light comes through, on a window to the east. . . .
(H) M.V. 3060 [Sept. 4, 1901).
. . . now the letters GC agunto CATUNTO esagito.
Find it and you will see—in fine—But the long white
182 J. G. Piddington. [part
drapery has long ago agone. /jlovoutoXos /uovo^towos
/uovo9 fxexa 6eov ovSe aWov twos.
Seen but not followed, there were others there but he
knew more than the rest. The man looks old—white-
headed but upright. . . .
(Alone and wandering single-tunicked alone with God
and none other.)
(I) 31. V. 3063 {Sept. 9, 1901).
. . . Most of it but not all. ol un c es that's not right
—but the m comes before the e? agiles. I can't tell you
the sense only the letters. It was some one else's words,
not his. His are the other, quite separate, moleskin
—
that is more like, the look not the meaning. Pye is a
bird too but not ours—gasur. dailey is more like,—daily
bent —^— is how it goes and the first rhymes to a — Find
the herb moly that will help—it is a guide—
Xi'l~rei kui reXo? A>/\|/ei?
Eveleen does not believe—she sits alone—it makes it hard.
Tell her from me about the blackhandled knife—I have
it. She will understand then and believe. . . .
(Seek and in the end you will understand. [The future
form X)/\|/e<9 is found only in late Greek writers, but the
sense is clear.]
)
(J) M.V. 3065 {Sept. 14, 1901).
. . . then the word that ends in es and something after
it. Blow hot blow cold Mosset is a name that belongs
—
Pla net or play net. illustre vagatur caelo sine comite.
palely loitering I cant get it to-night—wait—you will hear
loiter. • • •
(Bright it wanders [or, brightly he wanders] in the
heavens without a companion.)
(K) M.V. 3066 {Sept. 18, 1901).
. . . There is a message for her about a knife—on a
table, with letters engraved upon it—not English
—
eynnroi
the letters look like that. It is a friendly wish. Ask
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 183
her, not Evie. and there is something dark about the
knife—and flat—curved at the point. . . . Mrs. Sidgwick
will know. . . .
(L) M.V. 3067 (Sept. 20, 1901).
. . . de cultello bene imbuisti mentem. sed impigre
consequi vestigia prodest.
Evie does not know about the knife—nor the inscription
—The Balfours or Mrs. Sidgwick perhaps would—but your
husband could tell you all. . . .
(You have got the right notion into your mind about
the knife. But it is worth while to follow the traces
industriously.)
(M)* M.V. 3070 (Oct. 12, 1901).
. . . Superbiam pone exagito maerorem multiplex iam
interpretatio veritati impedit. . . .
Cantilupe and the old man in the long white robe with
the unjewelled crown. This belongs to A. W. V. past master.
Eversley I wanted to say before, and a disaster there. . . .
(Lay aside pride, stir up [reading exagita ; but there
is probably a reference back to " esagito " in H] lamenta-
tion. Manifold now is the interpretation. It hinders truth.)
(N)* M.V. 3081 (Dec. 5, 1901).
. D[o]esnt A W. remember ? the light fell from the
right overhead—and the long white robe moved slowly
while they played—Plainer to other eyes, but he must
have seen. Kirkistan kirkward shall carry me—go on.
not Helen but another and not Scotch . . .
(0)* M.V. 3096 (Jan. 17, 1902).
Malliola malveola. Not to-night later in the month, de
mortuis non desperandum. post tempora fiet lux. tene-
brosum iter caeco viatori in orientem solem pedibus vagatur
nec sine monitore. . . .
(One must not despair about the dead. After periods of
time there will be light. Dark is the way to the blind
traveller. He wanders on foot towards the rising sun and
not without a counsellor.)
184 J. G. Piddington. [part
(P)* M.V. 3098 {Jan. 31, 1902).
Crux et praeterea nihil. Post sempiternam mansueti-
dinem omnia supervacua—in terris. pone superbiam sume
togaculam caritatis impigre—nutanti adhibe fundamentum
roscidulo rore—sic semper monoicus sine apparatu non sine
beneficio universi. Cur haesitas ? incumbe alieno bacillo ?
Ita sane desiderium attinges magna cum gratia sanctissimi.
(Drawing of two crosses.)
(A cross and nothing else. After the everlasting clemency
everything is superfluous—on the earth. Lay aside pride,
put on quickly the little cloak of love—to him who [or,
to that which] is tottering give a support with dewy dew
—
Thus always the solitary-dweller without adornment not
without advantage to the world. Why do you hesitate ?
Lean upon another's staff. Thus assuredly you will obtain
your desire with the favour of the most holy one [gen.
sing, masc] )
(Q)* M.V. 3109 (March 14, 1902).
. . . Nunc incumbe bacillo. . . .
(Now lean on your staff.)
(R.)* M.V. 3114 (March 27, 1902).
. . . Your husband's thought was good but not complete.
The old man in white was the best part of it but I have
not been able to finish that, and now it has all gone
away. Put it aside it will return some day. . . .
(S)* M.V. 3118 (April 14, 1902).
. . .
r
y\avKW7ri'S A6/]v>] crvv 6(piSecrcrii> ewt (JKYi'irTpov. . . .
. . . The chapel is too light, something has been taken
away was it a cross in the east ask if he noticed. I
tried to show it you dont understand—let me write.
Cant uar is sedile ubi nunc gentium ? non tuum
respondere. defer alii. . . .
(Gray-eyed Athena with the snakes upon the staff. . . .
Where now is (the word) gentium ? It is not for you
to answer. Give it over to another. [See Proc. Vol. XX.
pp. 187-89 for explanation of the translation here given of
" Ubi nunc gentium ? "] )
JLXXVI.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 185
(T)* M.V. 3125 {May 31, 1902).
. . . caeco viatore magnum coercebit examen sine
adiutore. . . .
(By the blind traveller he will hold a great swarm in
check without a helper.)
(U)* M.V. 3224 {July 19, 1903. 9.30 p.m. H. de 0. V,
present.)
Horatio Brwwn [sic] and the finds mery mends find this
every noon the (scrawls) free men (scrawls) mass firls
{Note.—This was written while H. de G. V. was writing,
all after the first two words with extreme speed.
Before writing, I had a clear vision, noted just after
reading her script, as below :
" thought of long thin tall man with outstretched right
hand, very stiff attitude—white long robe—profile looking
to my right.")
(V)* H.V. script of July 19, 1903. 9.30 p.m. M. de G. V.
present.
. . . contu [sic] contum Conniston [sic] riverside let the
name suffice Mrs. Verrall must write better more (Drawing
of a notice-board) notice board
Vale. F. W. H. Myers. . . .
Comments on Scripts A to V.
I assume throughout this paper, and particularly at this
point where I am proceeding to make detailed comments
on the foregoing scripts, that the reader is familiar both
with Mrs. VerralTs account of the One-Horse Dawn Experi-
ment {Proc. Vol. XX. pp. 156-167), with the Appendix
relating thereto {ib. pp. 387-493), and with other passages
{e.g. ib. pp. 186-189) in her Report on her own automatic
writings where she has explained various points in the
One-Horse Dawn Scripts, such as the references to the
Cock, to "Wellington, to Eversley, to the Archbishop of
Canterbury, and to " the long room with the many
windows." Otherwise I should have to lengthen my
paper unduly by incorporating in it the greater part of
what Mrs. Verrall wrote.
186 J. G. Piddington. [part
Script A.
Dr. Verrall began the experiment on an unnamed day
in April, 1901. I assume that this day was not later than
April 10, the date of the script.
A is clearly connected with B, O and T.
I regard this script as containing the first of many allusions
to the blind and exiled Oedipus wandering in the company
of his daughters Antigone and Ismene.
ANTi(poi>>] (Antiphone) I take to be a mistake for 'Avriyowi
(Antigone). Misled by the mistake, and yet aware that the
name of a woman, and of a Greek woman, was wanted,
the automatist then wrote "/ecu EAey>/ " (and Helen) instead
of " and Ismene." We may, I think, see in N, in the
words " not Helen but another and not Scotch " {i.e. not
Helen of Kirconnell) a retractiou of the meaningless EXew/
and an attempt to say who was meant.
" Vagatur in montibus " may be reminiscent of a passage
in the Oedipus Tyrannus of Sophocles (11. 1449-1457)
where Oedipus, having blinded himself on discovering the
horrible truth that he is guilty of parricide and incest,
pleads with Creon to cast him out of Thebes and to let
him hide his shame in the hill-country of Cithaeron.
" Degener " may possibfy allude to the awful disgrace
that has overtaken Oedipus, who had boasted that how-
ever lowly his birth he never should be shamed (id. ib.
1076-1085).
" Nocru " is nonsense; as is also " flexilla," though by
the latter "a gleam" or "nicker" must be meant.
Script B.
" Illam " [acc. sing, fern.] ought to refer to oratio ; but
this can hardly be said to make sense, and I suspect that
by " illam " Antigone or Ismene is meant.
Script C.
" Sine apparatu " reappears in P.
Script M.
With " superbiam pone" cf. "pone superbiam " in P.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 187
Scripts C, D, E, H, M, N, O, P, Q, R, T, U and V.
These scripts, in my view, all contain references to Oedipus ;
chiefly to Oedipus going to his death ; and always with one
single exception—but that a crucial one—to Oedipus as he
appears in the Oecl. Col.1 of Sophocles.
In Script H will be found the one case where the
reference is not to Oedipus as represented in the Oed. Col. ;
and it is there made by means of the word ixovocttoXos
(tnonostolos). Mrs. Verrall translated /j.ov6<tto\o<; by " single-
vested," deriving the word evidently from /xoVo?, " one only,"
and <ttoX>/, 2 " raiment " or a " robe." But /j.ov6o-to\o? is
not found in this sense in classical authors, who use it in the
sense of " journeying alone " : the derivation being from
moVo?, " alone," and <tt6\os, a " journey."
I think it strange that Mrs. Verrall, who, after she had
been told the subject of her husband's experiment, was,
as her account shows, on the lookout for phrases or
words meaning " journeying alone " as pointing to the word
/UOfoVcoAoj', should have given to /aovoo-toXos a sense which,
though permissible, is not the accepted one, which has no
authority, and which fails to bring in the idea which she
was hoping to find. No doubt her mind was influenced
by the word niovo-^lrcovog (monochitonos), which immediately
follows iulovoo-toXos, and which—though incorrect in form
—
can only mean " single-tunicked."
It was the word im-ouoa-roXog (monostolos) that put me
on the track of the Oedipus allusions. For reasons
which are not material to the present discussion, I
was re -considering in November 1917, the group of
early M. V. Scripts relating to the One-Horse Dawn
case. In the course of doing so, I was pulled up short,
so to speak, at the word /uopocttoXo?. I did not exactly
question Mrs. Verrall's translation of it as " single-vested,"
but I thought that before accepting it I would look out
the word in Liddell and Scott's Greek Lexicon. The
Lexicon gives first the meaning " going alone," and refers
1
The abbreviations Oed. Col. and O.C. stand for the Oedipus Coloneus of
Sophocles : Oed. Tyr. and O.T. for the Oedipus Tyrannus of Sophocles.
2
Twice at least this word aroXri —in the plural, however,—is used in
the O.C. of the beggar's garb worn by Oedipus (11. 1357, 1597).
188 J. G. Piddiugton. [part
in illustration to a line in a poem of Lycophron's. It next
gives the general meaning as " alone, single," and quotes
in illustration two lines from two plays of Euripides'. And
then it adds :
" cf. /movo^wvos.'" So I looked up (tovoTwvos
(monozonos). This the Lexicon renders :
" girt up alone, i.e.
journeying alone " ; and adds :
" like iuovo^uhttos, oio^wvos."
So then I looked up olofyvos (oioznnos). The Lexicon
does not translate oio^wvos, and merely says it is equi-
valent to novoXwvos ; but it gives one instance—and one
only—of its use, viz. " Soph. O.T. 846." So I looked up
the reference, using Jebb's edition of the Oedipus Tyrannus
for the purpose, and found that oio^wvog is there applied
by Oedipus to himself. The situation at this point in the
play is as follows :
—Teiresias, the blind seer, has denounced
Oedipus as the murderer of Laius, Oedipus' predecessor on
the throne of Thebes. Oedipus, who had slain Laius,
Jocasta's first husband, without knowing who he was, tells
his wife Jocasta of the charge brought by Teiresias against
him. Jocasta says the charge cannot be true, because an
oracle had foretold that Lai'us was to be slain by his son,
and Lams' only son had been left as a babe of three days
old to die by exposure on Mount Cithaeron ;
and, more-
over, Laius had been slain at a place where three roads
meet by a band of robbers, as she had learnt soon after
the event, from the sole survivor of Laius' attendants.
Oedipus, who had in his youth killed a man at a place
where three roads meet, and who accordingly has begun to
suspect that he may have been the unwitting murderer of
Laius, realises that, if the sole survivor's story is true,
his fears are groundless ; for when he, Oedipus, had killed
his man, he was quite alone. He, therefore, has the sole
survivor sent for in order to cross-question him ; and
meanwhile he says to his wife Jocasta :
Thou wast saying that he [ the sole survivor] spoke of
Laius as slain by robbers. If, then, he still speaks, as
before, of several, I was not the slayer : a solitary man
could not be held the same with that band. But if he
names one lonely wayfarer [avop eV olofywov], then
beyond doubt this guilt leans to me. (Jebb's translation
of Soph. O.T. 842-847.)
LXXVI.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 189
When I read these lines I felt no more enlightenment
than the reader is probably feeling at this moment.
Luckily my eye lighted upon Jebb's note on the word
oloi^wvov. This note
—
which should be read with attention,,
as my whole argument turns on it—I transcribe in full.
It runs thus :
oloj>vov, journeying alone. The peculiarity of the idiom
is that the second part of the compound is equivalent to a
separate epithet for the noun : i.e. olo^wvos, '
with solitary
girdle,' signifies, '
alone, and girt up.' O.C. 717 twv
€KaToiJ.ir68wv N>/jO?/cW, not, '
with a hundred feet each,' but,
countless, and dancing : ib. 17 irvKvoirTepoi atjSoves, not,
thickly-feathered [nightingales], but, many and winged : ib.
1055 StaToXov? aSeXcpus, not, separately-journeying sisters,
but, two sisters, journeying : Ai. 390 Sirro-apyas /3acri\^?,
not, diversely-reigning kings, but, two reigning kings : Eur.
Ale. 905 Kopos /movowai?, not, a youth with one child, but,
a youth, his only child : Phoen. 683 Siwvv/uloi Seal, not,
goddesses with contrasted names, but, several goddesses,
each of whom is invoked. So I understand Eur. Or. 1004
fAOvoiruikov 'Aw, '
Eos who drives her steeds alone '
(when
moon and stars have disappeared from the sky).
When I read this note of Jebb's I began to see daylight,
because, besides the fact of the word /jlovoo-toXos having
led me, via its equivalents /j.ov6Xoovo<s and oio^Wo?, to a
note in which the meaning of the words fxovoirwXov 'Aw is
discussed, previous study of scripts—I mean of scripts
generally, not only Mrs. Verrall's, but those of other auto-
matists—had convinced me of the existence of an elaborate
cross-correspondence based on a passage in Modern Painters,
where Ruskin compares the forest wherein Dante, on
entering the Earthly Paradise, listens to the voices of the
birds mingling with the wind, with the Grove of Colonus,
haunted by the feathered choir of nightingales (the
TrvKvoTrTepoL a>]S6veg of Jebb's note), " where the aged and
blind Oedipus " was " brought to rest." (Modern Painters,
Part IV. Ch. XIV. §§33, 34, 35.)
I was actually working at this cross-correspondence when
I looked up fxov6<TTo\o<; in the Lexicon ; and hence it was
190 J. G. Piddington. [part
easy enough for me to jump to the conjecture that the old
man in white was the Oedipus of the Oedipus Coloneus.
Moreover, the conjecture came readily to my mind for
another reason. More than two years previously I had
made a note on Script D to the effect that the old man
in white with " a long stick in one hand, and a small
square box in the other " might be Odysseus disguised as
an old beggar-man with wallet and staff returning to his
home in Ithaca. 1
From Odysseus thus disguised to Oedipus,
the old blind beggar with his wallet, who speaks of his
two daughters as his staffs (O.C. 1109 ; and see also 846),
the transition is not difficult.
But before examining how far the references to the old
man in white do suit Oedipus, I must go back to Jebb's
note on oio^wpop and discuss it in some detail.
He gives in all seven examples of compound adjectives
of the same type as oio^wvoi : three from plays of Euri-
pides, four from plays of Sophocles. Of the three Euri-
pidean examples, all I need say is that the last one is
our old friend imovoirwXov is 'Aw. Of the Sophoclean
examples, three out of the four are taken from the Oedipus
Coloneus ;
and, as will be seen, with each example selected by
Jebb from the Oedipus Coloneus the One-Horse Dawn scripts
can be shown to have distinct points of contact. Thus :
(1) irvKvoirrepoi aijSoi'e?. The Oedipus Coloneus opens by
the blind Oedipus asking his daughter Antigone to tell
him at what place they have arrived :
01. TeKi'OP TvcpXoti yepoPTO? Aprtyop);, tipus
^opovi a^/'y/ueO' 5/ tipwp avopwv ttoXip \
t/s tov ir\ap)')T>iP Otmirovp ku6 rj/uepap
t>]p pup criraviaTols Sertoli Siop/jjuuatp ;
(O.C. 1-4.)
(Daughter of the blind old man, to what region have we
come, Antigone, or what city or men ? Who will entertain
the wandering [top 7rAaw/T>/c] Oedipus to-day with scanty
gifts ?)
2
1
See pp. 215-219 below, for a reference to this episode in H. V. Script
combined with what is in all probability a reference back to Script H.
2 Here, as elsewhere, I give Jebb's translation.
LXXVI.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 191
Antigone's answer follows :
7t6\lv aTeyovaLV, d)? cur' o/x/xctTwi', irpocrco'
e'/crco icaT qi'toj^ evcrroixova' u>]S6ve^
(O.C. 14-21.)
(AN. Father, toil-worn Oedipus, the towers that guard
the city, to judge by sight, are far off ; and this place is
sacred, to all seeming,—thick-set with laurel, olive, vine ;
and in its heart a feathered choir of nightingales makes
music. So sit thee here on this unhewn stone ; thou hast
travelled a long way for an old man.
OE. Seat me, then, and watch over the blind.)
The context, then, of the -TruKvoTrrepoi amoves of Jebb's
note gives us the blind and aged wanderer (7r\aw/T>?9)
Oedipus, entering the nightingale-haunted Grove of Colonus
on his daughter Antigone's arm. Cf. Scripts A, B, O,
T, and, for reasons to be explained later, " incumbe alieno
bacillo " in P, and " incumbe bacillo " in Q ; and with
Oedipus 7rXai/?/T>;?
1
cf. "Planet . . . illustre vagatur " in J.
Jebb, by the way, remarks on irvKvoirTepoi at]S6veg that
Antigone selects the nightingales for mention as affording
an indication which her blind father can recognise.
(2) 'Ekccto/xtto'cW ~N>ip>jSow comes from the famous Chorus
in praise of Colonus and Attica. This Chorus consists of
two parts : the first devoted to the glorification of Colonus,
the second mainly to that of Attica and Athens, " the
local theme," says Jebb, being " skilfully knitted to the
national theme." Even a careless reader could hardly, I
think, fail to notice one thread common to the two parts,
and that is the word evi7riro<; {euippos). As Jebb says :
" The first word [of the Chorus] ev'nrircv strikes a note
1
Not only does Oedipus call himself ttXcip^tijs (wanderer), bub the
Chorus so speaks of him emphatically : n-Xavdra^, irXavaras tis o wpicrj3vs
(O.C. 123-124).
192 J. G. Piddington. [part
which connects Colonus nrTno? 1 with the fame of Attica."
If one wanted by a single word to fix an allusion to the
ivliole Chorus, no better word could be found than eunnros.
I quote the opening lines of the first part, and the whole
of the second.
EwVttou, ^eve, TacrSe ^w^oa?
'Ikov to KpuTiara yac eiravXa,
tov dpyi]Ta KoXwi'o'j', ev6'
a Xlyeca /uivvpeTai
Oafx'iXpv&a /ndXiuT dtjSocv
^XcOjOai? viro (3acrcrai(z. . . .
(O.C. 668-673.)
(Stranger, in this land of goodly steeds thou hast come
to earth's fairest home, even to our white Colonus ; where
the nightingale, a constant guest, trills her clear note in
the covert of green glades. . . .)
"Ecttiv o olov eyw <ya? 'Atria? ovk €7raKovoof
ovS' ev to fxeyaXa AwpiSi vdcrw TleXowos TrwiroTe
j3Xa<TTOV
(pvTev/x a^eipwTOV uvtottoiov,
ey^ecuv (po^tj/ua oa'uov,
6 TaSe QdXXei /j.eyi<TTCi )(6ap<*,
yXavKus Trai$OTp6(pov (pvXXov eAat'a?'
to fJLev Tig ov veapos ovSe y>}pa
crvvvalwv dXiwcrei
X€
Pl 7r^para'>' 0 yap alev opoov kvkXo?
Xevcrcrei viv ^iloplov Ato?
j^a yXavKW7ri<> 'AOava.
aXXov S' cuvov e'^w fxaTpoiroXei TaSe KpaTicrTOv,
Swpov tov fxeydXov Sat/uovos, elweiv, ^Ooco? at/^>/,aa
/ueyicrTOV,
eviinrov, evTTwXov, evOdXacrcrov.
w ttoI ]±povov, crv yap viv et?
too eiaas awyn/UL , avay lLocreioav,
1
Colonus Utttios. " The epithet Hippius belonged to the god Poseidon,
as horse-creating and horse-taming . . . ; it was given to this place
because Poseidon Hippius was worshipped there, and served to distin-
guish this extramural Colonus from the Colonus Agoraeus, or '
Market
Hill,' within tho walls of Athens." (Jebb, Oedipus Coloneus, Introduc-
tion, p. XXX.)
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 193
lirirouriv tov aKeaTtjpa ^aXtvov
irpwraiai TatcrSe ktIctw} ayuialg.
a §' ew'ipeTfxos eKirayX' akla Xe
Pai 7ra
pa7l"
rotJL £V(* 7rActTri
6pu>aK€i, twv eKaTO/ATroStov
NrjpySwv ciKoXovdog.
(0.(7. 694-719.)
(And a thing there is such as I know not by fame on
Asian ground, or as ever born in the great Dorian isle of
Pelops,—a growth unconquered, self-renewing, a terror to
the spears of the foemen, a growth which mightily flour-
ishes in this land,—the gray-leafed olive, nurturer of children.
Youth shall not mar it by the ravage of his hand, nor any-
one who dwells with old age ; for the sleepless eye of the
Morian Zeus beholds it, and the gray-eyed Athena.
And another praise have I to tell for this the city our
mother, the gift of a great god, a glory of the land most
high ; the might of horses, the might of young horses, the
might of the sea.
For thou, son of Cronus, our lord Poseidon, hast throned
her in this pride, since in these roads [i.e. of Colonus] first
thou didst show forth the curb that cures the rage of steeds.
And the shapely oar, apt to men's hands, hath a wondrous
speed on the brine, following the hundred-footed Nereids.)
The context, then, of the eKaro/uLiroScov NrjpflSwv of Jebb's
note gives Colonus evnnros ;
Attica eunnros and euTrcoXog ; and
y\avKu<; (pvXXov eXalag, (pvTeu/ua axelpcoTOv (leaf of the gray
olive, a growth unconquered), watched over by yXavicwTris
'Adava (gray-eyed Athena). For these cf. " eynnroi " in Script
K,1 " viridenti coma eXalov t^? TXavKwirtSoi avrrj^ " in C (where
eXalov, genitive of 'iXaiov, olive-oil, is a mistake for eXalus,
olive-tree), and " kou aTe/u/uaTu evrjv. ov Scupvela aXXa cpvXXa
SevSpo? tivos €K€t (pevTOvrog (pvTov/uevov " in E.
As regards " eynnroi " I have practically no doubt that
the references to a knife and to a word cut with a knife
1
The insertion of an English character (y here = i/) in the middle of
a Greek word is not unparalleled in Mrs. Verrall's script, though rare.
The reverse, i.e. the insertion of a Greek letter or letters in the middle
of an English word, is fairly common. Greek words are frequently
transliterated into English.
194 J. G. Piddington. [part
upon stone in Scripts F, G, and I, are merely the first
attempts at the word eunnrog. I imagine that the auto-
matist was aware that a Greek word was wanted, and that
this word presented itself to her imagination Greek
inscription. 1 Note that in the very next script after eyiiriroi
has been successfully written, the automatist is told that
she has rightly impressed her mind concerning the knife
(" de cultello bene imbuisti mentem " in L) ; and that
thenceforward the knife and the inscription are mentioned
no more.
The impossible words (pevTovTo? (pvTovpevov I take to
be attempts at Sophocles' (pvTevpa. The statement that
the leaves are not laurel leaves shows, I suggest, a know-
ledge of O.C. 17 (quoted above), where the Grove of
Colonus is said to be " thick-set with laurel, olive, vine " :
the intelligence responsible for the script being aware that
in the place he is trying to describe (eV«) there are
laurels as well as olives. That olive leaves are the leaves
intended is rendered probable not only by the mention
in Script C of the olive, but by the phrase crre/m/maTa evrjv,
for the scholiast on Sophocles, Oedipus Tyrannus 1. 3 says
the arkp.fj.aT a were wreaths of wool wound round the olive-
branch. (See Liddell and Scott, s.v. o-re'/xM" ; and Jebb's
description of the Scenario of the O.T.)
(3) AiaroXoug aSe\(pa$. Here it is not the context of
the words, but the word ShttoXovs (distolous) itself that is
important. Jebb's note on it is as follows :
8ictt6\ovs = '
two journeying '
sisters,—as borne off by
their captors : see on [O.C] 17 irvKvoirTepoi. Not,
'
separately earned off,' with ref. to two bands of Thebans
(cf. 818). 2
The account of the word Sla-roXog (distolos) in Liddell
and Scott's Lexicon is as follows :
8i-o-To\os, oi', in pairs, two together, aSe\(pal Soph.
O.C. 1055 ; cf. fxov6(TTo\o<;.
1
Cf. " The shape of the letters is archaic," etc., in Script G.
2
By the onrTiXovs adc\<pas are meant the two daughters of Oedipus, Antigone
and Ismene, who have been seized and carried off by Creon.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 195
It will be remembered that it was this very word
/uovoo-toXos {monostolos), applied in Script H to the old man
in white, that put me on to the word oloQavov (oiozonon),
the subject of the note of Jebb's which we have been
discussing. Mov6<tto\o9 and SicrroXos are both formed in
precisely the same way, and o-toXo? is common to both.
In view, then, first, of the coincidences between various
phrases in the foregoing scripts on the one hand and
the passages from the Oedipus Coloneus cited in Jebb's
note on olo(wvov on the other, and, secondly, in view of
the fact that this note of Jebb's actually quotes the
words chosen by Dr. Verrall for his experiment, i" maintain
that one of the main objects of the intelligence responsible
for the One-Horse Dawn scripts was to refer to Jebb's note
and to indicate thereby the words ij.ov6tcw\ov e? Aw.
I pass on now to examine how far what is said in the
scripts about the old man in white is appropriate to the
Oedipus of the Oedipus Goloneus.
Great emphasis is thrown on the old man's dress and
personal appearance. The references thereto, and some other
relevant points, may be classified roughly as follows :
Dress.
/jLOVoyj.Tu>vo<; . C, H.
Sine apparatu. C, P.
Albipannosus . C, D.
Long trailing draperies of white. D.
Long white drapery. H.
Mov6<tto\o<; (if = " single-vested "). H.
The long white robe. M, N.
Sume togaculam caritatis. P.
In white. Pv.
White long robe. U.
Personal Appearance.
Blind. Cf. A, B, 0, T.
Longaevus. C.
Old. H, M, R.
196 J. G. Piddington. [part
Albicapillus, White-headed. D, H.
Barba alba. C.
Upright. H. Cf. U.
Long, thin, tall man. U.
In caput corona non aurea neque gemmata. C.
With the unjewelled crown. M.
Other Points.
Vagatur. A, I 0.
Pererro. A, B.
Palely loitering. J.
Crux in dextra. C. Cf. P, S.
Going towards the east. D, 0.
Carries a long stick. D. Cf. P, Q.
Carries a small square box or book. D, E.
M.OVO? /uera 6eov ovSe aXXov twos. H.
Moi/oVtoXo? (if = " journeying alone "). H.
Sine comite, Seen but not followed. H, J.
Nec sine monitore. 0.
Monoicus. P.
Sine adiutore. T.
Signifer ille. C.
Non sine beneficio universi. P.
Magnum coercebit examen. T.
One question will at once present itself to those familiar
with the Oedipus Coloneus. If the old man of the One-Horse
Dawn scripts is the Oedipus of the O.C., why is he described
as dressed in a long white robe, when throughout the play
he appears dressed in a beggar's garb ? A Greek beggar of the
classical period might, I suppose, have worn a white robe
faute de mieux, but a stage beggar so habited would have had
to explain his unconventional attire to the audience. The
colour of Oedipus' garments is not mentioned in the play,
though their squalor is twice referred to, once with great
emphasis (O.C. 1257-1260 and 1597). But, though he wears
his squalid beggar's garb so long as he is on the stage, we
learn from the Messenger's speech that when he went
forth, like Arthur, to meet death or he knew not what
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 197
mysterious doom, he put off his rags and clothed himself
as for burial :
KaOe^eT' eiT eXvae i>vo-rrivel<; tTToXas,
tcaireiT a'ucras 7ralSa$ >}vwyei pvTwv
vSutwv eveyKelv Xovrpa Kai ^oas iroBev'
too S' ev^Xoov A>)fJ.t]Tpo? els 7rpocr6^iov
irayov pioAovcrai toxto eiricrToAas waTpi
Ta^ei 'Tropevarav uvv YjOoVco, Xovrpoh Te viv
(0.(7. 1597-1603.)
(Then sate him down, and loosed his sordid raiment.
And then he called his daughters, and bade them fetch
water from some fount, that he should wash, and make
a drink-offering. And when they went to the hill which
was in view, Demeter's hill who guards the tender plants,
and in short space brought that which their father had
enjoined ; then they ministered to him with washing, and
dressed him, as use ordains.)
Jebb's note on ea-QijTi fj
vo/ml^erai (literally :
" with the
raiment with which it is the custom ") is as follows :
fj
vomeral, as the dead were usually dressed for burial,
i.e. in white. Artemidorus Oneir. 2. 3 avSpl Se vcktovvti
XevKU. e%eiv ifxaria Oavarov irpoayopevei, Sia to tovs
onroQavovTu^ ev XeuKoh eKCpepeaOai. [' For a sick man to
be wearing white clothes betokens death, because the
dead are carried out for burial dressed in white.']
The old man in the long white robe, then, I take to be
Oedipus dressed for burial. To the closing scenes of
Oedipus' life I likewise refer the following phrases :
(a) juoi'O? fxeTa deov ovSe aXXov Tiv6? (in H) ;
(6)
" Seen but not followed, there were others there but
he knew more than the rest " ; and " illustre
vagatur caelo sine comite " (in H and J) ;
(c) " tenebrosum iter caeco viatore in orientem solem
pedibus vagatur nec sine monitore " (in O) ; and
(d) " caeco viatore magnum coercebit examen sine
adiutore " (in T).
198 J. G. Piddington. [part
(a) is generally appropriate to the death-scene, and specially
perhaps to the moment when, after the thunder and after the
silence, he hears the voice of the god summoning him " with
many callings and manifold " to enter into communion
with the Unseen :
co outo? ovtos, OiSI-ttovs, t/ /u.e\\oju.ev
ywpelv •
irakai S>j toltto <tov paSvverai
.
(' Oedipus, Oedipus, why delay we to go ? Thou tarriest
too long.')
(6) can be applied with sufficient, though not complete,
accuracy to the moment when Oedipus bids his daughters
and the attendants depart from him, and keeps Theseus
only with him " to see the end." " But he knew more
than the rest " would be true of Theseus, for " by what
doom Oedipus perished, no man can tell, save Theseus
alone " (O.C. 1656-1657).
(c) " nec sine monitore " suits Oedipus led by the voice
of the " unguessed accompanying God."
(d) Throughout the play Oedipus, blind, aged and feeble,
cannot walk without support, until he goes forth to die ;
and then there comes a sudden change, thus described by
Jebb in his note on O.C. 1542-1555 :
A more splendid dramatic effect could hardly be con-
ceived than Sophocles has created here. Hitherto, through-
out the play, Oedipus has been strongly characterised by
that timidity in movement, and that sense of physical
dependence, which are normal accompaniments of blindness.
(Cp. 21, 173 ff., 495 ft, 1206, etc.) Now, suddenly inspired
by the Unseen Power which calls him, he becomes the
guide of his guides. . . . Eager and unfaltering, the blind
man beckons them on. And so he finally passes from the
eyes of the spectators.
A contrast may be intended between " the blind wayfarer
not without a prompter " (i.e. a divine prompter) of
Script 0, and " the blind wayfarer without a helper
"
(i.e. a human helper) of Script T.
Albipannosus in C and D Mrs. Verrall translated " white
-
garmented." The word does not occur in classical authors,
nor, I think, in medieval Latin ; but it is correctly formed,
LXXVI.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 199
and certainly means " wearing a white panmis." Now,
panmis usually means rags, and the adjective pannosus (except
when it means " wrinkled ") always means " ragged " or
" tattered." Accordingly I am inclined to question the
rendering " white-garmented," and I suspect that " albi-
pannosus " is a " portmanteau " word, which serves to
describe both Oedipus in his beggar's garb and Oedipus in
his white burial garment. Something of the same kind of
confusion or admixture can be traced in the statement
made in Script D that the old man is " going towards
the east," and in the statement made in Script 0 that
the " caecus viator " "in orientem solem pedibus vagatur."
Both statements, I believe, are due to the automatist's
having been confusedly aware of some sort of connexion
between the old man and the blind wayfarer on the one
hand and the idea of movement towards the east con-
tained in the phrase—not normally known to her, of
course
—
/xovoirwXov e? 'Aw on the other.
Other allusions to Oedipus as beggar I find in C and P
in the words " sine apparatu," which may hint as well
at the contrast between his former magnificence as king
of Thebes and the destitution of his old age ; in P in the
words "pone superbiam sume togaculam caritatis," where the
same contrast may again be slightly suggested ; in " incumbe
alieno bacillo " 1 in P, and in "nunc incumbe bacillo " in Q.
So, too, the phrases in C and M—" in caput corona
non aurea neque gemmata. viridenti coma eXalou rrjg
T\avKW7riSo<; avTrjs" and "the old man . . . with the
unjewelled crown "—seem to allude to the lost kingship,
and to mean that though Oedipus lost a corruptible crown
'"Incumbe alieno bacillo," which literally means " lean on another person's
staff,'' may be an attempt to say "lean on another person for a staff."
This is exactly what Oedipus does in the play (see 11. 848-849, 1109). Cf.,
moreover, Oedipus' description of his dependence on others (O.C. 146-148) :
ov yap av <I)5' dWorpioi^
op.iJ.aaiv eipirov
Ka7ri crpiKpols peyas (oppovv.
(Else would I not be walking thus by the eyes of others, and
buoying my strength upon weakness.)
'AXXorpiots here answers exactly to the alieno of the script.
For the contrast between Oedipus as king and Oedipus as beggar.
200 J. G. Piddington. [part
he obtained an hicorruptible, made of the leaves of the
sacred olive. Should some matter-of-fact critic object
that such an idea is out of harmony with the sentiment
of the play, I would reply in the words with which the
Messenger closes his account of the death of Oedipus :
"If to any I seem to speak folly, I would not woo their
belief, who count me foolish."
In D the old man is said to carry a long stick in one
hand and a " small square box " in the other. This, in
spite of the fact that in E the automatist hedges—as
all automatists will do—, and says the box may be a book,
I have little hesitation in identifying as the beggar's
wallet, which was squarish and made of leather. (Hence,
perhaps, the vacillation between a box and a book.)
Oedipus' wallet is not specifically mentioned in the Oedipus
Coloneus ; but Jebb at least assigns him one, as witness
his note on O.C. 1262 :
<f>op«i is taken by some as '
obtains by begging '
; but
a conjecture to that effect would be hardly in place.
Obviously it means simply '
carries,'' and alludes to a
wallet (-nrt'ipa) carried by Oed., for the reception of the
airavLa-Ta Swp7jjULara (4) [" scanty gifts "]. This was a part
of the conventional outfit for the wandering beggar ;
so,
when Athena turned Odysseus into that guise, she gave
him (TKrjTTTpov Kat aeiKea Tri]pi}vt
I 7rvicva pwyu\ei]V ev
arpoipo? ?iev aopn'/p :
'
a staff, and a mean, much-tattered
wallet ; and therewith was a cord to hang it ' (Od. 13. 437).
In this connexion I would remind the reader of what
has already been stated (see above p. 190), namely, that,
long before I had the smallest notion that the One-Horse
Dawn scripts contain references to Oedipus, I had noted
cf. the following lines in Oed. Tyr. 454-456, where the seer Teiresias
forewarns Oedipus of the fate in store for him :
Tv<p\bs yap e/c dedopKdros
Kai TTTtoxbs avTi ir\ovoLov ^ivrfv iiri
cncqTTTpip TrpobtiKvvs yalav ifxTropeuaerai.
(A blind man, he who now hath sight, a beggar, who now is
rich, he shall make his way to a strange land, feeling the ground
before him with a staff.)
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 201
that the old man carrying " a long stick in one hand,
and a small square box in the other " might be Odysseus
in disguise. I was thinking, not of the passage in the
13th Book of the Odyssey quoted by Jebb, but of the passage
in the 17th Book where Odysseus is furnished by Eumaeus
the swineherd with staff and wallet, and in the disguise
of a wretched beggar starts for his home. My attention
was drawn to this passage by a script of Miss Verrall's
written in January 1915, which refers to it, and which
also in all probability refers back to Script H. The
matter, which is, it is true, a side-issue, but an important
one, is dealt with in Appendix A.
Crux in dextra.
The first mention of the old man in white (Script G)
begins with the words " Crux in dextra " ("a cross in
the right hand "). The phrase is itself a crux, for it would
be sheer nonsense to represent Oedipus with a cross in
his hand. The simplest plan would be to dismiss the
phrase as a mere mistake on the part of the automatist.
A mistake I feel sure it was, but I think it is an explicable
one.
The second mention of the old man in white (Script D)
describes him as carrying " a long stick in one hand, and
a small square box in the other." If he is supposed to
be carrying a cross as well in one of his hands, he must
have had that hand rather full. But I do not think that
that is what is meant. The statement in Script D
I take to be a correction (as also an amplification) of the
statement in Script C, whereby " a long stick " is sub-
stituted for the cross. But how, it may be asked, did
it come about, if all along a stick was the idea wanted,
that in the first instance the idea that emerged was a
cross ? I would suggest that " crux in dextra " may have
been the automatist's rendering of "a crutch in the right
hand." 1 A crutch is a beggar's staff with a crow-piece
1
So far as this conjectural explanation is concerned, it does not matter
twopence whether the idea which the script is trying to express is being
instilled into the automatist's mind ab extra, or whether it is merely an
idea latent in some stratum of her own uninfluenoed consciousness which
202 J. G. Piddington. [part
at the top, and is ultimately derived from the Latin crux,
a cross. So either the similarity of sound between crux
and " crutch," or the philological connexion between the
two, or both, would easily enough account for " a crutch
in the right hand " emerging as " crux in dextra." The
occurrence for the first time in Script P, where the crux
is again mentioned, of the word bacillum—the diminutive
of baculus,1
the proper word for a staff or crutch—tends,
I think, to confirm the conjecture here advanced.
" Crux et praeterea nihil " in Script P—a phrase based,
of course, on the proverbial " Vox et praeterea nihil "
—
may represent an attempt to dismiss the " Crux in dextra"
of Script C as a mere empty echo. The outcome of the
attempt, if it was made, was hardly a happy one ; for it
seems fairly clear that the phrase made the automatist's
thoughts turn in a Christian direction, with the result
that the remainder of the script is coloured in such a way
(e.g. " sume togaculam caritatis," " monoicus," " sanctis-
simi ") that no one, reading it by itself and without
regard to its connexions with Scripts C and M, would
imagine it referred to a legendary pagan character.
I suspect that the Christian associations aroused by
" crux in dextra " are similarly responsible for the words
she is struggling to summon up. As everyday experience teaches, things
we know we know but can't remember at a given moment, constantly
emerge in some such fashion as I am suggesting here. I try to recall
the word " cambric," and my mind in labour gives birth to the name
Ypres,—a town which according to tho worst authorities gave, like
Cambrai, its name to a special kind of linen fabric. Such an association
of ideas is considerably more involved than the one I am suggesting to
account for " crux in dextra " ; and yet no one, I venture to think,
would consider it unlike what really happens.
1
Seneca in his play of Oedipus, 1. 650, uses bacuius of Oedipus' staff
or crutch :
" repet incertus viae,
Baculo senili triste praotentans iter."
Jebb gives the Seneca quotation in his notes on O.T. 455-456 (referred
to above, p. 200 footnote).
Diminutive forms—some extant, others not—of both Greek and Latin
words are very common in Mrs. Verrall's early scripts. Script O alone
furnishes two examples besides bacillum : viz. " togaculam " (in error for
toyulam), and roscidulus (a very odd and indefensible diminutive form of
roscidus ).
lxxvi.] The " One -Horse Dawn " Experiment. 203
" signifer ille " ("he is a standard-bearer") being applied
to the old man in white in Script C. To the automatist
the old man with a cross in his right hand becomes the
bearer of the Standard of the Cross. It is possible, how-
ever, that signifer is used, as it is by Cicero and others, in
the sense of "leader," and dimly reflects O.C. 1520-1521,
and 1588-1589 :
yS>dov fxev avTog avruc' ePqyijcrofJLai,,
aOiKTOS yyt)Ttjpo$, ou /me YjO>/ daveiv
(Anon, unaided, and with no hand to guide me, I
[Oedipus] will show the way to the place where I must
die),
and
v<br/iy}]T>ipos ovSevos (plXwv,
aXX' avro? t]/uv Tcatriv efyyov/nevos
(with no friend to show the way, but guide himself unto
us all).
Sic semper monoicus sine apparatu non sine beneficio universi
in Script P Mrs. Verrall translated : "So ever living alone
without pomp not without advantage to the world." The
meaning of monoicus ( = /ulovoikos) is quite certain, though
the word is only found as a surname of Hercules, " Her-
cules who dwells alone," and of the place where he was
worshipped under this title, Arx Monoeci, the modern
Monaco. Monoicus, in my view, harks back to the
fjLovotTToXog inovoyjiTwvos /movos fxera deov ovSe aXXov rno?
of Script H ;
only the word (monoicus) which, I suspect,
suggested to the automatist a Christian hermit, but which
should have denoted Oedipus bereft of all human com-
panionship and walking with God alone, has got influenced
by what I have called the " Christian associations
"
evoked by the opening phrase of the script, " Crux et
praeterea nihil." In Scripts H and P Oedipus is con-
ceived of as dying in complete solitude ; nor is such a
conception repugnant to the spirit, though it be to the
letter,1
of Sophocles' play ; for Oedipus forbids his daughters
1
Ismene, however, ignoring the presence of Theseus, as I suggest the
scripts do, speaks of her father as dying alone :
(LTCMpos 'iirnve Si'xa re iravrbs (O.C. 1732).
204 J. G. Piddington. [part
—" dear though they are " 1
—to accompany him to the
actual scene of his death ;
and, though he does take
Theseus with him, he takes him not for the sake of
companionship but solely as " a witness of those things
which are to be " 2
and as the official repository of the
secret of his tomb.
" To Theseus alone will be revealed the place appointed
for his grave. At the approach of death, Theseus shall
impart the secret to his heir alone ;
and, so, from age to
age, that sacred knowledge shall descend in the line of
the Attic kings. While the secret is religiously guarded,
the grave of Oedipus shall protect Attica against invading
foeman." 3
It is to the benefit to be conferred by Oedipus' tomb on
the State that I think that the words in Script P, " non
sine beneficio universi," may possibly allude. It is true
that "universi" cannot mean "the State," and must
mean "the world"; 4
but it is, perhaps, legitimate to
assume that here as in other cases the automatist, like
°Phelia ' " speaks things in doubt,
That carry but half sense."
The phrase in Script T, " Caeco viatore magnum
coercebit examen sine adiutore," does not make sense as
it stands. Literally the words mean :
" By the blind
traveller he will hold in check a great swarm without a
helper." " Caeco viatore " probably goes back to " caecus
pererro " in B ; and anyhow it is impossible to dissociate
it from " tenebrosum iter caeco viatori in orientem solem
pedibus vagatur nec sine monitore " in O. If there is any
sense at all in " magnum coercebit examen," I would
suggest that it is an attempted allusion to the protection
against invasion that the grave of Oedipus will afford to
the Athenian State. Cf. Oedipus' last speech to Theseus
before he sets out to die :
Son of Aegeus, I will unfold that which shall be a
treasure for this thy city, such as age can never mar.
1
O.C. 1529. 2
O.C. 1644.
3
Jebb's analysis of the last speech of Oedipus (Introduction, p. xx).
4 " Universorum " would, perhaps, have given the required sense.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 205
Anon, unaided, and with no hand to guide me, I will
show the place where I must die. But that place reveal
thou never unto mortal man . . . ; that so it may ever
make for thee a defence, better than many shields, better
than the succouring spear of neighboius.
And thus shalt thou hold this city unscathed from the
side of the Dragon's blood ;
full many States [at oe
juvptat 7ro\e/y] lightly enter on offence, e'en though their
neighbour lives aright.
{O.O. 1518-1525, 1533-1535.)
" Magnum examen " would stand for the crop of armed
men that sprang from the Dragon's teeth (i.e. Thebes,
the traditional enemy of Athens), and for the /uvplai 7ro'Ae(?.
For examen (which primarily means a swarm of bees)
used in the sense of an army, see Hor. C. i. 35, 31 :
" Juvenum recens
Examen Eois timendum
Partibus."
Scripts U and V.
I have now dealt with all the scripts relating to the
Old Man in White (A to T inclusive) which were pro-
duced by Mrs. Verrall before she learnt from her husband,
on Oct. 17, 1902, that he had been making an experiment
and what that experiment was. There remain, however,
two scripts, U and V, written by Mrs. Verrall and Miss
Verrall respectively, which deserve consideration, since, if
I rightly understand them, they tend to confirm my
interpretation of Scripts A to T.
On July 19, 1903, some nine months after Dr. Verrall,
" finding no further development had occurred for a year," 1
had related the whole experiment to Mrs. Verrall—after,
that is, both parties to the experiment had abandoned it —
,
Mrs. and Miss Verrall for the first time sat together in
the same room to write script simultaneously. This was
only the ninth occasion on which Miss Verrall had pro-
1
Proc. Vol. XX. p. 165.
206 J. G. Piddington. [PART
duced script. 1
Five times out of the previous eight, Mrs.
Verrall had been present when her daughter had been
writing ; but this was the first instance of simultaneous
automatism.
Mrs. Verrall's script was marked by three unusual
features :
(1) all but the first two words were written " with
extreme speed "
;
(2) all but the first two words are absolutely meaning-
less ;
(3) the script was preceded—a very rare, though perhaps
not quite unparalleled phenomenon—by a vision ; and
by a vision sufficiently impressive to make the
automatist append a record of it to the script itself.
The first two words are " Horatio Brwwn " [sic], and
Mrs. Verrall's comment on them is :
" H. Brown is associ-
ated in my mind with Venice." As her next two scripts
both specifically mention Venice and a picture there, I
regard the reference in U to Mr. Horatio F. Brown, the author
of several well-known books about Venice, as the first
emergence of the Venice topic, and as having nothing to
do with the subject of the vision. The vision was of a
" long thin tall man " in a " white long robe." Nowhere
else, except in the One-Horse Dawn scripts, do Mrs.
Verrall's scripts mention a man in a white long robe.
Although Mrs. Verrall herself never associated the tall man
of this vision with the old man in the long white robe
" white-headed but upright " of Scripts C, T>, E, H, M,
N and R—at least so far as my information goes ; and
it goes a long way, for Mrs. Verrall kept me fully and
constantly acquainted with her views about her scripts—
,
I have no hesitation in identifying the two.
Miss Verrall's script contains the name " Conniston " [sic],
and this is immediately followed, except for the word
1
It is unfortunate that I have to deal in this paper chiefly with early
scripts both of Mrs. and of Miss Verrall's ; because the early scripts of
both, like those of all automatists known to me, are infinitely more
halting, fragmentary, and inconsequent, and contain a far larger propor-
tion of sheer rubbish than those produced when the automatic faculty
has developed.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 207
" riverside " (with which I will deal presently), by " let
the name suffice": "the name" being evidently " Con-
niston." Next comes a reference to Mrs. Verrall as an
automatic writer ; and finally a drawing of a notice-board.
This is the only occurrence of the name Coniston in
Miss Verrall's scripts, which by now number some 550. It
never occurs in Mrs. Verrall's scripts ; but it does occur
twice in Mrs. Holland's scripts, and once in Mrs. Willett's.
These scripts of Mrs. Holland's and Mrs. Willett's connect
with other scripts of theirs which combine allusions to
Brantwood, Ruskin's home near Coniston, to Mrs. Arthur
Severn, Ruskin's niece who lived with him at Brantwood
during the last ten years of his life, to Coniston Lake,
and to a passage in Myers's Obituary Notice of Ruskin.
I should have liked to give these scripts of Mrs.
Holland's and Mrs. Willett's in full ; but they are long,
they would require a good deal of detailed comment, and
they introduce a variety of topics outside the scope of
this paper. So, to save space, I shall cite only three short
extracts from them.
Mrs. Holland's Scrip of Dec. 22, 1909.
. . . Brantwood—The other side of the lake [i.e. Lake
Coniston]—The view Joan [i.e. Joanna, Mrs. Arthur Severn]
liked best . . .
Mrs. Willett's Script of July 16, 1911.
. . . Well, he says, say Coniston. I am trying to give
you a name you know quite well ... I might get it
through a line, he says. Oh, how very strange. Come
Oedipus, he says, thou hast something or other Jong Col
Col something Col Grove [i.e. Colonus Grove]. . . .
Mrs. Willett's Script of March 15, 1912.
. . . Oh he waited in the groves, unguessed accom-
panying god. . . . Who was the man with the rather
beaked nose and the very blue eyes ? [Raskin.] Somebody
said try the name of a river, it's not it but it's a finger
post, S Serbern Severn someone said something that
sounded like Brantwood.
o
208 J. G. Piddington. [part
In this last extract we see Mrs. Willett doing what she
often does : namely, interpreting scripts of other auto-
matists which she has seen. Here she is interpreting
Mrs. Holland's script of Dec. 22, 1909, Miss Verrall's
script of July 19, 1903 (Script V), and the following
passage in Miss Verrall's script of Aug. 2, 1903, which I
have not hitherto quoted :
reverstone Severn the banks merely the old place but new
associations.
Mrs. Willett's script of March 15, 1912, calls the river
Severn a finger-post (i.e. as pointing to Ruskin) in order
to explain the " Conniston riverside . . . notice board
"
and " reverstone Severn " of Miss Verrall's early scripts.
Both of Mrs. Willett's scripts (as do also two of those
scripts of Mrs. Holland's which form part of the Coniston-
Brantwood-Severn series) quote from the concluding passage
of Myers's Obituary Notice of Ruskin.
This Obituary Notice, which appeared first in the Journal
of the Society for Psychical Research for March 1900 (Vol. IX.
pp. 208-210) and was reprinted in 1904 in Myers's Frag-
ments of Prose and Poetry (pp. 89-94), ends thus :
And turning then, with heart full of such-like fancies, to
that well-loved Leader's fate ; —imagining his baffled isola-
tion, and the disheartenment of solitary years ; —I have
pictured him waiting in the Coniston woodlands, as OEdipus
in Colonus' grove,—waiting in mournful memory, in uncom-
plaining calm,—till he should hear at last the august
summons,—nay, sounded it not like the loving banter ?
—
of the unguessed accompanying God. '
Come, CEdipus, why
linger on our journey ? Thou hast kept me waiting long.'
In view of the foregoing facts, I interpret " Conniston
"
in Script V as implying a reference to this passage in
Myers's Obituary Notice of Ruskin.1
On the assumption, then, that " Conniston " in Script V
implies a reference to the death of Oedipus, and on the
1
As I have not produced the whole of the evidence on which I rely,
I am glad to be allowed to say that Mrs. Sidgwick and Mr. G. W.
Balfour, who have seen all the Coniston-Brantwood-Severn scripts, agree
with my interpretation.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 209
assumption that the tall man in a white long robe of
Script U is the same as the old man in white of the
One-Horse Dawn Scripts, it appears that on July 19,
1903, within a few moments of Mrs. Verrall's vision of
the tall man (whom on independent grounds I have
identified with Oedipus going to his death), Miss Verrall
by means of the name Coniston gets in her script an
implied reference to the death of Oedipus. Thus two
distinct lines of argument have led us to the same con-
clusion.
The Emphasis thrown on " Loneliness."
The ideas of loneliness and of lonely wandering are, as
the following extracts show, considerably insisted on in
the One-Horse Dawn scripts :
A. Pererro in solitudine.
H. ItlovotTToXog [ = oioZwvos] fxovos (X€tu 6eov, etc.
J. Planet . . . illustre vagatur caelo sine comite
[Alone and] palely loitering.
P. Monoicus . . . incumbe alieno bacillo.
T. Caeco viatore . . . sine adiutore.
Mrs. Verrall—who was, however, referring to part of
the extract from H and to the extract from J only (see
Proc. Vol. XX. pp. 164 and 392)—explained the allusions
to lonely-wandering as attempts to give the sense of
fiov67rwXo<i preferred by her husband. I agree with this
explanation, but think it incomplete. I have suggested
above (pp. 203-204) that there is also an attempt to allude
to the loneliness of the wandering Oedipus' death, although,
strictly speaking, he was not alone. But to the stress
laid on loneliness a third factor may have contributed :
namely, the passage in the Obituary Notice of Ruskin,
where Myers speaks of
" his baffled isolation, and the disheartenment of
solitary years."
The lonely-wandering dawn, Oedipus oio^Wos and Oedipus
parting from his daughters before his death, and the
isolation of Ruskin ; —all these, I suggest, were among
210 J. G. Piddiugton. [part
the elements that went to form the total impression
received and recorded by the automatist. 1
If it be a fact that these elements did enter into the
complex forming the One-Horse Dawn scripts, it will
perhaps suffice to meet an objection which might, I feel,
be raised, not against my interpretation of the One-Horse
Dawn scripts, but against the manner in which, according to
my interpretation, these scripts made a response to Dr.
Verrall's experiment. A critic might put the objection in
some such way as this :
" According to your theory, the aim of the scripts was
to show knowledge of the words chosen by Dr. Verrall
by pointing to Jebb's note on oloToavov which refers to
fxovoTrMXov eg 'Aw. You argue that /uovocttoXos represents
oloXwvov, the subject of the note ; that eynriroi, viridenti
coma eXalov T>j$ TXavKW7riS6i avrrj?, etc., represent the
first (eKaTo/ui.7r6§wv "NijprjSwv) of the three passages from
the Oed. Col. cited in the note ; that the blind traveller
and the old man leaning on a staff, etc., represent the
second (-wvKvoTTTepoi cujSove?) ; and that /u.opoo-toXos,
besides rej>resenting oiofyvov, points to Jebb's third and
last quotation from the Oed. Col. (SiutoXou? aSeXcpus).
Without disputing your interpretation, I should like to
raise one point which it involves. The scripts, as you
yourself have observed, lay stress on the old man in white,
namely, in your view, on Oedipvis dressed for burial.
But the context of none of the three passages quoted in
Jebb's note relates to Oedipus being dressed for burial or
1
With regard to the extract from Script J it may be objected that
it is a Planet which " illustre vagatur caelo sine comite," and that a
man is not a planet and is not spoken of in the neuter (illustre). To
this I should reply that I take " Planet " to be used equivocally of the
wandering dawn and of Oedipus TrXavrjTijs (i.e. planetes =" wanderer ") ;
that the neater illustre. (if it really be neuter) is at once followed by
the words " palely loitering," which in their original context in Keats'
poem are applied to the Knight-at-arms and are therefore masculine ;
and that the fiovdaroXos of H, to which the "vagatur sine comite" of
J seems to correspond, is masculine also.
The Latin of the scripts being far from classical, it is possible to take
illustre, not as neuter singular, but as the adverb (" brightly ") of
illustris, although apparently only the comparative and superlative forms,
illustrius and illustrissime, are found.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn" Experiment. 211
to his death ; and this being so, why do the scripts
emphasise an incident—culminating point of the play
though it be—between which and the passages quoted by
Jebb no direct and immediate connexion is to be found?
"
This imaginary criticism—which, having formulated it
myself, I regard as quite reasonable—is, as I have said,
to a large extent met, if we suppose that the intelligence
responsible for the scripts aimed at combining with the
allusions to Jebb's note allusions to the closing passage
of Myers's Obituary Notice and so to the death of Oedipus,
for the purpose of showing that it knew not only the
actual words chosen by the experimenter but also the sense
of loneliness which the experimenter thought the word
[aovottwXos to possess.
Another consideration, however, may have actuated the
intelligence responsible for the scripts. By repeatedly
attempting to describe what is the climax of the play,
the death of Oedipus, he may have sought to ensure
the allusions to the other passages in the Oedipus Coloneus
{i.e. those cited in Jebb's note on olo^wvov) being
recognised as such. The fact that these attempts were
not recognised for many years is not, I think, a sound
reason for rejecting this suggestion.
Final, Remabks.
// the interpretation put forward in this paper be accepted
(this conditional clause governs, of course, all that follows), it
seems certain that, so far as the allusions to Oedipus are
concerned, a result was obtained which, though successful,
was so unlike anything expected by the experimenter,
that he never realised the success achieved.
In ordinary life, if A tried to make B do a particular
thing in a particular way, and B, while failing to do the
thing in the way desired by A, nevertheless achieved ^4's
object by some totally different method, we should not
ascribe the successful result to A, except in so far as by
suggesting to B an object to be achieved he had stimu-
lated B into activity in a given direction. We might
attribute the successful result to B ; but whether justi-
212 J. G. Piddington. [part
fiably or not would depend on circumstances ; for B
might have been coached by a third party, whose instruc-
tions had proved more acceptable or more intelligible than
A's. But anyhow A would get only the credit of having
set the ball rolling.
We know that Dr. Verrall set the ball rolling ; but what
we don't know is whether it was he who kept it rolling.
I think we may assume with absolute confidence that
Dr. Verrall did not consciously try to transfer telepathi-
cally to Mrs. Verrall the substance of Jebb's note on the
word oloQavov. Had he ever done so, not only would
he have placed the fact on record, as he did when he
deliberately " fixed his mind on the notion of '
horse '
"
(Proc. Vol. XX. p. 164) ; but he could hardly have failed
to recognise the allusions in the scripts to the contexts of
the passages from the Oed. Col. which Jebb cites in his
note on olo^oovov. It is, I think, curious that he never
recognised the allusions to Oedipus even though he did
not in any way consciously associate Oedipus with the
subject of his experiment ; but that he should have failed
to do so, had he consciously thought of Oedipus oi6fyi'o<;
and of Jebb's note on oloXwvov in connexion with idLovoTraihov
e? 'Aw, is, to my mind, at least, incredible.
He was, of course, familiar with both the Oedipus Tyrannus
and the Oedipus Coloneus ;
and, matter of fact, he
possessed and used Jebb's editions of these two (and other)
Sophoclean plays.1
As, moreover, he was on terms of
close friendship with Sir Richard Jebb, and was for
several years a neighbour of his, and as both he and
Jebb were devoted to the study of Greek dramatists,
and were wont to exchange views on points of interpre-
tation, grammar and so forth, it would be absurd to argue
against the possibility of Jebb's note on olo^m'ov having
been known to him. That he may well have been ac-
quainted with it, is certain ; that he was acquainted with
it, however, is not.
But, assuming that he had at one time been acquainted
with it, how are we to explain his failure to recognise the
allusions to it in the scripts ?
1
For detailed information see Appendix B.
*
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 213
"Oh!", I fancy I hear someone saying, "the explana-
tion's simple enough. The whole thing was due to sub-
liminal memory and subliminal activity. Dr. Verrall had
no conscious recollection of Jebb's note, but his subcon-
sciousness remembered it and impressed Mrs. Verrall
telepathically with it."
Well, perhaps so ;
only I would point out that in the
circumstances Dr. Verrall's failure to recover consciously a
recollection of a thing so accurately retained in his sub-
consciousness is a very singular phenomenon. For what
were the circumstances ? He did not try the experiment
for a moment or two, or an hour or two, or on one or
two days, and then drop it for good and all. On the
contrary, it occupied his conscious thoughts, and was the
subject of his conscious efforts, over a long period, during
which he regularly examined the scripts produced by
Mrs. Verrall ; and when the experiment was concluded,
he made a careful study of the scripts. Moreover, even
if it be granted that the allusions in the scripts to Jebb's
note on ololwvov are recondite—so recondite as to baffle
what Mr. Bayfield has called Dr. Verrall's " more than
Oedipodean acuteness as a solver of riddles
" 1
—, still
the allusions to the old man in white read in connexion
with the Greek words or phrases in Scripts C, E and K,
ought surely to have put one so versed in Greek drama
on the track of Oedipus, when ex hypothesi his subconscious
thoughts were actively fixed on a note relating to Oedipus.
I must confess that I find such a cleavage between the
subliminal and supraliminal strata of Dr. Verrall's conscious-
ness in the particular circumstances very hard to imagine.
Ten years of life remained to him after the experiment
was ended, and yet during all these years, notwithstanding
his constant study of Greek literature, he was to come
across nothing to awaken a conscious recollection of the
connexion, latent in his mind, between Jebb's note and
the words /jlovottwXov e<; 'Aw—the subject of his experiment
—discussed in that note.
(It may be thought that I am here losing sight of the
1
Memoir of Dr. A. W. Verrall by the Rev. M. A. Bayfield in
Verrall's Collected Literary Essays, p. L.
214 J. G. Piddington. [part
fact that a submerged, memory of Dr. Verrall's has been
held to be responsible for the appearance in Script I
of the word " moly." I have not lost sight of the point
;
but for certain reasons, which for convenience' sake
I have relegated to Appendix C, I do not .
accept this
explanation of " moly.")
But another explanation is possible. Dr. Verrall may
have done no more than furnish Mrs. Verrall—telepathi-
cally, of course,—with the words /moi'OTrwXov eg A« ; and
Mrs. Verrall may have done the rest. She certainly may
have known Jebb's note. She certainly had read the
Oedipus Tyrannus and the Oedipus Coloneus ; and she
certainly sometimes consulted Jebb's editions of Sophocles'
plays. I know that in the spring and autumn of 1915,
a year before she died, she read in Jebb's edition the
Chorus in praise of Colonus and Attica—the evnnros
Chorus—and also the Messenger's account of the death
of Oedipus ; and I know from comments she sent me at
the time that she read Jebb's notes on both passages.
Yet neither did the eunnros Chorus convey any hint to her of
the meaning of eyiTnroi in Script K, nor the account of Oedipus'
death any hint of the identity of the old man in white.
How strange an obfuscation of memory must be postu-
lated, whether the origin of the Oedipus references be
traced to Dr. or to Mrs. Verrall ! Not that I am to be
understood as advocating any theory in opposition to that
of telepathy inter vivos to account for the phenomena
under discussion. I am but trying to bring out how
curious are the assumptions which this theory involves.
It isn't by any means a simple theory.1
Personally I advance no theory of this particular case
of which I gladly make a present to those who hold that
telepathy inter vivos is the true explanation of the super-
normal phenomena observable in scripts. They need, I
fancy, cheering up a little ; and if so be that from this
case they can extract any comfort., so far as I am con-
cerned, they are welcome to it.
Dec. 22, 1917.
1 At the end of Appendix A I point out further difficulties that up-
holders of this theory must face.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 2J5
APPENDIX A.
Miss Vebeall's Sceipt of Jan. 28, 1915.
. . . Alone with God none other no not one(o)
—the flowing
tide(6)
—there is a tide
CO LeVS [SIC] 0<TTI$ 770T €<TTly '
the heaven born(l,)
—born again
To strive(/)
& strive again
—
aW "lo/xev®—Homer(f)
—
o8oiraiira\o^e)
—
the wanderer home(e)
—a wanderer on the face of the word
[sic]—the earth
& wander till I die(/)
—the song of the road'?)
—Uber
alien Gipfeln ist Ruh' (W
Comments on the above Script.
(a) Miss Verrall was, of course, familiar with her mother's
One-Horse Dawn scripts. Furthermore, between May and
December, 1912, she had gone through Mrs. Verrall's
scripts of 1901-1904, for the purpose of translating the
Greek and Latin contained in them. Consequently we
can, I think, safely set down " alone with God none other
no not one " as a reproduction of the phrase
/ulovos /UL6TQ. Oeov ouSe aXXov tlvos
(translated by her " alone with God and none other "),
which occurs in Mrs. Verrall's script of Sept. 4, 1901
(Script H). Neither the original Greek phrase, nor the
translation of it, occurs elsewhere in any of the scripts.
(6)
" The flowing tide " is a recurrent phrase in H. V.
script, and comparison of the various contexts in which
it occurs shows that its chief (though not necessarily its
only) meaning is the tide of the river of death. The
phrase forms the subject of a marked cross-correspondence
216 J. G. Piddington. [PART
with several of Mrs. King's scripts, where it bears the
same meaning, and in one of which (Dec. 12, 1913) it
is definitely associated with the tide that " moving seems
asleep " of Crossing the Bar. I cannot enter into parti-
culars here ; and so the reader who does not care to
accept statements unsupported by detailed evidence can
ignore what is said here on the subject of " the flowing
tide."
(c) Aeschylus, Agamemnon, 160. For the immediate pur-
pose in hand, I think this quotation may be fairly treated
as carrying on the thought implied in " alone with God
none other no not one "
;
though I do not say that this
is its only significance. The context is as follows :
Zei/?, o(tti<s 7tot eariv, ei too av-
TW (plXoi' K6K\t]IUI.eVlp y
touto vlv 7rpocrevve7r<0.
ovk e^w 7rpocreiKacrat,
irdvT e7ri<TTa6iULWiu.evo9,
7rX>]V AlO?, €1 TO jUUTClV UTTO (ppOVTlSo? d^Oo?
YjO>/ fia\eiV €T)1TU/ULWS.
" Zeus, whosoe'er he is, I bespeak in simple wise, if
such address be pleasing unto him ; there is none
other name, though I ponder all, nor cognisance of my
imagining, save Zeus, which shall surely discharge
my spirit of this heaviness." (George C. W. Warr's
translation.)
(d) " Heaven-born," as the context shows, means Odys-
seus, to whom the epithet Sioyevw (" sprung from Zeus,"
or " heaven-born ") is frequently applied in the Odyssey.
See e.g. Od. x. 443, 488 ; xi. 405, 473, 617, etc.
(e) The allusion is to the scene in Odyssey xvii where
Odysseus, accompanied by the swineherd Eumaeus, returns
to his home after an absence of twenty years.
Now all this while Odysseus and the goodly swineherd
were bestirring them to go from the field to the city ;
and the swineherd, a master of men, spake first saying :
1
Well, my friend, forasmuch as I see thou art eager to
be going to the city to-day, even as my master gave
command ; . . .
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 217
Come then, let us go on our way [a AA' aye vvv 'tofxev],
for lo, the day is far spent, and soon wilt thou find it
colder toward evening.'
Then Odysseus of many counsels answered him saying :
'
I mark, I heed : all this thou speakest to one with
understanding. But let us be going [aAA' tofiev], and be
thou my guide withal to the end. And if thou hast
anywhere a staff ready cut, give it me to lean upon, for
truly ye said that slippery was the way ' [<5o? Se ,aoi, e'l
7To6l TOl poirakov TeTjJ.tJjJLeVOV ecrTiv, K.T.A.]
Therewith he cast about his shoulders a mean scrip, all
tattered, and a cord withal to hang it, and Eumaeus gave
him a staff to his mind [aeacea ftaWero 7n'ip>]v, tvvkvol
ptoyaXeriv' ev Se <TTp6(pos tjev aopT)'/p. E(Va *o? S' apu oi
uKrj'TVTpov OvfjLuph eScoicev.'] So these twain went on their
way . .
.• And the swineherd led his lord to the city
in the guise of a beggar, a wretched man and an old,
leaning on a staff [arK^irToiJ.evov'] ; and sorry was the
raiment wherewith he was clothed upon. But as they
fared along the rugged path [oSov kutu 7rai-ira\6etTO-ai>~\
they drew near to the town. . . . (Butcher and Lang's
translation of Odyssey xvii. 182-205.)
The words aAA' "oisev and oSoiranrakos are quite sufficient,
even without their context in the script, to fix the reference to
this passage. The word oSo-KanraXos, it is true, does not exist,
but no one, I think,—no scholar, at least—will question that
it is meant for o$o? iranraXoea-aa, a phrase found only here
and in Iliad xii. 168. The context in the script being utterly
unsuited to the Iliad passage and suitable to the passage
in the Odyssey, the choice must fall on the latter.
Now Jebb, it will be remembered (see p. 200 above), in
his note on the word (pope! in O.C. 1262 maintains that
it does not mean " obtains by begging," but simply
"carries," and that the allusion is "to a wallet (m'lpa)
carried by Oedipus." And he quotes in illustration of the
wallet forming " part of the conventional outfit for the
wandering beggar " Odyssey xiii. 437-438 :
SwKe Se ol (TK>]7rTpov kw aeUeu 7n'jp>iv,
irvKva pwyaXerjv ev Se. crTpocpo? yev aopW/p.
218 J. G. Piddington. [part
If the reader will refer back to the Greek words inter-
polated in the English translation of the passage from
Odyssey xvii, he will see that the words here underlined
are the same as those used of the wallet there. In each
case the word <TKi)irTpov is used of the staff, though in
Odyssey xvii po-wukov is used as well.
At the back of this script there lies, then, it seems to
me, a knowledge of Jebb's note on (popei in O.C. 1262, and
of a connexion between it and the old man in white of
the One-Horse Dawn scripts. For otherwise what happy
chance led the automatist first to refer back to the old
man in white " journeying alone " who is " alone
with God and none other," and then to follow this
by a reference to Odysseus as described in Odyssey xvii ?
If it be objected that the reference in Miss Verrall's
script is not to the lines in Odyssey xiii quoted by
Jebb, but only to a parallel passage in a later book, I
would reply that there is a good reason for the substitu-
tion : the passage in Odyssey xvii involving a more pointed
allusion to the home-coming of Odysseus (cf. " the wan-
derer home ") than the passage in the earlier book would
have done. The passage quoted by Jebb might, of course,
have served to point to the home-coming in a general
way ; but the setting-out of Odysseus and Eumaeus " from
the field to the city " as told in Odyssey xvii marks the
final stage of the long-delayed return ; and it is the final
stage of the journey that is wanted to make a marked
parallel with Oedipus going to his death.
It was this script of Miss Verrall's, as already stated (see
pp. 190 and 200-201 above), with its allusions to Odyssey
xvii. 182-205 that led me more than two years ago to con-
jecture that the old man in white of Scripts C and D
might be Odysseus. I made a note to that effect on
Script D, which I copy here :
" If the : longaevus senex '
of M. V. 3049 [i.e. Script C]
and here [i.e. Script DJ means Odysseus disguised as a
beggar, the words '
Mone inquit alteram ne titubet '
[in D]
would have some sense. See Odyssey xvii. 196. Odys-
seus borrowed a staff (p6—a\ov) from the swineherd because
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 219
the way was slippery. The '
box '
[of D] would have to
be the Tn'/pij or wallet which Odysseus carried—not in his
hand, but on his back. The poiraXov is also called a
triafirrpov (ib. 199). Cf. H.V. 17."
My reason for comparing H.V. 17 (i.e. Miss Verrall's
script of Nov. 22, 1906) was that its opening words are
as follows :
Senex cum albis capillis bifurcatis in sceptro incumbens
senectute praelapsus.
(An old man with white hair parted in two (?) .
leaning
on a staff, advanced (?) in age.)
The Latin is odd and incorrect. Thus, the word bifur-
catis (formed from an imaginary verb bifurco) does not
exist, though bifurcus ("two-forked"), which no doubt it
represents, does. Here the sense intended seems to be
" parted in two." 1 Next, sceptro is used as if it were the
Greek uKi']irTpGv (skeptron), which may mean either a staff
used for support in walking, or a staff borne by a king
as an emblem of authority, i.e. a sceptre. But though
the Latin sceptrum is the same word as aK^irTpov, and
means a sceptre, it is not used in the sense of a staff.
The use of sceptro in the script to mean a staff accordingly
seems to point to a Greek rather than a Latin topic.
Praelapsus, which in view of the context I have ventured
to render " advanced," properly means " having glided
forward."
But however the incorrect words be rendered, it is
practically certain that the Latin sentence refers back to
the " longaevus senex barba alba " of Script C, who in
Script D is called " albicapillus," and to the " incumbe
bacillo " of P and Q.
1
Mr. G. W. Balfour suggests that if bifurcato be read instead of bifur-
catis the allusion might be to Oedipus leaning on his two daughters.
Cf. Oed. Col, 848-849 :
oVkovv wot' £k toijtolv ye fxr} aK-qirTpoiv Ztl
bdoLTroprjcrris
(So those two crutches [i.e. Antigone and Ismene] shall never more
prop thy steps) ;
and 1109 (Oedipus addressing his daughters) :
Sj UKTjTTTpQ. <P<1>t6s
(Props of mine age !).
220 J. G. Piddington. [part
(/)
" To strive and strive again . . . And wander till
I die." Though there may be a reminiscence here of
" I wander'd till I aied " in Matthew Arnold's Thyrsis—
a poem several times quoted in H.V. script—, the context
points rather to the following lines in Tennyson's Ulysses
(Ulysses being the Latin form of the name Odysseus) :
" for my purpose holds
To sail beyond the sunset, and the baths
Of all the western stars, until I die.
One equal temper of heroic hearts,
Made weak by time and fate, but strong in will
To strive, to seek, to find, and not to yield."
If the allusion is to these fines, it shows that " the
wanderer home " means not only Odysseus returning to
his home in Ithaca but Odysseus going to his long home.
(g) R. L. . Stevenson, A Song of the Road.
(h) Goethe, Wanderer's Nachtlied.
It appears from what I have said above that Miss
Verrall's script of Nov. 22, 1906 (H. V. 17) is connected
with the One-Horse Dawn Experiment begun in 1901 and
ended in October 1902. I have no explanation to offer
of why the subject thus cropped up again four years
after the experiment was brought to a close, unless it
be that the publication in or about October 1906 of
Mrs. Verrall's account of the experiment revived interest
in it. But then what about the re-emergence of the sub-
ject on July 19, 1903, in Scripts U and V ? So far as
I am aware, there was nothing at that date to redirect
attention to the experiment. There may, of course, have
been something of which I never heard ; but if so, how
then did Mrs. Verrall fail to associate her vision of a
tall man in a white long robe (Script U) with the old
man in white of her One-Horse Dawn scripts ?
Furthermore, I have argued that Miss Verrall's script
of January 28, 1915, likewise harks back to the experi-
ment of 1901-1902. What intelligence was then responsible
for combining a " crib " from the One-Horse Dawn scripts
—" alone with God none other no not one "—with the
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 221
home-coming of Odysseus : a combination which has every
appearance of reflecting Jebb's note on Oedipus' wallet ?
If we assume a revival of interest on Miss Verrall's part
in the One-Horse Dawn scripts of some thirteen years
earlier, that will not explain the combination of topics.
Was Dr. Verrall, who had been dead for two years and
a half, the " agent " ? And if so, before or after death ?
If before death, then Miss Verrall must have acquired her
information telepathically from him more than two years
and a half before it emerged in her script.
Or was Mrs. Verrall the " agent " ? She saw Miss
Verrall's script of January 28, 1915, for the first time on
or about October 20, 1915. Between March and October 8,
1915, not only had her own script twice referred to the
death of Oedipus, but on at least three different occasions
she had been reading—in connexion, be it noted, with
scripts and not in connexion with her classical studies
—
various passages in the Oed. Col., and reading them in
Jebb's edition, and consulting several at least of Jebb's
notes on these passages. From notes she made between
September 28 and October 8, 1915, hi my possession, it is
clear that she read carefully the part of the Messenger's
speech where he describes Oedipus coming to the hill of
Demeter Euchloos and being washed by his daughters ;
and in these notes she refers specifically to O.C. 1598-1602.
Now since the latter part of 1. 1602 and 1. 1603 are
\0VTp0l9 T6 VIV
ecrd>jTi t e^)'i<TK>i<Ta.v f]
vo/ul^erai
(Then they ministered to him with washing, and dressed
him, as use ordains),
she must have read the actual lines which explain why
the old man of the One-Horse Dawn scripts is dressed in
white. Yet when, on October 20, 1915—or a day or two
later—she saw in her daughter's script of January 28,
1915, the phrase " Alone with God none other no not
one," which in her own script of 1901 had been applied
to the old man in white, she failed to recognise it as a
reference back to the old man. This failure, especially
when her recent interest in the Oedipus Coloneus is taken
222 J. G. Piddington. [part
into account, seems to argue a singular impenetrability
of her supraliminal consciousness, if less than nine months
earlier her subliminal activities had really been responsible
for the allusion in Miss Verrall's script to Jebb's note on
the wallet of Oedipus. She neither recognised the refer-
ence back to Script H in " alone with God none other
no not one," nor did she in any way connect her daughter's
script with Oedipus. This I know because she sent me
notes on Miss Verrall's script of January 28, 1915 ; and
these notes make no mention of Script H or of Oedipus ;
and had she traced any connexion with either, I am
perfectly certain she would have told me.
Whatever may be the true solution of the problem, it
will, I think, be generally admitted that there is a very
strong presumption indeed that whatever intelligence was
responsible for the allusions to Jebb's note on oioXiovov
in 1901-1902 was likewise responsible for the allusions to
the tall man in a white long robe and to Coniston in
1903, and to the allusion to Jebb's note on Oedipus'
wallet in January 1915.
APPENDIX B.
Dr. Verrall's familiarity with Jebb's editions of the
Oedipus Coloneus and Oedipus Tyrannus.
Dr. Verrall reviewed Jebb's edition of the Oedipus
Coloneus, probably early in 1886. The edition of the
Oedipus Tyrannus he had reviewed earlier. These facts
I derive from the Life and Letters of Sir Richard Claver-
Jiouse Jebb (p. 262).
To the Life and Letters he also contributed a chapter
on Jebb as Scholar and Critic. This chapter shows his
thorough and detailed acquaintance with Jebb's work. Of
Jebb's editions of Sophocles' plays he deals in this chapter
only with the Philoctetes and the Trachiniae. He does
not, I think, so much as mention the editions of the
Oedipus Coloneus and Oedipus Tyrannus ;
though, of course,
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 223
this affords no reason for assuming that he was not just
as well acquainted with them as with the editions of the
other plays.
Mrs. Salter (Miss Verrall) has kindly allowed me to
examine copies of Jebb's Oedipus Tyrannus and Oedipus
Coloneus used by her father.
In the copy of the O.T. I have found no pencilled
marginal notes either on the text or on the foot-notes ;
and only one marginal note in the Appendix. There is
no note or mark of any kind on the page containing the
foot-note on oloCoavov.
In his copy of Jebb's edition of the Oedipus Coloneus
Dr. Verrall has entered a number of marginal notes,
relating chiefly to the text or to the apparatus criticus ;
and has also marked a good number of the foot-notes,
and occasionally made a comment on them.
As regards the three passages from the Oed. Col. quoted
by Jebb in his edition of the O.T. in connexion with the
word oioCwvov, I find that Dr. Verrall has made no
mark against, or comment on, S«tt6\ov? aSe\<pa$, and
none on 7rvKv6-7TTepoi cujSoves. Against Jebb's note on
eKaTo/unr68wi> N>/|<j//cW he has placed the following comment :
" Surely Sophocles means 100 Nereids." This comment
does not concern Jebb's view that the second part of the
compound adjective is equivalent to a separate epithet for
the noun ; but concerns merely Jebb's view as to the
number of the Nereids, which he (Jebb) places at fifty,
with characteristic matter-of-factness assigning them two
feet apiece.
APPENDIX C.
In Proc. Vol. XX. pp. 163-164 Mrs. Verrall dealing with
the words in Script I (September 9, 1901) :
" Find the herb moly that will help—it is a guide,"
wrote as follows :
We could attach no meaning to the allusion to Milton's
p
224 J. G. Piddington. [part
phrase ;
1
the passage in Comus (11. 636-7) seemed to have
no bearing on the context, and recalled nothing to my
husband either at the time or later when he revealed his
experiment to me, and we examined in detail together all
the writing of these weeks. But in the spring of 1905,
when I was writing this paper and had ascertained that
the passage of the Orestes [containing the words /j.ovowu>\ov
e? 'Aco] was set in the last paper of the Classical Tripos of
1873, it occurred to me to look at the other papers set
in that year, and I found that the subject for Latin Hexa-
meters in the Tripos of 1873 was the passage from Comus,
ending,
" And yet more med'cinal is it than that moly
Which Hermes once to wise Ulysses gave."
It appears that the combination of the letters m o I,
produced in the effort to give the word p-ovoirwhov,
had,
by some association of ideas, suggested a reminiscence of
another paper in the same Tripos examination. The
curious point about this is that the recollection had
entirely gone from my husband's mind ; when I asked
him if he had any recollection of other papers in the
Tripos, and in particular of the Latin Verse, he could
recall nothing, and even the sight of the passage in Comus
did not revive any memory of having translated it. . . .
My script seems to have registered here not only an
existing mental impression of my husband's, but also a
forgotten past impression, once closely associated with the
first.
Mrs. Verrall's suggestion (for it is hardly a conclusion)
that the coincidence between the " moly " of her script
and the " moly " of the Tripos paper was not an acciden-
1
1 suppose that Mrs. Verrall spoke of " the allusion to Milton's
phrase," because of the preceding: " dailey is more like, —daily bent,"
which, presumably, she connected with
" and the dull swain
Treads on it daily with its clouted shoon ;
And yet more med'cinal is it than that Moly," etc.
If this was not her reason, I see no justification for calling the words
in the script an " allusion to Milton's phrase."
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 225
tal one, seems to me to ignore two important considera-
tions :
(a) the wide field for chance-coincidence afforded by the
papers set in a Classical Tripos examination ;
(b) the constant appearance in her scripts of 1901 and
1902, both before and after " moly " was written,
of words in which the letters m o I and m a I are
prominent, and the absence of any indication that
" Moly," rather than one of these other words,
was the word wanted.
As regards (a) nothing further need be said, for it must,
I think, be admitted that the opportunities for chance-
coincidence were large.
As regards (b), the evidence, tedious though it be, must
be given in full. I accordingly append a list of all " the
words in Mol " (as for brevity I shall call them) that I
have traced in Mrs. Verrall's scripts during the period
covered by the One-Horse Dawn Experiment. The numbers
attached to each extract will show how many scripts
intervened between one instance of words in Mol and
the next.
M.V. 3058 {Aug. 29, 1901).
. . . /uLaXivSpoSea letter by letter is easier to do but they
are not right yet. Begin again. malvidea dendron.
The shape of the letters is archaic CHT and so on. . . .
M.V. 3059 (Sept. 2, 1901).
Canticlene has a word to say—one for him not for you.
Fundet mith in tal mallim sham i tawan. There could be
more. Malleson a daughter . . .
M.V. 3060 {Sept. 4, 1901).
. . . now the letters GC agunto CATUNTO esagito. . . .
/uLOvoaToXos /ulovo^tcovos [xoi'OS fxeTa Qeov ovSe aXXov tiv6$. .
M.V. 3062 (Sept. 7, 1901).
. . . saepe sedebam iliac solus vel cum illo fiovw. . . .
Mol es to but the €C is the end of a word es
—
there are o and 1 before the es. oX e?. . . .
226 J. G. Piddington. [part
M.V. 3063 (Sept. 9, 1901).
. . . Most of it but not all. ol un c es that's not right
—but the m comes before the e? agiles. I can't tell you
the sense only the letters. . . . moleskin—that is more like,
the look not the meaning. . . . dailey is more like,—daily
bent is how it goes and the first rhymes to a
—
Find the herb moly that will help—it is a guide. . . .
M.V. 3064 (Sept. 12, 1901).
. . . fxoX—eg t'/uoXe? mollis to wear.
M.V. 3065 (Sept. 14, 1901).
. . . molves that is the old mistake •
—estote looks like
a part. On the wall—mola or molina is more like. Strange
it seems that you cannot read. on the left there are
more avent then the word that ends in es and some-
thing after it. . . .
M.V. 3068 (Sept. 28, 1901).
. . . Let it go on. it will come clear. Martin was
the word—a name not a swallow. Moly nnt no not that.
Molyten or Molison a name—belongs to him. . . .
M.V. 3069 (Oct. 6, 1901).
. . . Molyneux is better than before.
M.V. 3072 (Oct. 26, 1901).
. . . T^oWreig or malveolus is more like. . . .
M.V. 3074 (Nov. 1, 1901).
. . . /maWiSeor—epov koli fxdXa. ciXSvvi], moles divan y
sur
—
moldresagato thats all.
M.V. 3081 (Dec. 5, 1901).
. . . D[o]esnt A. W. remember ? the light fell from the
right overhead—and the long white robe moved slowly
while they played—Plainer to other eyes, but he must
have seen. Kirkistan kirkward shall carry me—go on. not
Helen but another and not Scotch. The light is hid—moles
tone note not tone moles—ent but I cant get the rest—ends
with escent and gives a pretty shineing—something before
mol—ammolescent now you have left out the a moleas no
no ales and mol
LXXVI.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 227
M.V. 3087 {Dec. 18, 1901).
. . . aXa^tov aXeKrpuwpo? KXayya a-weroicrii'. 7rw9 ovk.
vus a-vyyiyvwa-a-Kei fxaXeSea-repa '/jStj yeypa(pe avros. Put
in the v. Correlate the rest. . . .
M.V. 3096 (Jan. 17, 1902).
Malhola malveola. . . . tenebrosum iter caeco viatori in
orientem solein pedibus vagatur nec sine monitore.
M.V. 3132 (July 1, 1902).
. . . Cannabis indica—is more like the word I want, but
it has not the meaning. Cantaber induperatus and the
other word moleston agon lesto. Molliston est /uoXaa-To
fio\i$ to e'o-rw fxaXa Se itjfu no you do not understand
leave it till it is clearer, till after Friday next.
M.V. 3133 (July 7, 1902).
. . . Now again the word moles n molens sto and
Hannibal's Saguntum belongs Saguns traxit in infinitum
verbum autem breve—cur non scribere potes ? guns mola-
guns no nono
—
M.V. 3137 (July 23, 1902).
... Cur resolvere nolis ? pertemptanti facillimum etsi tu
nescis. Roga—roga—rogare semper Malleolus pro te—pro
illo autem mansuescit in manu. . . .
Comparison of these extracts convinces me that there is
no justification for regarding " moly " as anything more
than one of numerous attempts at •
/xovoircoXov (monopolon).
It might, perhaps, be claimed that the words that follow
"Find the herb moly," viz. "that will help—it is a
guide," suggest that there is some point of particular
importance in "moly"; but I see no reason why they
should be taken to mean anything more pointed than
that " '
moly ' will help as a guide to the word
'
MonopOLon ' " ; and I should compare the passage
in Mrs. Willett's script of March 15, 1912 (quoted on
p. 207 above) where the river Severn is called a finger-
post as pointing to Ruskin. I do not like to say
positively that " Moly " is rejected in M. V. 3068, because
228 J. G. Piddington. [part
it would be just possible to argue that " Molyten " and
" Molison " are attempts at a different word or name than
" Moly " ; but I think nevertheless that the natural
meaning is that " Moly " is rejected in favour of other
words which by the addition to " Mol " of the syllable
" en " or " on " approach more nearly to MonopOLON.
Moreover, no sooner has the word " moly " been written
than in the next two scripts—not to speak of the ten
other subsequent scripts—fresh shots at words in Mol
continue to be made ; and this, to my mind at least,
strongly suggests dissatisfaction with " Moly."
The theory, then, that the " moly " of Script I is
causally connected with Dr. Verrall's subliminal recollection
of the occurrence of the word " moly " in a Classical
Tripos paper, seems to me to rest on an insufficient
foundation.
APPENDIX D.
In compliance with a suggestion made by Sir Oliver
Lodge and Miss Alice Johnson, I give below in chrono-
logical order the dates of various events which either
have or may have a bearing on the case.
1873. Passage from Euripides' Orestes containing the words
/uovottwXov eg 'Aw set for translation in the Classical Tripos.
Passage from Milton's Comus containing the word " moly "
set as the subject for Latin Hexameters in the Classical
Tripos.
1882. Dr. and Mrs. Verrall married.
Dec. 1883.
Publication of Jebb's edition of Sophocles' Oedipus
Tyrannus.
1886 (early in).
Publication of Jebb's edition of Sophocles' Oedipus
Coloneus.
Jan. 17, 1901.
Death of F. W. H. Myers.
lxxvi.] The " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment. 229
March 1901.
Mrs. Verrall's automatic writing begins.
April 1901.
Dr. Verrall devises and initiates ixovottwXov e? 'Aw
Experiment.
April 10, 1901-May 31, 1902.
Scripts A to T written.
Oct. 17, 1902.
Experiment ends ; and Mrs. Verrall told about it.
April 20, 1903.
Mrs. Verrall gives an account of the fxovoirwXov e? 'Aw
experiment at a Meeting of the S.P.R.
July 19, 1903.
Scripts U and V written.
1905 (Spring of).
Mrs. Verrall writes her account of the Experiment.
Dec. 9, 1905.
Death of Sir Richard Jebb.
Oct. 1906.
Proc. Vol. XX. containing Mrs. Verrall's account of the
Experiment published.
Nov. 22, 1906.
Date of Miss Verrall's script beginning " Senex cum
albis capillis."
June 18, 1912.
Death of Dr. Verrall.
Jan. 28, 1915.
Date of Miss Verrall's script associating " Alone with
God none other no not one " with the homecoming of
Odysseus.
July 2, 1916.
Death of Mrs. Verrall.
Nov. 1917.
J. G. P. reconsiders One-Horse Dawn scripts.
Nov.-Dec, 1917.
J. G.'P.'s paper written.
230 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [PART
II.
EVIDENCE OF SUPER-NORMAL COMMUNICATIONS
THROUGH MOTOR AUTOMATISM.
A Paper read at a Private Meeting op the Society
on November 22, 1917.
By Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The cases which I wish to bring before the Society in
this paper have this in common, that in them we see
supernormal communication issuing in motor automatism.
The source of the communication however differs in an im-
portant manner, for in the first case the communicator was
in the body and in the second the message purports to
come from the discarnate.1
I am indebted to my niece, Mrs. Cowdell Barrett, of
Weymouth, for putting me into communication with her
friend, Mr. Arundel Mackenzie-Ashton, of Dene Court,
Taunton, who kindly sent me the contemporary documents
which narrate this case.2
1 am permitted to give his name and also that of
Colonel Nicholson, whose account of the experiments,
written down at the time, have fortunately been preserved
1
1 do not here raise the question of the method of communication, but a
separate note by me on Telepathy and Telergy which follows this paper may
suggest possibilities and tend to clearer thinking on the subject.
2
Subsequent to the reading of this paper before the Society, the
case was quoted in an article I published in the Contemporary Review
for February, 1918.
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 231
and axe before me, otherwise the case would be of little
evidential value as it occurred some years a^o The
experiments took place at Walesby Vicarage, Nottingham-
shire, in 1882.
Mr. Mackenzie-Ashton writes to me as follows :—
Dene Court, Taunton,
October 9th, 1917.
I went to stay at Walesby Vicarage situated in Notting-
hamshire in September, 1882. I was there a week or ten
days and on leaving went to stay with my father and
mother who lived at a place called Minewood in Hertford-
shire. The distance between these two places is about
130 miles. After I left Walesby Mr. (now Colonel) Nichol-
son and Mrs. Nicholson went there, I believe the day
following my departure. The manifestation referred to in
Mr. Nicholson's letters, which I enclose, took place at the
first sitting at which Mrs. Nicholson assisted.
Here I will give Mr. Nicholson's first letter to Mr
Mackenzie-Ashton, which was sent to me in its original
jXtT
dated P°St-
mark'
as also were his subsequent
Newark on Trent, 14 9 '8°
Dear Sir,
I have been staying at Walesby Vicarage recently and
last evenmg (Wednesday) we amused ourselves with table-
turning. The table when asked by whose spirit it was
possessed answered " Arundel-Mackenzie," and to the
further question "where is he?" it said "His soul is
here." To the following question "How is his bodv
occupied ?
" it returned a perfectly definite answer. Would
youl mind informing me how you were really occupied last
night from 10.30 to 11.30 p.m. and in whose company
you were? Would you mind also telling me what you
were doing out of doors in the day time ? I hope you
will excuse me, who am a perfect stranger to you, asking
you these impertinent questions, but I am most anxious to
be satisfied as to the truth or falsehood of the "
manifesta-
tion. -Yours very truly, E. H. Nicholson
232 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
Two days later Mr. Nicholson writes as follows :
Newark on Trent, Sept. 16.
Dear Sir.
Will you assure me on your word of honour you have
heard nothing from any person who was at Walesby
Vicarage on Wednesday evening relative to the occurrence
about which I wrote to you ? —Yours very truly,
E. H. Nicholson.
Mr. Mackenzie-Asbton having given this assurance then
received the following letter from Mr. Nicholson describing
what occurred :
Newark, Sept. 19, 1882.
Dear Sir,
When I asked for your assurance I felt it was scarcely
necessary, but the experiences being so extraordinary it
seemed more satisfactory to have it.
The persons who had their hands on the table besides
Mrs. Nicholson and myself were [giving their names]. The
table began immediately to move and on being asked to
tilt 3 times if a spirit were present it did so, asked
"whose spirit," replied " Arundel-Mackenzie," and would
give no further name. " Asked where is he, and what
is he doing?" answered "His soul is here." Asked "what
is his body doing," at first we obtained no reply and were
rather puzzled how to proceed thinking possibly you were
in bed. However after waiting, we asked the same
question again and the reply was promptly given " Playing
billiards." Time then was 11.15 p.m. Asked who is in
the room with him ? answer " Father," asked " who is
winning the game?" answer "Son." "How many games
have been played ?
" "Two." "What has he been doing
during the day ? " " Shooting." At this there was a
general exclamation " Impossible !
" for it was not believed
you had any shooting, and H asked " Pheasants or
Partridges " laughing, but we could get no more. H by
request then left the table, and we asked the spirit why
it had not replied. It answered " flippant." After a
message '
silent spirit is here,' we could get no further
manifestation.
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 233
This is a literal and exact statement of what took place.
Before the letters at which the table tilted were reached a
most peculiar tremor went through it, increasing in inten-
sity till the letter was reached when the tilting was
decided and distinct. The lights in the room were not
lowered. This experience has thoroughly astonished me.
—
Yours faithfully, E. H. Nicholson.
Now all the above particulars given by Mr. Nicholson
of Mr. Mackenzie-Ashton's doings were perfectly correct.
Mr. Mackenzie-Ashton writes :
" I had been shooting during the day and in the evening
I had two games of billiards with my father. I won both
of them, and after that I lay down on a couch in the
billiard room and fell asleep. Then I had a dream that
I was back in Walesby Vicarage. One point of interest
is that I (my spirit) gave only my original name ; I took
the additional name of Ashton later " [but prior to this
experience].
It is unfortunate that Colonel Nicholson did not keep
Mr. Mackenzie-Ashton's letters up to the present time, as
in that case we should have written contemporary evidence
from both sides. However, Colonel Nicholson informs me
that he preserved the letters for a long time and corrobo-
rates Mr. Mackenzie-Ashton's statement.
Of the trustworthiness and evidential value of this case
there can be no doubt. It is of considerable psychological
interest on several grounds. Here we find telepathy from
a living person giving rise to motor automatism in the
table tilting, whilst answers to questions are given just
as we are accustomed to find in spiritistic phenomena. As
Colonel Nicholson informs me he has had similar experiences
elsewhere, he was, presumably, the medium.
Telepathy from the living producing motor automatism
in the percipient is by no means novel. We have the
well-known case of the Rev. P. H. Newnham and his
wife, where questions mentally asked by Mr. Newnham
were automatically replied to by Mrs. Newnham through
234 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
planchette writing.1
Though the distance apart of agent
and percipient was here only a few feet, care was taken
that no knowledge of the question, which was written
down by Mr. Newnham, should reach his wife. Similar
experiments were subsequently tried, with more or less
success, between two graduates at Cambridge, and there
are other cases on record where telepathic impressions
from the living were able to produce motor automatism
through planchette, etc. As regards table tilting, Prof.
Richet 2
long ago—in 1884—made an arrangement whereby
letters of the alphabet were silently pointed to by one
person who traversed the alphabet mechanically, whilst
Prof. Richet, standing apart from the alphabet ana others
present, thought of a name or word which neither the
man at the alphabet nor the automatist had any means
of knowing. The automatist was seated at a table, which
tilted when the man at the alphabet pointed to the right
letter in the word thought of by Prof. Richet. The
experiment was fairly successful, the success being beyond
mere chance coincidence. Here it will be noticed that
both agent and percipient were in the same room and
both awake and in their normal state. There is a case
given by Mr. Myers, the Kirby case, where messages were
given by table tilting which possibly came from a far
distant and sleeping agent.3
In the last named case, as Mr. Myers points out, we
cannot really say which is the easier hypothesis—telepathy
or a psychical invasion from the distant agent. The well-
established and well-known experiments by Mr. S. Beard,
Rev. S. Moses, and Rev. C. Godfrey, where the different
experimenters willed that they should be seen by a distant
person who was unaware that the experiment was being
made, were all successful when the agents were asleep. The
self-projection did not occur when the agent was consciously
willing it, but took place when he was unconscious in
sleep. There are several well-attested cases where a
person asleep has dreamt he has visited a distant friend
1
Human Personality, Vol. II. p. 147.
"-Proc. S.P.R., Vol. II. pp. 239-264.
3
Human Personality, Vol. II. p. 187.
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 235
and has been heard speaking by that friend. These and
other cases suggest allocation, or some excursive action of
the soul or of the subliminal self of the '
agent ' during
sleep. Myers has some suggestive remarks on the freedom
of the spirit from the material organism during sleep.
I will now pass on to a second series of cases of super-
normal action where a discarnate intelligence appears to
be the agent, causing vigorous motor automatism on the
part of the automatist.
Some time ago my friend, the Rev. Savell Hicks, M.A.,
and myself read a paper before the Society describing the
remarkable experiments with a novel form of ouija board,
which a small circle in Dublin had been conducting with
great care and critical ability for many months. These
experiments have now been in progress for over two
years, but no record of them has appeared in the Pro-
ceedings of our Society. In my recently published book
On the Threshold of the Unseen, I have fully described
how these experiments are conducted, and some of the
startling evidence of survival after death which they appear
to afford.1
Here I will only say that instead of the usual ouija
board, with the alphabet printed on the board, the
separate letters of the alphabet, on pieces of card, are
placed on a small table below a sheet of plate glass
which covers the whole table. The traveller or indicator,
which is touched by the two sitters, is a small triangular
or heart-shaped piece of wood or metal resting on three
toes of felt, so that it is only raised some quarter of an
inch from the glass. The alphabet can be arranged in
any order, and in some critical experiments which I have
described the letters were arranged in the most irregular
and promiscuous fashion, whilst the sitters were out of
the room. The glass top was then covered by an opaque
cloth, the sitters were recalled and carefully blindfolded,
taking every precaution to make the blindfolding abso-
lutely effective. The cloth was removed, the traveller
placed on the glass and the sitters each put one hand on
1
On the Threshold of the Unseen, p. 179 et seq.
236 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
the traveller. The sitting then began in full light so that
the recorder could note down the letters indicated ; the
recorder was either the Rev. Savell Hicks, myself, or a
personal friend, who was a good shorthand writer; this was very
necessary in some of the sittings, as the traveller rushed
from letter to letter with such rapidity that it was
difficult to keep pace with it in writing down the message.
In one memorable instance, when a message was being
spelt out with great rapidity, an opaque fire-screen was
silently held over the traveller, so that had the sitters
not been blindfolded they could not then see the alphabet
below, and the recorder had to adjust the light and his
position to enable him to take down the message, which
came through rapidly just as before.
Some of the messages appeared to be pure dream
creations, but given with great dramatic force. They may
have been the product of some unknown intelligence who
was asleep, whether incarnate or discarnate I do not know.
Some messages were veridical and purported to come
from different persons recently deceased. The sitters were
usually the daughter of the late Professor Dowden, Mrs.
Travers Smith, the wife of a well-known Dublin medical
man, and her friend, Mr. Lennox Robinson, an author.
Blindfolding was often dispensed with. In the case I
narrated at a recent meeting of the Society, and which
is given in my book, the " Pearl tie-pin case," the sitters'
were Mrs. T. Smith and a lady friend, Miss D. C, the
daughter of a physician.
As the exact transcript of the foregoing message, taken
down at the time, has not been published, I give it here.
Miss C. had a cousin, a young officer in the army in
France, who was killed a month previous to the sitting.
This was known to the sitters, who were not blindfolded
on this occasion.
The sitting took place at 61 Fitzwilliam Square, Dublin,
in December, 1915. It began as follows :
Q. Who is there ?
A. [The cousin's full name was given, Christian
and surname.]
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 237
Q. Do you know who I am ?
A. Yes, you are D .
Q. Have you any message ?
A. Yes.
Q. What is it ?
A. Tell my mother to give my pearl tie-pin to the girl I
was going to marry. I think she ought to have it.
Q. What is her address ?
A. [An address in London was given.]
Q. What is her name ?
[Full Christian name and surname given (an unusual
one).]
A. I want to go. Good-bye.
Neither of the sitters knew any such person nor of any
engagement. On communicating with the deceased officer's
family they knew nothing of the lady mentioned in the
message ;
moreover, on writing to the address given the
letter was returned by the Post Office. The whole message
was therefore considered a fabrication.
Six months later it was discovered that the officer had
been engaged, shortly before he left for the front, to the
very lady whose name was given ; he had however told
no one. Neither his cousin nor any of his own family
in Ireland were aware of the fact and had never seen
the lady nor heard her name, until the War Office sent
over the deceased officer's effects. Then they found that
he had put this lady's name in his will as his next of
kin, both Christian and surname being precisely the same
as given through the automatist ;
and, what is equally
remarkable, a pearl tie-jnn was found in his effects. Both
the sitters have signed a document they sent me, affirming
the accuracy of the above statement, the message being
recorded at the time, and not written from memory after
verification had been obtained. Here there could be no
explanation of the facts by subliminal memory, or tele-
pathy or collusion, and the evidence points unmistakably
to a telepathic message from the deceased officer.
Now this appears to be an unexpected psychical invasion
of the sitters by some personality of whom they were not
238 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.8. [part
thinking. A mere fragmentary message of an earth-memory,
a voice from out of the darkness, " only a signal shown,
then darkness again and a silence," and it suggests that
it might have been a passing dream of the discarnate
communicator which happened to synchronise with the
sitting and receptive condition of his relative. Other
evidence, as we know, points to the intelligent co-operation
of two or more unseen communicators, which cannot be
attributed to their passing dreams.
In the next case we are presented with a typical com-
bination of romance and veridical statements which it is
desirable to put on record in detail for the future student
of experimental psychology.
The sitters were Mrs. Travers Smith and Mr. Lennox
Robinson. An outline of the first part of this remarkable
record has already been published by me under the title
of the " Hugh Lane Case," 1
but full details have not been
given hitherto.
In the first of these sittings, on May 7, 1915, both
sitters were blindfolded, and the recorder was the Rev.
Savell Hicks, M.A., who writes to me as follows :
" It should be borne in mind that this sitting took place
without any idea of obtaining anything startling or evi-
dential. What came through was so entirely unexpected
that both sitters were laughing and talking to one another
as the message came through, and I gave them no hint
of the purport of what was coming through until the
message was completed. I am quite convinced that they
had no idea of what their hands were spelling out. When
the first part of the message was completed and I
read it aloud, both the sitters broke down and wept, as
they were both intimate friends of Sir Hugh Lane. Such
a piece of heartless playacting, as one must assume if they
were cognisant of what was coming through, is, as no
doubt you will agree, knowing them both, quite unthink-
able. Whether they were, in some mysterious way, sub-
consciously aware of what they were doing, I cannot of
course say ; this of course can neither be proved or
On the Threshold of the Unseen, p. 186.
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 239
disproved." [The affirmation would involve clairvoyance by
the sitters, as they were blindfolded.]
Mr. Hicks goes on to say
:
" At the time of the sitting it was known that the
Lusitania had been sunk, but it was only after the first
part of the message had come through that Mr. Lennox
Robinson went down and brought up a stop press edition
of an evening paper just issued that contained the news
that Sir Hugh Lane was on board. [No news of his death
was received till some days after this sitting.] That the
possibility of his being on board may have been present
in the minds of the sitters is, of course, conceivable. [As
to this, see Mrs. T. Smith's letter which follows].
How much of the record can be attributed to super-
normal agency is a matter which must be left to individual
opinion ; on this point the sitters have, as you know, an
entirely open mind ; and none of us concerned in this
record have any dogmatic opinion on the subject."
Mrs. Travers Smith writes to me as follows :
Dear Sir William Barrett,
As you were not present at our seance on the night
on which we received the first communication from Sir
Hugh Lane, telling us he was drowned, I think it is best
that I should give the facts, which are as follows : Mr.
Lennox Robinson and I were both friends of Sir Hugh
Lane ; we knew that he had gone to America, but he had
been there for a very short time, and it never occurred
to either of us that he might be on board the " Lusitania."
We knew nothing of his plans. In the afternoon of the
day on which the "Lusitania" sank, the Dublin papers
announced " '
Lusitania '
reported sinking." We knew
nothing further than this at 8 p.m. (when our seance
began) ; and Sir Hugh Lane's name certainly never occurred
to us in connection with the lost ship.
After the first sentences came through announcing Hugh
Lane as present, and that he was drowned, a " stop press
"
was called in the street. Mr. Robinson ran down, brought
a paper up, and pointed to Sir Hugh Lane's name in the
list of " Lusitania " passengers.
240 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.B.S. [part
The Rev. E. Savell Hicks, M.A., who was present, will
bear witness that my statement is correct. I have his
original record in my possession. He did not even know
that Sir Hugh Lane had gone to America.
As to satisfactory blindfolding and bona fides of sitters
at the seances (which took place at my house twice a week
for seven or eight months), I can only say, as a sitter, that
the blindfolding was perfect, and that we found the sittings
rather dull work. We never had any idea of what was
"coming through," and often chatted to each other and
laughed, to pass time, even when tragic messages were
received by the shorthand writer, who had great difficulty
in recording the messages, owing to the amazing rapidity
with which the traveller flew about.
Hester Travers Smith.
I now give a verbatim record of all that transpired at
this sitting.
!F it zwilliam Square, Dublin, May 7, 1915.
Sitters—Mrs. Travers Smith and Mr. Lennox Robinson.
Sitters both blindfolded.
Recorder—Rev. Savell Hicks, M.A., who put the questions :
Control began
—
She is awfully depressed.
Q. How many were drowned on the " Lusitania " ?
A. [Very doubtfully] About 47 (? 470). Pray for Hugh
Lane, he is drowned.
Q. Who is speaking ?
A. I am Hugh Lane.
Q. Can you give us any evidence of identity ?
A. She made a great impression on me by her playing.
Q. Where ?
A. In her own house.
Q. When ?
A. In December. I never heard her before.
Q. Where did you live ?
A. In Cheyne Walk, Chelsea.
Q. What other celebrated men lived there 1
A . Carlyle.
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 241
Q. Tell us what happened when the " Lusitania " sank.
A. Panic.
Q. Tell us exactly what occurred.
A. I heard shouts and ran up on deck. Boats were being
lowered. Women went first. I leaped into one, it
was too full. I was thrown into the sea. All is dark.
Q. Did the submarines give warning ?
A. Yes, about 7 minutes.
Q. How many [submarines] were there %
A. Two.
Q. All your friends will be very sorry.
A. A peaceful end to an exciting life.
Here the Stop Press was called in the street. Mr.
Robinson ran down and bought a paper which gave a list
of the " Lusitania's " passengers, including Hugh Lane.
Q. Any particular message for anyone ?
A. Hester [Mrs. Travers Smith] must not tell Ellie tonight
Q. Is she to tell her later 1
A. She will hear.
Q. Is she to tell her about this communication ?
A. Yes. Tell Hester she must work at that fine art of
making music-pictures.
Q. Can you see who is at the board besides Hester ?
A. Lennox Robinson. I do not know who you are.
Q. I am Savell Hicks.
A. I know you preached on Wagner. I laughed with
Ellie when I saw the notice boards at Westland Row.
Q. What was the No. of your cabin 1
A. 52.
Q. Sure ?
A. Yes.
Q. How many do you think were drowned ?
A. 470.
Q. Can you give any names ?
A. I had a man at my side who was called Kenneth
Dowson.
Q. Any relative of the poet Ernest Dowson ? Was he
drowned ?
A. I do not know.
Q. Can you give any other names ?
242 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
A. I can't see them.
Q. What attracted you here ?
A. I saw a light. It was like a star on her head.
Q. Any other special message ?
A. The only one is to Jim. He and I were like brothers.
Tell him I shall wait till his face appears at the gate.
Good-bye my two artist mediums—good-bye.
Commenting on the foregoing, Mrs. Travers Smith writes
to me as follows :
" A good deal of the message as you see is very personal.
I had played for Sir Hugh Lane the December before and
he kept me at the piano for a long time and made me
play things I hadn't looked at for years. If you had
known Sir Hugh well, you would understand how very
characteristic of him the remarks he made were. Ellie
and Jim are Mr. and Mrs. , both intimate friends of
mine and of Sir Hugh also. Mr. and Sir Hugh were
deeply attached to each other, and it was most natural
the latter should wish me to tell Mr. and Mrs. about
the communication. Mr. Lennox Robinson and I were
very much moved when the record was read to us."
Telepathy from the recorder, Mr. Hicks, is excluded
as he knew nothing about the above facts. As regards
certain details given in the message, such as to the
number on board the " Lusitania," the cabin occupied by
Sir Hugh Lane, and the person named Kenneth Dowson,
I understand that no corroboration has been obtained.
Various other messages concerning his pictures came from
Sir Hugh Lane which were of interest but not evidential.
Meanwhile the relatives of Sir Hugh Lane doubted the
authorship of the message which they understood began
" Pray for the soul of Hugh Lane," as that resembled a
Roman Catholic expression and Sir Hugh Lane was a
Protestant. The record, however, says " Pray for Hugh
Lane" not '
soul of.' The sitters themselves, however, were
not wholly convinced, and when Mrs. T. Smith invited
me to a sitting with Mr. Lennox Robinson at her house
in 1917, we discussed the pros and cons of the veridical
character of the message.
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 243
The sitting then began in full daylight in the afternoon
of August 22, 1917, at 8 Upper Fitzwilliam Street, Dublin.
Neither of the sitters (Mrs. Travers Smith and Mr. Lennox
Robinson) were blindfolded on this occasion, but the latter,
whose hand controlled the movement of the indicator, sat
with head averted and eyes closed and soon fell into a
partial trance. Lady Barrett and her sister besides myself
were present, and the two former acted as recorders.
The same type of ouija board was used, a slab of glass
with alphabet below. The right hand of Mrs. T. Smith
and left of Mr. Robinson were on the traveller with little
fingers interlocked. At first the traveller rushed round
and round as if polishing the glass, and then proceeded
more slowly to inspect, as it were, each letter of the
alphabet, going round each letter till all were located.
The decision and accuracy of this inspection were notice-
able, albeit the sitters were not looking at the traveller.
I will give the whole record, as it presents the same
curious mixture of, apparently, fictitious and veridical
communications which are so characteristic of these auto-
matisms :
Sitting, August 22, 1917.
Q. Is any one here ?
A. Peter Rooney [the usual control].
Q. Do you recognise any one present ?
A. There is a man here I saw in the other house, there
was another man there also, a younger man. [This
refers to myself and the Rev. Mr. Robertson at the
sitting we had in Mrs. Travers Smith's former house.]
Q. Will you bring some one here we know ?
A. Let me make my experiment first.
[Mrs. T. Smith said this referred to guessing a
number written on paper and held below the table.
This was done and the traveller rushed to the corner
of the table beneath which the number was concealed
and then back to indicate the number ; but the success
was only partial.]
Q. Will you go away ?
A. Yes I am going to send a new control.
244 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
[The hands were lifted off traveller for a moment and
then replaced, and the following came] :
A. Why am I sent here ?
Q. Who are you ?
A. My name is Lennon.
Q. What is your Christian name ?
A. Frank.
Q. Where did you live ?
A. I lived at 22 Mills [or Mill] Lane, Sheffield.
Q. When did you pass over ?
A. March 3, 1917.
Q. What was the matter with you ?
A. Paralysis. I was an invalid for years.
Q. What was your age %
A. I was born on September 3, 1854.
Q. Can you see any one sitting here ?
A. I can see one man and one woman.
[Presumably the two sitters.]
Q. Tell us the name of any one living in Sheffield.
A. Smithson.
Q. What was your occupation ?
A. I was a clerk at Smithsons.
Here the sitting was interrupted by those present dis-
claiming any knowledge of the persons whose names were
given. Subsequent enquiry made by me through the
Chief Constable of Sheffield showed that though there is
a Mill Lane in Sheffield, no one named Frank Lennon
was known there, and the whole of the details given
appear to be fictitious.
Resuming, another control came :
Q. Who are you ?
A. I am Clara Samuels. Why are you trying to make
me talk ? The letters look like being at school. A
queer woman is here now. I am quite a little girl.
Who is pulling this thing about ?
We replied no one is pulling it about.
A. Some one is pulling this thing about that you talk
with. [This is explained by the advent of the next
control.]
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 245
This child control was told to go away and hands were
lifted off the traveller for a moment. When the two sitters
replaced their hands an extraordinary change of control
occurred. The traveller dashed violently about, rushing
to one letter after the other so quickly that it was im-
possible to follow the message spelt.
Mrs. T. Smith said :
Q. Don't be so violent, do go quietly. Who are you ?
A. Surely this is Lennox.
Q. Who are you ?
A. I am Hugh Lane [this was spelt out most emphati-
cally]. I have been waiting for a long time to talk,
and am unable to communicate when you are not
here.
The traveller became most excited and flew about so
swiftly and violently that Mrs. T. Smith said :
Q. Why are you so furious ? Don't be so violent.
A. I am very angry with her, with Hester.
Q. Who is it you are so angry with ?
A. [Given most emphatically]. I am angry with Hester
Travers Smith. I am vexed because I heard her
saying it was not I who spoke that night. I made
a great effort to speak that night and this is the
way she doubts me. I was here again and again,
and could not speak because Lennox was not here.
I tell you I am Hugh Lane [most emphatically, even
fiercely given], and I came to you the night I was
drowned.
Q. Why did you say " Pray for the soul of Hugh Lane " ?
A. I did not say that [most emphatic] ;
the control who
was at the board and guided me here said it. I
would never have thought of saying such a thing. I
only said " I am Hugh Lane." [The control was
Peter Rooney, an Irish American R.C.]
Questions were then asked if Sir Hugh Lane remembered
meeting Sir W. Barrett, and he replied, " Yes, quite well."
Asked, can you see him ? The answer was " No, I only
see you two." The question was then asked :
246 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [PART
Q. What are you doing now ?
A. [Given in an angry, violent manner]. I did not come
here to make an interesting sitting for your friends ;
I came to tell you, Hester, what a fool you are !
Here we had to stop for a moment as Mr. Lennox
Robinson, whose averted head had fallen down, seemed as
if he would faint, and we asked :
Q. Can you not make use of Mrs. Travers Smith and leave
Mr. Robinson alone ?
A. I only have hold of Lennox. I held him tight until
I could get no more out of him.
Again we had to stop as Mr. Lennox Robinson was
evidently on the point of complete collapse. So we led
him to the sofa and made him lie down. In a few
minutes he recovered, but evidently much exhausted, and
before we had read to him the record, he said, "There
was some very strong control at the sitting, it was so
powerful that it has caused much pain in my arm, and
filled me with emotion, a distinct feeling of anger and
indignation is left in myself. This is very odd as there
is no cause for it at all." f
During the sitting Mr. Robinson's hand was obviously
used to move the traveller, whilst Mrs. T. Smith did all
she could to restrain its rapid and violent movement.
All those present were convinced that Mr. Robinson could
not see the alphabet, and was unaware of the messages
coming through. Moreover, none of us with our eyes
open, nor with the greatest effort, could spell out a
sentence with the traveller approaching the rapidity with
which these messages came through. Nor would any con-
tinued practice, I venture to say, enable such abnormal
speed to be attained. This speed is not always attained,
for the results vary from time to time. In this par-
ticular instance the result impressed the sitters as much
as the recorders. Mrs. T. Smith, after it was over, wrote
to me :
—" The sitting at which you and Lady Barrett
were present, was the most evidential we have so far
experienced ; we are quite convinced that there was some
lxxvi.] Evidence, of Super-normal Communications. 247
outside influence, for the message could not have been due
to our sub-consciousness."
On the other hand it is possible to interpret some of
the messages as dream-creations of the sub-concious self
of the sitters. Thus Mrs. Travers Smith has sent me
the record of some recent sittings she had had with a
Mr. Dodds ; a startling and melodramatic story of an
obsession came through, and also later on what purported
to be a dream of which she had no recollection. The
message went on : —-" I woke you with a terrible fright
and sat- on your bed and laughed till I cried." Mrs.
Smith says it then proceeded to describe her thoughts as
things coming one by one into the room like little fan-
tastic beings. It was all very weird. Here is the record
of one of these sittings a month or so ago :
Sitting, October 8, 1917.
Sitters—Mrs. Travers Smith and Mr. Dodds.
I am the body of your thoughts. I have grown from
day to day since you were a child. I am getting taller
and taller, now that your thoughts are so full and round.
You dream more than ever, and you always lived in your
dreams. Soon the dream will be reality. [What do you
mean 1] I mean I am a dim form made of a part of
you which is called imagination. The outward things are
sharp and hard for you, and I keep you alive, the time
is near when I shall be body and soul both. Dream on
my lady. Do not check your slumbering soul ; it would
have died long ago from sheer hunger and thirst, but that
sweet dreams kept you alive and gave you strength to
endure. Let me grow taller still :
—soon I shall have no
longer an entity of my own. . . . Forget the world's
misery, and let me grow until I am merged in you.
Another record Mrs. T. Smith sent me is of psycho-
logical interest. A control callinc; itself " Eyan " two years
ago annoyed the sitters by constantly intruding itself and
called itself Mrs. Travers Smith's "guide." At last
Mr. Lennox Eobinson, tired of this intrusion, drove him
away persistently, and the control disappeared for a couple
248 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.8. [part
of years ;
however, when Mr. Wakeman and Mrs. Travers
Smith were recently sitting the following message from
Eyan unexpectedly came through with great dramatic
force.
Sitting, October 8, 1917.
Sitters—Mrs. Travers Smith and Mr. Wakeman.
Never again,—the sun may shine the moon may shed
her beams,—but I am banished for evermore. Lennox
this is your doing. My revenge shall be to watch your
soul die for I am banished for evermore. Never again,
—
the summer may come with all its flowers and joys, the
Autumn may moan, the Winter may lie white like a corpse
in a shroud,—but Lennox I shall have my revenge. Your
soul dies a lingering and horrible death, for I am banished
for evermore. Never again. The web of time is being
woven, but the shears are ready to cut the thread. The
Universe is throbbing but Lennox your soul is dead. You
have no soul for you have no love. Your soul is dead.
Never again.
Heaven is there, the paradise of the soul. Look, would
you not enter if you could. Hell is there. The soul's
torture. Would it not be better to feel the fire than be a
dead thing ? No not for you is either bliss or torture,
only cold and numbness. You have no soul you wretched
being, for you banished me for evermore.
—
Eyan.
The foregoing will illustrate the varied character of these
automatisms, a larger collection of which Mrs. Travers
Smith intends to prepare for publication in book form.
Their explanation will afford interesting matter for future
psychological enquiry. That the sub-conscious self of the
sitters plays a considerable part is very probable, but
unless we confer upon the sub-conscious or sub-liminal self
transcendental faculties this explanation fails to explain
all. Thus clairvoyance is constantly exhibited when the
sitters are carefully blindfolded. Eor instance, quite
recently, on a visit of Mrs. Travers Smith and Mr. Lennox
Robinson to London, some friends were present, and the
following experiment was made to test the question of
lxxvi.] Evidence of Super-normal Communications. 249
clairvoyance. In their normal state neither of the sitters
is in the least clairvoyant.
First Mrs. Travers Smith was carefully blindfolded, the
letters of the ouija board were then re-arranged promiscuously,
and we asked for a sentence to be spelt out, when she and
Mr. L. Robinson, who was not blindfolded, had their hands
on the traveller. Immediately the words " New people
again " were spelt out. The same sentence was repeated
when Mr. L. Robinson was blindfolded carefully and not
Mrs. T. Smith, the letters being rearranged after each
experiment. Then both sitters were taken out of the rooni
and most carefully and securely blindfolded, the letters
entirely rearranged when they were out of the room, and
we asked for the same sentence to be repeated. "New
people again " was at once accurately spelt out. It is hardly
necessary to say that I satisfied myself the blindfolding
prevented the sitters seeing the letters, and they assured
me also they could see nothing. We must therefore assume
that the sub-liminal self of both sitters is clairvoyant, or
that some extraneous spirit guided, through their muscles,
the movement of the traveller.
Psychical researchers need to be on their guard against
what Bacon calls " the idol of the market place," that is
to say the error arising from the influence exercised by
some catch word or phrase. Having found a vera causa
for certain inexplicable psychical phenomena, many are
apt to think it a tota causa. The word telepathy has
been abused in this way, even by some who formerly
believed it had no existence. I venture to think we
are in some danger to the slavery of the term " the sub-
liminal self," which is no more accepted as an explanation
by official science than is that of an extraneous spirit
influencing the medium. In connection with this, our
distinguished colleague, Dr. W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., has
truly said :
—" The phrase, the sub-liminal self, may prove
detrimental to the efficiency of our Society, if we do not
sternly resist the tendency to use it as a mere cloak for
our ignorance whenever we arc confronted by inexplicable
events." 1
l
Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XIX. p. 431.
250 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [PART
The history of physical science shows how progress has
often been retarded by the facile use of phrases to account
for obscure physical phenomena, such as " the doctrine of
sympathy," " phlogiston," etc. ; words which explained
nothing, and now are ridiculed, but were once employed
as a learned solution of difficulties; they formed, as Dr.
M'Dougall says, a convenient cloak to ignorance.
LXXVI.] Note on Telepathy and Telergy. 251
III.
NOTE ON TELEPATHY AND TELERGY.
By Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The words telepathy and telergy form part of the valuable
terminology we owe to Mr. F. W. H. Myers. Telepathy
is well known, and may be considered to have been
established ; but though recognized as a new and impor-
tant addition to our knowledge by all serious students
of the subject, it has not yet been accepted as indisput-
able by the general body of official science in any country.
One reason for this is that, like other psychical phenomena,
it cannot be demonstrated at any given time or place
with the certainty of physical phenomena. Only by
enlisting a wider range of interest and observation among
scientific men and women can a more general acceptance
of this fundamental fact of psychical research win its
way into the accepted truths of science. " The mistake
of agnosticism," as Mr. Lowes Dickinson has truly re-
marked, " has been that it has said not merely, '
I do
not know,' but '
I will not consider.' Such a position
is hampering not only to life but to truth. For the
impulse to truth is desire, and all discoveries are prompted
by hope and by faith." 1
Mr. Myers has defined telepathy as " The communication
of impressions of any kind from one mind to another
independently of the recognised channels of sense." Tele-
pathy therefore includes and extends the term " thought-
transference," a word originally employed to denote those
novel phenomena, the result of experiments at short
1
Religion and Criticism, a Forecast, p. xi, by G. Lowes Dickinson (Brimley
&Co.).
252 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.B.S. [part
distances, which were first brought under the notice of
science by the present writer some forty-one years ago.
I will return to the discussion of telepathy presently,
but before doing so let us try to get at the meaning
of the much less familiar term telergy.
In the valuable Index of the publications of our Society,
which already extends over two volumes, no reference
whatever is made to the word telergy. This is an
omission, for it is found in our Proceedings, Vol. VI.
(1890), p. 320, where Mr. Myers, in a paper on Phantasms
of the Dead, says :
*'
When we come to telergy—the power of propagating
influences or phantasms at a distance,—• . . . The crisis
which facilitated telergic action was not necessarily a
moment of conscious excitement or strain. Quite other-
wise, for it was proved that the '
agent ' at the moment
of the apparition was often asleep or fainting or in a
state of coma. ... It would thus be nearer the truth
to say that telergic action varies inversely, than that
it varies directly with the observable activity of the
nervous system or of the conscious mind."
The word telergy strictly means force or energy acting
afar, or at a distance from its source ; hence in the
Glossary of Terms used in Psychical Research which Mr.
Myers compiled and published in our Proceedings, Vol. XII.,
p. 174, he defines telergy as follows :
" A name for a hypothetical force, or mode of action,
concerned with the conveyance of telepathic impressions,
and perhaps with other supernormal operations."
As time went on a somewhat different and more
restricted meaning was given to telergy, for in the glossary
prefixed to his magnum opus on Human Personality,
Myers defines telergy as follows :
" The force exercised by
the mind of an agent in impressing a percipient,—in-
volving a direct influence of an extraneous spirit on the
brain or organism of the percipient."
In his discussion of telergy in Vol. II. of Human
Personality, Myers uses the term in a more general sense
than that given in the above definition. Thus on p. 526
he writes :
LXXVI.] Note on Telepathy and Telergy. 253
" That law [that spirits should influence men] is the
direct transmission of thought and emotion from mind
to mind, and the telergy—to use here a word more active
in its connotation than telepathy—the telergy by which
this transmission is effected, may be as universally diffused
in the metatherial world as heat in the material." Again,
on p. 197, speaking of telepathy as involving two factors,
Myers says :
" The percipient's mind must somehow receive the
telepathic impression ; —and to this reception we can
assign no definite physical correlative ;
—and also the
percipient's motor or sensory centres must receive an
excitation :
—which excitation may be communicated, for
aught we know, either by his own mind in the ordinary
way, or by the agent's mind in some direct way,
—
which I may call telergic, thus giving a more precise
sense to a word which I long ago suggested as a kind
of correlative to telepathic. That is to say, there may
even in these apparently simple cases be first a trans-
mission from agent to percipient in the spiritual world,
and then an action on the percipient's physical brain
of the same type as spirit-possession. This action on
the physical brain may be due either to the percipient's
own spirit, or subliminal self, or else directly to the
agent's spirit."
Here Myers (recognizing as elsewhere, that telepathy
is a psychical and not a mechanical process,) gives an
alternative mode by which the telepathic action on the
percipient's brain may be made to reveal itself, and
apparently would keep the word telergic to a direct
action of the agent's mind or spirit (he uses these words
as synonymous) on the percipient's brain. This view
he states more definitely on p. 522, where he refers
again to the two possible modes by which telepathy
may influence the percipient's brain :
" Shall we say
that the spirit of the agent affects the spirit of the
percipient, and thus the spirit of the percipient influences
his own brain ? Or shall we say that the agent's spirit
directly influences the percipient's brain in like manner
as it influenced his own ? There may seem little to
254 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
choose between two such unprovable conceptions. Yet . . .
I think that the second alternative should provisionally not
be excluded. ... It is certainly simpler to suppose
that here also the agent's spirit is directly affecting the
percipient's brain,—not needing, so to say, to invite
the percipient's own spirit to accomplish that task."
From this it would appear that Myers was disposed
to regard the reception and manifestation of all tele-
pathic influence as more simply explicable by the agent's
spirit directly affecting the percipient's brain. " On
this view," he says in the next paragraph, " we shall
have an intelligible series—though a series advancing by
leaps and bounds—to represent the achievements of Will,
as it shakes itself free from the limitations which are
but shadows as contrasted with its own reality. In
the first place we have hyperboulia ; —the extension of
the Will's power over tissues in the organism which
its mandates have ordinarily failed to reach. In the
second place we have telergy ; —the extension of its power
over the brain molecules of an organism other than
that with which it is primarily in connection. And
in the third place we shall have '
telekinesis '
and the
like ;—a group of phenomena involving control over
inorganic matter, and over organic matter both within
and without its own organism."
Earlier in the same volume (Human Personality,
Vol. II., p. 204) Myers points out that the mystery
of psycho-physical interaction, whilst inexplicable, occurs
in our ordinary life, where our own spirits affect our
own bodies and are the standing examples of spirit
affecting matter. He then makes his own position clear
in the following sentence :
" It may not always be true even in the case of sensory
automatisms that the distant spirit has made a suggestion
merely to the percipient's spirit which the percipient's
own spirit carries out ; and in motor automatisms, as
they develop into 'possession, there are indications, as
I have already pointed out, that the influence of the
agent's spirit is telergic rather than telepathic, and that
we have extraneous spirits influencing the human brain
lxxvi.] Note on Telepathy and Tclergy. 255
or organism. That is to say, they are producing move-
ments in matter ; —even though that matter be organized
matter and those movements molecular."
We thus arrive at the definition of telergy given in
the glossary to Human Personality, which I have already
quoted. Certainly one of the cases of motor automatism
given in the preceding paper seems to me a case where
telepathy merges into telergy. Any one who has been
present at the sittings when the control purporting to
be Hugh Lane violently manifested, completely sub-
merging the personality of the automatist, would compare
it to a case of possession. It was not mere telepathy,
but a distinct psychical invasion of some extraneous
power or personality ; and with our present knowledge,
it is, in my opinion, simpler to assume here telergic
action rather than confer on the automatist hypothetical
transcendental powers of muscular action and clairvoyance.
Nevertheless others, whose opinion is entitled to great
weight, do not take this view, and dispute that any
valid evidence has been adduced on behalf of telergy.
Thus in a foot-note {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXVIII., p. 320) to
her valuable monograph " On the Psychology of Mrs.
Piper's Trance-Phenomena," Mrs. H. Sidgwick states
that whilst not dogmatically affirming that " no influence
of a telergic kind can ever be exercised by an external
mind,
—
i.e. that an external mind can never affect our
nervous system in the same way our own mind does,
—
I think there is practically no evidence for it at present."
This statement is however somewhat modified in a later
remark by Mrs. Sidgwick, viz. :
" It is even possible
that telepathy and telergy may merge into each other."
In any case the existence of telergy can only be an
inference, as it is incapable of being experimentally proved.
Obviously the only definite proof of the direct action
of an extraneous spirit on the molecules of the brain
would be to evoke some response from a corpse, for
when the percipient is merely unconscious or entranced,
his subliminal life is not extinct, and may be in fact
more accessible to a telepathic impact.
This lengthy discussion of the meaning of telergy may
R
256 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
be useful in removing misconception and ambiguity,
though it adds nothing to the more important question
of evidence on its behalf.
Turning to the subject of telepathy, it seems also
desirable to remove some misconceptions which have arisen.
The words " agent " and " percipient," used in the
Reports of the Committee on Thought-Transference pub-
lished in the first two or three volumes of the Proceedings
of the S.P.R., are apt to be misleading. They convey the
idea that the agent, or transmitter, must be actively and
energetically striving to communicate an impression from
his mind to the passive' percipient, like a vigorous
electrical transmitter in wireless telegraphy. Now there
is no valid evidence to indicate that telepathy depends
for its success on the " agent " concentrating his mind
upon some word or idea and energetically striving to
transmit it. On the contrary, as the first case in the
preceding paper shows, the agent may be asleep and
the conscious mind for the time in abeyance. As Mr.
Myers has remarked about telergy, in the passage quoted
(p. 252), it would be nearer the truth to say that telepathic
action varies inversely rather than directly to the
observed mental activity of the agent or percipient.
It seems highly probable that telepathy, like many
psychical phenomena, is the operation of the sub-conscious
or subliminal self of the so-called agent, which in some
unknown way influences the sub-conscious self of the
automatist or percipient, and it is possible that a vigorous
conscious activity of mind may often be more or less
inimical to success. The word " agent," as used for
the transmitter, must therefore be taken to mean the
conscious or unconscious originating source of the impres-
sion conveyed.
A much more difficult question is the mode of trans-
mission of telepathy. No doubt in many minds the
first conception of thought-transference was a quasi-
mechanical transmission of brain waves through space.
The well-known phenomenon of resonance in physics
supported this idea. A tuning-fork when struck will
cause another tuning-fork, in exact unison, to respond,
LXXVI.] Note on Telepathy and Telergy. 257
even though they may be some distance apart. The
resonance of a sensitive flame (a tall jet of gas) is still
more remarkable ; it will shorten nearly a foot in response
to a note of the proper pitch 50 or more feet distant.1
Moreover, it can respond to vibrations of the air too rapid
for the ear to perceive.2
In radio-, or wireless telegraphy,
we have the resonance to undulations of the ether ex-
tending over thousands of miles. Whilst the transmission
of intelligence by radio-telegraphy rendered telepathy less
incredible to the public, it also supported the popular
view that a somewhat analogous mode of transmission
occurred in the two cases. This however is highly
improbable ; albeit some years ago Sir W. Crookes, in
his Presidential Address to our Society (Vol. XII., p. 352),
made a provisional suggestion that very high frequency
vibrations [of the molecules of the brain] might generate
minute ethereal waves and be the mode of telepathic
transmission. Another high authority. Dr. W. M'Dougall,
in his great work Body and Mind, does not altogether
dismiss the idea of brain-waves as a possible explanation
of telepathy through short distances.
It is therefore worth while to state the reasons
why telepathy cannot be explained by any known
method of mechanical transmission of '
brain-waves '
through
the ether, or other forms of radiant physical action.
" Its laws," as Myers has remarked, " are not cognate to
the known laws of the material world. It is a trans-
ference, not of a pattern of vibrations, but of a knowledge,
an impulse, which seems to implant itself in the perci-
pient's mind like a living thing " (Op. ext. p. 521). In
support of this psychical view I may be permitted to
quote an extract from an article of mine in the Contem-
porary Review for February, 1918 :
"All radiant forces, such as light, heat, gravitation, etc.,
when freely diffused through space diminish in intensity
as the square of the distance increases between the source
and the receiver, if no absorbing medium intervenes. At
a thousand feet apart the intensity is a million times less
1
Philosophical Magazine, March, 1867, Paper by W. F. B.
2
Nature, May 3, 1877 : Note by W. F. B.
r2
258 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
than at one foot apart. To transmit a wireless message
across the Atlantic therefore requires a very powerful
source of electric waves and a very sensitive receiver.
Now there are well attested cases of telepathy occurring
between individuals, not only thousands of feet apart, but
thousands of miles asunder—if apparitions at or near the
time of death are due to a telepathic impression, as seems
probable—a phantasm being projected from the mind of
the percipient. Yet, in such cases, there was no exhaus-
tion, no exertion even, on the part of the unconscious
source of these imaginary brain waves.
It is therefore highly improbable that telepathy is trans-
mitted by waves radiating in every direction, like light
from a candle. Nor can we conceive of unwritten or
unspoken thought being carried by a messenger, or sent
through a conduit, or fired like a bullet at a target.
Moreover, in telepathy ideas and feelings, more frequently
than exact words, impress the percipient. There is
abundant evidence that emotions and sensations such as
pain, taste, etc., experienced by one person are simul-
taneously felt by a distant percipient, under conditions
that exclude the possibility of fraud or any verbal com-
munication.1
The remarkable fact is also coming to light,
that telepathy may not be ultimately due to any conscious
and voluntary operation of the mind, either in the
originating or receiving personality, such as occurs in the
ordinary operation of speech or writing.
Telepathy, then, cannot be explained by a process of
mechanical transmission. It appears to be a case of
'
action at a distance.' But physicists do not admit
action at a distance as an ultimate fact, although the
attracting influence of one body upon another throughout
the realms of space appears to be such an action. Gravi-
tation, however, is not likely to be an exception to other
physical forces, though we may have to wait a long time
1
Mr. Gerald Balfour has also pointed out (Proc. S. P. R., vol. XXVI. , p. 363) that
whilst the transmission of wireless telepathy depends on the use of symbols there
is good reason to believe telepathy in many cases is the direct communication of
meanings. There is also, he remarks, something like a selective action in
telepathy, a power on the part of the agent to direct the communication to a
particular person and no other.
LXXVI.] Note on Telepathy and Telergy. 259
for its satisfactory explanation. Telepathy and gravitation
are only alike in this, that at present we are ignorant
how two different masses, and how two different minds,
at a distance apart, can transmit their influence. The two
operations are in wholly different categories—one belongs
to the physical order, the other to the psychical order.
It may be, as my friend Mr. F. C. Constable suggested,
in his work Persoriality and Telepathy, that we may find
in telepathy evidence of the direct operation of a tran-
scendental part of our being which is not conditioned in
matter or space. In any case, telepathy and its implica-
tions will afford a profound and fruitful subject of psycho-
logical discussion in the near future."
" Telepathy," as Mrs. Henry Sidgwick has remarked, " if a
purely psychical process—and the reasons for thinking it
is so increase—indicates that the mind can work inde-
pendently of the body, and thus adds to the probability
that it can survive it." 1
For my own part I am convinced
that telepathy is a purely psychical process, and if this be
so it is difficult to conceive how an idea or impression can
be telepathically conveyed except by the direct influence
of the transmitting mind on that of the percipient ; an
operation which suggests an excursive action of the mind,
or soul, or sub-liminal self ; if indeed we can speak of
excursive action in a process which is probably independent
both of matter and of space. A " telepathic impact
"
from some distant mind would thus appear to be a
psychical impact, for this impact, to quote Myers again
(op. cii. p. 521), "is no blunt shock. It may be sudden;
but it may also be persistent ; it may sometimes be
overwhelming, but it can be insinuating too. It is
not a bolt discharged and done with ; it is a vital
influence at work on the percipient's subhminal self."
Hence the distinction between this and a psychical invasion
of the percipient by an extraneous mind, seems (in our
ignorance of the modus operandi) to be only a question
of the degree of interpenetrating influence or control
which the extraneous mind or spirit can gain over the
receptive organism. When the control by the usurping
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXIX., p. 247.
260 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
spirit is more or less complete, we have the varied pheno-
mena of -possession, on which subject an illuminating
exposition has been given by Myers in Chap. IX. of his
great work on Human Personality.
lxxvt.] Review. . 261
REVIEW.
Experiments in Psychical Research, being the " Leland Stanford
Junior University's Psychical Research Monograph No. 1."
By John Edgar Coover, Fellow in Psychical Research
and Assistant Professor of Psychology. With a Foreword
by David Starr Jordan, Chancellor Emeritus, an Intro-
duction by Professor Frank Angell, Head of Department
of Psychology, and a Part by Professor Lillien J. Martin,
Professor Emeritus of Psychology. Stanford University,
California. Published by the University. Pp. xxiv, 641.
Psychical Research having at length got itself endowed academi-
cally, by a spiritualist and brother of the late Senator Stan-
ford, the authorities of Leland Stanford Junior University
are evidently determined to prove that they are making a
good use of the endowment given them, and are worthy of further
favours. Hence this enormous volume. Hence also a good
deal of padding in it, the three prefaces, the library catalogue
of 72 pages, the abundant citations and summaries of opinions,
which occupy 30 pages before the first experiments are reached ;
though it should be admitted that the summaries of the
past history of the subject are sometimes distinctly convenient.
The work is evidently intended to impress the world by
its sheer weight (3 lbs. 3J oz. avoirdupois), and especially
the academic world. It is hardly meant to be read, at all
events by the general public, to judge by the lengthiness
and diffuseness of its style, and the academic jargon in which
it is written. But this is all the more reason for summarizing
its findings, for drawing attention to the important material
it contains, and for discussing its value. For after subtracting
the padding, six plates, and nearly a hundred pages of tables
and '
curves,' there still remain over 400 pages of reports
on experiments, which demand consideration.
262 F. G. S. Schiller. [part
The first subject to be investigated was Thought Trans-
ference without contact (Part L). Pages 31-47 report experi-
ments with guessing and Lotto Block Numbers, with Dr. Coover
as the '
experimenter '
(
= ' Agent ') and a student of psychology
as the 'reagent' ( = '
Percipient '). The results were in general
negative, showing no greater amount of success than could
be ascribed to chance, and no correlation between the reagent's
subjective feeling of certainty and the actual success.
Pages 48-143 deal with the guessing of Playing Cards (court
cards omitted). Here the participators were numerous,
numbering over 200, and may probably be regarded as a
'
fair sample ' of the Californian student population, so that
the experiments constituted a good test of the hypothesis
that the capacity for receiving telepathic impressions is faintly
diffused throughout the human race. The method was to
set 100 pairs of experimenters each to do a' series of 100
experiments, in half of which (roughly) the agent knew the
card and tried to transfer his knowledge, while in the other
half he did not look at it until the reagent had made his
guess. The agent determined whether a regular or a '
control
'
experiment should be tried by a throw of dice, and apparently
(though this is not distinctly stated) the reagent never knew
which it was. Nor were the results inspected until the series
was completed. The results taken in bulk were again negative
in the aggregate, and so did not support the belief in faint
degrees of telepathy. 5135 '
card-imaged '
experiments, in
which a transfer was attempted, yielded 153 correct guesses
of the card and 538 of the number, though not of the suit,
the most probable numbers ascribable to chance being 128 and
513. The 4865 '
control '
experiments (which were supposed to
be pure guesses) yielded 488 correct Numbers, and 141 wholly
correct, the '
probable '
numbers being 486 and 122. There
was consequently a (slight) excess over the most '
probable
'
number in both series, and a slight difference in favour of
the '
experiments,' in which telepathy might conceivably be
operative ; but it was not sufficient to warrant any inference
to the reality of telepathy, as it was not above the limits of
chance variation. Thus the complete successes among the '
pure
guesses '
varied between 7 and 23 per 1000 (the probable
number being 12J), while those among the '
experiments
'
LXXVI.] Review. 263
varied between 11 and 20 ; so that one series of a thousand
'
pure guesses '
might actually have been taken as better
proof of telepathy than any series of '
experiments.'
When, however, we come to test the hypothesis that tele-
pathy occurs in certain (rare) subjects, the interpretation of
these figures is by no means as clear. For it then becomes
legitimate to argue that some only of the '
reagents '
had
faint telepathic capacity, and to select their answers for
separate analysis. Hence we may select 14 reagents (Nos. 1,
25, 26, 30, 32, 40, 42, 49, 59, 63, 64, 66, 78 and 97)
and tabulate their results. It then appears that in 711
experiments they got 119 Numbers right and scored 54 '
com-
plete successes.' The '
probable ' numbers are respectively
71 and 18. There was therefore a considerable excess over
the ordinary chance distribution. But was it too great to be
ascribed to chance, and must it be attributed to an unknown
cause ('telepathy')? Dr. Coover goes fully into the methods
of answering this question by the calculus of probabilities,
though he only applies them to his aggregate results.
His tables appear to show (p. 92) that if in a series of
700 guesses 5 per cent, are complete successes, and 14*8 per
cent, get the Numbers right, the excess above the '
probable
'
number becomes significant of something beyond chance, and
of course the larger the number of guesses the smaller becomes
the excess above the '
probable ' number which suffices to
establish this. Now in the set of reagents selected as
possibly telepathic, the percentage of complete successes is
actually 7-
6, and of '
Numbers right '
16- 73. This is on the
face of it a considerable excess, and if the method of reasoning
is sound, would appear to prove some degree of telepathy
in the 14 selected reagents.
But it will no doubt be objected that some of the series
of '
pure guesses ' would show similar results if selected in
this fashion. To test this suggestion let us take all those
series of piire guesses which scored 3 or more '
complete
successes.' They, too, happen to be 14 (Nos. 1, 2, 17, 25,
32, 51, 52, 64, 66, 71, 76, 93, 99, 100), and they add up
to a somewhat smaller number, viz. 690. Out of these 49
were complete successes, and 91 got the numbers right. The
resulting percentages are 7'1 and 13" 18, which is appreciably
264 F. CL 8. Schiller. [part
lower than 7'6 and 1673, though higher, as regards complete
successes, than is regarded as compatible with pure chance,
the highest percentages so compatible being 51 and 15.
We must next notice that of the two sets of 14 best series
the surprisingly large number of 5 are common to the '
experi-
ments '
and the 'pure guesses.' 1
In these 5 (Nos. 1, 25, 32,
64, and 66) 22 complete successes (8
-
46 per cent.) and 41
correct numbers (15
-
77 per cent.) were scored in 260 answers.
Subtracting these, for reasons to be presently explained,
27 complete successes and 50 correct numbers remain in
430 answers. The percentages then work out at 6-28 and
11-63, which compare with 5-
81 and 164 for the highest
percentage compatible with chance in 400 answers. There
is still an excess of complete successes, but its significance
is evidently much reduced. The success of the five who
succeeded alike as experimenters and as guessers, however,
remains a problem.
On this problem we may shed some light by combining
the '
pure guesses '
and the '
experiments ' in the five good
series. We then get 41 complete successes and 86 correct
numbers, in a total of 500. The percentages work out at
8 '2 and 17 2, and are very markedly higher than the maxima
attributable to chance according to Dr. Coover, viz. 5-
46
and 15-7.
These figures therefore distinctly point to some source of
Tightness beyond chance in these cases. As it occurs in the
'
pure guesses '
as well as in the '
experiments,' it cannot
be of the nature of conscious thought-transference. But
may it not be due to a sort of '
lucidity ' or clairvoyance
in the '
reagent '
? This possibility had long ago presented
itself to my mind in connexion with some card-guessing
1
How curious this correlation is may be shown by comparing the worst
series of 'experiments' and 'pure guesses.' Twenty series of 'experiments'
and 23 of '
pure guesses ' did not score a single complete success. Among
1090 answers 82 '
guesses ' got the Number right (against a '
probable ' 109
and 27 'complete successes'); among 1026 answers 68 'experiments' got the
Number right (against a 'probable' 103 and 26 'complete successes'). But
only 3 of the worst series were common to the 1
guesses' and the 'experiments,'
and in general no correlation could be traced between the bad series. In the
bad 'experiments' the 'guesses' were about the 'probable' number, while
in the bad '
guesses ' the corresponding '
experiments '
were above the average
(38 instead of 30 '
complete successes,' and 131 instead of 121 'Numbers right').
LXXVI.] Review. 265
experiments by means of automatic writing made in 1886,
and recorded in Proc, Vol. IV. p. 220. In this case a dispute
arose as to whether the results attained could be ascribed
to chance, the automatist (my brother) maintaining that
they could ; so to test the matter we all embarked on series
of 64 '
pure guesses.' The results were curious. For while
the other guessers got results in accordance with probability,
the automatist, though he never did quite so well as with
planchette, invariably scored 4-6 successes in his series of 64
(with a full pack).
Of course the long arm of coincidence may cover this also,
for no series, however improbable, can ever be proved to
be incompatible with chance ; but Dr. Coover is hardly entitled
to deduce from his data that " no trace of an objective thought-
transference is found as a capacity enjoyed in perceptible
measure by any of the individual normal reagents "
(p. 124).
He should recognize not only, as he does (p. 65), that his
'
control '
experiments assumed the non-existence of any
'
lucidity,' but also that this may have been wrong, and that
they may not have been '
pure guesses,' and endeavour to
experiment further with the abnormal coincidence of good
'
guessers '
and good '
experimenters.' If the excess of right
answers continues (with these subjects), he will be able
to establish the existence of telepathy on a statistical basis.
Experiments with these five good '
reagents '
would appear on the
evidence to be more promising than with the 10 '
psychics,'
whose 530 '
experiments '
only showed a comparatively slight
excess over probability, and whose '
guesses '
gave no hint
of lucidity.
The '
feeling of being stared at '
and the supposed power
of '
willing people to turn round ' was next investigated.
It was found (by questionnaire) that these beliefs were enter-
tained by 77 and 59 per cent, of the students in the psycho-
logy classes, and the experimenters were chosen from the
believers. The results of 1000 experiments were negative.
When the believers objected that the laboratory conditions
differed too much from those of real life, another 1000 experi-
ments were made in which the subjects were not told they
were to be stared at but only had to '
introspect '
; but in
no case was the feeling of being stared at recorded. Other
266 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
experiments with a plurality of starers and with '
willing
'
proved similarly inconclusive.
Part II., pp. 170-226, deals with Subliminal Impression, and
confirms experimentally the results of other investigators
as to the reality of this influence, though its numerical value
was not found to be as high as in the earlier experiments.
It seems obvious that the influence of the doubtfully and
faintly perceived impressions, which are called '
subliminal.'
can be varied to any extent by varying the conditions of
experiment, and that a dispute can always be raised as to
whether the stimulation was truly '
subliminal.'
Part III., pp. 227-366, is on Mental Habit and Inductive
Probability, and first devotes some sixty pages to establishing
the existence of mental habits in various matters having
little likeness to the conditions in psychical research, such as
the preference of judges for round numbers in sentencing
criminals. It is then argued that mental habits must tend
to increase the number of '
right '
cases in thought-transference
experiments. This may be admitted as regards experiments
with ordinary diagrams, in which there is sure to be a pre-
ponderance of simple geometrical forms, and it may of course
occur, also, if there is a coincidence between the number-habits
of any pair of percipients and agents ; but (in cases where
there is no reason—such as the judges had—to give a pre-
ference to round numbers) we must also recognize the possi-
bility that two such habits may clash and so reduce the
number of successes ; while with large masses of experimenters
it may fairly be assumed that these contrary influences will
cancel out without appreciably vitiating the results.
Part IV., pp. 367-408, reports experiments in Sound Assimila-
tion which were designed to test the trustworthiness of the
identification of articulate sounds, and the sceptical explanation
that when '
speakers with tongues ' are heard to be speaking
to each man in his own language, this interpretation proceeds
from the mind of the hearer. The results were surprising,
important and conclusive. A number of lists of nonsense-
syllables were prepared and dictated to the experimenters
(1) by means of a dictaphone, (2) by telephone, (3) at a
distance of 25 meters, (4) across the table. Under these
conditions right answers were obtained, " from the dictaphone
LXXVI.] Review. 267
less than 15 per cent., from the telephone less than 40 per
cent., from the air less than 40 per cent., across the table
less than 75 per cent." The rest then of what one '
hears
'
is interpretation and the work of the mind. A sceptic, who
would net believe that the results could be so bad, was
invited to dictate a list to the dictaphone himself, and immedi-
ately afterwards to record what he heard, only got 37 per
cent, correct, and even an expert stenographer could only
get 42 per cent. It was further shown that this incorrectness
was not due to a failure to hear the sounds themselves, but
to their being heard as other sounds. This was proved by
dictating a text which '
simulated ' an English sentence
which made sense, though it did not actually contain the sound
it mimicked in a single instance. Half of the sounds heard
were transformed into the corresponding English sounds, while
when the recorders were simultaneously looking at the English
text simulated less than 10 per cent, of the dictaphone sounds
were thought to be wrong, and " 90 per cent, came true
to the English text—were heard as other sounds." It is
obvious that where suggestion or emotion guides the interpreta-
tions of the senses the gravest errors may thus be committed
in perfectly good faith, and perception be falsified to an
enormous extent. But of course this principle cuts both
ways. It is not merely abnormal perceptions that are falsified
by expectation and suggestion. Normal perception comes
under the law even more plainly. It cannot but be an
interpretation of what is there, in the light of personal and
racial experience and social convention. And so it may
conceivably be the '
abnormal '
and '
unstable ' alone who
are sufficiently emancipated from the idola tribus and unbiassed
to perceive things as they really are, and not as they are
conventionally supposed to be.
Part V. consists of contributions by Prof. Lillien J. Martin.
The first explains that a supposed prophecy of the great
California earthquake of 1906, on a poster connected with
an undergraduate skit in 1903 showing the Stanford University
Memorial Arch in ruins, was really based on a geological
lecture about the earthquake rift running through California.
Then follows a study of ghost-seeing, which is attributed
to the power of projecting visual images. The interpretation
268 F. C. S. Schiller. [PAET
is not very convincing, but the stories of 2 of the 4 seers
are interesting. Prof. Martin also tabulates the answers
given by her classes in psychology in 1912-6 to the Society's
questionnaire about hallucinations, and remarks that hallucina-
tions appear to be much commoner among Stanford students
than among the English answers,1
and also that auditory
hallucinations were much commoner (more than 3 times) than
visual, whereas in the English results visual hallucinations
are commoner (nearly twice as common, crediting multiple
hallucinations to each of the senses affected). This she attri-
butes conjecturally to an omission of many simple auditory
hallucinations from the English Report. But even if we
added on a conjectural 3000 unrecorded auditory hallucinations
to bring their ratio up to the Stanford students' level the
17,000 answers of the British census would only show about
28 per cent, who had experienced hallucinations, whereas
at Stanford 256 out of 591 answers were affirmative, i.e.
43 per cent. Evidently the breezy Westerner is more suscep-
tible to the things which aren't there than the stolid Britisher.
It would be interesting to learn whether there is any marked
sex-difference, but Prof. Martin's table is silent about this.
Lastly Prof. Martin gives in '
An Experimental Study of
the Subconscious '
a brief account of some attempts to get
automatic writing, and a comparison of the value of this
method of exploring the subconscious with one she prefers,
the '
image '
method. It contains nothing of special interest,
save perhaps the story of the girl (p. 426) who gave herself
away by repeatedly intruding into her English essays the
name of a football hero she admired.
Among the Appendices '
C '
is important as an elaborate
criticism of the '
proof '
of telepathy put forward in the
experiments of the S.P.R. The early Creery experiments
are regarded as utterly vitiated by the subsequent confessions
of fraud, while Mr. D. Blackburn's revelations in 1911 about
the Smith-Blackburn experiments of 1882 are fully discussed.
Dr. Coover's verdict on the whole case is (p. 499) that " the
best of the evidence . . . which occupied first place in the
Society's authoritative Proceedings has suffered a fatal decline.
The Committee showed caution in guarding against fraud
!Cf. Proc. Vol. X.
LXXVI.] Review. 269
and error, and expressed their belief that both had been
eliminated. Contemporaneous critics pointed out the possible
operation of both, and challenged the trustworthiness of
the results. Collusion was later confessed by one or more
of the parties to the experiments in both the principal series.
As against the presumption of false confession, or a segregation
of untainted results, there remains in the published records
of both series of experiments internal evidence of the use
of a code." Also (p. 500) the general conduct of the investiga-
tion casts discredit upon the conclusions drawn. Appeal
was constantly made for the assistance of incompetent investi-
gators, winch besides facilitating the accumulation of results
which must be entirely untrustworthy through gross error
in procedure and records, encouraged skilled collusionists to
match wits with the Society's representatives in a contest
so unequal that positive results of a spurious character were
insured." The Society is also accused of suppressing and
declining to publish " a very considerable amount of negative
results." So " the Society, on account of its fiascoes and
persistent lack of psychological vision, is immeasurably farther
from its goal to-day than it was in 1886, in its effort to
produce proof of thought-transference." In spite of this
indictment, Dr. Coover does not think that the Society " has
failed to justify its existence," for " it has been of great service
to mankind, particularly in helping it to rid itself of fraud
and delusion " (p. 501). The real moral of its failures is
that " technical experience in experimental psychology is requisite
both for the control of the experiments and for the interpretation
of the results." Hence the only hope for the Society lies
" in cooperating with a psychological laboratory " (p. 502).
This contention about the value of laboratory apparatus
in overcoming the difficulties which the dark seance offers
to the scientific investigator is signally illustrated in Appendix
D, which narrates how a '
Trumpet-Medium's ' phenomena
were traced to their source by quite simple apparatus recording
her respiration and pulse. The exposure (or, as Dr. Coover
prefers to call it, '
expose ') was overwhelming, and is only
enhanced by the moderation of the phrasing which ironically
professes to leave the question open for a future investigation
(which was of course refused by the medium) and by trans-
270 F. C. 8. Schiller. [part
scribing the very inadequate protests of those members of
the investigating Committee of the California Psychical Research
Society who were unwilling to accept Dr Coover's demonstra-
tion. He may be said to have shown conclusively that in
the trial of wits between the fraudulent medium and the scientist
the victory should always rest with the latter, if he will
only take the trouble to devise suitable apparatus.
From this conclusion, however, a number of morals may
be drawn. For fraudulent mediums the moral is that they
should be extremely careful and that their whole business
is threatened with extinction, alike whether they refuse the
test by apparatus or prefer to be detected, quietly and without
a row, by the inexorable tracing of a kymograph. For the
scientist who refuses to interest himself in psychical research
on the plea that the conditions do not lend themselves to
scientific investigation, the moral should be that this excuse
has broken down, and that he can no longer absolve himself
from the social duty of educating the public by routing popular
superstition. For the psychical researcher, lastly, the moral
plainly is that he should modernize his equipment, provide
himself with a specially constructed laboratory, and no longer
trust to his unaided senses and sheer intelligence. It may
be suggested also that the present time, when there are so
many millions who have been cruelly and abnormally bereaved
and deprived of those in whom their hopes were centred,
when there is such keen dissatisfaction with the evasive
platitudes of conventional creeds, by which all societies have
from time immemorial cheated the longing of the freshly-
wounded human heart not to be totally severed from those
it loved, and when nevertheless the critical spirit is strong
enough in many not to rest content with consoling deceptions,
affords a unique opportunity for obtaining a favourable response
to an appeal for the means to establish and equip a Psychical
Research Laboratory, in which all the alleged phenomena
may be systematically, fairly, and sympathetically examined.
Such an appeal should be launched by our Society, which
has been in existence long enough to have become widely
known and has won public confidence by its fair-mindedness,
prudence and candour, and has made comparatively few
mistakes. For it is by this time clear that the world will
LXXVI.] Bevieiv. 271
not accept the verdict either of those who will believe anything
or of those who will believe nothing. Both the spiritists,
on the one side, and the experimental psychologists on
the other, have (as a body) shown themselves to be too
bitterly biassed. The time is ripe for a serious investigation
which prejudges no question, and is biassed only in favour
of the truth, however strange and unacceptable it may prove
to be.
Even supposing, however, that our Society had obtained
its laboratory and the men to man it, we should be prepared
to find that the question could not be easily or rapidly settled.
For it is one of those questions which inevitably arouse party
spirit, and neither party is ever convinced as a whole, though
individuals may pass from one side to the other. To expect
the question of another world to be settled one way or the
other by the ordinary methods of scientific investigation
would be as quixotic as to expect to decide in this way
whether the conservative party or the liberal was scientifically
right. And for the same reason. It may confidently be
predicted that if the investigation should yield entirely, or
predominantly, negative results, like Dr. Coover's, the believers
will at most drop such parts of their case as have been too
obviously exploded, while clinging to the rest with an intenser
affection. Or, more probably, they will repudiate the methods,
and impugn the fairness, of the investigators. If, on the
other hand, there should result a report favourable to the
claims of a subject which is viewed with intense repugnance
(for reasons which are by no means all creditable or avowed)
by a large and influential section of human opinion, it will
as certainly be alleged that the investigators were dishonest
or incapable and deceived by undetected sources of error,
which their critics may not even trouble to specifj*. If
the results should lie between these two extremes, the present
unsatisfactory "state of affairs will continue, and it will depend
on every man's taste and temper how much or little he
chooses to believe.
What then is to be done ? Is the situation hopeless ?
By no means, if the parties to the dispute can only be induced
to provide themselves with an adequate logic. The old logic,
which abstracted from human feeling and the disturbances
272 F. C. 8. Schiller. [part
it introduced into human truth-seeking, knew of no higher
ambition than to applaud the triumphal march of pure thought.
It would not recognize the very impure thought of actual
humanity and could make nothing of its procedure, which
finds every step in advance stubbornly resisted by prejudice,
ignorance and indolence, and has to fight its way through
errors and obstacles of every description, so that it wins no
truth save at a cost fully commensurate with its value.
The new pragmatic logic, however, does not deem it unworthy
of the dignity of human reason to notice these facts. It can
consequently observe that wherever truth has become a party
question, its discovery ceases to be a purely theoretic problem.
To 'prove' a truth, cogently, absolutely, to all, and for all
time, becomes impossible. It becomes a question of inducing
those to accept it who could, if they wished, hold out against
it, and of pioviding them with a sufficient motive to give
their assent to it. Now, experience shows that the sole sort
of truth which silences all opposition, and becomes indisputable,
is that which develops such value as to become practically
indispensable. Not only in ordinary life, but also in the
sciences, beliefs which are so convenient that all work with
them, and so useful that all act as if they thought them
true, become indisputable : theoretic scruples about their
truth die away, because they function as effective truths.
Thus no one now urges, or confutes, the metaphysical objections
to the use of anaesthetics which were once common, because
their use has become a part of the regular routine of medicine :
but such scruples are still urged against the use of hypnosis,
because this treatment is not yet so firmly established in
medical practice.
It follows that it is mistaken and vain to dispute with
objectors like Dr. Coover about the scientific value of certain
historical records as a proof of telepathy. His sweeping
condemnation of the Society's pioneer work 'will seem to
most of us entirely unjust. But nothing would be gained
by disputing about its justice. The best, and ultimately
the only, way to confute, and also to convert, the critic is
to develop telepathy into a working method of communication.
If telepathy occurs as a fact in nature, it must be supposed
that it occurs under certain conditions. If we ascertain these
LXXVI.J Review. 273
conditions, we obtain control of the phenomena. We can
then not only repeat at will the theoretic proofs of its existence
and multiply the evidence for it to any desired extent, but,
what is far more rapidly and universally convincing, we
can use it and exploit it as an alternative to telegraphy.
Neither scientific scepticism nor popular indifference can long
refuse recognition to a truth-claim which is actually working,
and yielding valuable results. But we have no right to expect
that the investigation of anything worth knowing will be cheap
and easy- F. C. S. Schiller.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXVII.
July, 1919.
I.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered on April 11th, 1919,
By the Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
Before entering upon the matters that I had intended to
lay before you, it is fitting that I should refer to the loss
we have sustained within the last few days in the death of
Sir William Crookes, a former President of the Society during
several years from 1896-1899, and a man of world-wide scientific
reputation. During his long and active life he made many
discoveries in Physics and Chemistry of the first importance.
In quite early days his attention was attracted by an unknown
and brilliant green line in the spectrum, which he succeeded
in tracing to a new element named Thallium, after its appear-
ance. Later he was able so to improve vacua as to open
up fresh lines of enquiry with remarkable results in more
than one direction. The radiometer, a little instrument in
which light, even candle-light, or ordinary day-light, causes
the rotation of delicately suspended vanes, presents problems
even yet only partially solved. And his discoveries relating
to electric discharge in high vacua lie near the foundation of
the modern theories of electricity as due to minute charged
particles called electrons, capable of separation from ordinary
S
276 The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
chemical atoms, and of moving with speeds of the order of
the speed of light. One is struck not only by the technical
skill displayed in experiments more difficult at the time they
were made than the younger generation of workers can easily
understand, but also by the extraordinary instinct which
directed Crookes' choice of subjects. In several cases their
importance was hardly realised at the time, and only later
became apparent.
I shall have occasion presently to notice in some little
detail his early " Notes on Phenomena called Spiritual." It
was these that attracted my own attention to the subject.
In 1889 he published further " Notes of Seances with D. D.
Home " in Vol. VI. of our Proceedings. I fancy that he was
disappointed with the reception that his views met with, having
been sanguine enough to expect that he would obtain the
same credence when he wrote on psychical matters as when
he was dealing with Physics or Chemistry. In later years
I understand he did not often introduce the subject, but when
questioned was firm that he had nothing to retract. One would
give much to know whether this attitude is still maintained.
Any hesitation that I may have felt in undertaking the
honourable office to which you have called me was largely due
to the fact that I have no definite conclusions to announce,
and that such experiences as I have had were long ago, and
can hardly now carry weight as evidence to anyone but
myself. But I have always taken an interest in questions
such as those considered by the Society, and I may perhaps as
well give a short account of what I have seen, for it will at
any rate help to explain my attitude and serve as a foundation
for comment.
I may begin with what is now called hypnotism. This is an
old story ; but many have forgotten, or never realised, the
disbelief which was general in the fifties of the last century
both on the part of the public and of medical men. As to the
former, reference may be made to Punch, 1
and as to the latter
1
Vol. XXIV., p. 120 (1853), Lecturer on Electro-biology, "Now, Sir! you
can't jump over that stick." Subject, "Jump? Eh! Ugh! Lor bless me,
jump ? No, I know I can't—never could jump—Ugh !
" (Thunders of Applause
from the Gentlemen in the cane-bottoin chairs
—
[i.e. believers]).
LXXVII.] Presidential Address. 277
I suppose there can be no doubt, although of course there
were distinguished exceptions. At the present day orthodox
medical opinion has so far shifted its ground as to claim for
the profession control of what was formerly dismissed as
impossible and absurd—certainly a less unreasonable position.
It was some ten or eleven years from the date of Punch's
cartoon that I witnessed in a friend's rooms at Cambridge an
exhibition of the powers of Madame Card. I think eight or ten
of us were tried, including myself. We were made to gaze for
a time at a " magnetic " disc ; afterwards she made passes over
our closed eyes, and finally defied us to open them. I and
some others experienced no difficulty ; and naturally she dis-
carded us and developed her powers over those—about half the
sitters—who had failed or found difficulty. Among the latter
were personal friends of my own and two well-known Uni-
versity athletes. One was told that he could not give his
name, another that he would have to cross the room towards
her when she beckoned, and so on. In spite of obvious
efforts to resist her influence they had to obey. In conver-
sation afterwards they assured me that they could not help
it ; and indeed they made such fools of themselves that I
had no difficulty in believing them. From that evening I
have never felt any doubt as to the possibility of influencing
unwilling minds by suggestion ; and I have often wished
that on other occasions, where dubious phenomena were in
question, some of which I shall presently refer to, conviction
one way or the other had followed this precedent. I ought
to add that, although stories were afloat to that effect, I
never saw the influence of Madame Card conveyed otherwise
than by word or gesture.
After this experience I was not disinclined to believe that
what was, or at any rate had recently been, orthodox opinion
might be quite wrong, and accordingly became interested in
what I heard from friends of the doings of Home and other
so-called mediums. Some of the stories could, as it seemed,
be explained away only on the supposition of barefaced lying,
or more charitably as the result of hallucination, whether
self-induced, or due to the suggestion and influence of others.
The possibility of the latter view cannot be left out of account,
but I have never seen anything to show that it has the
278 The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
remotest application to my own experience or that of the
friends with whom I have co-operated.
The interest that I felt was greatly stimulated by the
appearance of Sir W. Crookes' " Notes of an Enquiry into the
Phenomena called Spiritual during the years 1870-73." 1
I was
acquainted with some of the author's scientific work, and knew
that he was a skilful experimenter and likely to be alive to
the precautions required in order to guard against sense
illusions. Presumably also he would feel the difficulty of
accepting conclusions so much out of harmony with ordinary
and laboratory experience. If heavy tables in a dining-room
can leave the floor, how is it that in the laboratory our
balances can be trusted to deal with a tenth of a milligram ?
I have lately read over again Sir W. Crookes' article, and
I do not wonder at the impression it produced upon me.
] am tempted to quote one or two passages against which I
find my old pencil marks. Under the heading—The Appear-
ance of Hands, either Self-luminous or Visible by Ordinary
Light, he writes, " I have retained one of these hands in my
own, firmly resolved not to let it escape. There was no struggle
or effort made to get loose, but it gradually seemed to resolve
itself into vapour, and faded in that manner from my grasp."
I believe that the rationalistic explanation is that the hand
was an inflated glove, like a rubber balloon, from which the
air gradually leaked away, but I gave Sir W. Crookes credit
for being able to retain the rubber.
Another incident of an entirely different character is thus
described. " A lady was writing automatically by means of
the planchette. I was trying to devise a means of proving
that what she wrote was not due to '
imconscious cerebration.'
The planchette, as it always does, insisted that, although it
was moved by the hand and arm of the lady, the intelligence
was that of an invisible being who was playing on her brain
as on a musical instrument, and thus moving her muscles.
I therefore said to this intelligence, '
Can you see the contents
of this room?' 'Yes,' wrote the planchette. 'Can you see
to read this newspaper ' ? said I, putting my finger on a
copy of the Times, which was on the table behind me, but
without looking at it. 'Yes,' was the reply of the planchette.
1
Quarterly Journal of Science, Jan. 1874.
LXXVII.] Presidential Address. 279
'
Well,' I said, '
if you can see that, write the word which is
now covered by my finger, and I will believe you.' The
planchette commenced to move. Slowly and with great
difficulty, the word '
however ' was written. I turned round,
and saw the word '
however ' was covered by the tip of
my finger."
" I had purposely avoided looking at the newspaper when
I tried this experiment, and it was impossible for the lady,
had she tried, to have seen any of the printed words, for she
was sitting at one table, and the paper was on another table
behind, my body intervening."
The two mediums whose names are mentioned in the article,
and with whom most of the observations were made, are
Home and Miss Fox, afterwards Mrs. Jencken. A highly
desirable characteristic of Home's mediumship was the unusual
opportunity allowed to the sense of sight. Home always
objected to darkness at his seances. " Indeed," says Sir
William Crookes, " except on two occasions . . . everything
that I have witnessed with him has taken place in the
light."
I found (and indeed still find) it difficult to accept what
one may call the " knave and fool theory " of these occurrences ;
but failing that, it would seem to follow that one must admit
the possibility of much that contrasts strongly with ordinary
experience, and I was naturally anxious to obtain first hand
information on which I could form an independent judgment.
Home was no longer available, but I was able to obtain the
co-operation of Mrs. Jencken, who stayed in my country house
as guest during two or three visits extending altogether, I
suppose, over fourteen days or so. She was accompanied by
a nurse and baby, and for a small part of the time by Mr.
Jencken, who seemed curiously slow to understand that we
had to regard him as well as his wife with suspicion, when I
explained that we could not attach importance to seances
when both were present. It may be well to add that they
received nothing beyond the usual courtesy and entertainment
due to guests.
The results were upon the whole disappointing, and certainly
far short of those described by Sir W. Crookes. Nevertheless
there was a good deal not easy to explain away. Very little
280 The Eight Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
of importance occurred in a good light. It is true that at
any hour of the day Mrs. Jencken was able to get raps upon
a door by merely placing her fingers upon it. The listener,
hearing them for the first time, felt sure there was some one
on the other side, but it was not so. The closest scrutiny
revealed no movement of her fingers, but there seemed nothing
to exclude the possibility of bone-cracking with the door
acting as sounding-board. However, on one or two occasions
loud thumps were heard, such as one would hardly like to
make with one's knee. With the exception of her fingers
Mrs. Jencken seemed always to stand quite clear, and the light
was good.
On the other hand, during seances the light was usually bad
-
—gas turned very low. But in some other respects the
conditions may be considered good. Before commencing, the
room was searched and the doors locked. Besides Mrs. Jenc-
ken, the sitters were usually only Lady Rayleigh and myself.
Sometimes a brother or a friend came. We sat close together
at. a small, but rather heavy, pedestal table ; and when any-
thing appeared to be doing we held Mrs. Jencken's hands,
with a good attempt to control her feet also with ours ; but
it was impracticable to maintain this full control during all
the long time occupied by the seances. In contrast to some
other mediums, Mrs. Jencken was not observed to fidget or to
try to release her limbs.
As I have said, the results were disappointing ; but I do not
mean that very little happened or that what did happen was
always easy to explain. But most of the happenings were
trifling, and not such as to preclude the idea of trickery.
One's coat-tails would be pulled, paper cutters, etc., would fly
about, knocks would shake our chairs, and so on. I do not
count messages, usually of no interest, which were spelt out
alphabetically by raps that seemed to come from the neigh-
bourhood of the medium's feet. Perhaps what struck us
most were lights which on one or two occasions floated about.
They were real enough, but rather difficult to locate, though
1 do not think they were ever more than six or eight feet
away from us. Like some of those described by Sir W.
Orookes, they might be imitated by phosphorus enclosed in
cotton wool ; but how Mrs. Jencken could manipulate them
Lxxvn.] Presidential Address. 281
with her hands and feet held, and it would seem with only
her mouth at liberty, is a difficulty.
Another incident hard to explain occurred at the close of a
seance after we had all stood up. The table at which we
had been sitting gradually tipped over until the circular top
nearly touched the floor, and then slowly rose again into the
normal position. Mrs. Jencken, as well as ourselves, was
apparently standing quite clear of it. 1 have often tried
since to make the table perform a similar evolution. Holding
the top with both hands, I can make some, though a bad,
approximation ; but it was impossible that Mrs. Jencken
could have worked it thus. Possibly something better could
be done with the aid of an aj:>paratus of hooks and wires ;
but Mrs. Jencken was a small woman, without much apparent
muscular development, and the table for its size is heavy.
It must be admitted that the light was poor, but our eyes
were then young, and we had been for a long time in the
semi-darkness.
In common, I suppose, with most witnesses of such things,
I repudiate altogether the idea of hallucination as an explana-
tion. The incidents were almost always unexpected, and
our impressions of them agreed. They were either tricks of
the nature of conjuring tricks, or else happenings of a kind
very remote from ordinary experience.
A discouraging feature was that attempts to improve the
conditions usually led to nothing. As an example, I may
mention that after writing, supposed to be spirit writing,
had appeared, I arranged pencils and paper inside a large
glass retort, of which the neck was then hermetically sealed.
For safety this was placed in a wooden box, and stood under
the table during several seances. The intention was to give
opportunity for evidence that would be independent of close
watching during the semi-darkness. It is perhaps unnecessary
to say that though scribbling appeared on the box, there was
nothing inside the retort. Possibly this was too much to
expect. I may add that on recently inspecting the retort
I find that the opportunity has remained neglected for forty-
five years.
Dining all this time I have been in doubt what interpre-
tation to put upon these experiences. In my judgment the
282 The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
incidents were not good enough, or under good enough con-
ditions, to establish occult influences ; but yet I have always
felt difficulty in accepting the only alternative explanation.
Some circumstances, if of secondary importance, are also worthy
of mention. Unlike some other mediums that I have known,
Mrs. Jencken never tried to divert one's attention, nor did she
herself seem to be observant or watching for opportunities.
I have often said that on the unfavourable hypothesis her
acting was as wonderful as her conjuring. Seldom, or never,
during the long hours we were together at meals or seances
did she make an intelligent remark. Her interests seemed
to be limited to the spirits and her baby.
Mr. Jencken is another difficulty. He, an intelligent man,
was a spiritualist, and, I have no reason to doubt, an honest
one, before he married his wife. Could she have continued
to deceive him ? It seems almost impossible. He bore
eye-witness to the baby—at the age of three months I think
it was—taking a pencil and writing a spirit message, of which
we saw what purported to be a photograph. If, on the other
hand, he had found her out, would he have permitted her to
continue her deceptions ?
After the death of Home and Mrs. Jencken, so-called phy-
sical manifestations of a well attested kind seem rather to
have fallen into abeyance, except in the case of Eusapia
Palladino. Although I attended one or two of her seances
at Cambridge and saw a few curious things, other members of
the Society have had so much better opportunities that I pass
them by. There is no doubt that she practised deception,
but that is not the last word.
One of the difficulties which beset our inquiry is the pro-
voking attitude of many people who might render assistance.
Some see nothing out of the way in the most marvellous
occurrences, and accordingly take no pains over the details
of evidence on which everything depends. Others attribute
all these things to the devil, and refuse to have anything to
say to them. I have sometimes pointed out that if during the
long hours of seances we could keep the devil occupied in
so comparatively harmless a manner we deserved well of our
neighbours.
A real obstacle to a decision arises from the sporadic char-
LXXVII.] Presidential Address. 283
acter of the phenomena, which cannot be reproduced at
pleasure and submitted to systematic experimental control.
The difficulty is not limited to questions where occult in-
fluences may be involved. This is a point which is often
misunderstood, and it may be worth while to illustrate it by
examples taken from the history of science.
An interesting case is that of meteorites, discussed by Sir
L. Fletcher, formerly Keeper of Minerals in the British Museum,
from whose official pamphlet (published in 1896) some extracts
may be emoted :
—" 1. Till the beginning of the present [i.e.
19th] century, the fall of stones from the sky was an event,
the actuality of which neither men of science nor the mass
of the people could be brought to believe in. Yet such
falls have been recorded from the earliest times, and the
records have occasionally been received as authentic by a whole
nation. In general, however, the witnesses of such an event
have been treated with the disrespect usually shown to re-
porters of the extraordinary, and have been laughed at for
their supposed delusions : this is less to be wondered at
when we remember that the witnesses of a fall have usually
been few in number, unaccustomed to exact observation,
frightened by what they both saw and heard, and have had a
common tendency towards exaggeration and superstition."
After mention of some early stones, he continues : —
" 3. These falls from the sky, when credited at all, have
been deemed prodigies or miracles, and the stones have been
regarded as objects for reverence and worship. It has even
been conjectured that the worship of such stones was the
earliest form of idolatry. . . . The Diana of the Ephesians,
'
which fell down from Jupiter,' and the image of Venus at
Cyprus appear to have been, not statues, but conical or pyra-
midal stones."
" 5. Three French Academicians, one of whom was the
afterwards renowned chemist Lavoisier, presented to the
Academy in 1772 a report on the analysis of a stone said to
have been seen to fall at Luce on September 13, 1768. As the
identity of lightning with the electric spark had been recently
established by Franklin, they were in advance convinced that
'
thunder-stones '
existed only in the imagination ; and never
dreaming of the existence of a '
sky-stone '
which had no
284 The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
relation to a '
thunder-stone, ' they somewhat easily assured
both themselves and the Academy that there was nothing
unusual in the mineralogical characters of the Luce specimen,
their verdict being that the stone was an ordinary one which
had been struck by lightning."
" 6. In 1794 the German philosopher Chladni, famed for his
researches into the laws of sound, brought together numerous
accounts of the fall of bodies from the sky, and called the
attention of the scientific world to the fact that several masses
of iron, of which he specially considers two, had in all pro-
bability come from outer space to this planet."
In 1802 Edward Howard read a paper before the Royal
Society of London giving an account of the comparative
results of a chemical and mineralogical investigation of four
stones which had fallen in different places. He found from
the similarity of their component parts " very strong evidence
in favour of the assertion that they had fallen on our globe.
They have been found at places very remote from each other,
and at periods also sufficiently distant. The mineralogists who
have examined them agree that they have no resemblance to
mineral substances properly so called, nor have they been
described by mineralogical authors." After this quotation
from Howard, Fletcher continues :
—
" 13. This paper aroused much interest in the scientific
world, and, though Chladni's theory that such stones come
from outer space was still not accepted in France, it was
there deemed more worthy of consideration after Poisson
(following Laplace) had shown that a body shot from the moon
in the direction of the earth, with an initial velocity of 7592
feet a second, would not fall back upon the moon, but would
actually, after a journey of sixty-four hours, reach the earth,
upon which, neglecting the resistance of the air, it would fall
with a velocity of about 31,508 feet a second."
" 14. Whilst the minds of the scientific men of France were
in this unsettled condition, there came a report that another
shower of stones had fallen, this time .... within easy reach
of Paris. To settle the matter finally, if possible, the physicist
Biot was directed by the Minister of the Interior to inquire
into the event on the spot. After a careful examination . . .
Biot was convinced that on Tuesday, April 26, 1803, about
1XXVII.] Presidential Address. 285
1 p.m., there was a violent explosion in the neighbourhood of
l'Aigle .... that some moments before .... a fire ball in
quick motion was seen .... that on the same day many
stones fell in the neighbourhood of l'Aigle. Biot estimated
the number of the stones at two or three thousand ....
With the exception of a few little clouds of ordinary character,
the sky was quite clear. The exhaustive report of Biot, and
the conclusive nature of his proofs, compelled the whole of
the scientific world to recognise the fall of stones on the
earth from outer space as an undoubted fact."
I commend this history to the notice of those scientific men
who are so sure that they understand the character of Nature's
operations as to feel justified in rejecting without examination
reports of occurrences which seem to conflict with ordinary
experience. Every tiro now knows that the stones to be
seen in most museums had an origin thought impossible by
some of the leading and most instructed men of about a century
ago.
Other cases of strange occurrences, the nature or reality of
which is, I suppose, still in doubt, are " Globe lightning
"
and "Will of the wisp." The evidence for globe lightning
is fairly substantial, but in the judgment of many scientific
men is outweighed by the absence of support in laboratory
experience. At one time I was more disposed to believe in it
than I am now, in view of the great extension of elec-
trical experimenting during the last thirty years. Kelvin
thought it might be explained as an ocular illusion. By a
lightning flash the retina is powerfully impressed, it may be
excentrically, with the formation of a prolonged positive
" spectrum " or image which, as the eye tries to follow it,
appears to sail slowly along. Some seconds later, the arrival
of the sound of thunder causes a shock, under which the
luminous globe disappears and is thought to have burst ex-
plosively. I think this explanation, which would save the
good faith and to some extent the good sense of the observers,
deserves attention.
Then again the Will of the wisp, for which I take it there
used to be plenty of evidence. I have been told by the Duke
of Argyle—the friend and colleague of Gladstone—that in his
youth it was common at Inveraray, but had been less seen
286 The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
latterly, owing, he thought, to drainage operations. Chemists
will not readily believe in the spontaneous inflammation of
"marsh gas," but I have heard the suggestion made of phos-
phoric gases arising from the remains of a dead sheep that
had got entangled.
The truth is that we are ill equipped for the investigation
of phenomena which cannot be reproduced at pleasure
under good conditions. And a clue is often necessary before
much progress can be made. Men had every motive for
trying to understand malaria. Exposure at night on low
ground was known to be bad ; and it had even been sug-
gested that mosquito nets served as a protection ; but before
Pasteur, and indeed for some years after, it seems never to have
occurred to any one that the mosquito itself was the
vehicle. Sir A. Geikie has remarked that until recent times
the study of the lower forms of life was regarded with some-
thing like contempt. Verily, the microbes have had their
revenge.
But when all this has been said we must not forget that
the situation is much worse when it is complicated by the
attempts of our neighbours to mislead us, as indeed occasionally
happens in other matters of scientific interest where money is
involved. Here also the questions before this Society differ
from most of those dealt with by scientific men, and may
often need a different kind of criticism.
Such criticism it has been the constant aim of the Society
to exercise, as must be admitted by all who have studied
carefully our published matter. If my words could reach
them, I would appeal to serious inquirers to give more attention
to the work of this Society, conducted by experienced men
and women, including several of a sceptical 'turn of mind,
and not to indulge in hasty conclusions on the basis of reports
in the less responsible newspaper press or on the careless
gossip of ill-informed acquaintances. Many of our members
are quite as much alive to a priori difficulties as any outsider
can be.
Of late years the published work of the Society has dealt
rather with questions of another sort, involving telepathy,
whether from living or other intelligences, and some of the
most experienced and cautious investigators are of opinion
lxxvii.] Presidential Address. 287
that a case has been made out. Certainly some of the cross-
correspondences established are very remarkable. Their evalua-
tion, however, requires close attention and sometimes a back-
ground of information, classical and other, not at the disposal
of all of us. In this department I often find my estimate
of probabilities differing from that of my friends. I have
more difficulty than they feel over telepathy between the
living, but if I had no doubts there I should feel less difficulty
than many do in going further. I think emphasis should be
laid upon the fact that the majority of scientific men do not
believe in telepathy, or even that it is possible. We are very
largely the creatines of our sense-organs. Only those physicists
and physiologists who have studied the subject realise what
wonderful instruments these are. The eye, the ear, and the
nose—even the human nose—are hard to beat, and within
their proper range are more sensitive than anything we can
make in the laboratory. It is true that with long exposures
we can photograph objects in the heavens that the eye cannot
detect ; but the fairer comparison is between what we can
see and what can be photographed in say l-10th second—all
that the eye requires. These sense-organs, shared with the
higher animals, must have taken a long time to build up, and
one would suppose that much development in other directions
must have been sacrificed or postponed in that interest. Why
was not telepathy developed until there could be no question
about it ? Think of an antelope in danger from a lion about
to spring upon him, and gloating over the anticipation of his
dinner. The antelope is largely protected by the acuteness
of his senses and his high speed when alarmed. But would
it not have been simpler if he could know something tele-
pathically of the lion's intention, even if it were no more
than vague apprehension warning him to be on the move ?
By telepathy is to be understood something more than is
implied in the derivation of the word, the conveying of feeling
or information otherwise than by use of the senses, or at
any rate the known senses. Distance comes into the question
mainly because it may exclude their ordinary operation.
Some appear to think that all difficulty is obviated by the
supposition of -an unknown physical agency capable of propa-
gating effects from one brain to another, acting like the
288 The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
transmitter and receiver in wireless telegraphy or telephony.
On a physical theory of this kind one must expect a rapid
attenuation with distance, not suggested by the records. If
distance is an important consideration, one might expect
husbands and wives with their heads within two or three feet
of one another to share their dreams habitually. But there
is a more fundamental objection. Specific information is,
and can only be, conveyed in this manner by means of a
code. People seem to forget that all speaking and writing
depend upon a code, and that even the voluntary or involun-
tary indications of feeling by facial expression or gestures
involves something of the same nature. It will hardly be
argued that telepathy acts by means of the usual code of
common language, as written or spoken.
The conclusion that I draw is that no pains should be
spared to establish the reality of telepathy on such sure ground
that it must be generally admitted by all serious inquirers.
It is quite natural that those who have already reached this
position should be more interested in the question of com-
munications from the dead. To my mind telepathy with the
dead would present comparatively little difficulty when it is
admitted as regards the living. If the apparatus of the senses
is not used in one case, why should it be needed in the other ?
I do not underrate the difficulties of the investigation. Very
special conditions must be satisfied if we are to be indepen-
dent of the good faith of the persons primarily concerned.
The performance of the Zanzigs may be recalled. When there
could be no question of confederates, answers respecting objects
suddenly exhibited were given with such amazing rapidity
that secret codes seemed almost excluded. But when a party
in which I was included, attempted to get a repetition under
stricter conditions, there was an almost entire failure. Our
requirement was simply that the husband should not speak
after he had seen the object that was to be described by the
wife. But I must add the inevitable qualification. Towards
the end of the evening cards were correctly told several
times, when we were unable to detect anything that could
serve as audible signals.
I have dwelt upon the difficulties besetting -the acceptance
of telepathy, but I fully recognise that a strong case has been
LXXVII.] Presidential Address. 289
made out for it. I hope that more members of the Society
will experiment in this direction. It is work that can be done
at home, at odd times, and without the help of mediums,
professional or other. Some very interesting experiences of
this kind have been recorded by a former President, Prof.
Gilbert Murray. With perhaps an excess of caution, he
abstained from formulating conclusions that must have seemed
to most readers to follow from the facts detailed. I trust we
may hear still more from him.
It is hardly necessary to emphasise that in evaluating
evidence it is quality rather than quantity with which
we are concerned. No one can doubt the existence of appar-
ently trustworthy reports of many occult phenomena. For
this there must be a reason, and our object is to find it.
But whatever it may be, whether reality of the phenomena,
or the stupidity or carelessness or worse of the narrators, a
larger sweep is sure to add to the material. However, we
may hope that such additions will occasionally afford clues,
or at least suggestions for further inquiry. And if the pheno-
mena, or any of them, are really due to supernormal causes,
further solid evidence of this will emerge. I feel that I
ought to apologise for giving utterance to what must seem
platitudes to the more experienced working members of the-
Society.
Some of the narratives that I have read suggest the possi-
bility of prophecy. This is very difficult ground. But we
live in times which are revolutionary in science as well as in
politics. Perhaps some of those who accept extreme " rela-
tivity " views reducing time to merely one of the dimensions
of a four-dimensional manifold, may regard the future as
differing from the past no more than north differs from south.
But here I am nearly out of my depth, and had better stop.
I fear that my attitude, or want of attitude, will be dis-
appointing to some members of the Society who have out-
stripped me on the road to conviction, but this I cannot
help. Scientific men should not rush to conclusions, but keep
their minds open for such time as may be necessary. And
what was at first a policy may become a habit. After forty-
five years of hesitation it may require some personal experience
of a compelling kind to break the crust. Some of those who
290 The Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh. [part
know me best think that I ought to be more convinced than
I am. Perhaps they are right.
However this may be, I have never felt any doubt as to
the importance of the work carried on by the Society over
many years, and I speak as one who has examined not a few
of the interesting and careful papers that have been published
in the Proceedings. Several of the founders of the Society
were personal friends, and since they have gone the same
spirit has guided us. Our goal is the truth, whatever it may
turn out to be, and our efforts to attain it should have the
sympathy of all, and I would add especially of scientific men.
Lxxvn.] Note on Mr. Piddington's Paper. 291
II.
NOTE ON MR. PIDDINGTON'S PAPER CALLED
" FRESH LIGHT ON THE ONE-HORSE DAWN
EXPERIMENT."
By Sir Oliver Lodge.
In reading Mr. Piddington's extraordinarily able and
interesting paper in the Proceedings, Vol. XXX., pp. 175-229,
I have a feeling that his meaning is masked and real
intention to some extent obscured by the semi-satirical
or humorous treatment of his theme.
Probably his real meaning is so clear to himself that he
fails to realise the haste and comparative inattention of
the majority of readers—inattention which I feel sure
would vanish if they perceived clearly what he was
driving at.
Let me ask Mr. Piddington whether his intention is
not something like what I conceive it to be ;
and, for
brevity, let me state what I think it is, and ask for
correction.
Dr. Verrall then, in his lifetime, tried a telepathic
experiment on his wife, who had recently become an
automatic writer, without informing her of the fact.
He endeavoured to transmit to her at intervals, over a
considerable period of time, a phrase from the Orestes
of Euripides, hovottwXov e? 'Aw. The first of these three
Greek words has usually been taken to mean " with one
horse " ; but Dr. Verrall thought it meant the attribute
" solitary journeying,"' or " lonely-wandering," applied
to Dawn.
Myers, who was deceased and ostensibly in touch with
Mrs. Verrall through her automatic writing, got wind some-
how of this intended experiment of Dr. Verrall's, as well
T
292 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
as of his interpretation of /j.ov6ttw\ov , and thought he
could use the intended experiment for his own purposes
and show that much that we regarded as direct telepathy
between A and B was really effected through the agency
of a third intelligence C,—usually a discarnate intelli-
gence.
To Myers the idea of " wandering lonely towards a
dawn "—whether derived from Verrall or otherwise
—
seems to have suggested the pathetic and tragic figure of
(Edipus in Sophocles' play of (Edipus Goloneus, who in
the strength of a divine summons arose superior to his
rags and blindness, cast aside his props and guides, and
set forth solitary, clad in white, towards the end of all
his sorrows and the dawn of a new life.
Myers also seems to have been aware, somehow, that
a certain note of Sir Richard Jebb's, in his edition of
Sophocles, contained material that would serve his purpose.
For in this note, Jebb, in commenting on the word olotwvov
(solitary journeying) occurring in the (Edipus Tyrannus,
gives a list of adjectives of similar type. In this list he
(rather singularly) includes the hovottwXov phrase from
Euripides, Orestes, as well as three other examples all
taken from Sophocles' play (Edipus Goloneus.
These three passages, therefore, Myers contrived to
infuse into Mrs. Verrall's automatic script, in the midst
of the gradual development of Dr. Verrall's tekypathic
experiment ; and also, in order to direct attention to
what he had done or was doing, he proceeded to em-
phasise that particular play by constant and repeated
reference to its best known and most dramatic incident.
That this incident had specially aroused Myers's imagination
we know, because of the striking use he had made of
it in connexion with the death of John Ruskin. For in
his Obituary Notice of Ruskin, Myers likens the end of
the long period of helplessness at Coniston to the passing
of the blind (Edipus, who was thus lovingly summoned by
the unguessed accompanying God to enter into the bright-
ness which awaited him :
" Come, CEdipus, why linger on our journey ?
Thou hast kept me waiting long."
lxxvii.] Note on Mr. Piddington 's Paper. 293
Accordingly the scripts, ostensibly influenced by Verrall
but really dominated and inspired by Myers, make persis-
tent reference to an old man clad in white and going with
outstretched hand and raised staff on foot towards the
rising sun, alone with God and with none other. By
whose aid also a great swarm would be held in check.
Fragments of this apparently alien theme—quite remote
from the bare Euripidean phrase and from anything
intended by Dr. Verrall—are scattered throughout the
attempts at telepathic production of the desired words.
Yet this incursion, both at the time and subsequently,
when ultimately Dr. and Mrs. Verrall discussed the scripts
jointly, is treated by the experimenters as rubbish inevitably
superposed upon, and somewhat confusing and choking,
the main telepathic transmission ; —which after all was in
due time more or less accomplished : —-the word es, and
words beginning with mono, and some reference to horse
as well as dawn, being obtained.
But the scripts themselves, in their comments on what
was obtained, passt
these successes by as comparatively
unimportant, and emphasise instead the theme of the
blind traveller, an old man in white. This theme was
repeated and called attention to as if it were the most
important part of the script :
—
-e.g., an interim statement,
" your husband's thought was good but not complete.
The old man in white was the best part of it but I
have not been able to finish that, and now it has all
gone away. Put it aside, it will return some day."
To clinch the matter a clear reference to Coniston and
Ruskin was made in the script, so as to assure anyone who
had begun to grasp the main theme that he was right.
I venture to think that the whole experiment is of the
utmost importance as showing of what nature some of
our telepathic experiences are, and how closely those on
the other side of the veil can watch and stimulate and
modify and improve our efforts.
But all that Mr. Piddington allows himself to indicate
of this theory, save in a manner which may be sufficient
for those who have the patience to dissect it out, is that
294 Sir Oliver Lodge. [part
if people choose to consider the whole incident a case of
telepathy between the living, he is not going to say them
nay. Witness the following quotations from his paper :
" Not that I am to be understood as advocating any
theory in opposition to that of telepathy inter vivos to
account for the phenomena under discussion. I am but
trying to bring out how curious are the assumptions which
this theory involves. It isn't by any means a simple
theory.
" Personally I advance no theory of this particular case,
of which I gladly make a present to those who hold that
telepathy inter vivos is the true explanation of the super-
normal phenomena observable in scripts. They need,
I fancy, cheering up a little ; and if so be that from this
case they can extract any comfort, so far as I am con-
cerned, they are welcome to it."
This is just the semi-satirical conclusion which one is
liable to find in Mr. Piddington's recent papers—a satire
due no doubt to the kind of uninstructed comments
with which they have been received even by persons of
high intelligence ; —and it is in the hope that he will
allow to posterity at any rate some clue or hint of his
real meaning that I write this purely interrogative note.
For to one who has worked closely at any given pheno-
menon a theory must have occurred ; and a worker's
opinion concerning any given theory is of far more value
than that of a mere reader. If then the worker does not
put his opinion on record, in clear and unmistakable
form, it may happen that future students, overwhelmed
by the mass of material set before them, may pass over
lightly and cursorily any episode which is not properly
emphasised and stressed by the original worker. If he
has not found clear evidence of anything valuable therein,
it will seem unlikely that anything better than a negative
and rather muddled conclusion can be deduced from it.
There are one or two minor points on which I might
ask questions, but I will content myself with one, in case
Mr. Piddington desires to say anything about it.
On page 212, at a time when Mrs. Verrall got the word
LXXVII.] Note on Mr. Piddington 's Paper. 295
'
euhippoi ' in her script, Dr. Verrall is said to have "fixed
his mind on the notion of horse." This interpretation of
polon was different from the '
wandering '
translation in
Dr. Verrall's mind, but perhaps it was so simple and
natural and obvious a rendering that he chose to give the
horse motif a chance ; and certainly the attempt appeared
to be successful, though the form in which it appeared
iu the script is peculiar and suggestive.
296 J. G. Piddington. [part
III.
A REPLY TO SIR OLIVER LODGE'S NOTE.
By J. G. Piddington.
Sir Oliver Lodge asks me to make clear what was the
object of my paper called " Eresh Light on the One-
Horse Dawn Experiment." I had several objects ; and
I will begin by stating what these were, and then go on
to deal with the question of how far Sir Oliver has
correctly represented my views.
My first object was to offer a new interpretation of Mrs.
Verrall's One-Horse Dawn scripts. Mis. Verrall's inter-
pretation of them, first given at a meeting of the Society
in 1903 and afterwards published in 1906 in Proc, Vol.
XX., met with general acceptance and held the field for
some fourteen years. It may, roughly speaking, be said
to have amounted to this :
—That, amid a mass of irrele-
vant rubbish, efforts to give the sound or sense of the
three words, /j-ovoiroikov e? 'Aw, were plainly discernible,
and that knowledge was shown of the fact, normally
unknown to Mrs. Verrall, that her husband was trying
to transmit these three words, and also, perhaps, of Dr.
Verrall's particular view about the meaning of the word
/j.ovo7rw\ov. This interpretation involved the rejection of a
very considerable amount of the contents of the scripts,
and claimed intelligibility for only a comparatively small
residuum.
My interpretation claims to make sense of much that
Mrs. Verrall discarded as rubbish by referring it to a
certain note of Jebb's, in which the words plovottwXov 'Aw
are actually quoted, and in which the precise meaning of
lxxvii.] A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note. 297
the adjective /ulovottcoXov and of other analogous compound
adjectives is discussed.
My second object was to show that, whereas in Mrs.
Verrall's view reference to the experiment ceased in the
scripts when in 1902 the experimenter abandoned it, in
reahty the subject was pursued at intervals for years
afterwards up to 1915, and that these later references
fall into line with and throw light upon the earlier refer-
ences which Mrs. Verrall had rejected as rubbish.
So far, I think, my intention should have been clear
to any but a careless reader.
My third object I thought would be clear too ; and if
I expressed myself ironically, I hoped thereby not to ob-
scure but rather to emphasise my meaning. The know-
ledge one happens to possess oneself one is apt to impute
to others ; and so, I suppose, I assumed the body of our
members to be more familiar with the publications of our
Society and especially with the past history of the One-
Horse Dawn case than they really are. Let me, then,
take advantage of the opportunity kindly afforded me by
Sir Oliver Lodge—whose interest in my paper I greatly
value—to repair my omission, and recall the past history
of the One-Horse Dawn case, and by so doing prepare
the way for explaining my third object.
When Mrs. Verrall first laid the facts of the One-
Horse Dawn case before the Society, she classified it
provisionally as " telepathic, in the sense that the facts
in question were known to some living person at the time
that reference to them was made in the automatic writing"
{Journal, Vol. XL, p. 71). It is true that Sir Oliver
Lodge expressed at the time the view that
' 1
there might
be some third intelligence at work " {id. ib. p. 74) ;
but,
barring this mildly-worded caveat, the case was generally
accepted by psychical researchers of all schools of thought
as one of telepathy inter vivos. And, indeed, neither the
experiment as devised, nor its result as interpreted by
Mrs. Verrall, differed in any essential feature from ordinary
cases of successful, or partially successful, thought-trans-
ference, such as those where an agent tries to convey a
number or a diagram to a percipient, except for the
298 J. G. Piddington. [PAET
spiritistic setting in which the percipient-automatist framed
her impressions. 1
Reduced to its simplest elements the
case might be thus summarised :
AGENT (Dr. Verrall). PERCIPIENT (Mrs. Verrall).
An experiment is being made. An experiment is being made.
I am making the experiment. My husband is making the
experiment.
The subject of the experi- Attempts at the three Greek
ment is the words /uovottwXoi' words, and frequent refer-
ee 'Aa'. ences to Dawn and East.
Accordingly those who, while not disputing the insuffici-
ency of normal causes to explain the scripts, yet argued
that the supernormal forces at work were human, found
in this case an effective spoke to put in the wheel of
those who were inclined to the view that the supernormal
forces were spiritistic. This was the line taken by Mrs.
Anna Hude in her Evidence for Gommvnicatio?i with the
Dead, by various speakers during discussions at our
meetings, and frequently in private conversations. Then,
in 1909, Professor A. 0. Pigou, in his discussion of whether
" the complementariness in complementary cross-correspond-
ences is intentional or not " (Proc, Vol. XXIII., pp. 286,
ff.), rested one of his chief arguments on the assumption
that the phenomena of the One-Horse Dawn case were,
and admittedly were, due to telepathy between the living.
Sir Oliver Lodge in a reply to Professor Pigou's article
(Journal, Vol. XIV., pp. 134 ff.) —either forgetting, or for
his immediate purpose ignoring, the caveat he had previ-
ously entered—did not dispute this assumption. Mr.
Gerald Balfour, likewise, agreed not to contest Professor
Pigou's argument that it is superfluous to invoke spiritual
agency to explain the phenomena of the One-Horse Dawn
case, though he was careful to add that he did not con-
sider " the argument from superfluity " " absolutely
conclusive " (Proc, Vol. XXV., p. 44).
1
It is not necessary, I think, to regard Mrs. Verrall's ignorance of the fact
that an experiment was being made as constituting an essential difference ; for
by making a regular practice of writing automatically she was thereby putting
herself into much the same attitude of expectancy and receptivity as a "per-
cipient" falls into when he knows that an "agent" is ttying an experiment.
lxxvii.] A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note. 299
The One-Horse Dawn case has proved, then, a stumbling
block in the way of those who attribute to spiritual
agency more or less of the supernormal knowledge shown
in scripts. And, indeed, how could it have been other-
wise ? For it seemed certain that Dr. Verrall was the
source of whatever knowledge of things unknown to Mrs.
Verrall these scripts of hers displayed, and yet, when this
knowledge emerged in them, instead of its being said to
come from Dr. Verrall or of its being given in a colour-
less manner without indication of source, it was represented
as coming from a discarnate mind: the "I" of the scripts
unquestionably purporting to be either Frederic Myers or one
of the group of discarnate friends whom the scripts repre-
sent as collaborating with him. In view of the admittedly
human source of the knowledge shown in the scripts,
why, it was argued, treat these pretensions and the whole
spiritistic setting of the " communications " as anything
more than subliminal romance and masquerade ? Had
there been anything in the scripts apposite to the subject
of the experiment for which it was not easy to hold
Dr. Verrall responsible, or which did not appear likely
to have been contributed by Mrs. Verrall after she had
telepathically grasped the purport and subject of the
experiment, then it might have been worth while to ex-
amine whether there was any warrant for the claim of
spiritual agency. But there did not appear to be any-
thing of the sort.
It is here that the third object of my paper comes in.
If my new interpretation of the One-Horse Dawn scripts
is right, then the assumption that the knowledge displayed
in them had its source in Dr. Verrall's mind can no
longer be made with anything approaching to the same
confidence, or allowed to pass with the same mild protest,
as before. Would Sir Oliver Lodge, for instance, now
be content to say no more than that " there might be
some third intelligence at work " ;
or would Mr. Gerald
Balfour agree not to contest the assumption that Dr. Verrall
was the sole undoubted " agent " ? Or would Professor
Pigou himself make the same assumption, without at least
feeling it necessary first to refute my reading of the facts %
300 J. G. Piddington. [part
So much for the three chief objects I had in view in
writing my paper. I will now proceed to deal with other
points raised by Sir Oliver Lodge in his Note.
I confined myself to trying to show some of the difficul-
ties in the way of attributing the allusions to Jebb's
note on oloXoovov to Dr. Verrall or to Mrs. Verrall ;
and I deliberately refrained from attempting to identify
the intelligence responsible for them. I will explain why
I took this line.
Although as a matter of fact I believe, as Sir Oliver
rightly divines, that Frederic Myers, either alone or in
collaboration with other discarnate scholars, was responsible
for the allusions to Jebb's note on the word oloCwvov, to
the death of Oedipus and to the Obituary Notice of Ruskin,
I do not find in the One-Horse Dawn scripts themselves
evidence for this view cogent enough to be worth putting
forward. (My belief rests on considerations, to explain
which I should have had to travel far outside the
particular case I was concerned with ; and that would
have been undesirable.)
The knowledge displayed in the answer made by MyersP
and Myersv to Mrs. Verrall's question about avro? ovpavos
aKVfxoav (Proc, Vol. XXII., pp. 107-172), and in the answer
made by MyersP to Mr. Dorr's question about Lethe (Proc,
Vol. XXV., pp. 86-144), was characteristic of Frederic
Myers. It was the kind of thing he knew, and it was
not the kind of thing that the experimenters or the
automatists concerned did know ; and so I was ready to
argue that the nature of these answers pointed to Myers
as the author of them. Similarly,—though the cases are
not on all fours with the preceding, because the " com-
munications " were not evoked by questions, but given
spontaneously—in the " Statius " and " Dionysius' Ear "
cases {Proc, Vols. XXVII. , pp. 221-243 ; XXIX. pp. 197-
238) where the knowledge shown had once been provably,
or almost provably, possessed by the soi-disant " com-
municator,"' and was not normally possessed by the
automatist, the emergence of this knoAvledge in this
automatist's scripts could be urged in support of the
communicator's claim. But the knowledge of Jebb's
lxxvii.] A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note. 301
note on oiofyrov cannot, it seems to me, be fairly
claimed as characteristic of Myers or of any of his colla-
borators. Myers was not. I believe, interested in the
minutiae of classical scholarship. At the same time,
since he greatly admired Jebb's scholarship and, as Jebb's
Life shows, was on terms of intimate friendship with
him, and was himself a classical scholar of rare attain-
ments, there is no reason why he should not have been
acquainted with Jebb*s note. But to say this, is quite
a different thing from maintaining that he was acquainted
with it, or that knowledge of it would be characteristic
of him.
Hence for purposes of argument I should prefer to call
the intelligence responsible for the allusions to Jebb's note
X, and to leave it at that ;
provided that I have made
it clear that anyone who should seek to identify X with
Dr. or Mrs. Verrall ought not to shirk the difficulties
in the way of this identification, and should recognise
how profound a dislocation it involves between the con-
scious and sub-conscious strata of whichever of the two
he may fix upon as the guilty agent.
Sir Oliver represents me as supposing that " Myers
"
was switched on to the topic of Oedipus' death by the
idea of " lonely wandering towards a dawn " derivable
from fxovoiTwKov is 'Aw, and that "somehow"—apparently,
in a casual sort of way—he became aware of Jebb's note.
This is not my view. In the first place I do not see
why words which may mean " to the lonely-wandering
dawn," but which cannot mean "lonely wandering to
the dawn," should by themselves remind anyone of
Oedipus going to his death. In the second place, Sir
Oliver seems to me to reverse the natural logical order
in which these two topics would have been evoked by the
words fxovoirwkov h 'Aw. It was surely the note of Jebb"s
containing and discussing these very words that must
first have come into X's mind when he got scent of the
subject of Dr. Verrall's experiment, and only subsequently
that the death of Oedipus was suggested to him partly
by the quotations from the Oedipus Coloneus in Jebb's
note and partly by Dr. Verrall's interpretation of /uovottcoXov
302 J. G. Piddinglon. [part
as involving the idea of solitariness and, perhaps, that
of wandering.
Sir Oliver draws attention to the fact that, in spite of
Dr. VerralPs thinking that the second half of the word
/j.ov67tw\ov means " wandering " rather than " horse,"
he nevertheless at one point in the experiment " fixed
his mind on the notion of horse." I see no difficulty
here I presume that Dr. Verrall tried any and every
means that occurred to him of transmitting the three
words, and that if he had thought he could improve the
chances of success by fixing his mind on "Monopoly,"
or on any other word or idea suggestive of the sound or
sense, he would have done so, as everyone else does
(if I may judge from my own practice) when acting as
" agent " in a thought-transference experiment.
There is this, though, to be observed about this par-
ticular effort of Dr. Verrall's. If my interpretation of
Scripts F, G, I, and K (Proc, Vol. XXX., pp. 181-182,
193-194) is right, attempts had been made at the word
ev'nnroi —the word, that is, which is supposed to have
been written as a result of Dr. Verrall's stimulus—-two
or three weeks before he " fixed his mind on the notion
of horse." Personally I am inclined to think that Dr.
Verrall's concentration on " horse," by reinforcing the
hitherto unsuccessful efforts of X to get eviinvoi written,
helped X to achieve his end. Whether this was so or
not, it is worth noting that the word (emiriroi) that did
finally emerge corresponded only partially to Dr. Verrall's
thought, but did fit in perfectly with X's previous allusions
to the Oedipus Coloneus, for X had already in Script C,
and perhaps also in Script E, alluded to the Chorus in
that play which opens with the word ev'nnrou.
I avail myself of this opportunity to touch on three
points not mentioned in my paper : the first two being
points of detail, the third of more importance.
(a) The word u.ov6<tto\o<s, used in Script H to point to,
and as an equivalent for, the word otofyvos which forms
the subject of Jebb's note, was not, though it might well
have been, included by Jebb among the examples that he
lxxvii.] A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge s Note. 303
gave of compound adjectives analogous to olo^wvos. It
looks as if X meant to add /xocoVtoXo? to Jebb's list.
(6) The Old Man in White, i.e. Oedipus, is called
" signifer " in Script C, and " viator " in Scripts O and
T. I noticed recently that both these words occur again
in Mrs. Verrall's script of June 21, 1903, in the following
context :
Viator
Monadelphas signifer ou^i Aa/wm. en tv <tk6tu> irdvra ovSe
Oyoara ra opw/xet'a. (rxeipei.
The Greek, which means " does not shine. Everything
is in darkness, nor are the things seen visible. Consider,"'
recalls the first reference to the blind wanderer Oedipus
in Script A :
aparoi [or, aparaj omnia nigrant ante oculos nec imago
superest erro pererro in solitudine.
But it is to the non-existent word "Monadelphas" (iu.oi>aSe\(pu<;)
that I want specially to draw attention. It looks uncommonly
like an attempt at cWto'Aoc? aSe\<pas, one of the three
phrases from the Oedipus Coloneus quoted by Jebb in his
note to illustrate the peculiar idiom of adjectives like
oi'o'cWo?. The attempt failed, I suggest, owing to the
word ijlov6<tt(Ao<; (monostolos) obtruding itself, and then being
run into SiutoXou^ a$e\d)a$ (distolous adelphas), and so pro-
ducing the " portmanteau " monadelphas.
(c) On the assumption that the One-Horse Dawn scripts
did by way of response to Dr. Verrall's experiment refer
to Jebb's note and so on, we may, I would urge, see in
this fact the first manifestation of a novel and striking
type of phenomenon not hitherto recorded in the history
of psychical research.
Frederic Myers died in January, 1901. None kneAV
better than he did how greatly the difficulties of demon-
strating the agency of the dead had been increased by
the evidence for telepathy between the living. Broadly
speaking, up to the time of his death the evidence for
communication from the dead was, if I may so express it,
of a straightforward kind. Even when varied, it was simple
304 J. G. Piddington. [part
ill character ; it consisted largely of trivial and every-
day details ; and even in the best examples, such as the
G. P. case, it showed no such marked divergence from the
results obtained in ordinary thought-transference experi-
ments as to debar a critical mind from treating it as
more than an intensive exhibition of telepathy inter
vivos.
I have implied above that the results obtained up to
the time of Myers's death in thought-transference experi-
ments, where there is no question of any but the living
being concerned, were of a simple type. Our published
records show that to have been the case (and our later
records, I may add, tell the same tale). The agent
thought of a Cat : the percipient got an impression of a
Cat. So uniform was the simplicity of the phenomena
that when on one occasion the thoughts of two agents
became merged into one in the impression received by
the percipient, the fact is singled out for remark (Proc,
Vol. II., p. 194 and p. 190).
This, in broad outline, was the position when Myers
died. Then within a few weeks of his death Mrs. Verrall
begins to write automatically ; and after the lapse of a
few more weeks Dr. Verrall starts his experiment. Except
that he did not tell her what he was doing, he was mak-
ing just the same, straightforward kind of experiment as
had hitherto been the rule, and was aiming at and hoping
for just the same kind of straightforward result as we
were all quite pleased to obtain at that time. No one
had at that time evolved the theory of complex cross-
correspondences, or suggested that oblique and non-
obvious answers to questions might carry more weight
evidentially than direct and expected ones.
The indirectness, the complexity, the ingenuity and the
literary quality of the response made in the scripts to
Dr. VerralTs experiment were an entirely original depar-
ture ; and the credit—or should I say the discredit ?
—
of it must be ascribed to the intelligence whom I call
X. If X is only Mrs. VerralTs subconsciousness, whether
acting independently or stimulated telepathically by Dr.
Verrall, we must admit that the moment was well chosen
lxxvii.] A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note. 305
for this novel display of the powers of the subliminal
mind. Not three months had passed since Myers had
died, convinced himself of survival, but conscious of the
weak spots in the evidence on which his belief was based.
If fact, how natural ! if fiction, how plausible ! that his
death should be promptly followed by the appearance of
a completely new type of phenomenon, adapted to supply
a deficiency inherent in the old evidence, and suggestive,
too, of the workings of his complex and richly-endowed
mind.
And this new type of evidence has neither ceased with
the One-Horse Dawn case nor been confined to the
scripts of Mrs. Verrall, who might be supposed to be
—
and, indeed, was—not unfitted by education and natural
endowments to create a subliminal personation of Frederic
Myers. It has, as our Proceedings testify, continued ever
since ; and the infectious example has spread, and spread
not to highly-educated automatists only like Mrs. Holland,
Mrs. Salter and Mrs. Willett ; but Mrs. Piper, too, supplies
us with a " Myers " who, when asked what the word
" Lethe " suggested to him, gave not a simple and direct
reply such as Mrs. Piper might have coined herself or
drawn from the mind of the experimenter, Mr. Dorr, but
a non-obvious and scholarij^ reply : a reply, in fact, that
resembles very closely in character X's response to Dr.
Verrall's experiment.
306 W. Whately Smith. [part
IV.
" THE REALITY OF PSYCHIC PHENOMENA." 1
By W. Whately Smith.
I.
It is probable that no branch of Psychical Research
has proved more uniformly disappointing to investigators
than the study of what are commonly known as " physical
phenomena." The history of such investigations forms
an almost unbroken record of fraud and malobservation,
of initial plausibility and subsequent exposure. Again
and again cases have been reported of mediums who could
produce the most striking phenomena " under the strictest
test conditions," and again and again it has been found
on further investigation that insufficient precautions had
been taken to exclude trickery. Even the cases in which
no fraud has been found have usually borne so close a
resemblance to others in which it has that the cautious
student, arguing by analogy, rightly hesitates to attach
any great importance to them. Moreover, as we learn
more of spurious methods, so the standard we demand
becomes increasingly strict, and for this reason we are
obliged still further to discount some of the older records.
In face of all this it looks rather like asking for trouble
to profess a strong opinion in favour of any phenomena
of this class.
None the less I believe that " The Reality of Psychic
Phenomena " is likely to become, a classic of the subject,
for, as I hope to show, the experiments described therein
present features not to be found in any similar research.
1
The Reality of Psychic Phenomena. By W. J. Crawford, D.Sc. John M.
Watkins. London, 1916. 4s. 6d. net.
Lxxvn.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 307
I need hardly say that I do not proffer this opinion
in a spirit of dogmatic assertion. I am well aware that
a single sitting, however satisfactory, is not sufficient
evidence for the formation of final judgments, especially
on so precarious a subject. But, in the last analysis
all sound judgments are provisional ; even our so-called
" certainties " are never more than assessments of proba-
bilities at a fraction closely approaching unity, and I
think that on the most conservative estimate we can
fairly say that Dr. Crawford's work has raised " physical
"
phenomena to a position very near indeed to the top of
the " credibility scale."
It is true that results of similar importance would not
be unreservedly accepted, by Physicists for example, with-
out thorough confirmation by independent investigators,
and, in spite of the rarity of good cases of this kind, it
is especially necessary in Psychical Research to relax in
no smallest degree the most rigorous canons of Scientific
Caution. Still, I see no reason for professing doubts
which I do not feel or inventing criticisms merely
for the sake of appearing judicious, so I may as well
state outright that I quite agree with Dr. Crawford when
he says : "To all visitors the phenomena are so mani-
festly and palpably genuine that they are never troubled
again with doubts as to whether there is such a thing
as psychic force."
II.
The experiments dealt with cover some three years' work
concentrated almost exclusively on the two phenomena
of " raps " and " levitation without contact."
The salient features of the results, all of which were
obtained through the remarkable mediumship of Miss
Kathleen Goligher of Belfast, are as follows :
A. Levitation.
(i) Levitation without contact of any kind has been
obtained on numberless occasions and with the utmost
regularity. It is by no means capricious or erratic in
u
308 W. Whately Smith. [part
its occurrence, but can almost invariably be produced on
demand.
(ii) During levitation the weight of the medium is in-
creased by an amount practically equal to that of the table.
(iii) There is, normally, no pressure on the floor verti-
cally under the table during levitation.
(iv) If a balance-supported platform is inserted under
the table, a downward pressure is exerted on it during
levitation, provided that its height above the floor exceeds
3-4 inches. This pressure increases with the height of
the platform above the floor and may be considerably
in excess of the weight of the table.
(v) There appears to be a definite connection between the
medium and the table possessing all the usual character-
istics of a rigid structure except visibility and palpability.
It is approximately of V form, one limb supporting the
table while the other is attached in some fashion to the
body of the medium.
(vi) A thin rod may be passed freely across the space
occupied by this structure without producing any effect,
but the interposition of a large object appears to inter-
fere with the structure and causes the table to drop.
(vii) This structure can resist or transmit torsional,
compressional, tensional or shearing stresses of considerable
magnitude.
B. Raps.
(i) Raps of every degree of loudness up to " sledge-
hammer blows " have been obtained in great abundance.
(ii) They cannot be produced unless the medium's weight
is first reduced. The usual reduction is about 8 lbs.
(iii) The intensity of the rap is apparently directly
proportional to the decrease in weight of the medium.
(iv) The loss of weight is only temporary.
(v) The loss of weight is not effected suddenly but,
on the contrary, quite gradually.
(vi) After a time (for a given experiment) the loss
reaches a final amount and thereafter does not vary.
(vii) Any rap or blow produces a momentary reaction
on the medium.
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena.," 309
C. General.
(i) The phenomena are under the control of some kind
of intelligence which seems to co-operate actively with the
experimenter.
(ii) The production of phenomena is apparently accom-
panied by the removal of actual matter, in some form or
other, from the body of the medium, and this process seems
to be an indispensable preliminary to their occurrence.
(iii) These experiments have all been performed in a
good red light—not in darkness.
(iv) Copious quantitative measurements have been made
of the forces involved.
The foregoing is no more than a bald resume of results
and inferences which lack of space prevents me from
giving in extenso. For the full details of the actual
experiments and reasoning reference should be made to
Dr. Crawford's book.
It is particularly fortunate that the study of these very
interesting phenomena should have fallen to the lot of
a scientist accustomed to look at things from a mechanical
standpoint. Every investigator must have a natural tend-
ency to employ the methods with which he is most
familiar, and there can be little doubt that Dr. Crawford's
position as Lecturer in Mechanical Engineering at the
Municipal Technical Institute of Belfast must have influ-
enced his decision to begin his research with a thorough
analysis of the fundamental mechanics of the phenomena.
It is unlikely that any other line of attack would have
yielded such satisfactory results, and it has, in addition,
automatically introduced a far greater measure of control
than would have accompanied more recondite methods.
For the benefit of those who are not familiar with
Dr. Crawford's book, and in order to give a general idea
of the kind of experiment on which his conclusions are
based, I will here quote a few paragraphs dealing with
some of the more important examples.
" Experiment 2 : Reaction on the medium during levitation.
The table used was No. I. (the ordinary seance table.,
. . . ). I accurately balanced the weight of medium,
310 W. Whately Smith. [part
chair on which she was sitting, and drawing board. [On the
weighing machine which frequently supported the medium
in these experiments. W. W. S.] The medium sitting
perfectly still, I asked the operators 1
to levitate the table
and keep it as steadily levitated as they possibly could
—i.e. without up-and-down or to-ancl-fro motion—while
I was making my observations. Immediately on request
the table rose about 8 in. into the air in an approxi-
mately horizontal plane . . . and became to all appearance
quite steady in the air. As soon as I was satisfied that
all was right and that the medium was sitting perfectly
still as I had placed her, I examined the weighing machine.
The steelyard, which before the levitation was just on
the balance, was now hard up against the top stop.
I moved the rider along until it again just balanced.
The following were the readings :
Weight of medium +chair + draw-) n , . ,, '
n .
. , nin \ J -
= 9 st. 4 lbs. 14 oz.
mg board, before levitation, -J
Weight of medium + chair + draw-)
^
ing board during steady levitation J
"
Increase in medium's weight due)
to levitation. - -I " "
Weight of table, 10 ,, 6 ,,
Conclusion. The increase in weight of the medium
due to levitation is 10 oz. short of the weight of table.
Notes. The levitation was as nearly perfect as could be,
and time was not a factor, as I had concluded my observa-
tions and there were no signs of the table descending.
I had in fact to inform the operators that I had finished,
and to ask them to drop the table, which they did
suddenly, so that it reached the floor with a crash."
" Experiment 7 : The effect on the medium's weight of
levitated table jerking vertically up and down in the air.
The table used was No. I. (the ordinary seance
table).
1
Dr. Crawford considers that the phenomena are directed by "the spirits of
human beings who have passed into the Beyond." These are the "operators"
referred to. There can be no doubt that the phenomena are under intelligent
control of some kind ; but I myself prefer to suspend judgment as to its
nature. W. W. S.
lxxvii.] The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 311
Method. The medium being seated quietly on the
weighing machine, with hands on knees as in Experiment
2, I asked for steady levitation of the table, which was
immediately given. The weight of the medium +
chair + drawing board before levitation was 9 st. 4 lbs.
During the period of steady levitation the combined weight
was 10 st. 0 lb. 8 ozs. Having balanced the machine
at this, I asked the operators to jerk the table (which
up to then was steadily levitated) vertically upwards
into the air. This they at once did, the table rising
quickly from 6 in. to 8 in. into the air. I asked them to
do it several times. The result was always the same.
At each upward jerk of the table the steelyard of the
weighing-machine rose and pressed against the top stop
and then returned to its position of balance.
I also asked the operators to let the table slowly sag
vertically in the air, and to arrest its motion suddenly
before it reached the floor. This they did several times.
I found that this motion also synchronised with instan-
taneous and temporary increase of the medium's
weight in addition to the increased weight due to steady
levitation.
Conclusion. When the table is steadily levitated the
medium's weight is increased by an amount practically
equal to the weight of the table. If the table is jerked
up and down in the air, there is an additional instan-
taneous weight on the medium while the jerking is pro-
ceeding."
" Experiment 48 : To find the horizontal component of the
reaction [exerted during levitation on a compression
balance placed under the table. W. W. S.].
T
To Medium
«r—
a A
s
312 W. Whately Smith. [part
. . . B is the compression balance (reading to 14 lb.)
placed on top of an iron carriage C, which runs on ball
bearings, and which is so free from friction that a force
of iV lb. suffices to pull it along the floor. N is a nail
driven into the floor. S is an ordinary Salter tension
spring balance reading to 20 lb., tied to the nail N and
to the carriage C. T is the levitated table. Between
A and N is my approximate position of observation.
I placed a finger of the right hand on the pointer of
the tension balance S, and a finger of the left hand on
the pointer of the compression balance B. I then asked
the operators to levitate the table, when in the usual
way the pointer on B gradually moved to 14 i lb. against
the stop, and then the table sprang up into the
air. The pointer on the tension balance also simul-
taneously moved along the scale, and the average of
half a dozen levitations gave for it a rough value of
about 4 lb. . . .
Conclusion. The horizontal component of the reaction
when the seance table of weight 10f lb. is levitated
above the 14 lb. balance is apparently about 4 lb. ; and
this component acts directly outwards from the medium."
There are many other experiments I should like to
quote if space permitted, but the foregoing, selected almost
at random, are typical and should suffice to indicate
their simplicity and directness and what I may call the
commonsense nature of the methods employed.
The following account of the sitting witnessed by myself
is taken from my contemporary notes. For the sake
of brevity I have omitted a few irrelevant details, but
none which would affect the main issues involved.
This sitting took place in Belfast on Saturday, Dec.
9th, 1916, at 8.0 p.m. It was held in the room in which
most of Dr. Crawford's work has been done, at the house
of Mr. Goligher, the father of the medium. There were
present Mr. Goligher, Miss Anna Goligher, Miss Lily
Goligher, Mr. Morison, Mrs. Morison and Miss Kathleen
Goligher, the medium.
These formed a circle of about 5 ft. in diameter, sitting
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena.'" 313
with joined hands in the order named, i.e. —with Miss
Kathleen Goligher between Mrs. Morison and Mr. Goligher.
Dr. Crawford and I sat outside the circle and were
free to move about as we pleased.
The ordinary seance table was placed in the centre
of the circle and a large two-piece metal trumpet stood
just outside the circle, between Mr. Goligher and the
medium. The arrangement is shown in the diagram.
x Miss K. G.
x Miss A. G.
Light
x Mr. M.
x Miss L. G.
Dr. C.
1
x W. tV. S.
The room was lighted by a fish-tail gas burner enclosed
in a sheet-metal box fitted with ruby glass sides and
placed on the chimney-piece to the medium's right front
as shown. It was warmed by a gas-stove which stood on
the floor diagonally opposite the light. This was rather
important, as will appear later.
It is difficult to give any precise idea of the degree of
illumination given by the gas. I can, perhaps, best
indicate it by saying that it was a good deal stronger
than I should care to use in a photographic dark-room.
I found that when my eyes had become accustomed to
the light, i.e. after about ten minutes, I could clearly
see every object in the room unless it happened to be
in deep shadow.
The proceedings opened with singing. After a few
minutes, and while the singing was still in progress, strong
raps were heard which beat time to the tune. These
314 W. Whately Smith. [part
were apparently produced on the floor in the neighbour-
hood of the medium. They sounded very definite, that
is to say, as if someone were knocking firmly on the floor
with a piece of hard wood ;
they in no way resembled
the sound of an electric discharge as some raps have
been said to do by certain observers.
The singing stopped and the proceedings proper
began.
First came a variety of raps of all kinds from scarcely
audible taps to real " sledge hammer " blows which shook
the whole floor. These latter could not normally have
been produced without the aid of some heavy percussive
instrument or violent kicks with the heel of a boot.
The members of the circle were holding hands and all
hands were clearly visible to me. I am sure that no one
present could have made sufficiently violent movements
with their feet without attracting my attention.
When the raps ceased the large metal trumpet already
mentioned moved into the circle sliding along the ground
apparently under its own power, so to speak, the sitters
next to it (Miss Kathleen Goligher and Mr. Goligher)
raising their hands to allow it to pass. It then fell on
the floor under the table, and after a few moments' scuffling
about it was separated into its two component parts.
These two parts then rose into the air and projected
towards me from under the table, being at this juncture
not more than 18 inches from me.
I was invited to take hold of these two parts and I
accordingly grasped each in turn.
I found, in each case, that I could move the end which
I held to and fro in any direction with the greatest ease,
although I was conscious of a slight elastic resistance.
But when I tried to twist either of them about a longi-
tudinal axis I was quite unable to do so. So great
was the resistance to torque that I can only describe it
by saying that it felt as if the lower ends of the two
parts were embedded in a large mass of solid concrete,
freely suspended so as to allow of transverse and longi-
tudinal movement, but so heavy as to preclude twisting.
After a few moments these two parts of the trumpet
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 315
fell to the ground, and shortly after the table began to
move about.
This table was about 2 feet long and H feet broad
and was made of dark painted or stained wood. It
had four legs of the ordinary turned variety, which had no
cross-bars between them, and weighed about ten pounds.
First it moved to and fro over a range of about a foot.
Then it was rotated about a vertical axis at the rate of
about 15-20 revolutions per minute. At the request of
Dr. Crawford the direction of rotation was reversed
without delay and apparently without difficulty. This
rotation was distinctly jerky rather than smooth, and
on the whole I should say that this irregularity was
due rather to the intermittent nature of the rotating
impulses than to inequalities of friction against the floor.
The table then moved again slightly, to adjust itself
apparently, gave one or two tilts, and finally rose clear
off the floor to a height of at least 12 inches.
In the course of the evening it did this some six or
more separate times. On each occasion I bent down and
looked clear under the table. I was particularly well
situated for this observation, since, as already explained,
the gas stove used for warming the room was diagonally
opposite me and emitted a reddish glow from the heated
metal, as well as gleams of light from cracks or the like.
It was easy, as the table swayed gently to and fro in
the air, to bring each leg in turn in line with this glow
—
by moving my head slightly from side to side—and thus
to satisfy myself that there was nothing in contact with
any of the legs.
On two occasions when the table was clear off the
ground all the members of the circle lifted their hands
above their heads, in which position they were verified
by me.
After two or three of these preliminary levitations I
was invited to step inside the circle, and I accordingly
did so. I grasped the table firmly with both hands and
did my utmost to prevent it moving, but I was quite
unsuccessful. By dint of great exertion I could prevent
it from moving in any one direction and could keep it
316 W. Whately Smith. [part
steady for a second or so, but it instantly moved in
some other direction, the force changing with great rapidity.
The amount of force exerted was quite extraordinary,
indeed incredible to anyone who has not actually ex-
perienced it. I estimate that at times I exerted pressures
of fully 100 lbs. weight. At one time the table was
made so heavy that I could not lift it. At another time,
when I had for a moment relaxed my grip, it levitated
within six inches of me. While it was thus suspended
in the air I again took hold of it and found that although
I could move it, within limits, easily in any direction in
the plane of its top, I encountered a remarkably solid
resistance when I tried to push it downwards and towards
the medium at an angle of about 45 degrees. So great
was the resistance in this direction that it felt like push-
ing against a solid strut of wood or metal.
During the whole of this time I was standing within
three feet of the medium and, most of the time, facing
her. I could see distinctly the whole of her body down
to the knees, and the light from the lamp fell directly
on to her lap. Her feet were in shadow and I could not
make them out distinctly. This is natural as she always
sits with them tucked under her chair and her heels
against its crossbar.
I could infallibly have detected any movement of the
medium, and I can certify that she sat absolutely motion-
less during the whole time that the table was performing
these violent evolutions.
I later sat on the table and, with my feet clear of the
floor, was moved a distance of about six or eight inches.
In addition, the table was three times tilted up to such
an angle that I was unable to retain my seat.
Finally, after I had dismounted, it pushed me to the
extreme edge of the circle, moving to a distance of fully
four feet from the medium in the process. In this posi-
tion I tried my hardest to push it back. Again it felt
like pushing against a solid strut. By putting out all
my strength I was only able to move it an inch or so.
Certain minor incidents also took place, and one or two
interesting variations on the above were introduced.
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 317
For instance, raps were produced on the under surface
of the table while I rested my hands on the top, and
I could plainly feel the wood quivering under the blows.
Again, at one time the table was thrown upon the
ground, levitated in this position (legs horizontal and
pointing towards the medium), and finally restored to its
upright position. This last process was performed with
difficulty and only succeeded after several attempts. It
was done by a series of strong jerks, exactly as if manipu-
lated by an invisible hand which appeared to try to
change its grip rapidly but sometimes missed it.
III.
In discussing these phenomena the first question to be
dealt with is that of genuineness, for, as Dr. Crawford
says "... all the experiments recorded . \ . depend
for any value they may have on the fact that the table
movements, levitations, raps, blows and other phenomena
are genuine productions due to the action of psychic
force and in no way caused by fraudulent action on the
part of the medium or members of the circle."
The two possibilities which must be considered in this
connection are Illusion and Fraud.
ILLUSION, (i) It may be doubted whether true
illusion has ever been a source of error in the study of
cases of this type. By '
true illusion '
I mean the direct
imposition by a trickster of an hallucination which has
no foundation in objective reality, as opposed to faulty
conclusions arising from malobservation, or unwarranted
extrapolation from correct observations or unsound reason-
ing, which have, of course, been common enough, as
have also false suggestions by the performer. Such
hallucinations may be imposable on suitably sensitive
subjects in certain hypnotic states, but I am not aware of
any evidence which suggests that normal persons can be
so deluded.
(ii) One of the mainstays of the professional illusionist
is the creation in the minds of his audience of an anticipa-
tion that a certain event is about to happen, followed by
318 W. Whately Smith. [part
a suggestion that it has happened and commonly supple-
mented by an adroit distraction of attention at the
moment when it is supposed to happen but does not.
I may say in parenthesis that several excellent examples
of this method are to be found in Zollner's account of
his sittings with Slade, who seems to have been a past-
master at this sort of thing. But the method can only
work when the illusionist is in charge of the proceedings,
which is not the case here.
(iii) It is impossible to reconcile the idea of illusion,
whether imposed or self-induced, with results recorded
by mechanical apparatus.
(iv) Finally, speaking personally, I cannot believe that
my own very vigorous " wrestle " with the table—
a
considerable exertion I may say—could have been an
hallucination imposed and removed without my knowledge.
I do not think it likely, however, that anyone will
attempt to explain away the phenomena along these lines,
so I will say no more, except that if anyone does seriously
think that illusion is a probable explanation and can
adduce evidence to support his views I shall be pleased
to undertake a more exhaustive analysis of the possibilities.
FRAUD. The possibility of trickery demands much
more serious consideration, and I am sure that neither
Dr. Crawford nor the members of the circle will resent
my discussing it with the utmost care, especially as I
anticipate that the great majority of those who are
disinclined to accept the experiments at their face value
will base their objections on an accusation of fraud. Nor
do I blame them, for fraud has occurred so frequently
throughout the history of Psychical Research, has stultified
so much research and vitiated so many cases in which
there is reason to suppose that genuine phenomena were
also produced, that it is both natural and necessary to
suspect its presence in contemporary cases of similar
type.
But this attitude of suspicion, right and proper though
it is, arises from an argument by analogy, and is only
legitimate in proportion as the analogy is exact. Essentially
this argument runs as follows :
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena.''' 319
"It is found from experience that there is a chance
" P " of any member of a class " A " of objects a1; a.2,
a33 . . . etc., possessing a certain quality " B " : the
object aH belongs to the class " A " ;
therefore there is
a chance " P " that the object an possesses the quality
" B."
This is no more than a thinly disguised form of the
syllogistic type: " All S is P : M is S ; therefore M is P."
Its soundness in this particular case is most likely to be
vitiated by the inaccuracy of the minor premise
—" the
object an belongs to the class "A."
In other words, we have found from experience that of
a certain class of cases 99 out of 100, say, are fraudulent ;
we therefore argue that the chances are about 99 to 1 in
favour of another case of the same class being also fraudu-
lent. But this argument only holds good provided that
the characteristics of the particular case under considera-
tion are sufficiently like those of the previous cases to
warrant our placing it unreservedly in the same class
with them.
If they are wholly dissimilar, the special case cannot
be placed in the previously experienced class at all and the
argument from analogy is wholly inapplicable.
If the resemblance is only partial we must proportion-
ately discount our deduced chance of the presence of the
quality " B " (in this case fraud).
Now although at first sight the fact that this case is
one of a " physical "'
phenomenon may seem sufficient
to warrant our classing it without more ado with all
other cases of " physical " phenomena, I do not think
that this will hold good in practice. In the first place,
physical phenomena shade off gradually into non-physical,
and it is hard to draw any exact boundary between the
two. It would be unwise, for instance, unreservedly to
class telekinetic phenomena, such as these, with para-
kinetic 1
, or with the obscure manifestations of the "Direct
x
The distinction between "telekinetic" and " parakinetic " phenomena is
that in the former there is no contact of any kind between the object moved and
the members of the circle, whereas in the latter there is contact, but not of a
kind to account for the observed movements on normal lines. Ordinary " table-
turning " is an example of parakinesis.
320 W. Wliately Smith, [part
Voice," which, if all that is claimed for them be true,
must be at least quasi-physical.
Moreover, the characteristics by which various cases
are classified for the purpose of forming such an a
priori expectation must be those presented by them
before the question of their genuineness was decided by
the " reagent " of a special investigation ad hoc con-
ducted under test conditions, may be, or by particularly
stringent observers.
In other words, the special conditions which determined
the frequency of association of the quality " B " with
members of the class " A " must not be used for defining
the class " A " or for identifying the object an as a mem-
ber of that class.
In this case, for example, it would be fallacious to
argue that phenomena originally produced in a good light
are, for the purpose of assessment of the a priori
chance of fraud, to be counted, without qualification,
as members of the same class which includes phenomena
originally produced in darkness and subsequently found to
be fraudulent when the additional factor of good light
was added.
In fact, all a priori judgments are comparative
judgments based on evidence available up to a certain
point, and it is essential that this point should be the
same for the two sets of experiences compared. It may
be defined, for present purposes at any rate, as the point
where casual observation ends and systematic observation
begins. If we place it later for early cases possessing a
known probability of fraudulence we must do the same for
the present case, and we are at once committed to the
formation of a judgment which is not a priori at all.
It follows that a priori judgments have their logical
basis in the similarity of superficial characteristics, and that
our resultant expectation must be suitably discounted if
the similarity is imperfect.
I do not pretend, of course, that this reasoning can be
applied with quantitative precision to this or any other
special case of the type we are considering.
The point I wish to make is that we are only entitled
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 321
to approach the case with a strong expectation of fraud
if we have first satisfied ourselves that its superficial
characteristics are truly similar to those of cases with
which we have come to associate fraud in the past, and
we must discount this expectation in proportion to any
dissimilarity we may find.
I have dwelt on this point at some length because
a priori judgments are too commonly formed without
any real comprehension of the logical processes involved.
If now we compare what I have called the superficial
characteristics of these experiments with those of past
cases of " physical " phenomena I think we shall find
a number of points of marked difference. I am somewhat
handicapped by writing without books, so I cannot bring
out these differences point by point, giving chapter and
verse as I should like to do. But I do not think it
likely that anyone well acquainted with the literature
of the subject could fail to be struck by the difference
between the general " atmosphere " of these experiments
and that of other previous cases of which I suppose that
of Eusapia Palladino is the classical example. Of special
points the following are among the more obvious charac-
teristics where important differences may be looked for
:
(i) The type of phenomenon produced.
(ii) The order of their intensity.
(hi) The regularity and ease with which they are pro-
duced.
(iv) The degree of light in which they occur.
(v) Whether the medium is entranced or not.
(vi) Whether he or she is a paid professional or not.
(vii) His or her past history.
I am sure that any comparison of this kind is bound
to lead us to the conclusion that our a priori preposses-
sions in favour of fraud must be heavily discounted by
reason of the difference between the superficial character-
istics of this and previous cases.1
1
1 wish to make it clear that I am not in any way trying to depreciate the
value of the evidence obtained from the study of these "previous cases,'' which
was of the utmost intrinsic value. My point is that the conditions obtaining
at Belfast have been so different from and, incidentally, better than those of
322 W. Whately Smith. [PART
It must be noted that this is an argument from mere
differences as such and is in no way dependent on the
sense of these differences. It would apply with equal
force even if all the differences were of such a nature
as to increase the suspicion of fraud when forming an
a 'posteriori judgment. This is not the case here as I
shall now proceed to show.
Fraud is frequently discussed under the two heads of
Conscious and Unconscious, but in this case the distinction
is unnecessary for the question is one of fact only. Is
it possible for the medium to produce the phenomena
observed by ordinary physical means, in spite of the
prolonged and close scrutiny of Dr. Crawford and in view
of their characteristic features ? If it is possible, does
she in fact do so ?
These are questions which must be answered, and I
think that the evidence at our disposal is sufficient
to enable us to do so with a very high degree of
certainty.
I do not propose to dwell at length on whether there
might be a desire or motive for deception, preferring to
treat the question as a matter of bare fact.
None the less, it is well to point out that the sittings
at which these phenomena are produced are entirely
private in nature, and therefore cupidity or the desire
for notoriety, which may form a powerful incentive in
the case of the professional medium, are here entirely
lacking. Dr. Crawford has never paid a penny for the
facilities accorded him—often at the cost of considerable
inconvenience—by the medium and her family. Nor
do the members of the circle encourage the promiscuous
introduction of persons other than their own friends ;
and as a matter of fact, the sittings have recently been
restricted solely to scientific work.
previous cases that we must exercise considerable care in "carrying forward "
past experience and applying it in this ease.
The records of earlier investigators who claim to have obtained levifcations
without contact (cp. Sir William Crookes' " Researches in Spiritualism " and the
Naples experiments with Eusapia Palladino, reported in Proc. S. P. R. , Vol. XXIII.
)
are, of course, greatly strengthened, if we accept the Belfast phenomena as
genuine.
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 323
I feel that it amounts to something very like an imper-
tinence on my part to presume to testify to the integrity
of those concerned ;
but, for the purpose of mere
scientific record, I may say that the members of the circle
struck me as being eminently upright, honourable and
likeable people of the best type—quite incapable of
practising a mean and objectless trickery.
But these considerations, however much they may
weigh with those who have come under their immediate
influence, cannot be expected to appeal with the same
force to others who approach the subject only at second
hand. Nor are they admissible as evidence of the first
order from the strictly scientific point of view.
It is right, therefore, for the purpose of the immediate
discussion, to assume that the desire to deceive may exist,
and that it may be coupled with the utmost imaginable
cunning and ingenuity.
As already indicated, my own strong opinion is that
the phenomena are genuine. To be more specific, I
believe that when the table is levitated it is not supported
either by the hands or feet of the medium or of any
member or members of the circle, or by any mechanical
contrivance devised or controlled by her or by them or
by a confederate. I do not mean by this, of course,
to dissent from Dr. Crawford's " cantilever " theory, with
which I entirely agree ; but this is not a " mechanical
contrivance " in any usual sense of the word.
I think the reasons supporting this view may conveni-
ently be divided into two groups. First, there are general
considerations obtained from Dr. Crawford's own records
and from the comparison of this case with preceding
cases ;
and, secondly, those arising from my own personal
observations. It should be noted that the latter inevitably
strengthen the former. Even a single sitting by an
independent observer is a very valuable check on the
original observer's work. Unless I and all other observers
who have seen the phenomena are ipso facto suspect, it
eliminates the possibility of Dr. Crawford being mad, or
himself implicated in a fraud—and even such far-fetched
possibilities are worth putting out of court.
324 W. Whately Smith. [part
Again, if the main features of a piece of work of this
kind are substantiated, there is little need to worry about
the minor points.
As regards general considerations, then, it may first
be noted that a comparison of such features of this case
as exert a direct influence on the possibility of fraud
with the corresponding features of preceding cases is
heavily in favour of these phenomena being genuine.
This comparison is, of course, essentially a matter of
the sense of differences, not of their mere existence, as was
the case when I was discussing the formation of a priori
prepossessions, and includes the results of " systematic
observation" as well as the "superficial characteristics."
(i) It is well known that a trick which appears mystify-
ing at first sight is easier to detect every time that it
is repeated. Dr. Crawford has observed some hundreds
of levitations, has worked under and all round the table,
both with and without apparatus, and the conditions of
observation have been uniformly favourable.
(ii) The phenomena occur with the utmost regularity.
It is easy to make errors of observation when events
take the observer by surprise and when it is necessary
to look for everything at once. But this is not the case
when a phenomenon is repeated again and again at the
word of command and with variations caused only by the
observer's own modifications of conditions, for this means
that he can attend to various points one by one and with
any amount of checking that he pleases.
(ill) The lighting has been good. This is enormously
important, for our sense of sight is by far the most reliable
that we possess, and without its help an investigation is
very heavily handicapped. I do not know of any well-
authenticated case of phenomena of this intensity occurring
in a good light, except perhaps those of D. D. Home
many years ago. But in this case the light available for
observation is undeniably good, although it is, of course,
to be hoped that Dr. Crawford may ultimately be able
to use a much stronger light by finding and eliminating
the particular wave-lengths which prevent phenomena
developing.
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 325
(iv) There is a great difference between quantitative
and qualitative work. The former, which has been
abundant in this case, postulates an intimate control of
the phenomena and cannot be extensively undertaken
when they are fugitive or sporadic. Conditions must be
very good indeed for qualitative observation before they
become possible for quantitative measurements.
(v) Difficult as it is to see any opening for fraud at
all, it becomes much more so when we reflect that the
fraudulent person or persons would have been obliged
not only to simulate the phenomena but to " fake
"
the readings of the apparatus at the same time, and,
moreover, in such a way as to give concordant results
uniformly pointing towards a definite theory, and main-
taining this concordance even in the face of experiments
especially designed by Dr. Crawford to test it, and whose
import was unknown to the members of the circle.
Dr. Crawford has dealt very thoroughly with this aspect
of the question on pp. 16-26 of his book, and there is
therefore no need for me to enlarge further on it.
(vi) The research has been continuously conducted
throughout by the one observer only—with checks on the
main features by various independent observers, such as
myself. It is clearly far more difficult for a trickster
to maintain a deception in the face of continuous observa-
tion of this kind—unless the chief investigator is quite
extraordinarily gullible—than it is in cases where the
investigation takes the non-cumulative form of the observa-
tion of a few sittings each by a series of committees
who do not know quite what to look for and who can
easily be put off, if need be, by a sudden " failure of
power," " bad conditions," or the like.
(vii) As already pointed out, there seems no motive for
fraud.
In addition to these general considerations there are
more specific reasons for believing fraud to be absent.
A spurious levitation could be accomplished in one of
three ways only
:
(a) The medium or one of the other members of the
circle might use their hands or feet directly.
326 W. Whately Smith. [part
(b) They might use hands or feet indirectly, that is to
say, by the intermediary of rods, clamps or similar
appliances.
(c) A special and elaborate apparatus might be installed,
operating, e.g. through trap-doors in the floor, and con-
trolled either by a member of the circle or by a con-
federate.
The last possibility is inserted only for the sake of
logical completeness. It may be eliminated at once, for,
in addition to its inherent improbability, it must be re-
membered that all the principal phenomena in question
have, on occasion, been produced in Dr. Crawford's house
and in various other rooms. The direct or indirect use
of hands is also eliminated, because, as already stated,
I have myself twice seen the sitters raise their joined
hands above their heads while the table was levitated
clear of the ground.
We are left with the possibihty of the direct or indirect
use of feet by the medium or a member of the circle.
The members of the circle other than the medium may
be left out of the question, because, in the first place,
all Dr. Crawford's quantitative work goes to show that
the medium is primarily responsible for the phenomena,
and, in the second, during the time I was within the
circle myself I moved all round the table except into the
space between it and the medium. This would have
prevented any member of the circle from using his or
her feet, because my own legs would have been in the
way.
The question, therefore, reduces to whether the medium
uses her feet or not.
The following points seem to me to answer this satis-
factorily :
(i) I tried to lift the table with my feet myself but
failed. The legs have no cross-bars and it is impossible
to get a proper grip.
(ii) When the table was levitated I was in a position
to see each leg in turn against the light from the stove
—
as already explained—and there was nothing in contact
with any of them.
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 327
(iii) When the table was thrown into the horizontal
position with the legs pointing towards the medium there
was, naturally, no shadow thrown by its top to hinder
observation. In this position all four legs were clearly
visible simultaneously and were not in contact with any-
thing.
(iv) In the course of the proceedings the table moved
to a distance of at least four feet from the medium,
which is well beyond the reach of a person sitting up-
right in a chair.
(v) The leverage exerted by a ten-pound table at a
radius of the legs is considerable, as anyone may test for
themselves. Even if it were possible for the medium,
by long practice or the use of specially devised clamps,
to raise the table from the ground, it would be physically
impossible for her to keep it steady for any length of
time. This is doubly so when the very heavy pressures
exerted by myself are taken into account.
(vi) I know a little of the way muscle behaves when
fatigued. Throughout the seance the table moved with
a poise and precision which did not at all convey the
impression of muscular action.
(vii) When the table was levitated I tried the effect
of pushing it in various directions. The direction of
maximum resistance was about 45° downwards and to-
wards the medium. This is just about the least favour-
able angle for resistance on the assumption that the
medium was using her feet, because at that angle my
pressure would exert an approximately maximal turning
moment about the medium's hips. The direction most
favourable for resistance would, of course, be along the
line of the legs
—
i.e. more or less horizontally towards the
medium, but somewhat upwards, since she could not raise
her legs above the horizontal without moving her knees,
which were in full view. In practice the resistance
was extraordinary and quite beyond the medium's normal
physical power.
(viii) At the time that I was within the circle until
I was pushed to its confines by the table, I was within
three feet of the medium, and, as already explained,
328 W. Whately Smith. [part
I could see clearly the whole of her body down to her
knees. Even if we postulate the most ingenious mechan-
ism for grasping the table and a physical strength on
the part of the medium quite disproportionate to her
weight and general build, it is surely impossible that she
could have sat absolutely motionless, as she did, while
the table writhed and twisted beneath my hands with
the utmost violence.
(ix) Several times while pushing hard against the table
I suddenly relaxed my pressure. If the medium had
been pushing against me she could not have restrained a
synchronous jerk. No such movement took place.
In concluding this account of my reasons for believing
the phenomena to be wholly genuine I cannot refrain
from saying that I consider that a certain onus pro-
bandi rests with those who support the theory of fraud as
well as on those who do not. No accusation of trickery
should be made unless its author is prepared to show,
roughly, at any rate, how such trickery could be effected.
I do not think anyone has answered Dr. Crawford's chal-
lenge (see pp. 21-26), but, speaking as one to whom the
explanation of fraud has always seemed the most likely
in these cases, I should be exceedingly interested to hear
of any really plausible explanation on these lines, if any
reader can produce one, which will cover the facts and con-
tains a sketch of the '
modus operandi.'
It may be noted here that Dr. Crawford's work has
already had the effect of greatly lightening the labours
of future students of telekinetic phenomena. When
next we find a good case of the type, we need not begin
de novo groping in the dark. We can get to work
light away confirming his fundamental experiments and
following up the methods which he has inaugurated.
This should result in a great economy of time and of
rare material.
IV.
In view of the reasons which I have adduced in support
of the genuineness of the phenomena it seems permissible
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena.'" 329
to conclude with some observations based on the assump-
tion that fraud may be regarded as eliminated.
I do not propose to discuss the ultimate origin of the
phenomena, or whether the controlling intelligence is in-
carnate or discarnate, a primary or a secondary person-
ality. Such questions, associated with the problem of
survival, do not constitute the principal and peculiar interest
of phenomena of this type. The evidence for survival
must always reduce to a matter of identity and of identity
alone, and although the evidential matter necessary for
its study may be obtained by " physical " phenomena
—
e.g. by raps—its evidential value, if any, is to be found in
its content and not in the manner by which it is received.
The peculiar interest of telekinetic phenomena lies,
then, in their proximate rather than their ultimate causes.
There can be no doubt, in this case at least, that they
are directed by an intelligence of some kind or other,
and it follows that we have a case of a Consciousness 1
acting upon matter otherwise than through the usual
intermediary of brain, nerve and muscle to which we
are accustomed.
This being so, it is clearly probable that a study of
the means whereby this control is exercised may throw
light on the relation which matter and consciousness bear
to one another.
Consciousness normally acts on matter through the body,
and hitherto we have not succeeded in discovering the
precise nature of the connection between the two, largely
by reason of the experimental difficulties involved.
In this case some mechanism, using the word in its
widest sense, seems to be employed which must be of a
very different nature.
On the one hand, since it is under intelligent control,
it must be in contact, so to speak, with Consciousness ;
on the other, since it affects matter, it must be quasi-
physical.
1 " Consciousness " is admittedly a somewhat vague and controversial
word to use here. It must not be taken as indicating any special philosophic
or metaphysical doctrine on my part beyond a general belief in the " trans-
missive " view of the relation between brain and consciousness.
330 W. Whately Smith. [part
It forms, as it were, a mean proportional between the
physical and mental realms, and if we succeed in elucidat-
ing its precise nature we shall, I believe, have obtained
the missing link which will enable us to understand some-
thing of the relation between the two and to express
both in terms of a common and coherent whole.
This might almost be described as the primary aim
of Psychic and Psychological Science.
The results so far obtained by Dr. Crawford do not
enable us to form any definite conclusions on the subject
of a positive nature. They do, however, allow us to
eliminate certain possibilities with considerable assurance.
I do not propose to deal with the sort of explanation
which speaks vaguely of undefined " forces " or " negative
gravity " or postulates the existence of an " etheric
duplicate" of the material table. These fantastic "ex-
planations " simply do not explain : for explanation
consists essentially of the restatement of the highly obscure
in terms of the less obscure and is not effected by the
introduction of new concepts as unintelligible as the
original problem.
It is therefore necessary, in accordance with the uni-
versal scientific principle of minimum assumption, to
exhaust all known modes of action and analogues thereof
before launching out into entirely unprecedented lines of
speculation.
This method has been pursued by Dr. Crawford with
the happiest results.
Before dealing with the line of explanation to which
he has been led I will first mention one or two possibilities
which may be definitely eliminated from the start.
Matter moves only when force is applied to it, and forces
may normally be transmitted in one of two ways only.
(i) Through the intermediary of matter, e.g. by the
direct action of a mechanical structure capable of trans-
mitting tension, compression, torque or shear, or by the
impact of material particles as in the case of the pressure
of a gas.
(ii) Without the intervention of matter, that is to say,
when the force is transmitted solely by the ether, as in
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic, Phenomena." 331
electrical or magnetic actions or gravitation. In all
cases of this class the forces obey the law of inverse
squares and are propagated rectilinearly.
The whole of this second type of force transmitted may
safely be rejected at once. The behaviour of the table
in no way resembles the effect of any of the forces com-
prised in this group. I am sure that no one who has
seen the phenomena and has any acquaintance with the
nature of electro-magnetic forces could possibly think
that the movements of the table are produced by the
action of any force obeying the inverse square law and
emanating from the medium or any other source or
sources.
The same applies to any supposition that the table is
bombarded by a stream of material particles projected
from the medium or elsewhere. This idea is negatived
by the normal absence of any reaction on the floor verti-
cally under the table, by the failure of a manometer
to detect any pressure and by the extreme rapidity
with which the force changes its direction.
I may say, however, that although this line of explana-
tion seems untenable in its simplest form, I should not
be surprised to find that it entered into the complete
explanation in a modified form and in an ancillary
capacity.
As opposed to these possibilities, with which the observed
phenomena present no analogy, we find a striking and
indeed perfect resemblance to the simplest of all forms
of force transmission, namely, a rigid structure.
The direction and magnitude of the forces measured
correspond accurately with those which would obtain,
if the connection between the medium and the table
were a material beam of a certain shape and possessing
considerable rigidity.
Dr. Crawford has been at pains to test this hypothesis
by deduction and experiment, and the results have been
uniformly coherent and confirmatory. We may therefore
say, at least, that although we can neither see nor feel
any material structure between the medium and the table,
yet the latter behaves precisely as if such a structure
332 W. Whatehj Smith. [PAET
were there. Not only is this the case as regards the
forces called into play during the phenomena, but, in
addition, it is possible to locate the structure and to
determine approximately its size and form by observing
in what positions an interposed solid object causes the
levitated table to drop, and by tracing out the lines of
stress in the space between the medium and the table.
These methods confirm the conclusions drawn from measure-
ments of the forces.
At this point we are faced by a somewhat awkward
dilemma. Short of denying the facts—a course which I
hold to be unjustifiable on the evidence—we must admit
one of two things.
Either we must say that there exists a concatenation
of forces of an entirely unknown nature and so adjusted
as to produce a perfect but illusory simulacrum of a
rigid cantilever, or we must admit that there can exist
a material, or quasi-material, structure which combines
the properties of rigidity and impalpability.
The former is in every Avay unsatisfactory ; it is un-
precedented and quite fails to throw any real light on
the subject. The latter is a mechanical contradiction in
terms.
None the less, it is the second alternative which I
think we should adopt. Most, if not all, scientific dis-
coveries have originated in the observation of facts which
at first sight have appeared incompatible, and have
remained so until the unifying clue has been forth-
coming.
I believe that the whole essence of the problem before
us in this case lies in the reconciliation of these contra-
dictory properties of the cantilever.
When we have solved the secret of its rigidity—or
even got so far as to imagine any means whereby that
rigidity could be obtained—I believe we shall hold in our
hands the key which will in time unlock most of the
closed doors which at present confront us in the investiga-
tion of Psychic forces.
At the present time I do not think that we are in a
position even to adumbrate the final solution of the
lxxvii.] " The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." 333
mystery, and in this vague and somewhat unsatisfactory
state I must be content to leave the subject.
But before we can hope to solve any problem we must
first be assured of the phenomena, which give rise to it,
and then narrow the investigation down to the minimum
number of specific points by the elimination of all
irrelevant details and untenable possibilities.
It is in these preliminary steps that I hope the pre-
ceding paragraphs may be of some slight value.
334 Sir William Barrett. [part
V.
REPORT OF PHYSICAL PHENOMENA TAKING PLACE
AT BELFAST WITH DPv. CRAWFORD'S MEDIUM,
read to the Council of the S.P.R. on January 8, 1916.
By Sir William Barrett, F.R.S.
Dr. Crawford, lecturer on Mechanical Engineering at
the Queen's University and Technical College, Belfast,
has for several months been investigating the remarkable
physical phenomena which take place in a small family
circle of working people in Belfast. The medium is the
eldest daughter, Kathleen, a girl of about seventeen.
Dr. Crawford has described in Light the very interesting
mechanical arrangements he has devised to test the weight
of the medium simultaneously with that of the table
which is levitated, and also of the forces apparently eman-
ating from the medium, and has determined the direction
as well as amount of these forces.
Through Dr. Crawford's kindness I was permitted to
join the circle in Belfast, during the Christmas vacation,
1915, and was allowed to bring with me a medical friend,
Dr. W., who kindly consented to make any pathological
or physical examinations of the medium that might be
necessary.
The sitting took place at the residence of the medium's
family, a small upper room having been regularly used for
the sittings. This room was lighted by an incandescent
gas burner, and a flat flame gas burner inside a
lamp with a large pane of red glass on the side facing
the circle. The circle of seven persons sat round a small
table and each clasped hands with the adjoining sitter.
We sat just outside, and close to, the circle. After
some hymns had been sung, the gas burner was turned off,
lxxvii.] Report of Physical Phenomena. 335
and the red light illuminated the room • sufficiently to
enable us to see the sitters and the table. The gas flame
inside the red lantern was at my request subsequently
raised, so that there was quite enough light to see the
objects and sitters in the room. A tin trumpet stood
beloAV the table, the latter had four legs, with no cross
bar on two sides, but a cross bar between the legs on the
two shorter sides, away from the medium.
Knocks soon came and answered questions. Three
knocks for yes, two for doubtful, and one for no. Mes-
sages were also slowly spelt out by repeating the alphabet
aloud, a knock coming at the right letter. The knocks
appeared in some cases to come from the table, at others
from outside the circle. Suddenly a very loud knock
came in response to a request, and was repeated with
violence. Dr. W. asked for it to be still louder, and
a tremendous bang then came, which shook the room and
resembled the blow of a sledge hammer on an anvil.
After the sitting we examined the feet of the sitters and
all had felt slippers on, except one who had light shoes,
and none could have produced these sounds with their
feet.
Then came some remarkable sounds resembling the
sawing of wood, the boring of timber, and the bouncing
of a ball. First a small ball bouncing up and down,
and then apparently a larger ball bouncing up and down,
the gradual dying away of the sounds as the ball came
to rest very cleverly reproduced.
The trumpet below the table then began to move about,
and the smaller end poked itself from under the top of
the table towards Dr. W. and myself. We were allowed
to try and catch it, but in spite of all our endeavours
it eluded us, darting in and out and changing its position
as we tried to seize it. The medium was on the opposite
side of the table to us and all the circle held up their
hands—so that we could see each linked hand clearly
—
as the trumpet played hide and seek with us.
Then the table began to rise from the floor, until it
reached a height of some twelve or eighteen inches, and
remained thus suspended and quite level. We were
336 Sir William Barrett. [part
allowed, first myself and then Dr. W., to go beneath
the clasped hands of the sitters into the circle and
try to force the table down. This both of us found it
impossible to do ;
though we laid hold of the sides of the
table it resisted our strongest efforts to push it down. I
then sat on the table when it was about a foot off the
floor and it swayed me about, finally tipping me off.
We then returned outside the circle, when the table
turned itself upside down and moved up and down with
the legs uppermost. Again we entered the circle and
tried to lift the table top from the floor, but it appeared
riveted, and we were unable to stir it. When we resumed our
place outside the circle, the table floated up and turned
itself over again with its right side uppermost. During
these experiments and whilst the table was levitated, all
the sitters repeatedly held up their clasped hands, so that
we could see no one had any contact with the table, they
were in fact so far from it that we could walk between
them and the table.
Other knockings came, and then the knocks bid us good-
night by rapping two or three times to each person in
succession, particularly loud knocks being given to Dr.
W. and myself.
The circle then sang the Doxology, and offered up
prayer, and the sitting terminated.
The next evening Dr. Crawford had arranged his tests
with weighing machines, and Dr. W. took the pulse and
breathing of the medium, with the object of noting
any change during the manifestations. After half an
hour of waiting and hymns, knocks came and a message
was sjDelt out, " We are sorry we cannot give any demon-
strations to-night." Asked if we, the visitors, were the
cause, " No " was replied. Could we remove the cause ?
" No." Was the cause on their side, a spiritual one ?
" No." Was it a material cause ? " Yes."
After the previous sitting Dr. W. had made some trials
of lifting the table by putting the feet beneath the short
cross bars of the table. This could be done clumsily, and
the table raised (but not level) for a few inches. So the
next evening we went provided with a long strip of paper
lxxvii.] Report of Physical Phenomena. 337
to paste round the lower part of the table, to prevent
these cross bars being used if the medium attempted to
lift the table in this way. What was our surprise to find
the cross bars had been sawn off close to the legs ; then
we were told that our trials had shown that the table
could be partly lifted by the feet under the cross bars,
and so thej^ had sawn off the bars to remove any sus-
picion. We asked the unseen friends if this caused the
manifestation to cease, and were told " no," but we should
have asked them about it beforehand. Finally we were
led to infer the material cause was in the medium herself.
After the circle had broken up Dr. W. remained behind
and examined the medium, and found that she was
suffering from a feminine disorder that evening. It was
useless to sit again until the medium was well, so we
returned to Dublin the next day ; but were cordially
invited to .go again later on. which I hope to do.
[Since Sir William Barrett has had no further opportunity of
studying Miss Kathleen Golighers phenomena, we now print his
short preliminary report as given above. Ed.]
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXVIII.
December, 1919.
ON A SERIES OF SITTINGS WITH MRS. OSBORNE
LEONARD.
By Miss Radclyffe-Hall and (Una) Lady Troubridge.
INTRODUCTION.
When extracts from this paper were read at the meetings
of the Society in January and March 1918, we mentioned
the possibility of the publication, at a later date, of a
fuller report on the series of sittings held by us with
Mrs. Osborne Leonard between August, 1916, and August,
1917.
As is well known, Mrs. Leonard is a professional medium,
and she has always received her customary fee from us.
We are well aware that many members of the Society
look askance upon professional mediums, and that the
attitude of the Society as a whole has always been
largely sceptical of evidence received through paid
mediumship. Mrs. Leonard is more or less at the
disposal of any member of the public who can prove
him or herself a bona fide inquirer. Therefore, as we
propose to base this paper on evidence received through
a professional medium, we feel that it is incumbent upon
us to preface that evidence by a short resume of the
340 Miss Radclyffe-Hatt and Lady Trouhridge. [part
circumstances connected with our earliest investigations
of Mrs. Leonard's phenomena.
1 1
first heard of Mrs. Leonard through a lady who
had written to Mr. J. Arthur Hill for advice. As far as
I can remember this was either at the end of July or
at the beginning of August, 1916. This lady requested
me to test Mrs. Leonard on my own behalf and hers,
for although I was not an experienced investigator, she
considered that I should be an impartial judge of evidence
received. I therefore went to Mrs. Leonard's flat to
arrange for a sitting. Mrs. Leonard was away, and a
friend of hers who was taking charge of the flat, told me
that it would be necessary for her to write to Mrs. Leonard,
and requested me to leave my name and address. This
I refused to do, promising to call again in three days
time for my answer. In three days time I did so, and
an appointment was given me for August 16th, 1916,
at 3 p.m. On leaving Mrs. Leonard's flat I went directly
to the station, and thence to the country, not returning
to London till the day of the sitting. I addressed no
conversation to Mrs. Leonard prior to my sitting, beyond
thanking her for the appointment, and she went quietly
into trance. Her control, Feda, began by describing a
young soldier ;
I did not recognise him, and said so,
asking if there were no other communicators wishing to
speak. It seemed that there were, for I very soon got
the description of a great friend of mine who had died
some months previously. Later on we shall give an
extract from that first sitting.
The description was brief, but unmistakeable ;
except
my friend, whom it fitted exactly, I had lost no one
to whom it corresponded ' in the very least. After Mrs.
Leonard had been in trance for what I think must have
been a little over half an hour, Feda complained that
my friend was an inexperienced communicator, and would
probably get on much better if I had a table-sitting.
Feda therefore withdrew and the medium awoke suddenly. I
1
Throughout this paper the first person singular refers to Miss Radcryffe-
Hall, by whom extracts from it were read at two meetings of the Society
on January 31st and March 22nd, 1918.
lxxvue.] Introduction. 341
told Mrs. Leonard what had happened and we had a
table-sitting. Mrs. Leonard had both her hands on the
table, but for the best part of the time only one of my
hands rested on the table, as I was taking notes with
the other. My friend immediately gave her full name
through the table, though I should have preferred her
not to do so. She also gave the name of a place to
which we had been together. When the table spelt out
" Do you remember a place we went to, called
—
I instantly thought of Orotava, a town that had been
visited by my friend and myself. For some reason I
felt almost certain that this name would come, but,
curiously enough, instead of getting it I got the name
" Watergate." I recognised the name, and asked if it
had another name as well, to which the table replied,
" Yes, Bay." Now Watergate Bay was the last place
visited by myself and my friend prior to her death. We
fully realise that the influence of the subliminal and
supraliminal minds must to a certain extent be dis-
counted, especially in table- sittings, when at least one of
the sitters is cognisant of the facts given ; and although
what was given at this sitting appears to eliminate con-
scious fraud, nothing was obtained through the table
which could not be accounted for by unconscious muscular
guidance by those who incline to that hypothesis. It
will remain for the reader to decide at the end of our
paper, whether another hypothesis, namely, that of tele-
pathy between the living, is an adequate explanation of
the subsequent trance-sittings with which we propose to
deal.
After the first sitting, at which I alone was present,
acting as my own recorder, I had another table-sitting
with Mrs. Leonard on August 25th, 1916, for the benefit
of the lady through whom I had originally heard of Mrs.
Leonard. This lady accompanied me in order to take
notes. We were, of course, both anonymous. The results
of this second table sitting were practically nil. Mrs.
Leonard complained that the weather was very damp.
For whatever reason, there was an immense amount of
confusion and no sensible messages were obtained for either
342 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
my friend or myself. I did not again go to Mrs. Leonard
until October 2nd, 1916, when I visited her together with
Lady Troubridge. We went as anonymous sitters recom-
mended by Sir Oliver Lodge. I asked Mrs. Leonard
whether she remembered me ; she said that she thought she
did, but could not be certain as she saw so many people.
I took the sitting, Lady Troubridge acting as recorder.
The control Feda recognised me immediately, not by
name, of course, but as having sat before. After this
sitting of October 2nd, 1916, we arranged for a series of
regular sittings. For the first five months of our weekly
sittings with this medium—and we sat sometimes
oftener than once a week—neither Lady Troubridge nor
I ever visited her alone, one or other of us always acting
as recorder. The recorder bore specially in mind the
importance of taking down everything said by the sitter,
and equally careful notes were made of any conversations
held with the medium in a normal state, before and
after the sittings, which conversations were invariably
brief.
There is another statement which we think it is well
to make. During those early sittings descriptions were
received of The White Cottage, at Malvern Wells, a house
much loved by my deceased friend and myself, together
with a description of characteristic features of the neigh-
bourhood and references to the neighbours.
There appeared to be only two possible explanations
of the descriptions in question : either the knowledge
displayed by Mrs. Leonard, when in trance, was obtained
in some supernormal manner ; or else pretty extensive
enquiries had been made in the neighbourhood of Malvern
Wells. We had absolutely no reason to doubt Mrs.
Leonard's integrity, but it must be borne in mind that
my friend's name had been received through the table,
and that we had in those days very little first-hand
knowledge of Mrs. Leonard's phenomena. It has always
appeared to us that those who are engaged upon such
a momentous investigation as that of phenomena pur-
porting to be occasioned by discamate human beings,
should leave no stone unturned to make each step of the
LXXVIII.] Introduction. 343
ground as sure as possible before proceeding. I therefore
felt it incumbent upon me to employ a good detective
agency, and from this agency I received a report on
November 14th, 1916.
As the result of their investigations at Malvern Wells
and in the surrounding district, it was ascertained that
no enquiries regarding myself or my deceased friend had
been made from any likely sources of information since
her death. No such enquiries would have been made prior
to her death by a fraudulent medium, as during her life-
time neither she, nor I, nor Lady Troubridge had ever
visited a medium, or taken any interest in Psychical
Research.
The detective also by my instructions made some
enquiries in London, but here again he failed to discover
anything suspicious. As, however, the description of The
White Cottage touched upon its interior, I did not stop short
at the detective's report. I wrote to the lady who had
taken possession of the house immediately after I left,
and I fear that I descended to subterfuge in order to
avoid creating a bias. I worded my letter as expressing
the hope that a person from the Colonies, known to
my deceased friend and myself, and who had expressed
a wish to see over the house, had been permitted to
do so. It struck us at the time that some pretext
of this sort would probably be used by a fraudulent
person wishing to gain admittance to the house. From
the lady I obtained a reply to the effect that no
friend had called at The White Cottage requesting to see
over it. At a later date Lady Troubridge and I visited
Malvern Wells ourselves for the purpose of making some
enquiries personally, the results of which again proved
favourable to the medium. I also wrote to my former
head-gardener at The White Cottage, who had joined the
Army, but who, as I knew, was in the habit of visiting
Malvern Wells from time to time, and he assured me that
nobody had ever questioned him regarding myself or my
deceased friend. All the correspondence with regard to this
matter of investigating Mrs. Leonard's honesty is in our
possession.
344 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
We have recently informed Mrs. Leonard of the fact
that detectives were employed by us in connection with
her phenomena, and she fully realised that the reports
furnished by the detectives represented a valuable testi-
monial to the genuineness of her powers.
With regard to the extracts from the sittings with
which we propose to deal, the purporting communicator
has on every occasion except one been my friend of
whom a description was given at the first sitting. On
the one occasion when she was not the principal com-
municator, I was given to understand at a later sitting
that she had been instrumental in helping Feda to get
messages through. My friend will be alluded to in the
sittings as A. V. B., I shall appear as M. R. H., and
Lady Troubridge as U. V. T. Feda is in the habit of
addressing me as " Mrs. Twonnie," her own version of
the name by which I am often called, and Lady Trou-
bridge as "Mrs. Una." During the sittings, Feda has
gradually acquired the habit of calling A. V. B. " Ladye,"
a nickname which belonged to her in life, and was
given spontaneously through Feda at an early sitting.
Of Feda we need say very little, as she is already known
to the public through Sir Oliver Lodge's book Raymond.
Throughout the sittings we have in our records, for
the sake of brevity and clarity, treated the medium,
during her trance, as being non-existent, except in those
instances when Feda alludes to her as " my medium,"
or " this one," etc. We have assumed that Feda takes
her place, or at times A. V. B., and have attributed
to these controls all words spoken by, or movements made
by Mrs. Leonard. For instance, it will be noticed that
in the records, we say: "Feda touches her forehead," etc.,
instead of :
" Feda touches the medium's forehead," or :
" Mrs. Leonard touches her forehead." In our records
we have not closely followed Feda's broken English, it
would have taken too long to think out suitable spelling
for her idiosyncrasies. Her knowledge of the English
alphabet is shaky, and although she will at times recognise
and mention letters quite accurately, at other times she
appears to be at a loss, and is reduced to attempting to
LXXVIII.] Introduction. 345
draw with her finger the letters that are apparently shown
her, or to such descriptions as :
" It's a curly letter like
a snake, or ''It's like a cross without a top." She will
generally speak of O as a little circle, and she will also
describe any letter that has a stroke above or below the
line, as, for instance, small Y or B, as " a long letter,"
while others, such as small U or E, are "little letters."
Her English varies ; it is almost correct when she purports
to be repeating a message verbatim, and at all times is
quite intelligible in spite of its eccentricities.
As throughout the following Paper we propose to deal
exclusively with the purporting attempt of discarnate
intelligences to communicate evidential matter, we have,
in some of the longer extracts from sittings, occasionally
omitted remarks interlarded by Feda, concerning conditions
in the " spirit world," etc. In order, however, to do full
justice to the sustained and consecutively coherent nature
of the sittings, it is only fair to state that these remarks
of Eeda's, although non-evidential, were seldom irrelevant,
being usually in the nature of parallels suggested by the
topic in hand.
It may perhaps be as well to remark here that the records
of our sittings have always been copied by hand, or typed,
on the afternoon of the day upon which the sitting took
place. Of course, since the original notes were made,
some few facts have come to light, and occasionally our
memory has afforded a further verification of certain
incidents ; this has led to some trifling modifications of,
or additions to, our original annotations appended to the
records. OccasionaUy, also, mature consideration, consequent
upon a deeper study of the sittings, has thrown a new
light on some of Feda's statements.
In view of. the fact that evidential pantomime is some-
times a feature of the Leonard phenomena, it is necessary
to mention the amount of light permitted by Mrs. Leonard
during the sittings. Mrs. Leonard does not sit in full
daylight—the sittings are held with drawn curtains, by
the fight of a shaded lamp. This lamp is placed in front
of the recorder, who, when two people are present,
sits a few feet away from the medium. During the
346 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
summer time, therefore, when there is no fire, it is
not always possible for the recorder to distinguish
clearly gestures made by the medium. The recorder
at these times depends partially upon the sitter to
describe the gestures verbally one by one as they are
made, the light being always sufficient to render all
gestures and the facial expression of the medium
clearly visible to the sitter, who is placed directly in
front of her, sometimes in contact with her hand and
sometimes not. When only one person is present and
the sitter takes his or her own notes, the table upon
which the lamp stands is placed quite close to the medium,
and there is often little or no contact, the sitter requiring
both hands free. During the winter months it is never
necessary for the sitter to describe verbally to the recorder
any gestures that are made, as, owing to the fact that
Mrs. Leonard feels the cold when she comes out of trance,
there is always a very large fire in the grate, which, in
addition to the lamp, makes a sufficient illumination for
the recorder as well as the sitter to observe all move-
ments made by the medium. But as the recorder is naturally
looking down to write, our method has been for the
sitter to call the recorder's attention to any pantomime
by saying :
" Feda is making a gesture for you to record,"
or: "Watch Feda's gestures," or words to that effect.
Our thanks are due to Feda for the full and accurate
records which we have been able to obtain. She has
always shown the greatest solicitude on this point, re-
peating slowly and carefully, more than once, anything
intricate that appeared to her to be of evidential value ;
unlike most controls she can be stopped with impunity
should the recorder be in fear of getting behind-hand,
and yet cleverly take up the thread the moment she is told
that the recorder is ready. We have both remarked that she
often appears to have a curious knowledge of the exact
stage in the notes that the recorder has reached, and has
been known to rebuke the communicator, saying :
" Don't
speak so quickly; Mrs. Twonnie " (or "Mrs. Una," as
the case may be) hasn't got that down yet," and at other
times, when the sitter has enquired whether the recorder
LXXVIII.] Introduction. 347
is ready, Feda will answer glibly and correctly for the
recorder: "Oh, yes, she's got that down all right," or
the contrary. The above has been our experience ;
possibly
we have been particularly fortunate, owing perhaps to
the fact that a very real mutual liking has grown up
between ourselves and Feda. This, we have been given
to understand, is not invariably the case.
348 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
CHAPTER I.
Description by Feda op Communicator's Personal
Appearance as Evidence of Identity.
The first evidence with which we shall deal is that relating
to personal appearance and conditions as a proof of identity,
when given through a control who purports to be in
touch with the communicating spirit ; and in this connec-
tion we shall give a few extracts from early sittings,
beginning with my first sitting of August 16th, 1916, at
which I was my own recorder.
We will begin the extract after Feda's description of
the unknown soldier aforementioned.
M. R. H. I do not know him, is there no one else ?
F. Yes, there's a lady of about sixty years old, perhaps.
M. Pv. H. Please describe her, she interests me more. (Feda
did not take the hint, however, but continued
to describe the soldier, who appeared to be very
insistent.)
M. R. H. Please leave him ; as I do not know him, I am
afraid I cannot help, though I would do any-
thing I could. Will you describe the lady of
about sixty 1
F. The lady is of medium height, has rather a good
figure but is inclined to be too fat, Feda thinks ;
she has a straight nose, a well shaped face, but
the face is inclined to lose its outline a little.
The eyebrows are slightly arched, her hair is
not done fashionably.
M. R. H. Is it worn in the neck ?
F. No, it's done on the crown of her head. She has
passed over quite recently. She had not been
well for some time prior to passing, she was
Lxxvni.] Communicator's Personal Appearance 349
sometimes conscious of this, but put it behind
her. Feda doesn't mean to say that she worried
over it much, or that she suffered much, she
didn't. Feda thinks she didn't know how ill she
really was. She went about doing things just as
usual, she gives Feda the impression of internal
weakness. You were much with her in her earth
life, you gave her vitality, you kept her up with
your vitality . . . The lady's eyes look to Feda
to be dark, perhaps grey.
Regarding this description : A. V. B. was fifty-seven
when she died, had had a fine figure, but latterly be-
came too stout ; she had a straight nose, which was
very slightly tip-tilted, she wore her hair dressed high
on her head, and, at the time of this sitting, she had
only been dead two months three weeks and a day. For
some time prior to her death she had not been strong,
partly owing to the effects of a bad motor accident. She
must often have put her ailments behind her, however,
and we do not think for a moment that she had any idea
of how ill she was ; I can only say that I had none.
She went about doing things as usual up to the very
day of her last illness, which came on without the slightest
warning. She did suffer from internal weakness, though
this had nothing to do with her death. A. V. B. and I
were the closest friends for eight years, and lived together
for a great part of that time. She would sometimes say
to me that she believed that my vitality kept her up and
helped her ; we used to discuss this together. A. V. B.'s
eyes were of a dark blue, some people might have called
them of a dark bluey-grey colour.
After these details had been obtained through Mrs.
Leonard's trance, together with descriptions fairly appli-
cable to some of my deceased relations, Mrs. Leonard was
awakened by Feda, for the purpose of the table-sitting
mentioned above. This table- sitting was very brief, and
contained nothing evidential beyond the points already
quoted.
On October 2nd, 1916, I took a sitting with Mrs.
350 Miss Baddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
Leonard, Lady Troubridge acting as recorder. After
a few words of greeting the sitting opened by Feda
recognising the communicator as the lady whom she had
seen at my first sitting. I asked Feda to describe her
again, and she did so accurately and much more fully
than on the first occasion. There are a few points of
interest that we must quote from this second description ;
they are as follows :
F. Not a young, rather an elderly lady, bringing
again the funny feeling in her legs, no circu-
lation in her legs, cold and numb. She must have
had that before she died. She is about medium
height, in build not exactly fat, but rather
spreaded out. She has a nice-shaped face and
a very humorous look, as if she'd smile over
things and have jokes with you that other people
didn't come into. She looks elderly but has a
young soul ; she is laughing ; she was about
sixteen sometimes, she never grew old in soul,
her body was a nuisance to her. She was always
wanting to do things that she could not do.
A little later on Feda says :
F. She has regular features, with character, a firm
chin, not prominent, round, she has lost the
shape of her face a bit, it's a little flabby under
the chin—mouth medium size—not very red,
which makes the lips not look full. Eyes deep
set, she doesn't open them very wide, that's
why Feda can't tell their colour. She looks
sideways at people sometimes, without moving
her head, she's looking at you like that now.
And later on still in this sitting :
M. R. H. Ask her if she suffered much when she died.
F. She says not as much as one would think. Some-
thing had come up to her head, and before she
passed over worked up to the brain, and formed
a small clot on some part of the brain that
stopped her feeling. It doesn't seem to worry
lxxviii.] Communicator s Personal Appearance. 351
her, but she wants to know if that is what
happened.
M. R. H. Yes, that is what happened.
F. It pressed, and prevented her feeling.
M. R. H. Was she frightened ?
F. She says :
" When I woke up it felt strange, I had
an idea I was still dreaming, I had rather strange
dreams, I don*t know if I told anyone. Often
I was half awake and half asleep."
M. R. H. Quite right ; did she know me at all ?
F. She says it's hard to explain, but yes, she did
know you, but was not sure if you were part
of the drearn, or real. She says : "I could feel
you. You seemed to be mentally impressing me
with all your might with "
—
(sotto voce : Old
Lady, old Lady, oh, Lady ?) She says you
said :
'
Oh ! Ladye, oh ! Ladye it's all right."
" And now and again holding me physically as if
wanting to hold me up." Did she ever choke
in her throat ? because she's just put her arm
around you for a minute, and Feda felt her
physical body.
The first point of interest in the above extract occurs
when Feda says, regarding the numbness, etc., in the legs :
" Bringing again a funny feeling in her legs." As A. V. B.
died of a stroke, Feda's description of the sensations is
perfectly correct, but why she uses the word
£i
again " is
not apparent, since, during my sitting of August 16th,
1916, she never described any sensations of this nature.
As will be remembered, on that occasion, she only alluded
to internal weakness, which although correct had nothing
to do with death-conditions. As Feda says in the present
sitting, A. V. B. had a very humorous look, and it was
certainly her custom to have many jokes with me, in
which other people were not always included. A. V. B.
had a very strong sense of humour. She also had what may
be called a young soul, retaining up to the last an almost
childish enjoyment of things ; that her body became a
nuisance to her is perfectly true, and Feda is right in
352 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
saying that she always wanted to do things that she
was unable to do. Owing to her failing health she was
prevented from enjoying exercise, such as walking, or
swimming, a sport to which she was devoted.
A. V. B. had rather deep-set eyes, and often kept her
lids lowered. She never in fact opened her eyes very
wide. But the striking part of the description, to me who
knew her so well, comes when Feda remarks that she
was in the habit of looking at people sideways, without
moving her head. This sidelong glance was extraordinarily
characteristic of A. V. B. I had often remarked on it to
her during her lifetime.
As we have said already, A. V. B. died of an apoplectic
seizure. There was cerebral haemorrhage which formed
a clot on the brain, and this led to progressive paralysis.
She lay for eleven days prior to her death with only
occasional flashes of semi-consciousness. A. V. B. lost all
power of coherent speech almost immediately after her
seizure ; we find Feda, however, saying that A. V. B.
wondered whether she had told anyone of her strange
dreams. She could not, of course, have actually told
anyone anything, though one cannot be certain as to how far
she was conscious of this loss of speech ;
occasionally she
used to make inarticulate sounds, as though trying to
speak.
As we have already said, A. V. B.'s nickname was
" Ladye " : during her illness, when speaking to her, I most
certainly said, "Oh, Ladye," on several occasions; I never
called A. V. B. " old lady " in my fife, and this indecision
on Feda's part as to whether the words used were " Oh,
Ladye " or " old lady " is rather enlightening, as showing,
it appears to us, the bias occasionally given to certain
messages owing to preconceived ideas on the part of the
control. " Ladye " being an unusual nickname, Feda cannot
quite believe, apparently, that she has heard correctly.
" Old Lady " is a more familiar form of address to Feda ;
she therefore decides to try both.
The choking in the throat referred to by Feda is
perfectly correct ;
owing to the paralysis, A. V. B. had
difficulty in swallowing. With regard to my holding
lxxviii.] Communicator's Personal Appearance. 353
A. V. B. up physically, I did so, but only to the best
of my belief on one occasion.
We next come to a Leonard sitting of October 9th,
1916 ; I took the sitting and Lady Troubridge was the
recorder. Speaking of A. V. B., Feda says :
F. She looks much better than when Feda saw her last.
M. R. H. Can you tell me the colour of her hair 1
F. Brown like this one's, Feda thinks. (Here Feda
touches the medium's hair.) But she does it high
up, not in her neck.
Later on in the sitting I asked whether A. V. B.
realised that her death had come as a great shock to me,
as I had not known that she was seriously ill. I gave no
details or clues regarding the nature of her illness. Feda
replied to my question as follows :
F. She says: "Of course you didn't know I was ill,
I didn't know it myself until too late ;
perhaps
it was coming on for some time. I couldn't
expect you to know what I didn't know myself."
And again :
F. She says nothing could have been done for her,
unless something had been done to her whole
system, not only a part of it, two or three years
ago, and that would only have kept it at bay.
She says after all she was spared suffering and
a long illness.
Now regarding the above extract, A. V. B.'s hair was
brown, but considerably darker in colour than the medium's.
We have repeatedly noticed that one of Feda's weakest
points is describing the colour of people's hair. A. V. B.
had spent a pleasant afternoon, and had actually felt well
enough to sing at a tea-party on the very day that she
was taken ill ;
it is therefore logical to suppose that, as
Feda says, she herself was quite as unconscious of the
gravity of her condition as I was. Undoubtedly, however,
the illness had been coming on for some time past. In
the opinion of certain doctors who attended her during
her last illness, A. V. B. must have been suffering for
354 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [pabt
several years from arterial sclerosis, and throughout this
time her blood pressure must have been such as to
constitute a serious danger. To have checked these
maladies, radical steps should have been taken several
years before. These steps would have necessitated a total
alteration in her diet and. her whole habit of life, and
presumably, as Feda states, something wovdd have had
to be done for her whole system ; but even had these
steps been taken the trouble would only have been
kept at bay, as arterial sclerosis is a disease for which,
unfortunately, there is no complete cure.
And here it may be as well to state that I instructed
the detective to go to the Registrar of Deaths for the
district in which A. V. B. died, and ascertain whether
inquiries had been made, by any person, as to the nature
of A. V. B."s last illness. The detective was told that in
this case no inquiries had been made, and that even had
they been, under no circumstances would such questions
be answered at the office. Lady Troubridge visited the
hotel where A. V. B. died ; she found that the former
hall-porter had left, but she interviewed the proprietress,
using again the pretext that some hypothetical friend of
A. V. B.'s might have come to inquire for her, and have
asked for details regarding her last illness. The proprietress
assured Lady Troubridge that she herself had received no
inquiries, and that had any inquiries been made of the
hall porter, or of any other employe of the hotel, the
enquirers would at once have been referred to herself.
Nothing further of importance with regard to A. V. B.'s
a ppearance occurred till eight months later, when on
June 6th, 1917, a much more detailed description of her
was given by Feda. By this date, as we shall see later,
A. V. B. had been trying her hand at a personal control 1
of the medium, and during a personal control which
had occurred a short time prior to this sitting of
June 6th, 1917, A. V. B. complained that Feda always
described her as being too old looking. I did not
thereupon begin to expatiate upon A. V. B.'s appearance
1
We use the term " personal control " for convenience without making any
assumption as to what actually occurs during this phenomenon.
lxxvtel] Communicator's Personal Appearance. 355
when at her best ; I merely remarked that she had
always been a young-looking woman. As a matter of fact
Feda's earlier descriptions, although not flattering, and
inclined to pick out the weak points and ignore the
good, were on the whole good descriptions of A. V. B.
as she was for a little time before her death. The des-
cription which we will now quote is a very remarkable
one of A. V. B. as she was when she was younger. Here
is the extract from the sitting of June 6th, 1917. Lady
Troubridge took the sitting and I recorded.
F. Mrs. Una, she's got a nice complexion, very nice,
it isn't a bit wrinkled, it's very smooth. Before
she passed on her cheeks fell in a little bit, and
do you know her mouth had got drawn down a
little in the left corner, like this 1 (Feda draws
down one side of her mouth a little) She's showing
that ; it was straight at the other corner, but
the left side is drawn down, and in a bit, but
not very much.
M. R. H. Yes, that was so, but I'm not sure that you've
got the right side.
F. Well, Feda thinks she shows the left side. It
gives her face rather a drawn look. She used to
have a very pretty chin and neck, but the
muscles had got a little flabby and let it fall a
bit, so that when you'd see her side-face, it didn't
look quite so stucked out and pretty as it used to.
M. R. H. She's always making mistakes between the right
and left.
F. Yes, she explained that to you once. You see it's
like a negative to Feda, what she shows. You
know, Mrs. Una, how in a photo, if you've been
wearing something on your right side, it comes
out as though it were your left.
U. V. T. Well, but the fact is perfectly right and it's a
very good evidential proof.
F. It took away that pretty, chirpy look from her
face. (Feda begins pouting out her lips.) Mrs.
Una, when she had her under lip coming out
356 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
like this (Feda slightly pulls out her under-lip
with finger and thumb), it made her look cheeky-
looking. It stuck out a little firmly ; under the
lip it was tucked in, in a little dip, and then it
came out in a pretty rounded chin ; Feda can
see all this because she's like that now, you know,
but when she first came here she was not so
pretty as she is now. You don't think she'll
mind Feda saying that she has rather a cheeky
mouth and chin do you ?
U. V. T. No, of course not, it's a very good description.
F. She says she doesn't know, perhaps she does look
cheeky now. Her face has got pretty, soft curves,
but Feda feels that under that softness there
would be a little sharp determinedness ; Feda
feels it would be like looking awful softly at
people when they were off their guard, and that
then she would suddenly come out and put her
foot down and get her own way. They would
be so surprised, but while their mouths were still
open, she would have done it. She's got a lot
of determination, but there's no fuss, no noise,
she didn't say much, but she managed it some-
how. Feda doesn't think that her nose and eyes
were so cheeky as her mouth and chin.
U. V. T. Why ?
F. Her nose is not turned up, it's straight, or nearly
so, but it scoops in a little at the bridge, Feda
sees ; it's not a nose that comes out at all at
the bridge ;
you see where the forehead starts
it comes down straight, and there's no sharp
division between the nose and the forehead, it's
more curved in, and a little flat at the bridge
part, and then it comes out a little bit more at
the tip, but it's not a puggy nose ; she says :
" Certainly not." But look, Mrs. Una, it widens
here a little bit, (Feda touches her nostrils) the
nostrils are wider than the tip ; she hasn't got
a wide tip to her nose at all, it's a pretty shape
at the tip.
lxxviii.] Communicator's Personal Appearance. 357
U. V*. T. You do see her clearly to-day, Feda.
F. Yes, Feda feels that her nostrils used to move a
bit too, but perhaps everybody's do a bit, but
her's were sensitive ; from the nose to the upper
lip is very pretty, it looks rather straight when
it's seen sideways, but there's a little dip in it,
a groove ; it's not at all long though ; her upper
lip doesn't look very full, but it's very prettily
curved, it's got a clean little curve, and going
from the middle, the upper lip has a very pretty
clean little curve. (Feda traces the mouth from
centre to corner along the top lip.) The lip
doesn't spread out at all over the side, her under
lip is a little tiny bit bigger than the top lip,
it shows more, because, when she turns sideways,
some people might say it was almost too much,
because the under lip protruded a tiny bit beyond
the top lip. You would notice that sometimes,
when people were talking to her, or she was
just thinking.
IT. V. T. Excellent !
F. She doesn't mind a bit Feda saying that she's
got a cheeky face ; it's a rounded face with soft
curves, but you can see by the mouth and chin
that she was determined although she had a
soft face. Do you know what Feda means by
a moving face, an easy moving face ?
U. V. T. Yes, you mean mobile.
F. Yes, that's it. She wouldn't sit stiff-faced like
most people in this country do ; she wasn't stiff
and frigid, she could move her eyes very quickly,
but not in a jumpy way, she had an easy way
of moving them. She moved her lids very
prettily ; she's got very prettily cut eyelids,
especially when they are closed. When she
drooped her eyes and looked down as she some-
times did, when she stucked her mouth out, it
was very pretty. She sometimes did that you
know, stucked out her under-lip, and drooped
her eyes and looked down (Feda gives an imita-
358 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
tion of this with the head held very well back)
She says she knew when she was doing that ,
she says she didn't always do it accidentally.
U. V. T. Then why did she do it ?
F. She says : "It was just a little pose of mine."
but Feda can see that it isn't a way many
people have ;
they wouldn't have the ease of
face to carry it out. She used to hold her neck
up, but she always did that. Do you know her
back was curved in a bit here ? (Feda touches
her waist at the back.) She had a kind of
hollow, she's laughing at that ; but though
she was hollow there, it didn't make her have
big shoulder blades ; it was just a natural
curve that she had in her body, just there.
She dipped in there, (Feda indicates her back
again.) Feda thinks that's very nice. When
she walked it was the same as when she was
sitting, it was like this, (Feda holds her shoulders
very straight but easily), and then her back curved
in, but she was straight from here downwards
(indicates the line from bust to waist), it looks
rather a straight line down the front, though she
was a bit full here, not too full, nicely (Feda
indicates her bust). You can't help seeing that
she goes in at the waist because of the curve at
the back. When she walked she didn't jerk, she
didn't go like this, (here Feda moves her shoulders
to indicate an uneven walk). She walked very
smoothly, it's a bit as if she were on rollers.
Did she sometimes have her hair raised up here ?
(Feda touches the front of her head.) Feda
. means across here ; it doesn't seem as though
she wore it just straight back, it looks as if it
had been pulled forward ; she didn't drag it
back, and she hasn't got it done low at the
back, it was taken up. It stuck out on the
crown of her head, and she didn't wear it there
just in one coil, it seems to Feda to be in
several bits, and it was rather puffed out behind
lxxviii.] Communicator's Personal Appearance. 359
too. It wasn't dragged up from the back of the
ears, it was worn more loosely.
As will have been noticed, this description of A. V. B.
is broken into just at the beginning by the description
of one side of the mouth, which is said to have been
drawn down a little before she died. A. V. B. is said
to be showing that. Now this slight drawing down of
the mouth on one side was a consequence of A. V. B.'s
stroke ; it was the only visible blemish caused by the
stroke. Only those few people who were with her during
her last illness can have seen this blemish, as it dis-
appeared a short time after her death. Our impression
had been that this drawing down of the mouth was on
the right side, not the left, and we accordingly contra-
dicted Feda on this point. It appears, however, that
she was right, and we were wrong ; for the paralysis
was right-sided and we now learn from our medical friends
that right-sided paralysis affecting the face would cause the
mouth to be drawn down on the left side. Feda prefaces this
long description of A. V. B. by remarking that the muscles
of the chin and neck had got a little flabby. This suggests
earlier descriptions. The whole of the description which
follows on U. V. T.'s remark that Feda's reference to the
mouth having been drawn down is correct, is very note-
worthy indeed. There is not one detail which is wrong
in the description, either of A. V. B.'s appearance,
mannerisms or characteristics. There are one or two points,
of course, which are pre-eminent in interest, and the first
of these occurs when Feda gives us to understand that
A. V. B. was in the habit of protruding her under-lip.
And a little further on she slightly elaborates this statement
by telling us that one would notice this peculiarity some-
times when people were talking to A. V. B., or when she
was just thinking. A. V. B. had a habit of protruding
her under-lip ; she often did it when people were talking
to her, or, as Feda says, when she was thinking. The next
point of special interest we find contained in Feda's words :
" She's got very prettily cut eyelids, especially when they
are closed."' A. V. B. was always said to have very
perfectly modelled eyelids, especially when they were
360 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [paet
closed ;
they were considered one of her best points. But
when we come to Feda's description of what A. V. B.
herself defines through Feda as " just a little pose of
mine " it is still more interesting ; because what Feda
has described regarding the drooped eyelids, the pro-
truded hp, and the head well back, all of which A. V. B.
gives us to understand she didn't always do accidentally,
is an exact description of a characteristic attitude of
A. V. B.'s ; a pose so familiar as to have become almost
second nature. The next point of particular interest
occurs when Feda describes the curve or hollow in A. V. B.'s
back. This was a marked characteristic, and she often
grumbled about it, as it gave her backaches. If she
were ill in bed for any length of time, her unusually
arched back would cause her inconvenience, and pillows
would have to be arranged in order to support it.
Although there are in existence sketches and portraits
of A. V. B., two of which at least have been reproduced
in print, none of these portraits or sketches show the
arch in the back.
A. V. B.'s walk is also admirably described. We can
only add, regarding the whole of the description, in-
cluding that of her manner of walking, that it is life-
like of A. V. B. as she was some years ago, and that the
points of particular interest which we have mentioned
would have been just the points which A. V. B. would
have endeavoured to get described, in order that there
should be no mistake as to her identity.
Lxxvni.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator 361
CHAPTER II.
Evidence of Memory retained by the Communicator.
We shall now leave descriptions of personal appearance
and conditions, and treat of memory as a proof of identity.
From the beginning proofs of persistent memory have
occurred ;
during various sittings A. V. B. has given
through Feda descriptions of articles, including certain
pieces of jewellery, which had been in her possession.
All these pieces of jewellery I have been able to identify
with the exception of one ; we will not, however, enumerate
them, because portions of A. V. B.'s Will appeared in
the newspapers, including a description of some of her
jewels.
Section I. Memory of Riding and M. R. H.'s Horse.
Another point concerning which we think that A. V. B.
has demonstrated clear memory is my fondness for horses
and riding. At the sitting of October 2nd, 1916, when,
as has already been said, I took the sitting, Lady Trou-
bridge recording, the following occurred :
F. Feda sees a horse, how funny ! He's looking over
her shoulder, he's a brown, sleek horse, she says
she's keeping it for when you come over.
M. R. H. Describe it.
F. Thin face, slender face, slim horse. Feda knows
the difference between this kind and the kind
that draws carts. He's got a very soft mouth.
M. R. H. Is there any colour on his face ?
F. There is some mark on his forehead ; the ears are
not very big, little ears, a beautiful shiny-looking
face. He has large eyes, and a beautiful ex-
pression. The little ears give him a naughty,
362 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
smart look, but his eyes and mouth have a
sweet, kind look. She seems to think you like
horses. She thinks you will be pleased.
During the sitting of October 9th, 191G, at which I
was the sitter and Lady Troubridge the recorder, we
obtained the following words :
F. She says : " Don't laugh, I've been learning to
ride." She means on a horse, she's watching
if you laugh.
M. R. H. I know she tried once when we were together.
F. She says she thinks she's getting on very well.
She says are you sure you're not laughing ? She
says she doesn't really mind if you are. She
says she always thought she'd like to ride, and
that you will love it when you come. There are
plenty of horses that love to be exercised, and
the ground is so springy.
Later on in the same sitting Feda remarks :
" She
says :
'
You wouldn't like to be without dogs and horses.'
"
On December 6th, 1916, when I was the sitter and
Lady Troubridge recorded, the sitting opened with another
reference to the horse. It was as follows :
F. Your Ladye's here, she's got that nice horse with
her again. She's got her arm round his neck,
she seems to think he wouldn't bite, but she
wants you to see that she's got her arm around
him. She seems a bit careful about it. It's
that horse with the funny mark between his eyes.
He's got a nice face, he moves his ears about
a lot—jerks and twitches them. She seems glad
she's got horses, but Feda doesn't think it's for
her own sake but for yours.
And later in the same sitting Feda remarks :
F. She says horses must be kept for you, but not so
much for her, but she says her riding has im-
proved. She says, " I wasn't a success on the
earth plane with riding," but she's keeping the
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator 363
horses ready for you, and she says there are no
overworked or badly treated horses over there.
On January 3rd, 1917, upon which day I was sitting
and Lady Troubridge was recording, the following was
given :
F. She's so glad there are animals in the spirit world,
she's not really afraid of horses, and she knows
now that they can't hurt her, but when she
first passed over she was still a bit wary of
them.
In the first extract I recognised in the description
given by Feda a favourite hunter of mine who had been
shot some years prior to A. V. B.'s death, and who had
been well-known to her. This particular hunter is the
only horse I have ever had destroyed, or who has died,
while in my possession. The " little ears " upon which
Feda remarks were a marked characteristic of this horse.
Throughout these extracts we appear to find A. V. B.
clearly remembering my love of horses, animals in which
she personally took no particular interest. When A. V. B.
first knew me intimately, I hunted a great deal, and from
the fact that she is said to think that I shall be glad
that she is keeping for me the particular horse described,
we may perhaps conclude that she remembers that I was
greatly attached to him.
With regard to A. V. B.'s saying through Feda on
October 9th, 1916, that she has been learning to ride,
and watching at the same time to see if I should laugh
at her, we do not propose to offer any opinion upon
rather startling statements of this kind regarding con-
ditions after death. In the present state of our know-
ledge they cannot be evidential. We propose to treat
this particular statement only from the standpoint of
its value as demonstrating persistence of memory. As a
young bride in India A. V. B. had ridden, not very well
I believe ; but on one occasion, many years later, when
we were living together, she suddenly took it into her
head that she wanted to ride again. She had not been
on a horse since she left India, as far as I know ; never-
364 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
theless she went to a riding school and got as far as
having an expensive habit made. We were going abroad
at the time to a place where A. V. B. thought that
riding would be useful. Now I made fun of this riding
episode, and teased her a great deal, especially as
we did not go to the place intended and the new
habit was never worn. In this connection, as will
have been noticed, we may again infer from Feda's
words that it is I who love horses, and will avail myself
of them in my next state of existence. There also
appears to be a memory shown here of my love of
dogs. During her lifetime, A. V. B., who was not herself
very fond of dogs in general, suffered patiently a succession
of my pets.
In the extract from the sitting of December 6th, 1916,
Feda tells me that A. V. B. has got her arm round the
horse's neck, and that she, A. V. B., wishes me to
notice this ; Feda adds that A. V. B. " seems a bit
careful about it." Later in that same sitting we find
A. V. B. again returning to the topic of riding, and
definitely stating that horses must be kept for me and
not so much for her, admitting with candour that her
riding during her earth life was not a success.
Again, in the extract from the sitting of January 3rd,
1917, we are told that A. V. B. is not really afraid of
horses, as she knows now that they cannot hurt her, but
that she .was still wary of them when she first passed
over.
All these statements are characteristic from several
standpoints.
It is superfluous to comment upon the reiteration of
the fact that it is my affection for horses that is to be
gratified. As has already been said, A. V. B., during
her lifetime was no horsewoman, she was very frightened
of horses, and if it should be true that in her present
state of existence she has overcome this nervousness, she
would certainly wish to call my attention to the fact,
as she apparently tries to do by intimating that she
wishes me to notice that her arm is around my horse's
neck.
lxxvhi.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 365
In the second extract from the sitting of December 6th,
1916, there is an implication of the memory of another
aspect of my love for horses. A. V. B. assures me
through Feda that there are no over-worked or badly
treated horses in the spirit world. It would appear that
she has not forgotten the many times during our long
friendship when I was greatly angered and distressed by
the sight of an over-worked or ill-used horse.
Section II. Memory of Characteristics of M. R. H.
We now come to another point upon which A. V. B.
appears to have retained her memory. During the sitting
of October 2nd, 1916, which I took, Lady Troubridge
acting as recorder, the foUowing occurred :
M. R. H. Does she know I am going away ?
F. Yes, she seems anxious about it. It isn't what
you're going to do there.
M. R. H. Tell her Una will look after me.
F. She says, yes, she is very glad if she will ; that
is, if you will let her ; she says she has got a
very difficult task.
The sitting of October 13th, 1916, which was taken by
Lady Troubridge and recorded by me, terminated with
the following :
U. V. T. Tell Ladye she's got to help me to take care of
Twoimie.1
F. She says, yes, she wants that, she puts her in
your charge.
U. V. T. Tell her I will do my best.
F. She says she's afraid you hardly appreciate the
magnitude of your task. It will be perfectly
awful sometimes, terrible !
Now this would appear to show a memory of one of
my tiresome characteristics. With reference to Lady Trou-
bridge's looking after me, it might have been gathered
1
Lady Troubridge at the time of this sitting always employed Feda's
version of my nickname when speaking of me in Feda's hearing, as the said
nickname was not pronounced correctly by Feda until a later date.
366 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
that I liked being looked after, since I myself suggested
that it should be so ; whereas it would seem that A. V. B
remembers that when I am not well I do not like being
fussed over, and that I become stubborn and irritable.
Section III. Memory of Places where the Communicator and
M. R. H. have been together. (A) Malvern Wells.
A. V. B. has also shown evidence of memory on many
occasions regarding places which she and I visited to-
gether. Space forbids that we should record all the
instances, and we will only discuss a few of them. But
even so, it is, we fear, inevitable that descriptions of
places unknown to the reader, and the necessary comments
on them, should seem long and tedious, and be difficult
to follow. We recommend the omission of at any rate
those relating to Malvern Wells on a first reading, although
they are, we think, important for students of these
phenomena.
On October 9th, 1916, at a sitting which I took, Lady
Troubridge acting as recorder, A. V. B. alluded to a fall
on to her knees which she had once had, and that allusion
led up to the following description of a house.
F. There is a little vestibule with a door to right
and left, you pass these doors and the hall goes
on, broken into by a staircase. She thinks you
were with her. The hall goes on beyond, and
grows darker, but there is light coming down
the stairs, as if from a skylight or something.
Feda sees something hanging at the side of the
staircase like pictures. The staircase goes up a
little and then a space and then up. Feda thinks
there is a way to go up to another floor but
by a different staircase. Feda sees something at
the top of the staircase, it looks like a big box
or chest, not exactly a seat, but it looks as if
you could sit on it if you wanted to ; it's wood,
carved, not plain ;
it's got fat legs, it can't be
a chest quite ; it's not the same side as the
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 367
stairs, more like the other side of the stairs on
the landing.
M. R. H. I don't place that.
F. Can you make inquiries, it would be an awful
good test ?
M. R. H. There was nothing like that on the landing in my
time. If it's the house I think it is, I don't
see where they could put it.
F. Well, she shows it for some purpose ; could it be
that it's there now ?
U. V. T. That would be a good test.
F. Feda thinks she means now, she seems anxious it
should be cleared up. There doesn't seem a
lot of room, perhaps she's just been there and
seen it, so you must ask.
M. R. H. I will write.
F. Now Feda thinks she's making fun, you couldn't
stand on the roof there, could you ?
M. R. H. No.
F. She says there's a reason why one might want to
stand on the roof. She doesn't mean that you
walk about it, but someone had to get on the
roof for a purpose, and they didn't use a ladder.
M. R. H. I can't understand.
F. She gets impatient ; it doesn't look to Feda like a
house you could stand on the roof, it's an ordi-
nary roof. It had to be mended, Feda thinks,
no one conld have walked on the roof, they
would have fallen off. Feda is right, she gives
in that much ; Feda can only sense what she
means. She's awfully pleased, she's laughing.
In this description there are several mistakes, and yet,
taken in conjunction with the fall which is mentioned
just before it begins, it is pretty clear that The White
Cottage, Malvern Wells, is meant ; the house which we
referred to at the beginning of this paper as having been
much loved by A. V. B. and myself. A. V. B. had a
fall on to her knees at the house in question. In this
house of mine there was a little vestibule with a door
368 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
to right and left ;
passing those doors as you entered
the house, the hall ran on, broken into by a staircase,
and towards the end of this hall, or little vestibule, it
grew darker. Light came down the staircase as Feda
says ; she does not get quite clearly why this was. It
was not from a skylight, it was from the panes of a
door on the first landing, which, facing the staircase,
led out on to a back road. All the way up the stairs
were small pictures, but at this point Feda makes a
mistake, because the stairs ran up in one straight flight
and had no half-landing. Feda is correct, however, when
she says that there is a way to go up to another floor,
but by a different staircase. Two of the servants' bed-
rooms in this house were approached by a little enclosed
staircase which led up from the first landing, and which
had no connection whatever with the main stairs
or the back staircase. This little staircase could not
be seen from the front hall or from the landing, you only
discovered it when you were actually in front of it.
Feda is entirely wrong regarding a big box or chest.
I wrote to the lady who purchased our house, and she
assured me that nothing of the kind had ever been on
the landing. With regard to the reference to the roof,
about which A. V. B. appears to be making fun, the
amount of repairing required by this house had become
a standing joke ; there was always something going wrong
with some part of the house or another, including the
roof ; so much so, that I once wrote a skit about it for
A. V. B.'s amusement. I do not, however, understand
the reference to someone getting on to the roof without
a ladder ; as far as I can remember the workmen always
used a ladder. At the same time the roof at the back
sloped down very much, coming close to a fairly low
wall, and might, I should say, have been accessible with-
out a ladder ; one part of the roof could also be reached
from an upper window. This is the first description of
The White Cottage ever attempted by A. V. B. through
Feda ; other and more evidential descriptions of the house
and the neighbourhood occurred later on. Here is one
of them.
Lxxvm.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 369
On October 18th, 1916, at a sitting which I took, Lady
Troubridge recording, we got a description of some
garden and green-house flowers, which we omit because,
although correct, it was not very interesting. This des-
cription of flowers, however, led on to the following :
F. She's taking Feda inside the house and upstairs.
It's a straggly house, when you've got upstairs
and want to get to a certain room you have to
go up more stairs. Feda thinks there's no need
for them ! She says there are two staircases with
a long passage in between them. She says there's
a Persian rug in a room, a large one with a
very light ground, it's on something rather browny
—a brown floor cover. Down the passage, half-
way up the walls it is dark, then there's a
little ledge and it goes lighter to the top. In a
way the garden is rather a funny shape, it's in
three distinct parts and yet they all run into
one another.
M. R. H. Yes, that's right.
F. But there's something at one side, cuts them up
rather.
M. R. H. What ?
F. It looks like a kind of outbuilding, it's not water.
Feda sees very indistinctly something built out.
You can get right round the house and get in
at the other side. You can get in three ways ;
two often used, but one not so much. From
the front she takes Feda round ; it's a funny
shape, it goes in and comes out again. You can
go in and get out at another place too.
M. R. H. Right. There are three entrances if it's the house
I mean.
F. She thinks most of the one at the front and the
one you go right round to. She's most interested
in that back one. She's smiling. She's talking
about a room, nothing to do with the house at
all, cut off from it ; it's a properly furnished
room, a comfy room, you could sit in.
370 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
M. R. H. Right.
F. There's something wicker in it.
M. R. H. Quite right.
F. There's something hanging on the wall, not a
picture, but something in colours—Feda can't
quite see, it looks like a little curtain not very
low down. It hangs in folds carelessly, it was
something used sometimes, but not always. People
used to come in and put it there.
M. R. H I can't quite place that.
F. Also in a corner it looks as though someone had
left an umbrella and a stick. There is a table
too, with a book on it. What is she saying ?
She says something about " guilty of having
tea there." Feda doesn't know, it looks as though
someone had carried a tray there as though for tea.
M. R. H. Yes, that's all right ; but I don't understand what
she means by " guilty."
F. "Guilty" must have got through wrong, Feda
expects.
M. R. H. Ask her, does she remember that the place she
speaks of has been sold ?
F. She didn't seem to remember until you said it.
M. R. H. Does she remember it now ?
F. She says she really hadn't thought of the place as
having been sold or not, only as a test.
M. R. H. It's a good test.
F. Was it right about the tea-tray ?
M. R. H. Quite right.
F. Is there a square window in that room, not a
long-shaped one ?
M. R. H. Well, yes.
F. Were there, do you remember, some pinky-coloured
cushions that were taken there, plain cushions ?
M. R. H. Yes, there were.
F. She says it used to be damp in there, and things
couldn't be left there—it was nice and dry in
warm weather, but not at other times. There
was a nasty smell once, after its being closed
up, which worried her.
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 371
M. R. H. I can't remember the smell.
F. Feda doesn't think she's right, but she says some-
thing about clothes being left in there.
M. R. H. She is partially right.
F. It doesn't feel like a place for clothes—there's
another place just near it with tools in. She's
showing Feda a thing with a long handle and a
round thing on it.
M. R. H. Right.
F. There are all kinds of iron things in there. Feda
hears them clankety. She says a tree came down.
M. R. H. That's right.
F. After some delay it was cut up.
M. R. H. I don't place the cutting up.
F. Not at the time, it wasn't.
M. R. H. Yes, I can place that, I think, perhaps.
F. Pieces were taken off it purposely.
M. R. H. Perhaps.
F. She's thinking of a storm, a very windy time
there. You remember a road runs across the
front of the house, and another runs down the side
making a right angle ;
you couldn't see the road
when you were standing in the garden.
M. R, H. Quite right.
F. But sometimes you can hear noises on it.
M. R. H. Do you mean this side road has something to do
with the garden ?
F. Yes, it's soft and gravelly, Avith a border running
down it. It's not a wide road.
M. R. H. Right.
F. She says now something about a church not far
away.
M. R, H. That's correct.
K. Lf you walk a little further along the road that
runs past the house, you can see steam from a
steam engine.
M. R. H. Correct.
F. As you're standing by the side of the house,
looking there (Feda points out beyond), you'll
see the ground rises right up sharply.
2 a
372 Miss Baddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
M. R. H. Quite right.
F. She says she's clever.
M. R, H. You both are.
F. Yes, she is, Feda can't get it if she can't ; she
says she loved that place, and loves to think
of it,
M. R. H. So do I.
F. She says :
" Happy times." She says you could
go to one, two, or three parts of that house,
and think each was separate, but Feda thinks
that's not quite right. It's a very funny shaped
house ;
you know when you get to the top of
those stairs, you can turn one way or the other,
if you go to the right you go through a narrow
part and come to a broader part—a landing.
M. R. H. Yes.
F. She says that from the floor, that is the ground
floor, you can go down again, she says right
inside the house there are stairs going down
again. She says there are rooms downstairs
underneath the back of the house, back of the
house the rooms are—it makes another floor,
you used to keep things down there.
M. R. H. Cellars ?
F. No, not coals, far more important things ; it makes
an extra floor. You or she wouldn't like to live
there, but one could live there.
M. R. H. Feda, I am addled !
F. Can't Mrs. Una remember ?
U. V. T. No.
F. Under the ground floor there are other rooms.
underneath the floor the dining-room's on.
M. R. H. I can't remember, she must have made a mistake.
F. She says, " No, no," you can get right into them from
the back of the house, but they're not visible
from the front. You know when she's positive,
she's awful positive about things.
M. R. H. Yes. I know.
F. She doesn't want you to forget that point, and she
wants you to tell her if you remember. You
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 373
know the part that sticks out from the house-
it looks to Feda not so high as the house, a
bit lower. Now, it's difficult to explain, but
when you look towards where the ground slopes
up, the view is cut by something that looks
light, almost like a line ; Feda doesn't know if
everyone would notice it that way, but it cuts
the view. There's a very old building in a bad
state of repair, some of the windows are out, it's
dark grey stone, it's not far from the house ;
Feda doesn"t think you can see it from the house
but you get to it very easily ; it's very old and
dark. It's been there not fifty or a hundred,
but several hundred years.
Yes.
Feda doesnt know why she's interested in telegraph
poles and wires. Oh ! you know the road that
runs across the front of the house, if you go
further up that road, on the left side there's
a clump of trees.
We are of opinion that the above description undoubtedly
refers to the same house of which a very slight description
was received on October 9th, 1916. This house, The
White Cottage, Malvern Wells, was as Feda says, a
straggly one. It had once been an old inn, with a cider
house standing beside it, the two being probably connected ;
the inn and the cider house had later been turned into
a dwelling-house. At least local tradition says so. If
you entered this house by the front door and went
upstairs, and you wished to reach the second floor, you
had to ascend the little enclosed staircase which we have
alluded to in our remarks upon the description given
on October 9th, 1916. We do not know why Feda gives
it as her opinion that there is no need for this small
staircase, as without it the rooms could not have been
reached. She is correct when she speaks of there being
two staircases with a long passage in between them ;
what had originally been the inn possessed one staircase,
and what had originally been the cider house possessed
M. R. H.
F.
374 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
another. There was a bathroom connecting the two wings
of the house, which, when not in use, was the common way of
approach between one staircase and another. This bath-
room had presumably at one time been a passage, it
always gave me that impression. In my dressing-room
I had a Persian rug, at least I think it was Persian, at
all events it was Oriental. It had a dark blue design
on a white ground, and the floor on which this rug was
laid was covered with brown linoleum. As to the size
of the rug I should say it would have been better to
describe it as fairly large. A. V. B. was particularly
fond of this rug, begging me not to sell it when we
broke up the house shortly before her death ; we had
quite a long discussion on the subject. Feda makes a
curious mistake when she says that the walls of the
passage are dark, and that then there is a little ledge
with light colour above it. All the walls of the passages
of this house were distempered in cream, but, curiously
enough, A. V. B. and I had many times discussed the
advisability of panelling the hall, stairs and passages with
oak, which was to have ended about half way up in
a ledge.
The garden of our house was rather an unusual shape ;
it was more or less on the side of a hill, and in three
distinct parts. I should have divided it myself as follows :
one part of the garden consisting of two lawns in front
of the house ; another part of the garden consisting of
a wide herbaceous border, etc., completely hidden from
the first part mentioned by a tall hedge and trees ;
and yet another part lying below the lawns, which
was totally different from the rest of the garden. Feda's
alhision to something which seems to cut the garden up,
something built out which she cannot see distinctly,
probably refers to a cottage which stood in the garden
a very short distance from, and on the same level as,
the house. We shall have to refer to this cottage later on.
And now we come to a rather interesting point. Feda
says that you can go round the house and get in at the
other side. She says that the house has three entrances,
two of which are often used, but one not so much, and
Lxxvm.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 375
goes on to say that A. V. B. is taking her round the
house from the front, presumably we may suppose for
some special reason ; and she further says that you can
get in at one part of the house and get out at another
place, and that A. V. B. thinks most of the entrance
at the front and the entrance you have to go right
round the house to get to, and that A. V. B. is most
of all interested in the back entrance.
The house in question was on the side of a hill. It
had, in addition to the tradesmen's entrance, two principal
entrances, one at the back and one at the front ; the front
door was on a lower level than the back door, but was
reached by a steep path up the garden. The other door
was directly opposite the front door, but was at the top
of the stairs on the first floor. This last door was ap-
proached from outside by a comfortable road ; it was on
a level with that road, and if you entered the house from
that side you entered it directly on the bedroom floor
—
in fact, one may say, that the hind legs of the house
were shorter than its forelegs. A. V. B. particularly
disliked hills, she also disliked stairs, her heart being
rather delicate ;
it was therefore her invariable habit to
use this back entrance in preference to the front one ;
our motor was always stopped at this back entrance,
and, when walking, she preferred the gentle incline which
led up to the road running past this back door, rather
than the steep incline which led up through the garden
to the front door. This back entrance to the cottage
was often remarked on by A. V. B. as being, for her,
one of its principal attractions, and she was very fond
of leaving this door open in the summer, by doing which
one obtained a beautiful view of the hill beyond. As
I have already said, in addition to the two entrances
described there was a tradesmen's entrance, making, as
Feda states, three entrances in all.
Shortly after this description of the entrances, Feda
says that A. V. B. is talking about a room : a room that
has nothing to do with the house at all, that is cut off
from it, and yet that is properly furnished ; in fact, a
comfortable room that you could sit in. She speaks of
376 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
something wicker in this room, of pinky-coloured, plain
cushions, and also of a tea-tray having been carried out
there. Now in the cottage to which we have already
referred as standing beside the house, there were two
communicating rooms, used by the servants, one as a
double bedroom and one as a servants' hall. This cottage
was only a stone's throw away from the house, and our
servants were in the habit of having their tea there.
In this connection the word " guilty "'
is not understood
by us, though I am bound to say that A. V. B. and I
occasionally deplored the noise our servants made at
teatime when we were in the garden. I think it must
be admitted that it is not very usual to have a well-
furnished room which is used as a servants' hall in a
separate building detached from the house. There were
wicker chairs in this servants' hall, and, of course, a table.
I cannot remember any coloured thing, like a curtain
hanging on the wall such as Feda speaks of, a thing that
people used to put there—it may have been a cloth or
duster left there by the servants. The window of this
servants' hall was practically square, and as Feda states
there were plain pink cushions in that room.
Now, one of the great drawbacks to that annexe was
the damp ; as Feda says, it was dry in warm weather,
but not at other times. A. V. B. knew this well
enough ; we received heavy gas bills for keeping a
constant gas-fire in the annexe throughout the winter or
during wet weather. On one occasion both the servants'
hall and its communicating bedroom were not used for
some little time. A. V. B. was present when the rooms
were opened up, but I cannot remember that she remarked
on their smelling nasty, though they probably did so.
A. V. B. speaks of clothes having been left in that room,
and, in spite of Feda's demur, she is right. Some
months prior to A. V. B.'s death we let the house
furnished, reserving for ourselves these two outside rooms,
and A. V. B. stored a quantity of clothes in the servants'
bedroom. The last time that A. V. B. ever saw our
house at Malvern Wells was when she went there on a
visit, solely for the purpose of collecting and packing
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 377
these clothes. We put our trunks in the servants' hall,
and removed the clothes from the servants' bedroom,
strewing them all over the servants* hall, where they
remained for several days during the process of packing.
It must be clearly understood that these rooms were, in
a way, more like one room than two, inasmuch as the
bedroom where the clothes were stored had no separate
entrance, and had to be approached through the servants'
hall.
At the end of the garden path, which led from the door
of this servants' hall, there was a tool shed, which
A. V. B. and I had erected principally for the accommo-
dation of my particular gardening tools. With regard to
the tree said to have come down, this reference may
refer to one of two trees ;
either to a favourite tree of
A. V. B.'s which died, and had to be cut down,
owing to the strong winds which made it a danger ; —this
tree I have since remembered I did. gradually have cut
up for firewood :
—or it may refer to an accident which
A. V. B. heard of shortly before her death. She was
herself at The White Cottage when her favourite tree
was cut down, but was in London when she heard of
the accident. A builder who had worked for us for some
years was killed by a falling tree during a great storm at
Malvern Wells. This accident particularly impressed itself
upon A. V. B., the more so because she though c at first
that this man had been killed by a tree in he]' own
garden. We afterwards discovered that this was not the
case.
Regarding the roads, one of which is said to run across
the front of the house and the other at a right angle,
there is a road running in front of the house at the foot
of the garden. There is no road running at right angles
to the house, at »,least none very near, but there is a
garden path. We think, however, that I gave Feda a
clue regarding this right-angle road, which she afterwards
turned into a path. It appears to us that my words
may have done so. This right- angle path, if it were
really meant, was completely hidden from the front garden,
and had a border down one side of it.
378 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
The church which A. V. B. attended was not far from
the house ; and after this reference to a church we get
an extremely good remark from Feda. who says that if
you walk a little further on along the road that runs
past the house you can see steam from a steam
engine. Now a little further on along the road which
Feda describes, is a large stone-quarry which employs
traction-engines. These traction-engines had become a
veritable curse to the neighbourhood. There was always
a traction-engine steaming at the quarry, and a few steps
beyond the quarry again, on the same road, was a little
yard where these engines were kept. There were nearly
always one or two of them steaming in the yard as well.
No one deplored the eyesore of these traction-engines and
their noise more than did A. V. B. On one occasion they
cut up the back road used by our motor, and A. V. B.
was not unnaturally annoyed. Feda is quite correct in
saying that standing by the house and looking out you
would see the ground rise sharply. Supposing you were
standing by the back door, or to the side of the house, you
would see. across the road, the hill rising sharply up ; it was
A. V. B.'s favourite view. And just here in the sitting
we get a little personal touch, which, in view of the
detective's report, is of interest. A. V. B. says that she
loved the place, that she loves to think of it, and she
speaks of happy times.
Now, while making inquiries in Malvern Wells and the
neighbourhood, the detective employed by me ascertained
that there was an almost universal impression current to
the effect that A. V. B. disliked The White Cottage,
Malvern Wells, and the neighbourhood thereof intensely.
My detective was told by several people that it was
entirely A. V. B.'s fault that the house had been sold ;
that I should have been contented to remain there had
it not been for her influence ; and indeed he found that
there existed quite a prejudice in the neighbourhood
against A. V. B. on this score. But in reality, as A. V. B.
stated clearly through Feda during the sitting we are
discussing, she loved The White Cottage and all the
surrounding country. She felt deeply the necessity of
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 379
having to sell the house owing to the war. Lady Trou-
bridge was staying at the same hotel as A. V. B. while
I was away making the final arrangements for selling
The White Cottage, and she assures me that A. V. B.
fretted very much, and spoke to her constantly of the
deep regret which she felt at severing her connection
with Malvern Wells. In going over A. V. B.'s papers
after she died, I found that she had kept a letter from me
which I had written during my last visit to our house.
She had apparently felt so much sentiment about this
house that a note had been pencilled by her on the
envelope of this letter, to the effect that I had written
it from The White Cottage at a time when we were
about to give it up.
We cannot but feel that an excellent proof of Mrs.
Leonard's honesty is afforded by this diversity between
the opinion held in the neighbourhood and A. V. B.'s
real sentiments, since it appears that had anybody been
inquiring •
regarding A. V. B. and myself among the local
people, he would have received information on this point
entirely contrary to that which we received through Feda.
We now come to that part of the extract in which
Feda returns to the description of the inside of the house.
Feda states that A. V. B. says there were one, two,
three parts of the house, and that you would think each
part was separate, but she goes on to say that she does
not think that A. V. B. is quite right. In our opinion
there were decidedly two parts of that house, each of
which you would think was separate if you did not know
the house well. This was certainly the impression left
on Lady Troubridge during the two visits she paid to The
White Cottage. We have already said that at one time
the house had consisted of an inn and a cider house
;
as Feda says, it was a very funnily shaped house. With
regard to the third part of the house, A. V. B. may have
been thinking of the upper servants" rooms which, as has
already been stated, were approached by a staircase which
was so far from being obvious that Lady Troubridge did
not discover its existence until she had stayed with me
for two days. Or A. V. B. may have been thinking of
380 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
the outside cottage, which, it will be remembered, con-
tained a servants' hall and a double servants' bedroom,
and which, although not attached to the house, was only
a few steps away. Both these suppositions are possibly
a little far-fetched however, so we do not press them ;
we will merely say that the statement is correct with
regard to two parts of the house. Feda is again practi-
cally right when she says that having reached the top
of the stairs you can turn one way or the other, and
that if you go to the right you go through a narrow
part, and come to a broader p landing.
If you turned sharply to the left, having mounted to
the top of the principal stairs, you came to some of
the bedrooms ; if you turned sharply to the right you
would go through the bathroom, previously alluded to,
entering it by one door and leaving it by another door
directly opposite, and would find yourself on a landing
in a totally different part of the house ; the part of the
house in fact which had at one time been a cider house.
This bathroom was a narrow apartment. I do not, how-
ever, consider that the landing upon which you came out
was broader than the bathroom. To the best of my
recollection it was narrower, unless you included the
staircase that led down from this landing, in which case,
should you measure from the landing window straight
across the stairs to the wall on the far side, the space
might be wider than that occupied by the bathroom.
We now come to a definite mistake, and it is inter-
esting to notice with what tenacity A. V. B., or perhaps
Feda, clings to this wrong assertion, in spite of the fact
that we both of us contradict it. We may possibly be
entitled to assume from this that Mrs. Leonard is not
very suggestible when in trance. We refer to Feda's
statement regarding the basement rooms.
As will have been gathered from our remarks during
that part of the sitting, there were no basement rooms
at The White Cottage. But Feda sticks to the assertion
that there were such rooms, which could be entered
from the back of the house. We will refer again later
to these basement rooms. We wish first to deal with
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 381
the few other details of description given by Feda in the
present sitting. Feda speaks of a part which sticks out
from the house, and which does not appear to be so high
as the house. This may quite well be taken to refer to
a bow-window recently added to one side of the house
;
this window had a roof which gave it the appearance
from outside of being in keeping with the general archi-
tecture of the building. Feda next speaks of something
which cuts the view as you look out towards where the
ground slopes up. She says that it is light in appearance,
almost like a line, but appears to think that it is probable
that she has only caught a fleeting impression of this
thing, since she says :
" Feda does not know if everyone
would notice it that way, but it cuts the view."
Now I cannot think to what this refers, unless we
give Feda the benefit of supposing that she was not
seeing the picture very clearly at the moment ; in which
case I should say without the slightest hesitation that
A. V. B. was harking back, for the sake of evidence, to
an old grievance. A. V. B. was particularly fond, as I
have already said, of a bit of wild hillside at the back
of the house. She opposed every effort on my part to
bring this land under cultivation, and was very much
annoyed when I finally built a long green-house on the
spot. This green-house was painted white, and straight
along the top of it ran the usual narrow beam of the
roof. I remember well that we returned home one day
to find that this green-house had been completed during
our absence, and that A. V. B. exclaimed with great
regret that the hillside was entirely ruined, and that the
white line running along the top of my green-house was
painfully obvious ; in fact, that I had cut her view. I
must admit that I myself was somewhat appalled at the
hideous effect which I had produced, and as soon as
possible had all the woodwork painted green, hoping that
thereby it would blend into the hillside. A. V. B., how-
ever, never ceased to deplore the effect of this green-
house.
The very old building said by Feda to be built of
dark grey stone, to be in a bad state of repair with
382 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
some of the windows out, and, although you could
not see it from the house, to be easily accessible,
appears to me to refer to Little Malvern Church and its
ruined cloister ; this church and ruins stand actually in
the garden of Little Malvern Court. These ruins, as Feda
says, are of dark grey stone, and are several hundred
years old. They were well known to A. V. B. during
her lifetime, as she had, on several occasions, seen and
admired them when visiting Little Malvern Court. After
this reference to the ruins, Feda says suddenly :
" Feda
doesn't know why she is interested in telegraph poles
and wires." Now not so very long before A. V. B.
died we were both much distressed at finding that during
our absence from The White Cottage, some fine old thorn
trees on the back road had been cut down. We enquired
rather indignantly why this had been done, and were
told that the telegraph company had ordered it. They
had said that, as their poles ran along the bank, the
branches of the trees in question interfered with their
wires. We took a great deal of trouble to investigate
this matter ; I remember that we drove some distance in
order to interview the agent of the estate upon which
the trees had been cut down. These details are only
mentioned in order to show that it would not be far-
fetched to suppose that A. V. B. would remember tele-
graph poles and wires in connection with The White
Cottage.
Feda is quite correct in saying that if you went along
the road that runs past the house you would come to
a clump of trees on the left. I am taking it for granted
that she is taking me along that road in the same
direction as she did when she mentioned the steam-
engine. As a matter of fact you would also come to a
clump of trees if you turned in the other direction, but
I do not think that they are the trees meant, because,
supposing yourself to be going in the direction of the
steam-engine, you would come upon a clump of trees on
your left, which you would have to pass to reach British
Camp, a favourite walk of A. V. B.'s ;
you would also
have to pass close to them to reach Little Malvern Court,
1
Lxxvni.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 383
near which was the very old building described shortly
before the mention of the trees.
During the description of the inside of the house in
this sitting of October 18th, 1916, Feda mentioned some-
thing that sounded like a bell-indicator. This she said
was in an oblong room, towards the back of the house,
on the ground floor. We omit this description for the
sake of brevity. There was an oblong room at the back
of the house on the ground floor, namely, the pantry,
and there may or may not have been a bell-indicator
there. I do not think there was, though we had electric
bells. However, the point is a trifling one.
We now return to the mis-statement made by Feda
to the effect that the house contained basement rooms ;
and we will give in detail what would appear to be the
correction of this curious mistake. During the sitting
of October 25th, 1916, which I took, Lady Troubridge
being the recorder, the following occurred :
M. R. H. Do you remember, Feda, that you described a house,
two sittings ago ?
F. Yes.
M. R. H. She insisted on there being basement rooms in that
house, and told me to tell her if I remembered,
but I know that there were no basement rooms,
and by the description there is only one house
she can have meant. She must have got it
through wrong.
F. She still says that there are.—not at the front but
at the back.
M. R. H. You know she said underneath the ground floor.
F. She says, yes, it had rooms.
M. R. H. Does she mean that you enter the house from the
front or the back ?
F. You know as you come in at the front, you go
straight along, and she says the rooms are under
that.
M. R. H. No. How many rooms does she say there are ?
F. Two at the back. It's not like this house (meaning
Mrs. Leonard's flat). They are lower down than
384 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
in this. She says you would find them if you
examined. Were there any cellars ?
M. R. H. No ; but I may be mistaking the house, could
she show the first letter of the place were the
house was ?
F. Feda thinks she's got two houses in her mind, and
is mixing them up. Feda remembers the house
she was so sure about. Feda thinks she's going
on to something else, she says she isn't. (To
A. V. B.) Now try and tell Feda something more
about it. (To M. R. H.) Didn't she say last
time that the house was in a] westerly direction ?
M. R. H. She didn't say so, but it's correct.
Here ensued a little argument, as Lady Troubridge
whose geography was apparently shaky, interrupted to
say that she did not consider that the house was in a
westerly direction. Feda stuck tenaciously to her point
however, and was found to have been correct.
F. It is westerly, and she won't say there are not
cellars.
U. V. T. (to M. R. H.) Is it utterly impossible that there
should be rooms that were unknown to you ?
M. R. H. She said I kept things there.
F. (to A. V. B.) Now don't you get mixed up. (To M. R. H.)
Feda doesn't want her to get mixed, but she's
describing another house now. It's a more
uniform shape, looks to Feda there would be one,
two, looks to Feda three storeys. Feda sees two
quite clear. It's a more compact shape than the
other house, more commonplace, not so much
spread out. The entrance is at the centre of
the house, not the side, it's got grounds around
it, but a more ordinary sort of garden than the
other one, there's grass coming up to the house
making a space around the house. Isn't it a
little bit sloping up to the house 1 She says
something about a gate that was removed and
another put in its place.
M. R. H. Correct.
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 385
F. This isn't the other house is it ?
M. R. H. No.
F. But Feda thinks this is the house with cellars.
It has rather large windows on the ground floor,
the windows above are not so broad but there are
more of thern.
M. R. H. What colour is the house ?
F. It seems to be in two colours, as though the front
part is one colour picked out in lighter, it's not
all grey stone, because around the windows and
things seems different. She says especially that
that gate was changed entirely, and an entirely
different kind of gate put on.
M. R. H. Correct.
F. Something was done to one of the gate-posts,
something was done not at the front but at the
side of it. They had some difficulty about the
new gate, she says perhaps you wouldn't remember
that. It seems as if they had to take a piece
out of the side part, but it's not very important.
The front door sticks out, you can stand in out
of the rain, it has a ledge that shelters you, the
front door looks very dark to Feda. Around the
door is very whitey.
M. R. H. Stone ?
F. Whitej-'Coloured stone. When you get inside there's
furniture suddenly inside the door, as you push
the door open, a dark, rather long piece of
furniture just behind it. She says there used to
be a railing round the house, it doesn't look to
Feda like a house that would have had a railing,
it looks more like a house that would have had
a wall around it bixt she says a railing ; can you
remember ?
M. R. H. I'm not sure.
F. She says part of it is there still. She doesn't
contradict Feda when Feda says that's the house
with the cellars.
M. R. H. Cellars ! But she said they were rooms you could
live in.
386 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
F. She says it wouldn't hurt you if you had a meal
there.
M. R. H. Does she think it's near the other house ?
F. Not very near, not far away. She says it's not as
near as it ought to have been.
M. R. H. What does she mean ?
F. Feda can't make out. Feda thinks she means that
there was some time when she wished there wasn't
so far between the houses. She thinks you ought
to know. It is the house with the basement
rooms.
M. R. H. Feda, what makes confusion sometimes ? when she's
getting a thing well, then it goes all wrong.
F. You see when she's in her own sphere she remembers
things quite clearly, but when she comes here
it's like coming into a dark room, misty, and it
affects her memory. It's awfully difficult for Feda
sometimes, they remember one thing sometimes,
and then go on to a bit of another, without
making any difference. Was it at the end of
describing the first house that she said about
the basement rooms ?
M. R. H. Yes.
U. V. T. Quite right, sometimes good descriptions go off at
the end.
As will have been noticed from the above, it took
some little time to disentangle the thread, and even then
there remain inaccuracies, or rather partial inaccuracies ;
for although Feda describes correctly another house which
had basement rooms, she appears to be undecided as to
whether they are rooms or cellars which she is describing,
and whatever they are, she says that they are at the
back of the house.
The description of a house which Feda gives during
this sitting of October, 25th, 1916, applies well to High-
field House, Malvern Wells.
Highfield House was well-known to A. V. B. It had
belonged to me before I knew her intimately, she had
stayed with me there, and was practically living with
xxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 387
me there at the time when we bought The White Cottage.
There were basement rooms at Highfield House, two of
them, as Feda says, but one was at the front of the
house, the other at the side, and neither could be entered
from the back of the house. There was also one large
and rather remarkable cellar, but nothing was ever kept
in it. Highfield was a more uniform house than The
White Cottage and had three storeys. It was a much
larger house but more common-place. The front door
was in the middle of the front of the house, it had a
stone porch over it, rather a deep porch, the inside of the
porch was of whitey-coloured stone or cement, and the door
itself was of very dark oak. The garden of this house
was certainly more ordinary than that of The White
Cottage, and there was a small grass plot coming up
against the house at the front, and another at the side.
There was a steep drive up to the house, which approach
Feda, however, only sees as being a little bit sloping.
We now come to an interesting point, for Feda speaks
about a gate which was removed, and says that a gate
of a totally different kind was put in its place. This is
what was actually done after A. V. B. and I left High-
field. A large iron gate was removed at the entrance
to the carriage drive, and a small and very ugly wooden
gate, rather like a door, was put in its place. A. V. B.
often remarked on this change when passing the house.
The windows of Highfield are correctly described, as is
the colour of the building, which was of grey stone with
facings of a fighter- coloured bath stone or some such
material. The windows, as Feda says, were surrounded
by this lighter-coloured stone. As will have been noticed
A. V. B. lays special stress upon the change in the gate,
which is evidential. I am not quite clear as to what
is meant regarding " something " which is said to have
been done to one of the gate posts. I have a vague
recollection that we did hear that a five-barred gate
which had been put to a newly constructed motor drive
had been found to be too narrow, but my memory must
not be taken to be infallible on this point.
During the time when A. V. B. and I lived at High-
2b
388 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
field there was rather a long piece of furniture just
behind the front door. There were railings around High-
field House, at least around three sides of it, I do not
think they went all round the house. When A. V. B.
is reported to say that a part of the railing " is there
still " we may suppose, as we were obliged to do with
regard to the new gate, that she has retained the memory
that the house changed hands, and that both the house
and grounds were greatly altered by the new owners.
They did leave, however, a part of the railing at the back
of the house. Feda is rather evasive in her statement
regarding the proximity of Highfield to The White Cottage.
I should say that the two houses were half a mile to a
mile apart. I do not quite understand what can be
meant by there having been some time when A. V. B.
wished that these houses had been nearer together, unless
she should be remembering vaguely our rather trouble-
some move, or the very marked rise in cab fares which
we had to put up with when we went to The White
Cottage, which was looked upon as being considerably
further from the station than Highfield.
We have given Feda's own explanation of the reason
for the confusion with regard to the basement rooms.
In subsequent sittings Feda has become quite clever in
detecting these sudden jumps from subject to subject,
or conceivably A. V. B. has become more skilled and
careful in her transitions, though just such another muddle
does occur much later on, during a sitting with which
we shall presently deal. In the course of this present
sitting of October 25th, 1916, a return was made to The
White Cottage, in connection with which it was said that
A. V. B. liked it much better than the other house
(namely Highfield), and that she seemed to think it funny
that she should have liked it best. Now A. V. B. during
her lifetime often remarked to me that she thought it
peculiar of herself to prefer the rather humble White
Cottage to the more luxurious Highfield House.
In further connection with The White Cottage, during
this same sitting were given the letters W. and C, and
A. V. B. also said that there was a place called L. not
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 389
very far away, in which some building had been turned
to an entirely different purpose owing to the war. The
L. is correct for Ledbury, a town a few miles from The
White Cottage, and well-known to A. V. B., in which
town The Upper Hall, a dwelhng-house, has been turned
into a hospital owing to the war. One or two initials
were also given quite correctly as pertaining to people
in the neighbourhood. A description was also given of
the Roman Catholic Church which A. V. B. attended,
and this description was not only correct with regard
to the appearance of the church, but was remarkably
pertinent with regard to the pohcy of a recently appointed
priest in his conduct of parish affairs. A correct des-
cription was also given of a certain walking-stick which
A. V. B. had constantly used.
Another walking-stick was alluded to in these words.
" She says do you remember that she had one that hurt
her hand. It wasn't comfortable—it strained her hand."
I denied all knowledge of this, but A. V. B.'s allusion
was subsequently verified in rather an unexpected manner
ten months after the sitting. Lady Troubridge was staying
with A. V. B.'s daughter, and prior to a country walk
was invited to select a walking-stick from a stand in
the hall. She proceeded to examine the sticks, and was
on the point of choosing one, when A. V. B.'s grand-
daughter, who was standing near, exclaimed :
" Oh
!
don't take that one, it has such an uncomfortable handle
—
it strains one's hand." Struck with these words, which
awoke a memory of those spoken at the sitting of
October 25th, 1916, Lady Troubridge asked: "Who does
this stick belong to ?
" and A. V. B.'s grand-daughter
answered that it had belonged to her grandmother, A. V. B.
A. V. B.'s daughter, who was coming downstairs at the
time, overheard the statement and confirmed it, commenting
also upon the uncomfortable straining nature of the handle
of the stick under discussion. As a matter of fact, quite
apart from the question of this walking stick, it was an
idiosyncrasy of A. V. B.'s to strain her wrists and hands
very easily.
One thing occurred in this present sitting which I
390 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
think we must record, although as far as we can see it
has no meaning whatsoever. The allusion came suddenly,
with nothing to lead up to it. There had just been some
fairly accurate references to clothes formerly worn by
A. V. B., when suddenly the following words occurred:
F. She doesn't smile you know, and yet she's saying
she had a wild idea of having an Ark, she thinks
you should know.
M. R. H. What does she mean ?
F. Feda thinks like Noah had, she says you ought to
know, she's spoken of it to you. She says, keep
a clear and faithful account of this, you will
understand after what I mean. Feda thinks she
means a kind of boat. Feda has asked her would
she have it on the sea ? She says she was not
so ambitious as that, she would have had it on
a river. She thought of it in the spring.
M. E. H. I am very stupid.
F. She says no. if positions were reversed I shouldn't
know. I don't expect you to remember on the
spur of the moment, but you will later, and be
pleased that I spoke about it. She didn't do it.
but spoke of it, and it had been calculated about.
She says : "I had ideas regarding an Ark."
We have really not the slightest idea what this means.
Diiring the ten months that have elapsed we have thought
it over carefully, without so far finding any solution ; on
the other hand it does seem curious that Feda, un-
solicited, should have volunteered such an unnecessarily
odd statement. Some day we may find that it was
correct, yet A. V. B. seems to think that / should know
about it, and I certainly do not, or, if I ever did, have
completely forgotten it ; an improbable hypothesis, as
my memory is particularly clear regarding everything that
concerned A. V. B. One point is worthy of notice in
this connection, and it is this : Mrs. Leonard herself has
stayed on house-boats, and has told us, Avhen in the normal
state, that she enjoys that form of vacation. It is possible
that some memory in the medium's sub-conscious mind
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 391
has here obtruded itself, and, its source being unrecognised
by Feda, has been mistaken for a memory of A. V. B.'s.
(B) Teneriffe.
We propose next to deal with a series of references
to another particular place. The first of these occurred
on November 22nd, 1916, the second on January 3rd,
1917, the third on January 17th, 1917, and the fourth,
and up till now the last, on May 23rd, 1917. There
appears to us to be something very natural in this
repeated recurrence to one topic. At all events it would
seem to suggest that the memory of past events is not
limited to a flash during an isolated sitting, but is very
much a part of the intelligence purporting to communicate.
On November 22nd, 1916, at a sitting which was taken
by me, Lady Troubridge acting as recorder, the following
occurred :
F. She says she used to do climbing. Feda can't
imagine her climbing. Feda doesn't think she'd
like it. (To A. V. B.) Where did you climb ?
(To M. R. H.) She is saying something funny to
Feda, that she climbed up the side of a house !
M. R. H. What does she mean ?
F. She's showing Feda something like a wall, the wall
doesn't seem quite straight, it is rounded and
then goes up, and then a ledge, and then up
again, and she puts her foot and then her stick
on a ledge, and then goes up onto another ledge,
and now she's getting on top. Oh, and Feda
sees now that it is nothing to do with a house.
It seems to Feda as though this place were far
away from here ; it looks to Feda almost like
precipices, and Feda sees a small horse, no, it's not
a horse, it's more like a mule, and someone is leading
it along the ledge. Oh, they are nasty places.
M. R. H. (To A. V. B.) I think I recognise the place, but not
your climbing.
F. It is a funny place, and doesn't seem as though
you would take a horse there, but they do lead
392 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
horses up those ledges, and this horse has a
saddle across, with something hanging on either
side. Now the man is pulling it up somewhere.
Your Ladye is not at the top, she's more nearly
at the bottom. She has a stick and she is
pointing with the stick to show how people do
go up, but she's not going herself, she's pointing
to the ledges, they are not straight like steps.
Feda sees it more clearly now, you go up side-
ways, and then up sideways again. It is a
nasty place.
M. R. H. What country is this in ?
F. Not this country. There looks to Feda to be a
kind of valley with something steep rising up
on each side ; then you go along the valley,
and at the end of it there is a little opening,
but beyond the opening something steep rises
up again. She seems to think a lot of that
place ; she's very much interested in it.
M. R. H. I know the place.
F. She takes Feda along, and there seems to be a
kind of opening out of the vallej^, and then you
go along a kind of winding road. As you look
around you, you can see the ground rising all
round, and it must be sunrise or sunset, because
Feda sees half of a great big sun sticking up over
one of the banks, it's either setting or rising.
M. R. H. What colour is that road 1
F. It's dusty looking and funny looking, it's not an
ordinary road ; Feda didn't feel sure it was a
road.
M. R. H. (to A. V. B.) Try and give Feda an idea of the
colour of it.
F. It looks white rather to Feda, but it isn't very
smooth either, it's like as though—oh, it's not
white at all, it's greyish colour, it's awful funny !
Feda Avouldn't like to walk along it with bare
feet, it's not exactly powdery, it's like in bits,
it feels to Feda like walking on cinders. As you
walk it crushes under your feet, it's a kind of
Lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 393
grey colour, but not quite like any ordinary grey
colour you see. Funny, it's very uneven too,
people walking along it lift up their feet, it's
Avhat you would call here very heavy walking.
It seems to Feda as though you have to prepare
for a good walk, this road goes a long way.
It seems to Feda that further on it forms a kind
of bridge just for a little way, Feda can look
down on either side of it.
M. R. H. Are you sure you mean the same road ?
F. She says no, it isn't the same road, but it's con-
nected with the same place, she forgot to tell
Feda that she had changed to another road.
M. R. H. All right.
F. She says, do you think it strange that she comes
and shows you bits of scenery 1
M. R. H No, it's a good proof.
F. She says she gets the unexpected things through
easier. She says you have pleasant recollections
of this place, but that some people haven't
pleasant recollections of it at all. Feda thinks
she means that there has been some accident
there, and that you heard of it when you were
there, Feda thinks it might have happened to
anyone too venturesome, Feda thinks she means
someone falling. Think it over and tell her about
it next time. She's going on a little journey
from there, she says you both stayed at another
place.
M. R. H. Perhaps we did.
F. It's not a long way from there, she says you were
held up at two places, put it down and perhaps
you will remember. She says there were two
extremes of climate in the place you went to,
Feda doesn't know what that means, she says
in a way you can taste two climates at once.
M. R. H. I think that's got through wrong.
F. Feda thinks so too, but she won't go back on it,
she will have it that there are two extremes
of climate ; but you can't have two climates at
394 Miss Radclyjfe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
once, can yon Mrs. Twonnie 1 She Avon't go
off it, so Feda's going to try and get her off it.
She says something about two conditions of
feeling in that place that everyone could feel,
and she sticks to her point. She says she used
to enjoy herself so much with you, she says
you had heaps and heaps of happy times.
Now the whole of this description is in my opinion
absolutely applicable to Teneriffe, in the Canary Islands,
a place to which A. V. B. and I were much devoted,
but which neither of us had visited for more than six
years prior to her death. If we assumed that Mrs.
Leonard had taken normal means to acquire knowledge
regarding A. V. B.'s life, she could have ascertained
the fact that A. V. B. had, at some period in her life,
visited Teneriffe. In A. V. B.'s will she mentions a
brooch that she lost and found at Teneriffe, giving no
details beyond this, however, and there is nothing what-
ever in the will to inform any one as to what period
of her fifty-seven years of life saw A. V. B.'s visit to
Teneriffe, and there is equally nothing to indicate that
she visited Teneriffe with me. I could not at first
make out the reference to her climbing, as she was not
an active woman ; but the stupidity of the sitter is
often quite remarkable. On returning home, I quickly
remembered that A. V. B. had developed an abnormal
activity when at Teneriffe, owing no doubt to the bene-
ficial effects of the climate, and that on several occasions
she had taken long walks and climbs, and moreover that
we had often discussed with surprise her being able to
do so. Teneriffe is extremely mountainous, the mountain
paths are mere ledges, and there certainly are precipices.
Feda sees what she at first takes to be a small horse,
but what she afterwards thinks is more like a mule,
being led along one of the ledges. Now mules are
constantly led along these ledges, so probably are ponies,
but my memory is of mules and donkeys. Feda, however,
forgets about the mule, and carelessly refers to this
animal again as a horse a few words further on. The
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 395
saddle said to be used on this horse or mule has some-
thing hanging on either side of it ; I think myself
that this is a reference to a pack-saddle, as A. V. B.
always insisted upon a pack-saddle for excursions, she
being extremely dexterous in balancing herself thereon.
We next find Feda describing A. V. B. as being nearly
at the bottom of a place, and indicating with her stick
the ledges above her. Feda appears to get a good impres-
sion of these ledges, since she describes the mode of
ascent as " going up sideways, and then going up side-
ways again'"; this gives us the impression of -paths
winding up and round a mountain in successive ledges,
and that is precisely what many of the mountain paths are
like at Teneriffe.
We next find Feda describing a valley which has some-
thing steep rising up on each side of it ; she elaborates
this description by saying that you go along this valley,
and that at the end of it you find a little opening, but
that beyond that opening something steep rises up again.
Here, to my mind, we have an attempt at a description
of the Baranco del Anavingo, a place visited by A. V. B.
and me during our stay at Teneriffe. This Baranco was
a rock-strewn valley, with sheer rocks of a great height
rising up on either side. If, after entering the valley,
you proceeded along it, you found that it ended in a
very curious manner ; the sheer rocks gradually closed
in on you on either hand, leaving only what appeared
to be a very small opening. I did not proceed very far
through this opening, nor do I think that it would have
been possible to have done so, since it appeared to grow
narrower and narrower, until finally blocked by un-
scalable rock. After describing this, Feda says that she
is taken along to another opening out of the valley, she
does not actually say "another" opening, but one must
suppose that she is seeing the usual exit from the valley,
since she begins to describe a winding road onto which
this opening leads you. Now the road leading to and
from the Baranco del Anavingo is a very peculiar one,
in fact it would not be considered a road at all in any
place except the Canary Islands. It is nothing less than
396 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
a solidified lava river left by the last eruption of the
Peak of Teide.
On either side of this road the country is more or less
of a mountainous nature, and it is interesting that A. V. B.,
through Feda, manages to convey the impression of
sunrise or sunset, since when A. V. B. and I started
on our homeward journey after our visit to the Baranco,
the sun was setting, making a fine red glow across the
lava road. This made a deep impression on us both
at the time, and I afterwards included a description of
it in a short story, which, however, fortunately for this
description of Feda's, has never appeared in print. Feda
describes this lava river very well indeed ; it is, as she
says, not exactly powdery—but " like in bits," its colour
is a curious and rather forbidding grey. It is excessively
rough and uneven, and I have no doubt that if Feda
was made to sense walking on this road, it did feel to
her like walking on cinders, since that is precisely what
the road is composed of. Feda describes this road as going
a long way, which it does ; there are several miles of it
which had to be traversed, though we did not walk it, as
we were riding. She then says that this road forms a kind
of bridge, and I think that even with reference to this
particular road she may be partially right, though at the
time I was not sure. In any case when I ask her if
she means that the bridge is on this same road she says
that A. V. B. says that it is not. Now unless Feda
was acting upon my suggestion (which is unusual with
her, she being indeed more given to stubborn tenacity,
as witness the allusion to the two climates), I con-
sider that A. V. B. had jumped to another memory,
and was making a rather poor effort to describe some
of the mountain paths. These mountain paths were
formed by narrow stone aqueducts, which had occasion-
ally an uncomfortable way of running on after the
mountain ceased to be. In this manner they spanned
deep chasms. It will be noticed that Feda's actual
words are : "It forms a kind of bridge just for a little
way, Feda can look down on either side of it." This is
precisely what those little aqueducts do, and if A. V. B.
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 397
has retained any memory at all regarding the Canary
Islands, I think she would remember those aqueducts,
since she constantly terrified me by crossing them, I
being unable to follow her owing to vertigo. Had the
lava-river road been meant, Feda should not, I think,
have said " a kind of bridge "—nor should she have said
that the road formed it. My recollection of bridges on
all roads other than the mountain paths is that they
were ordinary stone bridges. I am not at all sure that
there was not one of these ordinary bridges on the lava
road. But to my mind Feda's words seem rather
to suggest an aqueduct such as I have described. It
is a correct and a natural touch when A. V. B. speaks
through Feda of the pleasant recollections connected with
that place (meaning Teneriffe). Just after this reference
to our own pleasant recollections there comes an allusion
to some people who did not have pleasant recollections
of the place. And it happens that while A. V. B. and
I were staying in the vicinity of the Baranco del Anfivingo
we heard of some people in the neighbourhood who had
had a very tragic experience, or at least it impressed us
as having been tragic ; we visited their house and saw
one of the people in question, and the circumstances made
so deep an impression on us that I afterwards used the
incident for a short story, the same unpublished story
to which I have previously alluded. The tragedy had,
however, nothing to do with a mountain accident,
and one could have wished that just here Feda would
have refrained from supplying her own interpretation of
the impression received by her. The reference to two
different climates might possibly apply to the extreme
cold which is sometimes experienced when crossing some
of the higher passes. The climate in the vaUeys of the
Canary Islands is semi-tropical, but some hotel acquaint-
ances of ours made an excursion over the passes, where
they told us that they had experienced severe cold.
Unless the words refer to this, we do not understand them.
I have omitted to mention that A. V. B. is quite right
when, after describing the Anfivingo, she goes on to say
through Feda that we were both staying at another place.
398 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
We were staying at Santa Cruz, and had only remained
in the vicinity of the Anavingo for a couple of nights
and I think she is also right in saying that we were held
up at two places.
On January 3rd, 1917, at a sitting taken by me, Lady
Troubridge recording, we got another reference to Teneriffe.
During this sitting A. V. B. spoke through Feda about
a certain pair of monkeys. She said that they had
greatly amused her, and that she did not think that such
another pair of monkeys existed, etc. Feda described
these monkeys as being at the end of a little path. Now
in the garden of the Hotel Quisisana at Santa Cruz there
were at the end of a little path a pair of monkeys and
one baby monkey, that A. V. B. and I used to watch
by the hour ;
they were an intensely amusing family,
and were the only monkeys in which I ever knew A. V. B.
to take an interest during our life together. This refer-
ence to the monkeys occurred suddenly in the sitting,
and was in no way solicited. Two letters, A. and H.,
were given as having some connection with the monkeys.
I cannot up to the present place these letters. Together
with the mention of the monkeys was given a fairly good
description of the Hotel Quisisana at Santa Cruz, where
we stayed ; the description including, among other things,
a statement that the door of this " house " was elevated
from the ground, that you went up steps to it, that the
corner of the house was rounded, that there was some-
thing around the house under the roof which formed an
up and down pattern ; that the windows were not
uniform, and finally that there was a little terrace with a
slope down from it, upon which terrace A. V. B. used
to sit, having something brought to her while she sat
there. There was such a terrace where A. V. B. used
to sit ; sometimes coffee would be brought to her there.
The rest of the description was also correct. At this
same sitting A. V. B. said through Feda in reference to
the climate of the place :
" The weather was just beautiful,
neither too hot nor too cold," which correctly describes
the climate of the Canary Islands.
On January 17th, 1917, we obtained a further reference
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 399
to Teneriffe. I had told Feda that I was sure I knew
what particular monkeys had been spoken of at the last
sitting, and went on to say that I supposed them to have
been monkeys in the garden of the hotel where we had
stayed ; I did not of course mention the name of the hotel,
or give any indication of where this hotel might be. After
some talk upon different matters the following occurred
:
F. She says, do you remember the hotel where the
monkeys were ?
M. R. H. Yes.
F. She says, it was not artistic, not pleasing to the
eye. She says that when you turned the corner
and it came into view, you used to think how
ugly it was.
M. R. H. Yes, we sometimes said so.
F. She says she has stayed with you in artistic places,
but this building might have been a barrack or
anything. She says it was fairly comfortable
inside, a sort of heavy comfort, but judging from
the outside no one would have gone there at all.
She says, do you remember a very dark-skinned
man there, she says he was very swarthy, and
had generally rather an oily appearance.
M. R. H. Yes, I think I do.
F. She says he had dark eyes and black hair, and
she says you had to come across him. "As a
matter of a fact," she says, " we were always
dodging him." She wasn't interested in him, he
wasn't only there when you were, she says, he
was very much a fixture.
M. R. H. Yes, I place him. We were very happy there.
F. She says :
" Yes, and the climate was such a relief,
it was so warm."
M. R. H. (to A. V. B.) Can you remember Avhy we went there ?
F. She doesn't seem able to get that through, but it
wasn't just for a holiday, it was for a special
purpose, and you didn't know whether that
purpose would be accomplished there.
M. R. H. Never mind, I don't approve of pressing questions.
400 Miss Baddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
F. One day she'll get it through. Mrs. Twonnie,
weren't you very well then ?
M. R. H. I don't quite understand that question, Feda.
F. Feda means, were you not well when you went
there ? Feda feels that you were not very well.
M. R. H. No, I was not very well.
F. Feda knows it, because your Ladye has just said so,
and she's showing you to Feda, pale and pulled-
down looking, and she says you. pulled up there,
but that you weren't well before you went there.
M. R. H. Quite right. I expect some day she'll remember
why I was ill then.
F. Yes, she will, and she says that that place put new
life in you. She says it was not an ordinary
illness that you had. (Sotlo voce : Worry ?
Worry aboiit someone else ?) Feda can't get much
more from her, but she says there was worry
about someone else. She's got on to something
a bit different, and she says that she was antici-
pating that there might be a hitch about someone
else, who might somehow have indirectly prevented
your going away with her when you did.
With regard to this extract, the Hotel Quisisana was
certainly not artistic, it was a large and hideous
building, terribly ornate, having rather the appearance of
a cheap, imitation fortress. A. V. B. and I had always
considered it a blot on the landscape. We found it
comfortable enough inside, though certainly not with what
Feda calls " a sort of heavy comfort." Lady Troubridge
and I are inclined to think that this must have been a
little personal touch of Feda's. And in view of the fact
that on January 3rd, 1917, A. V. B. refers through Feda
to the beautiful climate of this place, and in the present
sitting when referring again to the climate, speaks of
it having been " such a relief, it was so warm," this
mistake re the furniture is, we think, a distinct point in
favour of the medium's honesty. It is a matter of fairly
common knowledge that a heavy sort of comfort is not
what you meet with in hotels in semi-tropical climates,
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 401
quite the contrary. We find A. V. B. asking through Feda
whether I remember a dark-skinned man there, and the
description which follows is exactly applicable to the
manager of the hotel, who was rather oppressively atten-
tive. The words :
" She says, '
Yes, and the climate was
such a relief, it was so warm '," suggest the fact that
A. V. B. has retained a memory of her great distaste
for cold weather, which always made her feel ill and
uncomfortable. When I asked A. V. B. if she remembered
why we went there, I had hoped to get a simple state-
ment regarding a hunting accident ;
instead, however, I got
the indefinite reply which is often the result of putting a
direct question, but I did get the facts that I had not
gone there just for a holiday—that / was ill—that the
place put new life into me, and that mine was not an
ordinary illness ; also that there had been worry about
someone else who might have indirectly prevented our
going there. My illness was the result of a fall out
hunting, we certainly did not go to the Canary Islands
purely for a holiday on that occasion, but, as Feda
says, for a special purpose, which we did not know
would be accomplished. The purpose was my ultimate
recovery, which it was hoped a sea voyage would assist.
I did, as stated, pull up there. Prior to undertaking the
voyage we were much worried by a relation of mine, who
wished to substitute a rest-cure for the intended voyage.
It is worthy of note that this first visit to the Canary Islands
was one of the only two occasions throughout my long
friendship with A. V. B. when my health and not hers
was in question.
There was no further allusion to the Canary Islands
until May 23rd, 1917, upon which day I was the sitter
and Lady Troubridge the recorder. The subject was
opened by Feda almost immediately after Mrs. Leonard
went into trance ; what follows is rather a long extract,
but we feel that it must be given in full. After I had
promised to think over a point connected with another
matter, Feda began speaking as follows :
F. (Sotto voce : They says Mrs. Twonnie not at all
strong and ought to go away.)
402 Miss Baddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
M. R. H. Who says so ?
F. Feda doesn't know, but it was some time ago, you
weren't well, and you were told you ought to go
away, and she took you away. It was a long way.
M. R. H. Was it during her earth life ?
F. Yes, of course.
M. R. H. Then I understand.
F. She says unfortunately she can't take you away now,
but she can go with you now, and then she feels
that you are taking her. She says that you
touched at two or three places that time when
she took you away. It was a nice journey, she
says. She says the going out there was delicious
after the first day or two.
M. R. H. She's quite right.
F. The first couple of days she says you could have
done without, but after that, she makes Feda
feel that it was some time during the third day,
you made up your minds to enjoy yourselves,
and she saw you looking quite perky again, and
wanting to take an interest in things. She says
the first days you didn't feel like it at all, but
afterwards it went beautifully. Wait—this is a
place called Cruz—Cruz—Cruth—Cruz.
M. R. H. Is she trying to give you something, Feda ?
F. Feda is afraid that's only part of the word.
M. R. H. It is only part of it.
F. (Sotto voce : Cruth—Vera—Vera. Now Ladye, don't
mix it up). She's mixing it up Avith something
else that she tried to say when she was con-
trolling herself, last time, she's thinking of two
places and she's got hold of part of each. (Sotto
voce : Do try and forget the other place, Ladye.)
Cruz—Cruth, it is a funny word. It isn't a word
that Feda's heard before. Cruth.
M. R. H. That's right as far as it goes, ask her now where
she thinks it is.
F. It isn't here, Mrs. Twonnie, it's some way away
from here, it doesn't sound like a name that
Feda knows at all.
Lxxvm.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 403
M. R. H. Perhaps she'll get it through later.
F She wanted to get it through.
M. R. H. Well, I know what she means.
F. And so does she ; she says it's a name that would
mean something to you and her. (Sotto voce :
Lony—Lony—.) This sounds to Feda some-
thing like Leony, it's not quite that but it's
something like it, Feda can't get it now.
M. R. H. Never mind, it was very good about the first two
or three days, I'd forgotten about that until she
reminded me of it.
F. She says she hadn't. After that beginning part
came this Cruth word, the word doesn't finish
with one or two more letters, she's spread the
Avord out a bit, it's not a short word, and Feda
can't get it. She says it was nice weather and
nice air there and a nice sky at that place you
went to, she says the sky was blue and the water
was blue. (Sotto voce : Feda thinks water's green
sometimes), well, she says it was blue there
anyway.
M. R. H. Yes, it was.
F. And she says the water was clear, and that there
was a cloudless sky nearly turquoise colour, and
that it was warm and lovely. The place that you
stayed at was near the water, she says you
didn't go inland to it, but it must have been
country, too, because you could get out from
it to where there were wooded and hilly places
all round about. She says there was one wood
with flowers growing in it, flowers like you would
have to buy here or raise in gardens, but they
were growing wild in that j)articular wood, she
didn't notice them elsewhere. She's still worrying
about that word beghnnng with Cruth, and she
says there was a well-known place a few miles
from the place you stayed at, that lots of people
went to visit, an awful well-known place, Mrs.
Twonnie. She liked going there, but she liked the
place you stayed at best, the other place wasn't
404 .Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
far from your place, you could go to it by train
or you could drive there, it was a sort of building,
people went there to look at it and walk about.
M. R. H. I can't place that, is she certain about going there
by train ?
F. No, she isn't.
M. R. H. Because it might be one of two places.
F. Feda thinks she'd better leave out about that train,
she isn't too sure of it. No, she won't have Feda
say that, quite, she says she must wait and think ;
she says : "I believe there were trains going close
there." (Sotto voce : Don't mix things up, Ladye).
Look Mrs. Twonnie, there was a place called M.
close to where you were at—M.—she says ; she's
quite sure it was M., it's not a very short name,
Feda doesn't think, there seems to be about
eight letters in it. You didn't have a house in
the place where you stayed ; she's trying to show
Feda a kind of hotel place, there are a good
many steps to it, not just a few steps, a flight
right up to the front.
M. R. H. That's correct.
F. It looks almost like stairs inside a house, more
than just like steps. And there's a place where
you can walk about, connected with this house,
because she's showing Feda not quite a house,
but a kind of promenade place, it looks to Feda
as if people walked up and down in front of the
house and at the sides of the house, too. She's
showing Feda that you could stand outside the
windows and look straight across, as though you
could watch joeople passing a few yards in
front of the windows. She tells Feda that people
used to sit outside the house, some would be
walking and some sitting down, and it feels to
Feda as though most of them had on light-
looking clothes.
M. R. H. Yes, that would be right.
F. When you get inside the house to which those steps
lead up, you get into a sort of hall place, it's
Lxxvra.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 405
not a narrow passage, it's a hall more like a
room, and in this hall are places where you can
sit down. And she says, do you remember a
place that is not quite a door, at least, if there
is a door Feda can't see it, it's a place that
seems to Feda to be on one side of the hall,
though Feda couldn't be quite sure which side
of the front door it is ; as she shows it to Feda
it seems to be a kind of archway ; of course,
there may be a door, but Feda only sees the
opening.
M. R. H. Well, at the moment I can't remember that.
F. Now, she says, do you remember the furniture,
it's what you would call Well, it's not at all
like this, Mrs. Twonnie. (Here Feda touches a
heavily upholstered chair.)
M. R. H. Do you mean it's not upholstered ?
F. No, it's not, it's made of some kind of thin, light
wood. Oh, you know, it's more like that stuff
they make baskets of. Well, some of the furniture
in that hall place was like that, Feda knows it
was because she can see a chair, and near one
corner she can see a sofa, at least it's not quite
a sofa, but it's a seat that two or three people
can sit on. It's a much stiffer thing than what
Mrs. Una is sitting on now.
M. R. H. That would be correct.
F. And now Feda sees that there are plants in that
hall place too, not just one plant, Feda sees
several in different places, but they're not flowering
plants.
M R. H. That's right.
F. Feda thinks there must have been something of a
kind of a yellowish colour in this place, but you'd
have to go back there to see that, wouldn't you,
Mrs. Twonnie ? Ladye's just giving it in case
you should remember. Now, Mrs. Twonnie, in
this same hall place do you remember a sort of
cabinet or something on one side ? One part of
this thing seems to be about as high as this
406 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
mantelpiece, and above that there seems to be
some glass thing, a sort of glass thing over it,
it's not very pretty and it doesn't stick out
very far.
M. R. H. Now, I want to put a leading question Feda, it's
about those steps that lead up to the front door
which you go through to get to the entrance hall.
F. Yes, she remembers those steps particularly.
M. R. H. Well then, ask her if she remembers some parti-
cular thing which stood on top of those steps,
outside the door ; and if she remembers that
thing, can she remember to what use it was put,
sometimes by us and sometimes by other people.
F. Yes, she does remember, she remembers, but . . .
M. R. H. Oh well, never mind if you can't get it, perhaps
after all there were several things outside the
door.
F. Well, the thing that she remembers seemed to
stand rather high, it wasn't like a railing or any-
thing like that, it was more like this (here
Feda indicates something like a tripod with her
hands). It's a thing that stands up. No, it
certainly isn't just a railing, it stands up and
seems separate from other things, and there's
something about it that seems rounded, it's
shaped sort of round in one part, the part near
the top is certainly round in shape.
M. R. H. Well, can she remember to what use we put that
thing ?
F. Feda can't quite make this out, she speaks as
though you were putting something on it like
that (here Feda makes a sort of slapping
movement with her hand). Feda doesn't know
what she can mean, but she keeps on repeating
that movement, like that. (Feda again makes the
slapping movement.) She knows quite well about
this thing, Mrs. Twonnie, and there's something
about it that amuses her, Feda thinks there's
something about it that's a bit funny. (Sotto
voce : Used to catch something ? Catch, catch,
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 407
catch ?) Oh, Feda doesn't know what she
means, yet it is to do with this place too.
M. R. H. Oh well, never mind, leave it.
F. Yes, but she doesn't like leaving things.
M. R. H. Well, I'll try to remember afterwards.
F. Now, do you remember anything of a grey colour
in that hall ? Feda would call it a stone colour,
it was something like carved, you know, like the
things you call heads, this one seems to have
been part of a wall.
H. I can't remember.
Mrs. Twonnie, through that opening that Feda
described in the hall, you can turn down a
passage and go into a room, it's not a small
room either, quite a big one ; and in that room
Feda sees several tables, and there are not just
one or two windows, there are several big
windows, they run up high, and yet they're
low down to the ground. Oh, and there are a
good many tables, some of them are near the
windows, and there seems to be a bigger one
in the middle of the room. Now, she says
that this room is on the floor that you came
in at, what you call the ground floor, and yet
it doesn't seem to Feda to be like the ground
floor of this house, Feda means the medium's
house, because Feda gets the impression that
when you look out of one of those windows you
seem to be raised up, not at all like here. Yes,
and you seem to look down on things.
M. R. H. I understand that.
F. Feda would think that this room was a corner
room, because from the windows you can cer-
tainly see two ways. (Sotto voce : Yes, you
can, Ladye). And Feda thinks that there are
several mirrors in this room, several awful big
ones. One part of the room looks over quite
a wide view but out of some of the other windows
it doesn't, it's as though out of the other windows
you looked on walls, or something like that,
M. R.
F.
408 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
anyhow it's as though walls or some places came
up closer, and prevented the view. She says that
that place belonged to the more careless part of
your life together, she was weller then, and there
was nothing that interfered with you both ; she
says that at that place you were together all
the time, both of you being able to do every-
thing, and not having to worry about time or
anything else. (Here some people were des-
cribed as having been at the hotel, and as I
could not definitely place them we have omitted
the descriptions for the sake of brevity. It is
not improbable that people answering to the
description may have been in the hotel with us,
but if so, they did not make a very deep im-
pression on me, as I have forgotten them. We
also omit the description of the manager of the
hotel, which occurs again in this sitting, as it
has already been given in a previous sitting. In
the present sitting, however, Feda adds these
words to his description :
" He used to come in
and walk around the rooms, that sort of thing."
We give these words, as they add value to the
description, being, as they are, distinctly suggestive
of an hotel manager. We will now resume
Feda's remarks.)
F. Oh, now she's showing that letter M. again in
connection with this place. Feda can't make
out why, but it must have some connection.
And there's a letter that looks like a C. too,
and that has a bearing on this place. You see,
Mrs. Twonnie, she says that this place is on the
water, it's very close to the water indeed, and
now she's trying to show Feda the position of it,
it's like this—supposing you were on the sea, you
see the land and a bit of it seems to stick out
like a tongue of land into the sea, it seems to
go like this (here Feda draws wildly in the air,
appearing to indicate hills, etc.).
M. R. H. I can't quite understand all that, Feda.
Lxxvni.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 409
F. Do you know anything about an island, that is
not far from there ?
M. R. H. Yes, I do know something about an island, how
was that mention of an island given to you,
Feda ?
F. She suddenly said :
" Island, island, island," some-
thing seems to have reminded her of an island
there, she keeps on showing Feda a piece of land
standing in the middle of water, and she says :
" It's a piece of land standing in water."
M. R. H, What is ?
F. That place is, she says. The place is an island.
M. R. H. Yes, it is an island.
F. She says that place is called Ter—ter—terra—Oh !
Feda can't quite get it, but she wants to say
that it's a place called Ter—Te—no, Feda can't
get it, but it starts Te. It's Tener—Tener—
•
Ten—Ten—What, Ladye ? Tener—
M. R. H. Tener is right.
F. Teneri —Teneri —ee —ee —ff —ffe —iffe —Teneri —fer
.
She says she doesn't agree with the
tc
fer " she
says Tener is right, she says cut off the last
" er " and it's right.
M. R. H. (to U. V. T.) Is it right ?
IT. V. T. Quite right.
F. (Sotto voce : Teneriffe, it's Teneriffe !) She keeps
on saying an island, it's an island she says, and
she says it's a nice place, she says :
" Teneriffe !
"
Do you know, she pushed that through suddenly ?
She pretended that she was exasperated at your
not understanding. She thought that Feda w ould
get hold of it if she pretended to be cross. Now,
she's saying there's that place called M. again,
—
Masagar—Masagar—Madaga—Maza.
M. R. H. Maza is right, Feda.
F. Mazaga—Mazager—Mazagi—Mazagon
—
(We here omit several other efforts on Feda's part
to pronounce the name, which efforts end with
Mazagal).
M. R. H. No, not quite Mazagal, Feda.
410 Miss Baddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
F. Mazagan !
M. R. H. That's right, Feda. Well, what about Mazagan ?
Is Mazagan the M. that you first mentioned ?
F. No, it isn't, she suddenly thought of Mazagan and
got it through. Mazagan and Teneriffe. She
somehow couples them together ;
Mazagan, she
says it's a place, it's not somebody's name.
M. R, H. Quite right.
F. She can't get any more about that, but it wasn't
the first M. She was thinking of the first M.
and that thought led her on to this one.
M. R. H. Is the first M. a place ?
F. Yes.
M. R. H. Is the first M. in Teneriffe ?
F. No, she says.
M. R. H. Had it anything to do with our journey to
Teneriffe ?
F. Well, it wasn't in Teneriffe, but it had to do with
your journey there. At all events it was a kind
of objective, she keeps on saying something about
for after.
M. R. H. An objective for after we got to Teneriffe ?
F. No, that's not right, not after you went to Teneriffe,
she means that you knew about this M. place
from the first, it was before you got to Teneriffe.
M. R. H. Do I understand that this M. place came before
we got to Teneriffe or did it come after ?
F. Look, Mrs. Twonnie, Feda didn't think so at first,
but now she says that the M. came before
Teneriffe, and that is what she meant by saying
that it's an objective, you'd thought of it before.
In this fourth and last extract we get a more prolonged
description of the Canary Islands. It is led up to, as
will have been seen, by a reference to my state of health,
which, as we have already said, was the first cause of
A. V. B. and myself visiting Teneriffe. The first evidential
point to which we would refer in the present description
is the allusion to the journey out ; this occurs towards
the beginning of the extract and is elaborated towards
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 411
the end. A. V. B. says through Feda that she and I
touched at one or two places when she took me away.
This is correct, as it happens that, for the sake of the
long sea voyage, we went to Teneriffe via Morocco ;
and here I would point out that it is not usual for
people intending to make a long stay at Teneriffe to go
by that route. We were the only passengers on the boat
who left the ship at Teneriffe. The Royal Mail Steam-
ship Company used to run ships from London to Madeira
and back, taking Gibraltar, Morocco and the Canary Islands
en route. It was on one of their ships that we went.
Most people not intending to make the round trip go,
I believe, by a more direct route which gets them to the
Canary Islands in about a week. A. V. B. speaks
through Feda about the conditions during the first two
or three days of our journey, saying that after these
first few days it was delicious. This is a good point,
for it so happens that we ran into almost Arctic cold
during the first two or three days of our voyage ; the
ship was small, the weather abominable, and we wished
many times that we had not left home. We often used
to remind one another afterwards of those first few days
of misery ;
they being passed, the remainder of the voyage
was, as Feda says, delicious.
We next find Feda struggling with the name " Cruz,"
and getting the word " Vera " tacked on to it, which is,
of course, a mistake. The place to which we think that
A. V. B. intended to refer was not Vera Cruz, but Santa
Cruz in Teneriffe, and it is interesting to notice just here
that Feda seems cognisant of the fact that A. V. B. men-
tioned the word " Vera " during a personal control at the
sitting prior to the present one. We think that during that
control A. V. B. was attempting to say " Viareggio," a place
which she also knew. Feda seems to think that A. V. B.
is confounding some other place with this " Cruz " in
the present sitting, but Lady Troubridge is of the opinion
that Feda may have found the ready-made association
of " Vera " and " Cruz " in the medium's brain, and
while recognising it as erroneous, failed to recognise its
source. With regard to this mention of the word " Cruz,"
412 Miss Radclyffe-HaU and Lady Troubridge. [part
we think it worthy of notice that Feda, after pronouncing
it several times as " Cruz," corrects the pronunciation
to " Cruth "—to which pronunciation she subsequently
adheres. We think it is usual among English people,
or at all events among those of them that have not
travelled, to pronounce these Spanish names as written,
many English people being actually ignorant of the
Spanish lisp which substitutes in certain instances a " th
"
for the sibilant sound. A. V. B., however, being acquainted
with Spanish, always instinctively used the correct
pronunciation, and in the sitting under consideration
it almost seems as though she attempts to correct Feda's
mistake. The implication that the place " Cruz " is
a long way away is of course correct. What the word
" Leony " means is not apparent, nor is it apparent
why Feda says that the word (supposedly " Cruz ") doesn't
finish with one or two more letters ; it is evident that
Feda is somewhat muddled just here. The turquoise
coloured sky, etc., are features of the Canary Islands,
as is, of course, the warm and lovely weather. It is
correct to say that the place we stayed at was near
water, and it is rather interesting to note the statement
that we did not go inland to it, because, Santa Cruz,
where we stayed, was reached direct by ship. In the
ordinary way, however, I think I am right in saying that
most people making a long stay at Teneriffe do so at
Orotava, a town which must be approached by an inland
route, although it is also by the sea. Unlike most of
the other visitors, A. V. B. and I visited Orotava for
a few days only, making Santa Cruz our headquarters.
As stated through Feda, there are hilly places round
Santa Cruz, though I cannot remember that they were
particularly wooded. A memory appears to have been
retained of one special wood, wherein grew flowers not
usually found wild. This is correct, as such a wood
exists and was visited by us. It was not very far from
Santa Cruz, and I remember that we remarked upon
finding some Arum Lilies growing there wild, which we
had not seen elsewhere on the island.
The well-known place said to be near Santa Cruz.
Lxxvin.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 413
which was a sort of building, may refer to an old Spanish
building having a very beautiful courtyard or Patio
Interior. We visited this building, and my impression
is that it was then being used as a scholastic institution.
My memory is not clear on this point, but I presume
that it must have been some sort of show place, other-
wise Ave should not have heard of it. Regarding this
place, a mistake is made, however, since A. V. B. speaks
through Feda of reaching it by train or driving, she
should have said by tram or driving. The town in which
this building was situated could be reached by tram or
carriage, there were no trains on Teneriife. The words
train and tram are very similar, and if we wish to be
lenient we may suppose that the communicator said tram,
and that Feda mistook it for train ; if we do not wish
to be lenient, however, it is a bad mistake. On the
other hand it is a point upon which a fraudulent medium
could obtain correct information from a tourist office.
It also appears probable that had Mrs. Leonard by some
chance been possessed, to any extent, of normal knowledge
of the Canary Islands, the salient fact of there being
no trains on Teneriffe would surely have been included
therein. Just here in the sitting is given the letter M.
as pertaining to a place near Teneriffe, the name of the place
is said to have about eight letters in it. This M. occurs
again later in the extract, when we shall deal with it.
We next find Feda elaborating her description of the
hotel at Santa Cruz, which, as will be remembered, was
mentioned in previous sittings. In this present sitting
she returns to the long flight of steps leading up to the
front door, and there is every reason why A. V. B.
should have remembered these steps, since she particularly
disliked them ; so trying were they that I believe the
management have since been obliged to put a passenger
lift from the garden to the entrance door of the hotel.
There were many terraced promenades in the garden of
the hotel, and it is correct to say that you could stand
outside the windows and look straight across at any
passers by. The light clothes said to . be worn by people
are also correct, the climate bemg semi-tropical. The
414 Miss Baddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
lounge hall of the hotel is well described, there were
several archways in this lounge hall, and here Feda
appears to realise that she had wrongly described the
furniture of the hotel when referring to "a heavy sort
of comfort " on January 17th, 1917. In this present
sitting she describes it corrrectly. The furniture was
wicker and light wood, and there were seats which would
accommodate two or three people. There were plants
in the hall as described. I cannot place either the yellowish
colour, or the grey carved thing said to be in the hall.
These statements may be correct, but I am not in a
position to verify them. There was a cabinet in the hall
of the hotel, used by the book-keeper, it was not very
large, the lower part was of wood and the upper part
of it consisted of glass panes, and was surmounted by
a clock and three electric lights. From the ground to
the opening of the cabinet would I think have been about
the height of an ordinary mantelpiece.
The leading question which I put regarding something
which had stood on top of the steps outside the door
referred to a telescope on a tripod stand. As often
happens when a question is put point blank, I did not
obtain the actual name of the object. In this case I
got a description which we consider barely applicable to
the telescope in question ; as will have been noticed
Feda indicates with her hands something like a tripod,
she says that it is a thing which stood up, and which
appeared to be separate from the other things ; this is
to the good. She says also that there is something
near the top which is certainly round in shape. But
this description is vague, so I asked to what use that
thing was put. Now why just here Feda makes a
slapping movement with her hand we have never been
able to imagine, but I quite understand why A. V. B.
should feel amusement, and remember something funny
with reference to the telescope, if that were meant,
especially as her amusement is followed by the words
" used to catch something. Catch, catch, catch."
Teneriffe is not an easy place to leave, as it is difficult to
procure sea-passages, and the difficulty is greatly augmented
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 415
by the fact that one never knows on what days the
homeward-bound boats are likely to arrive. It often
happened, therefore, when we were there, that prospective
passengers would have had their trunks packed and in
the hall for several days, throughout which period they,
or the porter of the hotel, remained with an eye glued
to the telescope, in order to sight the ship as far
away as possible. Their fussiness became a standing
joke ;
yet it was very necessary if the ship was to be
caught, because she would only make a short stay at
Teneriffe, and there was usually great difficulty in getting
the luggage taken down to the wharf in time for her
departure. On one occasion our trunks did not arrive
alongside the ship until she had begun to move, and a
box of mine fell into the water in the rush of getting
it on board.
We next come to a description of the dining room of
the Hotel Quisisana. Feda describes this room as being
entered through an opening, or archway ; I think this is
correct, but cannot quite remember. The dining room with
its big windows is well described, and Feda's bewilderment
regarding the position of this room is quite explicable.
A. V. B. has apparently told her that the room is on
the ground floor, but it will be remembered that a very
long flight of steps has already been described as leading
up to the entrance of this hotel, which will have
given the impression that the ground floor was in the
position of the average first floor of a house ; this
impression is correct. Underneath this so-called ground
floor there was enough space for shops and an American
bar, so it will be understood that it was unusually elevated.
The dining room was a corner room as Feda states ;
it probably contained mirrors though I cannot be certain
of that. From some of the windows, as Feda says, there
was a wide view, from others, as she states, there was not.
I cannot remember that any wall came up close to the
side windows. Feda herself does not seem quite sure
about this, she says :
" Anyhow it's as though walls or
some places came up closer and prevented the view."
What did come up fairly close to the side windows was
416 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
a bit of hill-land. From the windows commanding the
wide outlook one got a magnificent view.
A good touch occurs when A. V. B. says through Feda
that the place in question belonged to the more careless
part of our life together, that her health was better then,
and that there was nothing to interfere with us, we being
able to do everything together. This is perfectly correct.
We now find Feda returning to the letter M previously
given ; she also mentions a letter which she takes to be
a C, both of which letters are said to be connected with
the place in question. It is permissible, we think, to
take C as standing for the Canaries. We find Feda saying
that the place is on the water, and endeavouring to catch
from A. V. B. the position of it. She cannot do this
completely, but evidently gets the impression of an island.
She asks if I know of an island not very far from the
place ; and the real meaning of the word island is cleared
up when I make Feda tell me how she got the mention
of an island given to her.
In reply to my question she tells me that A. V. B.
has said :
" Island, island, island, it is a piece of land
standing in water." I then ask: "What is?'" to which
Feda replies :
" That place is, she says. The place is
an island." After which we find Feda after several efforts
successfully giving the name Teneriffe, in conjunction with
the fact that it is an island.
Next we find Feda returning for the third time to the
place called M., and finally, after several mis-pronuncia-
tions, accomplishing the word Mazagan. Now Mazagan
is a port in Morocco which A. V. B. and I visited en
route to Teneriffe, and having admitted that that name
is correct. I ask Feda whether the first M. mentioned
stood for Mazagan, to which Feda replies in the negative.
She tells me that A. V. B. was thinking of the first M„
and that that thought led her on to Mazagan. She
says in reply to my question that the first M. is a place,
and when I ask if it is a place in Teneriffe, she replies
that A. V. B. says " No." At first she appears to think
that this first M. place was an objective from Teneriffe,
but she corrects this error, saying that we knew about
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 417
this M. from the first, and that it was not after, but
before, we got to Teneriffe. Now this first M. would be
correct for Mogador, the last port in Morocco touched at
before arriving at Teneriffe ; it would also be correct for
Morocco, and as it is said to have been an objective,
I think that Morocco is meant.
Section IV. Memory of a Motor Accident and of certain
Uncomfortable Physical Symptoms.
We will now proceed from the memory of places to what
would appear to point to a clear memory of certain
uncomfortable physical symptoms, and of a motor accident
which caused them.
On December 30th, 1916, Lady Troubridge took a
sitting at which I recorded. Quite suddenly Feda showed
signs of being uncomfortable, moving about restlessly,
and the following occurred :
F. Oh, what is she doing ? Something funny, she's
twisting about. (To A. V. B.) What are you
doing ? Feda can't make out what she's doing,
she's moving about and speaking without saying
any words (here Feda moves her lips without
articulating). No, Feda is afraid she can't get
this, it's too wrapped up, Feda can't get it, she's
doing such funny things, like this : (here Feda
rubs her neck with her right hand, downwards,
from the back of the neck to the side).
U. V. T. Interesting and very odd.
F. She wants you to notice it.
U. V. T. We do.
F. She's opening her mouth to speak, and not letting
words come, it's got something to do with some-
thing that happened before she passed on. (Here
Feda bends her head forward and holds the back
of her neck, then with her hand still on the
back of her neck, she lifts her head and moves
it stiffly from side to side, making a grimace.)
Mrs. Una she's screwing up her mouth and face.
U. V. T. I think we understand that.
418 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
F. It looks to Feda dreadfully uncomfortable.
U. V. T. I do hope she is not uncomfortable now.
F. Oh no, she's only showing that she moved her
head as though it were uncomfortable when she
did move it. It seems to Feda to have been
just here, just where the knob is (Feda indicates
from the seventh cervical upwards). Feda doesn't
feel it below that, but Feda feels just under the
roots of the hair a kind of soreness, a tenderness,
not cpjite pain, a funny feeling. Feda wants to
keep moving like this (she again moves her head
stiffly from side to side). It's as though, although
it's uncomfortable to move, yet you want to move.
(Feda now begins to rub her arm). She's making
Feda feel a funny feeling in the arm, or is Feda
getting it from your arm ?
U. V. T. It may easily be my arm, because I have had some-
thing the matter with my arm lately.
F. Wait a minute, no, it's her arm. She thinks that
your arm may have helped to put Feda on the
track. You have like a toothache in your arm,
but hers was different to yours, she had a nasty
feeling, it made her arm feel limp, and though it
felt limp there was a heaviness in the arm too,
the fingers felt dry at the ends and nervy, as
though you wanted to keep moving them. No,
it was not a pain like yours. She says, that
this means something to do with her before she
passed on. Feda wonders why she wants to give
it this morning.
U. V. T. Ifs good, I'm interested, tell her.
F. She says, she didn't only have that for a very
little while though, it was spread over a time,
there was a cause for it which dated some time
back, a cause for this thing there (here Feda
touches the back of her neck). Now she tries
to show Feda that she sometimes breathed a
little heavily (here Feda breathes in and out as
if with difficulty), and then she used to move her
head, it was nasty. Do you know she had a
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 419
very peculiar feeling in her head. She knows
more about it now, Feda thinks, because she
manages to give it so well to Feda, it's not quite
like pain, it is as though something came from
the back which seemed to numb (here Feda
stretches her neck up and bends her head back
stiffly). It's a strange feeling.
TJ. V. T. Well, I am glad she hasn't got it now, then.
F. She's smiling. She's so glad she can get it through.
U. V. T. Tell her it has very much pleased us, because we
see that she has remembered something that she
ought to have remembered.
F. She stretched her head ! (Feda now touches the
front of her head a little to the side of the
centre.) There was something just here, but it
was different to that thing at the back, a different
condition somehow, it isn't cpiite a pain, it is
as if there was something that caused pressure.
(Feda again indicates the front of her head, then
proceeds to hold her head with her hand.) Mrs.
Una, it isn't like pressure in one particular spot,
it's across there. (Feda indicates the front of the
head.) Do you know it gave her a heavy sort
of feeling in her eyes, as though she wanted to
half close them ; it wasn't awful pain, it was
as though something got on the nerves and made
everything all round feel funny.
U. V. T. Did I understand you to say that this feeling was
in the middle of the head or at the side ?
F. It seems to Feda to begin in the middle and
makes the whole front feel funny. It was a
different condition to that at the back entirely.
This front condition was not exactly . . . Oh,
Feda wishes she could find the word, it's im-
portant, it makes all the difference, it's as
though this trouble in front was in some way
made to be, caused. Feda doesn't think that is
quite right, but she seems to be saying that the
front part had been made bad, as though some-
thing had made the funny sensation, the back is
420 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
different, she wasn't made to have the back.
She says she wants you to clearly understand
that she's not worrying over it, but to some
extent there was something that made her have
that strange feeling across the front part of the
head.
U. V. T. We understand that, and now perhaps she can
give something that will tell us what caused
these feelings which you have described.
F. She couldn't think very clearly,-—what is she doing ?
She wants to jerk Feda in some way, it's a
movement that was partly unconscious. She wants
to make Feda make a movement, automatic !
U. V. T. What movement ?
F. It's some particular movement that was connected
with these conditions. She is wanting to give
Feda jerking, automatic, unconscious movements.
Feda can't make out if she actually did move,
but she certainly wanted to. She says she
thought Mrs. Twonnie was there.
U. V. T. Where, when ?
F. At a later stage she thought Mrs. Twonnie was
there. She thought Mrs. Twonnie was bending
over her.
M. R. H. So I was.
F. She says that even then her mind worked a little
bit strangely. She wondered how it seemed to
other people.
U. V. T. Were all these conditons just before she passed
over or some time ago ?
F. No, not just before she passed over, because she
speaks of later stages afterwards. She's going
back for a good many of the things. It was not
just before she passed, but do you know, though
there was a time in between, she certainly links
the two things up.
U. V. T. Will she give the letter of the month when the
first neck condition was caused ?
F. She'll try. You say the letters of the month over
out loud. (U. V. T. repeats the alphabet slowly,
lxxvih.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 421
and is stopped at the letter V. by Feda ex
claiming
11
Oh, she says, she has passed it ").
U. V. T. I will make it easier by repeating only the letters
of the actual months (U. V. T. repeats the first
letter of every month and is stopped by Feda
at the letter M.).
F. Wait a minute. (U. V. T. waits, but Feda seems
confused.)
U. V. T. Well, look here, I'll make it easier by saying the
names of the months of the year (U. V. T.
repeats the names of the months and is stopped
by Feda at October).
F. Oh, wait a minute. She doesn't want you to go
further. She stopped Feda in two places. It
seems to Feda it was somewhere around March
or April and then between October and November.
U. V. T. (to A. V. B.) I wish you could get that month
connected with the pain at the back of your neck,
try and stop me at the right month. (U. V. T.
repeats the names of the months again and is
stopped by Feda at July).
F. Feda can't get it. She is stopping Feda at different
places, she knows that last place is wrong. She
says, " No, no." Feda gets it that she makes
one condition happening one season, and one
condition happening in another season.
U. V. T. She is right about seasons.
F. Feda can't get the months.
TJ. V. T. It is curious that she doesn't give what led up to
that feeling in her neck ; what caused it. (Here
Feda suddenly begins jerking about in the chair
rather violently.)
F. (to A. V. B.) What do you want to jerk Feda for ?
(Feda jerks up and forward almost out of her
seat.) Mrs. Una, she says, she pitched forward,
she didn't fall or slide, she pitched ! Oh, now she
says :
" No, that's not quite right," she says she
pitched forward but a little to one side too,
she says it's not quite forward.
M. R. H. She's right.
422 Miss Radclyffe-Hall mid Lady Troubridge. [part
F. (with a sigh of relief.) Now she doesn't worry Feda so
much. She wanted to show Feda that it was
not softly falling, but jerking. (Here Feda puts
her fingers just under the hair of the front of
her head and draws in her breath with a little
hissing sound as if in pain.) She says, when she
jerked like that there was something at the side,
something she was afraid of, she says, it only
caught her eye, " It was like a sudden flash,"
she says, it's because it was so sudden that it
impressed itself on her.
M. R. H. Good !
F. (drops her head on her breast and assumes a collapsed
position.) She was doubled down like this. She
makes Feda feel funny all round her neck. That's
all she can say about that.
XJ. V. T. It has been splendid.
F. She laid great stress upon that thing just catching
her eye, it was like this : (here Feda makes a
sudden wave of her hand sideways). Oh dear,
it seems to have taken the power from us.
Describing that was hard work, she had to make
Feda understand that she wasn't playing, at
first.
The whole of the above description is applicable in
every detail to a serious motor accident which A. V. B.
and I had on September 22nd, 1914, and to certain
symptoms accruing from injuries which A. V. B. then
received. We will give the circumstances as briefly as
possible, beginning, as Feda does, with the symptoms.
In that accident A. V. B. sustained, among others,
three injuries, the effects of which continued to trouble
her up to the time of her death ;
namely, a chip off
the spinous process of one of the cervical vertebrae, a
chip off one of the bones of the elbow, and two severe
scalp wounds, one slightly to the side of the front of the
head, the other a little more towards the back, but also at
the side.
The result of the injury to the vertebra was a chronic
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 423
stiffness of the neck, accompanied by much discomfort,
to ease which A. V. B. was in the habit of rubbing
her neck downwards from the back towards the side,
which gesture was reproduced with startling exactness
by Feda. As will have been remarked A. V. B. appears
to wish to bring the gesture to our notice. Feda speaks
of her opening her mouth and letting no words come.
This description suggested to Lady Troubridge and myself
a very familiar grimace often made by A. V. B. when in
acute discomfort from her neck. We find Feda saying
correctly that the above actions have something to do
with an occurrence before A. V. B.'s death, and here
again Feda makes a startlingly familiar gesture, namely,
that of placing the hand at the back of the neck with
the head bent forward, then with the hand still on the
back of the neck raising the head and moving it from
side to side making a grimace at the same time. A. V. B.,
when uncomfortable, often did this, from the time of the
accident to the date of her last illness. The position given
by Feda regarding the seat of the neck injury is correct,
and the tenderness said to be felt under the roots of the
hair must of course have existed at the time of the accident.
After moving her head once again stiffly from side | to
side Feda begins to rub her arm ;
for a moment there
appears to be some doubt in Feda's mind as to whether
she is not catching a sensation from Lady Troubridge's
arm, which was in contact with medium's. Feda, however,
decides that this is not so, and proceeds to diagnose
correctly the type of pain being suffered by Lady Trou-
bridge, which she says is different from that in A. V. B.'s
arm. Now A. V. B. suffered much pain owing to her
injured elbow, especially at first ; we do not know
whether her arm felt limp and heavy, but we have no
doubt that an injury to the elbow would produce a feeling
of nerviness in the fingers ; we have all experienced this
feeling when we have knocked our funny-bone. The
next good point is made when A. V. B. says, through
Feda, that she did not have these symptoms for a little
while only, but that all this was spread over a time ;
that there was a cause which dated some time back for
424 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Trotibridge. [part
the neck injury. As we have said, the accident occurred
in 1914, over a year and a half before A. V. B. died.
Just about here A. V. B. appears to wish to show,
through Feda, another of her symptoms, namely, breath-
lessness. She had suffered from breathlessness for some
time prior to the accident, and although it grew worse
after the shock it cannot be said that it was caused by
the accident, although it would almost seem as if Feda
linked the two things up together, since, after describing
the breathlessness, she says :
" And then she used to
move her head, it was nasty."
It may probably be correct to say that something came
from the back of the head which seemed to numb ; at
the time of the accident the violence of the blow on the
back of the neck must have caused a certain amount
of numbness ; in any case A. V. B. was unconscious,
and her medical attendant was in doubt for a time as to
whether or not she had fractured the base of her skull.
Here, again, we find Feda making a familiar gesture ;
this time she does not touch the back of her neck with
her hand, but stretches her neck up and bends her head
back stiffly ; this also A. V. B. did constantly.
Next we find Feda touching the front of her head a
little to the side, and saying that there was something
just there, but that it was a different condition from that
at the back ; she also speaks of something which caused
pressure, and holds her head with her hand, as one might
when suffering from a headache. Regarding the pressure,
she says that it was not in one particular spot, but
across the front of the head, and that this pressure was
caused, made to be. We have already spoken of the
two scalp wounds sustained by A. V. B., which could
certainly be termed a different condition from the injury
of the bone at the back of the neck. After the scalp
wounds healed, up to the day of her last illness, A. V. B.
could never bear any pressure on the front part of her
head ; all her hats seemed to cause pressure, and Lady
Troubridge and I can both remember days when she
would change her hat two or three times, complaining
that all her hats felt too heavy, and that she could
Lxxvni.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 425
not stand the pressure. Having got thus far, we en-
deavoured to find out whether any memory had been
retained by A. V. B. regarding the cause of these symptoms.
It will be noticed that the question which we put to
Feda regarding this gives nothing away ; and here again,
as on many previous occasions, instead of getting a direct
answer, such as motor car, or accident, we receive rather
a long, drawn-out description, accompanied by a good
deal of pantomime.
We are told first of all that A. V. B. could not think
very clearly. It goes without saying that she could not
have thought clearly at the time. After that we get
Feda saying that A. V. B. is trying to jerk her, and to
convey the impression that the movement was partly
unconscious and automatic.
Now the circumstances of the accident were these :
A. V. B. and I were passing the Cross Roads at Burford,
in our Limousine car, when suddenly a smaller car dashed
into the side of our motor with great violence ; the lady
who was driving the smaller car mistook, in her panic,
the accelerator for the brake ;
consequently the force of
the impact was enormous, and our heavy car was jerked
backwards and forwards several times before it finally
fell over on to a stone wall, which it partly demohshed,
and then our car partially rebounded on to the road.
I was thrown from my seat, and when I could collect
myself, I found that A. V. B. had been flung across the
car from the place where she had been sitting to what had
originally been my seat ; that is to say, she had been
pitched from right to left, the collision having taken
place on her side.
I think that makes it quite clear that Feda's des-
cription of A. V. B.'s movements as having been jerky,
automatic and unconscious is correct. Of course I was
there the whole time during the accident, but, as I have
said previously, A. V. B. was unconscious at first, and
I was, as Feda states, bending over her at a later stage,
namely, when she recovered consciousness. When Lady
Troubridge asks if aU these conditions occurred just
before A. V. B. passed on A. V. B. says through Feda
426 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
that they did not, but that although there was a time
between, she certainly links up her death with her accident.
This is a distinctly good point ; because although to all
appearances A. V. B. made a good recovery from that
accident, there can be no doubt that she really never
recovered from the shock, and several doctors have
told me that it very probably hastened her end. It is
undoubted that the consequences of the accident accen-
tuated her tendency to lead the sedentary life most
favourable to the development of the high blood-pressure
which was the ultimate cause of her death.
As will have been noticed we did not succeed in
obtaining from Feda the name of the month in which
the accident occurred ; we got M. given, which is correct
for the month of A. V. B.'s death, but no correct letter was
given for the month of the accident. We did, however,
obtain a correct statement regarding the fact that one
condition occurred at one season of the year, and the
other condition at another season of the year : meaning
presumably the motor accident and her death. Feda
gives two approximate times, namely, March or April,
and October or November ;
although it must be noticed
that Feda actually stopped Lady Troubridge at the mention
of October. She is very near the mark, since A. V. B.
died in May, while the accident occurred late in September.
When, owing to a misunderstanding, Feda stops on one
occasion at the month of July, it will have been noticed
that A. V. B. protests, saying :
" No, No," appearing to
know that this is wrong.
After this reference to the month we find A. V. B.
endeavouring, in order apparently to satisfy us, to make
Feda show by pantomine exactly what happened, for Feda
says, acting the movement at the same time, that A. V. B.
is trying to jerk her ; A. V. B. tries to jerk her violently
it seems, since she is thrown forward nearly out of her
seat, and we find Feda saying that this was no ordinary
fall or slide, but that A. V. B. was pitched. And here
we get A. V. B. correcting Feda with regard to the
direction in which she was pitched, and stating that she
pitched forward, but a little to one side as well, not
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 427
quite forward ;
this, in view of the fact that at the
moment of the accident A. V. B. was sitting forward
in her seat with her body practically turned towards me,
and was flung across the seat of the car, is perfectly
correct.
After this there comes another familiar gesture of
A. V. B.'s ; Feda runs her fingers under the hair at the
front of the head, drawing in her breath as though in
pain. A. V. B. always did this when the old scars used
to shoot, as they frequently did. She may also have
wished to imply, correctly, that the scalp-wounds were
incurred owing to her pitching sideways against the broken
window of the car.
And now we come to what I feel is one of the best
points in the whole description. It is this : A. V. B.
says through Feda that when she was jerked there was
something at the side which frightened her, something
which only caught her eye ;
according to Feda, A. V. B.'s
own words are : "It was like a sudden flash." At the
time of the collision I did not think that A. V. B. who,
as I have said, was turning towards me, had seen the
approaching motor ; I questioned her about this after-
wards, and many were the arguments, which invariably
ended with the assertion on her part that she knew
perfectly well that she had seen something ; she used to
say :
" I tell you I did see something, what I saw was
like a sudden flash."
After getting the evidential words regarding the " sudden
flash," through Feda, I feel quite sure that I allowed a
certain amount of excitement to come into my voice
when I said " good !
" At all events I recorded in my
notes, as a fact against myself, that I had spoken ex-
citedly. Therefore, when a little further on Feda says
that A. V. B. laid great stress on the thing that just
caught her eye, we must look' on that last reference to
the approaching motor as non-evidential. There was,
however, nothing in my excited comment of " good " to
give Feda the least clue as to the position in which I
found A. V. B. after the accident ; and yet Feda assumed
the exact position. She dropped her head on her breast
428 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
and collapsed in a land of heap in the chair, remarking
as she did so, " she was doubled down like this." Through-
out this whole description I have never seen anything
so life-like as was the pantomime. With some of the
gestures, particularly those connected with the stiffness
in the neck, Lady Troubridge is just as familiar as I am,
and she entirely agrees with me as to their startlingly
faithful character.
On June 6th, 1917, at a sitting taken by Lady Trou-
bridge, I acting as recorder, there was another apparent
reference to the motor accident. It ran as follows :
F. Oh, dear ! she's trying to show Feda funny things
this morning, they seem different to usual. This
must be another place that she thinks she's been
to, it's a funny looking place. Now, why is
she touching her neck ?
U. V. T. I don't know. (Feda begins to rub the back of her
neck and smooths the hair up at the back.)
F. Feda doesn't know why she's touching her head.
U. V. T. Where is she touching it 1
F. She's going like this : (here Feda strokes her left
eye.) Oh, no ! that's not quite right. (Feda
makes some more gestures around her head.)
U. V. T. What is it ?
F. She keeps touching her head all over, and yet she
can't quite show Feda what she wants. (Here
Feda begins stroking her face all over.) She
says, that this has more to do with Mrs. Twonnie
than with you, she touches her face, she touches
it here. (Feda touches her cheek-bones and all
around the nose.)
M. R. H. I think I understand, perhaps.
F. She puts up her* hand and touches that part of her
face all round, there is some meaning in it.
IT. V. T. Well, can she remember any place connected with it?
F. A place on the earth plane do you mean ?
U. V. T. Yes.
F. She keeps stroking her face like this, it's down the
Lxxvin.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 429
middle part more (Feda strokes her face from the
cheek bone downwards). She says it wasn't here
in London, she does say mysterious things this
morning, it's all so mysterious.
U. V. T. Never mind, Feda, you try to tell me.
F. (Sotto voce : Bur—Bur—Bur—Bur. Burn—Burner
—
Bearer). Oh, no ! it's not Burner. Feda thinks
that this was some kind of place that she's
trying to say. Bur, and then there's something
more, it's not Berrell she says, but it does begin
with a " B," and it has something to do with
why she's touching her face.
U. V. T. I'm afraid I can't follow.
F. No, °
it's a funny word. Feda thinks it's got
more the sound of B—u than B—e.
U. V. T. WeU don't try, it will come easier later on.
F. No, Feda won't try, it might be a person and not
a place, but if it's a person it's no one very
close to her. Now she says that someone else
was brought into these conditions at that time
who had nothing to do with her, and now she
gives the letter S very clearly ; and it all has
to do with this time, and with her face, but not
to do with you very much ; it's Mrs. Twonnie
that Ladye remembers, it's to do with her that
Ladye remembers it. It wasn't close here at
all, it looks to Feda as though she's showing
more a country place, Feda sees more space than
if it were London.
In the above extract A. V. B. appears to be returning
to her motor accident, and to be thinking of the place
where that accident occurred, since she seems to try to
give Feda the impression of some place that she has been
to, and then proceeds to touch her neck. Feda makes
a rubbing gesture at the back of the neck as she did on
December 30th, 1916, but in this present sitting we find
Feda stroking her left eye and feeling her face, at one
time all over, and at another time indicating the cheek
bone and around the nose, and yet again stroking her
430 .Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
face all the way down. These movements are an ampli-
fication of the movements given on December 30th, 1916 ;
they point to a memory of injuries other than those
mentioned in that sitting. For although Feda does not
seem to think that she has been quite right in stroking
her left eye, this gesture was in reality very accurate,
since there was an immense amount of bruising and
tenderness all down one side of A. V. B.'s face, the left
eye being particularly discoloured. When Lady Troubridge
asks whether a memory has been retained of any place
connected with the condition Feda is describing, the reply
is that A. V. B. says it wasn't in London. A propos
of where it was, Feda gets as far as repeating the word
Bur— four times, and tells us that there is something which
should follow after Bur, in other words that she has not
completed the name, also that this refers to a place, and that
this place which begins with B. has, according to A. V. B.,
got something to do with her reason for touching her face.
A little later on Feda says that A. V. B. speaks of
somebody else having been brought into those conditions
at that time, someone who had nothing to do with her,
with whom she gives a very clear letter S. A. V. B.
also gives Feda to understand that it is with me and not
with Lady Troubridge that all this is associated in her
mind, she also shows Feda that the place was some
distance from London, and that it was a country place.
As we have already said, the gestures regarding the face
were correct, Bur. was also correct so far as it went, for
it will be remembered (see p. 425) that when commenting on
the sitting of December 30th, 1916, we mentioned the fact
that the motor accident occurred at Burford. With
regard to the person called S. I believe this to be the
chauffeur who was driving our car at the time of the
accident, whose name was Serpell. There is a little
doubt, perhaps, regarding this point, as Feda says that
this person had nothing to do with A. V. B., but we
think that these words were intended to convey that S.
was not a relation or friend, as they follow imme-
diately after Feda's remark concerning Bur : "If it's
a person it's no one very close to her." Feda may
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 431
have been continuing this train of thought when she refers
to S.
Immediately following on the extract we have just
dealt with came the description of a narrow lane and a
gate, afterwards corrected to a narrow road with a gate
across it. This we could not place and said so. There
then followed the description of a place with hills, and
with roads running down ; hills in the distance were also
mentioned. A. V. B. then showed herself to Feda coming
down the side of a hill, not coming perfectly straight down,
but curving round, and this, it was said, led A. V. B.
to a place where she used to be ; the walking was said
to be rough, and after you had descended further down
the hill you were said to come to a shady part, like a
line of trees or something, near the bottom, not quite
like a wood, however. Feda said that A. V. B. knew
that part and remembered it. Next came the description
of a house and a cottage, people were said to go up
and down between the cottage and the house, as there
always used to be a little link between them. Some
steps and a gate were next described, and we were told
that if you entered the gate and turned in one direction
you came to a door, whereas if you turned in the opposite
direction you came to an open kind of place, but that
nobody walked round there much. Concerning this
open kind of place, Feda suddenly asked the following
question :
" Do you understand why she is showing Feda
flags ?
" When asked what kind of flags, Feda replied :
" Not waving flags, not silk or cotton, Feda means stone/'
She was told that we did understand this, whereupon
she said, " Well, she's showing them to Feda, big flags,
big square ones, there were a lot of them there, and
there's green too, short green." Some further description
was given of which it is sufficient to say that it was all
applicable to the same place.
In our opinion the place described is Malvern Wells,
and it is quite logical that A. V. B. should link it up
in her mind with Burford and the motor accident, since
she lay in a stranger's house in Burford for eleven days
or so after the accident, but as soon as she could be
432 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [PABT
moved was taken to The White Cottage, Malvern Wells,
whither we were bound when the accident occurred. We
have already quoted one or two descriptions of this
house and its surroundings, and it will have been gathered
from them that, as Feda states in the present sitting,
the country is very hilly. In the present sitting this
reference to hilliness is somewhat elaborated, as A. V. B.
shows herself walking down a hill path, which is correctly
described as curving round and as being rough under
foot. This path is said to take A. V. B. to the place
where she used to be, presumably meaning The White
Cottage or the village of Malvern Wells ; there were
many such paths near our house which were suffi-
ciently easy to be negotiated by A. V. B., and by which
she would occasionally return home. One such path
had trees towards the bottom of it ; it was a favourite
walk of A. V. B.'s, she said it reminded her of Simla,
and christened it the " Simla Walk."
The reference to the house and the cottage which are
said to have had people going constantly between them
would apply to our house and the small cottage which
stood in the garden, and which contained the servants'
hall and servants' double bed-room, descriptions of which
it will be remembered were obtained at earlier sittings.
The gate and steps referred to in the present sitting are
correctly described. We are told that if, after having
entered this gate, we turned in one direction we would
come to a door, but if we turned in another direction
we would come to a wider place ; this is correct. The gate
was a front garden gate, and if you entered it and turned
to the right you would come by a winding path to the
front door of the house ;
if, on the other hand, you turned
to the left you came to the third section of the garden,
which was referred to by us when commenting on the
sitting of October 9th, 1916. This section of the garden
was an open space which A. V. B. and I had turned
into an Italian garden. Immediately after referring to
this open place in the present sitting, Feda speaks of
stone flags. Now these stone flags were a feature of
that Italian garden which A. V. B. would be likely to
Lxxvin.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 433
remember, since we ourselves obtained them with con-
siderable trouble, and A. V. B. was very proud of the
effect. The short green spoken of by Feda in this
connection may be the rock plants which we endeavoured
rather unsuccessfully to grow between the flags, or her words
could equally well be taken to refer to grass which grew down
to the flags on one side, or to short plants, of which there
were many. Feda says that A. V. B. tells her, in refer-
ence to the open place, that nobody walked round there
much. This as it happens is quite true, for oddly enough
we seldom used the Italian garden which we had taken
such trouble to create.
On June 13th, 1917, I took a sitting and Lady Trou-
bridge recorded. Space forbids that we should give a
long extract from this sitting, but in it there occurred a
further reference to the motor accident. Feda said
suddenly :
" Now, she's going back to this," and began
a stroking movement of the face, saying, at the same
time, that all this had more to do with me than with
" Mrs. Una." I, wishing to get a still clearer description,
said that I did not quite understand ;
whereupon Feda
said that it was not my face but A. V. B.'s, but that
I knew about it. She said that this had not happened
" only just a little time " before A. V. B. passed on, and
that A. V. B. was most anxious to get it through.
A. V. B. then endeavoured apparently to describe, through
Feda, the sensations caused by a violent blow on the
head, she spoke of a sensation of falling, a giddy feeling,
that made you feel as if you must fall to the ground,
she also impressed Feda with the feeling that everything
was going black, as if one were becoming unconscious as
if, as Feda said, " you were going down, sinking, sinking."
She then added, " This has nothing to do with her passing
on, it was before." There followed a little more des-
cription regarding the blackness, a humming noise in
A. V. B.'s head, etc., and then came these words spoken
by Feda :
" This happened a good time before she passed
on, but she says that from that time everything that
happened tended towards her passing on. What she's
just described seemed like the first definite step towards
434 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
her passing, yet she says she had an interval of time in
between, when it seemed as if that condition had not
contributed towards her passing on."
It will be remembered, perhaps, that when the first
description of the motor accident was given on December
30th, 1916, A. V. B. said through Feda that she finked
the motor accident and her death together, though it
was clearly intimated at that sitting that there had been
an interval of time between the two occurrences. The
reference to this same thing in the present sitting would
therefore appear to be an elaboration of what was given
regarding that point on December 30th, 1916, and rather
a good elaboration, too, since A. V. B. tells us through
Feda in the present instance, that there was an interval
of time between the two occurrences when it seemed as
if that condition, i.e. the motor accident, had not con-
tributed towards her passing on. Now we said when
referring to the sitting of December 30th, 1916, that
A. V. B. had, to all appearances, made a very good
recovery from the accident, and there certainly was an
interval of time when those who knew her best thought that,
after all, she might be going to shake off the effects of
the shock.
After Feda's remarks on June 13th, 1917, above referred
to, there came some more allusions to the sudden black-
ness, etc. Then the following occurred :
F. She says they put something over her face.
M. R. H. What and when ?
F. Wait a minute, she wants to give that. She felt
something soft touching her face she says, and it
felt damp, she says, it felt damp, Feda doesn't
think this is important.
M. R. H. Yes, it is.
F. She says she didn't like it, it worried her.
A little later on Feda described a feeling of sickness,
later on again, but still continuing with the description
of things pertaining to the accident, Feda said the following
words :
" Mrs. Twonnie, she didn't at all like to think
that all that might happen again you know, it made much
lxxvih.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 435
more impression on her than people knew. She says
that always after that she had uncomfortable feelings,
she says that she never got quite right, but that she
didn't know herself how wrong things were."
The soft damp thing which appears to have worried
A. V. B. may well have been the sponge with which
I was bathing her face and head when she regained
consciousness after the accident. The feeling of sickness
described by Feda is correct, as A. V. B. suffered from
intense sickness after the blow on her head ; it is also
perfectly correct when Feda says that A. V. B. did not
like to think that all this might happen again, that
it had made more impression on her than people
knew. Although A. V. B. had great self-control, she was
very nervous after the accident. No one but a person
like myself who knew her intimately would have known
how nervous of motoring she was after our collision; I
remember that people used to congratulate her on the
wonderful nerve she showed.
A. V. B. is quite right in telling us through Feda
that after her accident she always had " uncomfortable
feelings " ;
we have already described the stiffness of the
neck, etc., left by her injuries, and that she did not
know herself how wrong things were Lady Troubridge
and I can quite believe. On October 9th, 1916, when
referring to her condition, A. V. B. said something very
similar to this through Feda, telling us that she had not
grasped how serious her condition was.
With regard to these descriptions of The White Cottage,
Malvern Wells, the motor accident and things pertain-
ing thereto, it is interesting to notice how well sus-
tained is the train of thought. In each of the descrip-
tions occurring upon different dates, the original idea
remains clearly defined, but new points, just as evidential
as those already given, and quite as relevant to the
topic in hand, are introduced with each new reference.
Very little, if any, of the old ground is gone over on the
several separate occasions when these two topics are
introduced. Thus on October 9th and October 18th,
2e
436 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
1916, we get the interior of the cottage described, the
shape of the garden, and certain features of the neigh-
bourhood. On June 6th, 1917, we do not get the interior
of the cottage described, but we get new features of the
neighbourhood, such as the hills, and the hill path upon
which A. V. B. walked ; we get the garden of the house
referred to again, but not in the same way as on previous
occasions, since new features regarding the garden are here
introduced. On December 30th, 1916, we obtain a
description of the motor accident and symptoms accruing
therefrom, but on June 6th, 1917, although the motor
accident is again returned to, we get new, though equally
relevant symptoms described, together with an attempt
to give the name of the place where the accident occurred,
the initial of the chauffeur who was driving, and, in fact,
several new points not hitherto mentioned. On June 13th,
1917, there is a further reference to the motor accident,
and here again new points are given, when A. V. B.
endeavours to describe her feelings just prior to, or
subsequent to, unconsciousness, and would appear to refer
to the damp sponge applied to her face, and also to her
own nervous apprehension lest at any time another such
accident might occur, and to her realisation that she had
been able to disguise her feelings on this point.
Section V. Memory of U. V. T.'s Photographs.
We now propose to deal with a few odds and ends of
memory which have cropped up during various sittings.
Here is one of them.
On October 13th, 1916, Lady Troubridge took the sitting
and I acted as recorder. At the time Lady Troubridge and
I thought of going abroad on war work, and had asked
A. V. B. whether she knew that we were going away. It
appeared that the purporting communicator was aware of
our plans. After a good deal of discussion on the topic,
the following occurred :
F. She says you're to take a camera, }^ou'll be glad
you've taken it afterwards.
U. V. T. But would it be allowed ?
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 437
F. She says she's sure it would be allowed, but she
says, please take a good one. She says some-
thing about horrible things having been taken with
a camera, not professional ones, amateur ones
;
they were not taken in a room, but outside a
room, and there was some sort of leanness at
the back.
U. V. T. Tell her : yes, they were dreadful things, I won't
let anyone see them.
F. She says they were nightmares. There were clusters
of leafies at the back. The background looks in
humps. She says, it is all hard lights and a
lot of shadow, they're so awful looking. She says,
wouldn't it have been awful if they had been a
head and shoulders enlarged.
U. V. T. Does she remember where they were taken ?
F. They were taken a little way from here, not in
London. There are shrubs in London, but it
wasn't here. She says, if you went there from
here you'd be going in a slightly westerly direc-
tion. She knows the place well. She says the
pictures were taken a little away from the house,
they were not taken against the wall of the house,
but against leafies.
TJ. V. T. Something that she did there used to frighten us.
Ask her if she can remember what it was.
Now, about seven months prior to A. V. B.'s death
she and I and Lady Troubridge visited Watergate Bay,
near Newquay in Cornwall ; while there Lady Troubridge
took some photographs, some of A. V. B. and some of
myself. Those taken of me were a great success, but those
taken of A. V. B. were quite a libel. A. V. B. disliked
them enormously, and knowing that Lady Troubridge
always pasted her photographs into albums, was rather
distressed that they had not been a greater success.
She mentioned these photographs disparagingly, not only
to me but to one or two friends ; in fact, at the time
she seemed quite hurt about them, though she did not
mention it to Lady Troubridge. Fortunately, although
438 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
Lady Troubridge disliked the photographs quite as much
as A. V. B., there is a print of one of them in existence,
and Lady Troubridge retains the negative. The print
in our possession shows A. V. B. standing against a
background of uneven rock and shrubs ; the rock formed
a sort of wall to a part of the garden. In front
of this wall of rock, and just behind A. V. B., is a strip
of earth, from the earth rise low shrubs to the level of
A. V. B.'s waist, from which level to well above her
head is the rough, rather " humpy " looking rock, while
at the top of the photograph the leaves of some rock
plants are visible ; the site chosen for the photograph
was a few feet away from the house.
There were also some photographs of A. V. B. taken
in a room on the same occasion ; these however were so
bad that Lady Troubridge destroyed them at once, a
fact known to A. V. B. The only photographs therefore
about which she felt any annoyance, lest they should, so to
speak, be handed down to posterity, were those taken
against the background which we have just described, and
which she mentions through Feda. These photographs
had been pasted into Lady Troubridge's album, a fact
known to A. V. B.
It will be noticed that Lady Troubridge asks Feda if
A. V. B. can remember what it was she did at the
place where the photographs were taken, which thing
used to frighten us. In reply to this question Feda
launched into a very long and involved description,
which we consider unduly lengthy for insertion in this
paper. It was extremely intricate, and as an example
of a successful reply finally obtained to a direct question,
it was in itself interesting, but its only bearing on our
present point lies in the fact that it left us no doubt
whatever that Watergate Bay was the place indicated,
and, incidentally, that the photographs taken there were
the subject of A. V. B.'s communication.
Section VI. Memory of A. V. B.'s Guitar.
The next example we would give deals with A. V. B.'s
favourite musical instrument.
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 439
On November 15th, 1916, I took the sitting and Lady
Troubridge recorded. It was not a good sitting, as I
not only asked, but pressed, too many direct questions.
I was feeling ill, and was undoubtedly injudicious ; a fact
which Feda seemed to realise.
One of my questions was as follows :
" Does she re-
member a musical instrument she was very fond of ?
In reply to this question I got a statement to the effect
that it was not like a piano ; which statement Feda
elaborated by describing some instrument which suggested
an organ. She even went so far as giving an imitation
of air going in and out of pipes. When I asked what
kind of music A. V. B. used to play Feda declared
that it sounded to her like rather grand music, " like
a grand kind of march." I was quite bewildered and
said so, asking whether A. V. B. thought that she
had played this thing herself. To which Feda replied :
" No, she doesn't say she did it herself, she says it is
hard to get anything through." Now, this was an
unaccountable mistake, seeing that the instrument played
by A. V. B. was a guitar, and during a personal A. V. B.
control which occurred some time after this sitting, I
told A. V. B. that Feda had never succeeded in describing
to me the instrument she played. I laughed and said :
" She told me that you played the organ." Whereupon
A. V. B. remarked :
" How absurd, what kind of an organ ?
"
Nothing else was mentioned regarding this instrument
by us, as we did not wish to give any clues, and I had
practically forgotten the incident, when, on April 25th,
1917, at a sitting at which I alone was present, acting
as my own recorder, the following occurred :
F. (Beginning to hum a tune) She's singing, she's singing,
something pretty too, do you know, Mrs. Twonnie,
it sounds as though she could sing. She's not
singing loudly, rather softly, she's telling Feda
that she does sing in the spirit world. Mrs.
Twonnie, she likes singing awful much.
M. B. H. Yes.
440 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
F. Do you know she likes all these kind of things.
She likes the talking that is like singing.
M. R. H. What do you mean by that, Feda ?
F. Well, like people will say poetry, people that say
poetry reaUy well, she is very interested in all
that. And now she's showing Feda something
that you can pull strings to, she's going turn,
turn, turn. (Here Feda gives an exact imitation
of the sound of notes picked on a guitar, imi-
tating with her hand the plucking of strings.)
Mrs. Twonnie, she's plucking them.
M. R. H. That's splendid, you are making the exact noise.
F. She's making the noise, and Feda can always
imitate what she can do. she says it does make
your fingers sore too, she says she might as well
tell you that she is not trying to imitate a cornet
or a trombone ! (Here Feda again makes the
exact noise of notes picked on a guitar.) She
says, do you know, she sees them in the spirit
world plucking those string things and singing
softly to them. She says she thinks it's getting
to be almost a lost art on the earth plane ; where
she is she can do it herself and she loves it, she
likes also to hear other people do it, sometimes
she goes to listen to them in the evenings, she
says, and they sing lovely things. Sometimes
they say things while they play, it's more like a
chant, they don't always sing them, sometimes
they say them. Oh ! she did like that turn,
turn, turn, when she was on the earth plane
more than anything. (Here Feda again imitates
a guitar.) Mrs. Twonnie, she saj^s that when
first she got over and saw this thing on which
you do turn, turn, turn, it made her feel most
awfully glad, it brought back so many remem-
brances of her earth life to her. She says, she's
got one of these things standing in the corner
of her sitting room in her spirit home, she par-
ticularly says standing, not lying down. (Here
Feda began to murmur something about a gold
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 441
frame with mother-of-pearl, asking me if the
instrument could have a gold frame ; I replied
that I didn't know, but that I didn't quite
understand the gold, after which Feda said :)
F. Now, Mrs. Twonnie, she's showing Feda the thing
itself, and she's showing Feda that some part of
it is rounded towards the bottom of that mother-
of-pearl, she says that she has this thing leaning
up in a corner of her room, she says there is
only a little bit of mother-of-pearl which is set
into it, and she keeps on telling Feda that this
instrument is rounded at one end and then goes
in a bit, making it have a little bit of a waist.
(Here Feda draws in the air the exact shape
of a guitar.) She's showing Feda that there are
some strings which go over that mother-of-pearl.
M. R. H. Quite right.
F. Oh ! and now she's trying to make Feda under-
stand that she used to screw something up, she
is showing Feda something that looks like little
screws. (Here Feda gives an imitation of tuning
a stringed instrument.) She says that she used
to turn one of those pegs, screw it up, and then
go :
" turn," and that then she used to screw
up another one and go :
" turn," again. (Here
Feda makes the sound of a lower note on the
guitar.) She's trying to show Feda that this
instrument was browny coloured, but she keeps
on saying she's got a gold case for it, but Feda
doesn't think that the thing itself is gold, it's
browny coloured, it's light brown in one place,
and much darker in another, and it's like one
that she knew on the earth plane ; she's trying
to show Feda that the part of it where you touch
the strings is of a lighter colour than the sides,
and she says that she had one like this on the
earth plane.
M. R. H. That's right.
F. (Whispering over and over again to herself an
inarticulate word.) Oh ! dear, Feda can't get
442 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
this, but she's trying to say that this word has
something to do with the earth plane and this
thing that she's been describing. No, Feda can't
get it, it's a very funny word, and it seems to
start with a B, Mrs. Twonnie. She used to
touch this instrument, that she has been des-
cribing, properly, she touched it properly, your
Ladye, and she used to do it for people, people
that liked it. She says that she hadn't got any
ribbons on this instrument, she's laughing over
that, Mrs. Twonnie, and she says that she doesn't
intend to have any on it either ; she says :
" I
haven't got ribbons on it •
" funny, Mrs. Twonnie,
do you know she doesn't seem to like ribbons
;
Feda likes ribbons, lots of ribbons.
As we have already stated the instrument played by
A. V. B. was a guitar ; she was an expert player, and
used to sing Spanish folk music to the guitar. As will
have been noticed Feda prefaces her description of this
instrument by remarking that A. V. B. is singing.
A. V. B. was considered a very fine amateur singer.
Feda tells us that she is not singing loudly, but rather
softly ; this was characteristic of A. V. B., who had a
small voice which she never forced. Feda appears to
gather that A. V. B. liked singing very much, and also
poetry, which she most certainly did. The noise made
by Feda to imitate the notes of a guitar was very
realistic.
We suppose that guitar playing usually does make the
fingers sore, and that this is non-evidential ; at the same
time this soreness of the fingers was often complained
of at some length by A. V. B. As in the case of
the riding previously dealt with, so here again we do
not propose to put forward any opinion with regard to
Feda's statement that guitars are played in the next
state of existence ; the only evidential point of interest
in this statement lies in the description of the music
which A. V. B. tells us through Feda that she hears
being played in her present state. We do not know
lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 443
whether any of our readers are acquainted with Spanish
Malagenas, and other forms of Spanish folk songs ; if
they are, they will recognise at once how very like a
chant much of that music is. Also that some parts
of the song are occasionally spoken.
This Spanish music was the only music that A. V. B.
considered to be suitable for a guitar, she was intensely
interested in it, had learnt a good deal of it in Spain,
and, whenever any Spanish musicians came to London,
would always have lessons. In fact, I think that
A. V. B. was almost the only amateur in England who
was an expert exponent of the music in question. She
was devoted to it.
We find A. V. B. saying through Feda that her present
guitar stands in a corner of her room, and emphasizing
the fact that it stands and does not lie down ; most
people's guitars stand in the corner of their room, and
we would not have troubled to refer to this statement had
it not been that A. V. B. was very particular that her
numerous guitars should never be laid down on their
backs ; she said that it made them go out of tune unless
they were laid down on their strings, and as it was
impossible always to remember to do this, they were kept
upright in different corners of the rooms.
Feda's remarks regarding a gold frame with mother-of-
pearl, and later, a gold case, appear rather childish, and
do not sound to us at all as though they emanated from
A. V. B. who disliked everything tawdry. With regard to
the reference to the '"
cornet " and " trombone ", this would-be
attempt at humour jarred upon us, and certainly was in
no way characteristic of A. V. B. to whom Feda attributes
it. We think it was, together with the gold case, a
little Feda interlude. The word which Feda whispers
inarticulately, but which she says begins with B and
has something to do with a guitar and the earth plane,
may possibly have been an attempt at the word " ban-
duria " ; the banduria is the Spanish equivalent of a
mandoline. I used to play the mandoline, accompany-
ing A. V. B.'s guitar, but she was anxious that I
should learn the banduria, and got one sent to me from
444 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
Spain ; I did not master it, however, which A. V. B. always
deplored.
We now come to the most evidential point in the
description, and that occurs when A. V. B. states with
emphasis, through Feda, that she did not have any
ribbons on her guitar, has not got any now, and does
not intend to have any: and Feda says that A. V. B.
is laughing over this. Now we think it will be admitted
that nearly all English women, if they play the guitar at
all, have streamers of bright-coloured ribbons from the
instrument. This always amused A. V. B. immensely,
because she, knowing Spain, was aware of the fact that
Spanish ladies do not usually indulge in this particular
foible. It was a great joke between us, that the less
expert the English player the more magnificent the
ribbons. A. V. B. never had ribbons on her guitars.
Section VII. Memory of Words Peculiar to A. V. B.
We will now deal with two examples of what would
appear to be a rather more subtle retention of memory
than those hitherto given, since it is the retention of
memory regarding the meaning or sense of certain words
invented by A. V. B. herself. We must first of all record
some words of mine spoken during the sitting of November
15th, 1916, which sitting we have stated in another
connection, was a bad one, probably owing to the fact
that I pressed questions. One of my questions on that
occasion was as follows :
" Ask her does she remember
a funny word she invented with Adela for people they
didn't like ?
" Feda replied, that A. V. B. would try
to remember it, would put it in a mental note-book,
but that it made it extremely difficult when I asked things
point blank. We only mention this because it must be
borne carefully in mind that I distinctly said that the
word which A. V. B. had invented, was applicable to
people she did not like.
On January 17th, 1917, a sitting which I took, Lady
Troubridge recording, I suddenly put the following
question :
lxxvhi.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 445
" Does she remember the word, '
Poon ?
'
;
perhaps
she will laugh, but I'd like to know whether she remembers
what that word meant ?
"
F. Yes, she is laughing, she says that word meant a
state. It was a word used to express a state
or condition.
M. R. H. It was a word she used.
F. Feda can't understand, but she says it was a -n ord
that she used to you. She says she sometimes
thought of you in connection with it. Feda does
hope it's not a nasty word, because she says
she doesn't mean that she just thinks of it
because she heard you say it, she means, that she
would use it in connection with thinking of you.
" Poon, Poon," she calls you that. Poon isn't
a name ! But she calls you that in her mind
now, she thinks of you as " Poon," she likes to
think of you as that. Feda's got just to say
what she says, and she says that she hopes
you think of her as that too.
M. R. H. Of course, I think of her as that. (To A. V. B.)
There was a word that was the opposite word
to " Poon." Do you remember ? You and I
had two words.
F. Yes, she says it was the antithesis, but that she
can't remember the word itself. No, Feda mustn't
say that she can't remember, it is that she can't
get it through.
M. R.^H. Oh ! Ask her to try and get the first letter through.
F. Oh dear ! Feda can't get it. But it is only a
short word. (Here Feda begins drawing violently
in the air and distinctly forms an " S.") It's
a curly letter like a snake, look, Feda will do it
on your hand.
M. R. H. Yes, that's right, it's an " S."
F. It isn't a long word, it's a short one, and she did
manage to give it quick to Feda once, but Feda
couldn't get it, she'll give it one day though.
Between this sitting of January 17th, 1917, and that of
446 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
May 2nd, 1917, with which we are about to deal, an
attempt was made during an A. V. B. Control, to pro-
nounce this word beginning with an " S." The word
was not articulated, however, and A. V. B. did not get
beyond making the opening sibilant consonant, and when
I asked A. V. B. what she was doing, she said she was
trying to get the word which was the antithesis of
" Poon." I remarked that I did not intend to give
her the word, as I wished it kept as a test ; to which
A. V. B. cordially agreed.
On May 2nd, 1917, Lady Troubridge took the sitting
and I acted as recorder. A. V. B. had been conversing
with us through Feda regarding a certain person, some
of whose ways A. V. B. rather disapproved of, when
suddenly, Feda broke out as follows :
F. She says that's senseless and reasonless too.
(Sotto voce : It's what, Ladye ? What are you
trying to say S—ss—Sss —S—ss.) What is the
word, Ladye ? It's Spor—Spor—Spor ! She's
trying to get a word through that Feda can't
make out, Feda doesn't believe it's a proper
word at all ; it's a very funny word, but it must
mean something, because she is trying so hard
to get it through, it means ... it means . . .
Oh ! Feda doesn't know. It seems to be some
sort of more expressive word for senseless. (Sotto
voce : Spor . . . Spor . . . Spor . . . Spor . . .)
Well, it's Spor, anyhow.
U. V. T. What's the letter after " Spor " do you think,
Feda ?
F. It's a long letter. After the " R " comes a long
letter.
U. V. T. When you say a long letter, Feda, do you mean
long above the line, or long below the line ?
F. It seems to Feda to be long at the bottom. (Feda
has for some moments been making perpendicular
strokes in the air.) It isn't an ordinary word
at all ; it's a funny word that Feda has never
heard before. Oh ! Mrs. Una, Feda sees that it
Lxxvin.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 447
isn't long under the line, it's long above the line ;
well, there's that letter, then comes a small letter
(sotto voce : Sporti . . . Sporbi). This little letter
sounds something like " I "
;
(Feda pronounces
the I as in the word "fish "). And after this small
letter there comes a curved letter, and then it
seems to Feda there's another long letter. (Here
Feda whispers quite inarticulate things.)
U. V. T. Well, Feda, perhaps it will be easier if you try to
draw the first long letter on my hand. (Feda
begins drawing vigorously.)
F. It's S ... P ... 0, Mrs. Una, then a little letter,
and then a letter like this ;
(she draws a " K "
on U. V. T.'s hand). It's a down stroke like
this, with a little bit like this sticking on to it ;
Sporki . . . Sporkif ?
IT. V. T. Well, Feda, try to draw the letter which you said
was curved, on my hand ; the letter that you
said came after the long one.
F. That letter goes like this, Mrs. Una (here Feda
draws an " S " on U. V. T.'s hand). And then
there's another letter like this (here Feda draws
an - H ").
II. V. T. Is that the last letter of the word, Feda, or are
there others ?
F. Well, Feda can't see any more, (suddenty and very
loud) SPORKISH! SPORKISH! But that isn't
a word at all! Ladye says: "Yes, it is," and
that it applies to people who rake things up.
" Not Poon," she says, she says it's the anti-
thesis to " Poon."
M. E. H. At last you"ve got it.
F. " Sporkish," she says it in such a funny way, Mrs.
Twonnie, she says that you and she used to call
people that sometimes, you used to say :
" So-
and-so is sporkish," Feda knows that it isn't
a proper English word though.
Now with regard to these two coined words, we must
deal first with the word " Poon." As will be re-
448 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
membered, I asked on January 17th, 1917, whether
A. V. B. could remember what " Poon " meant. There
had been a suggestion given by me on November 15th,
1916, as has been stated, that there did exist a word
which had been invented by A. V. B. and a certain
" Adela," for people they did not like. We may, there-
fore, justifiably conclude, that had Mrs. Leonard only
normal knowledge to work on, she would have retained
a memory of my words spoken on November 15th, 1916.
and have made a mental note to the effect that there
existed some curious word which had been used by
A. V. B., the meaning of which word was uncompli-
mentary. As a matter of fact, the word which I tried to
get on November 15th, 1916, was an uncomplimentary
word, and there is no apparent reason why, when I
myself mentioned the word " Poon " on January 17th,
1917, Mrs. Leonard, had her knowledge been normal,
should not have jumped to the conclusion that this
strange word " Poon," was the -uncomplimentary word
which I had hoped to get on November 15th, 1916.
But, in reply to my question of January 17th, 1917,
we find Feda speaking of this word " Poon " as a state
or condition ;
telling us that A. V. B. says it was a
word she used to me, that she sometimes thought of me
in connection with it, that she calls me " Poon," that she
thinks of me as '"Poon," that she likes to think of me as
that, and that she hopes I will think of her as that too.
Now, the word " Poon " was A. V. B.'s own invention.
It was meant to express all the pleasant, indefinable
qualities in people whom she liked. When A. V. B. said
that a person was a " Poon," or that they were " Poony,"
she meant it as a summing up of all those attri-
butes which most appealed to her. I do not lay any
claim to the attributes with which her affection en-
dowed me, but in spite of that she did apply this term
to me.
After getting on January 17th, 1917, a- satisfactory
definition of the word " Poon," I again return to my
original idea of November 15th, 1916, and try to obtain
from the communicator its antithesis. I do not succeed
Lxxvin.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 449
in getting further on this occasion than the statement
that it is a short word beginning with " S."
On May 2nd, 1917, however, as will have been seen,
we obtained the word " Sporkish " ; the application of
the word was perfectly correct, and its use just where
it occurred in the conversation was entirely characteristic
of A. V. B. " Spork " and " Sporkish " were words also
invented by A. V. B. Their meaning embraced all tire-
some and unpleasant people and their characteristics. These
words were semi-humorously applied by A. V. B. to all
people and things that bored her, irritated her, or other-
wise incurred her disapproval. It is interesting to note
that the word " Sporkish " was finally obtained at the
sitting of May 2nd, 1917, as a comment upon circumstances
that were precisely such as would have evoked it from
A. V. B. during her earth life. Interest is added by
the fact, that whereas I gave on January 17th, 1917,
the word " Poon " as a noun, and asked for its opposite,
by which it might be reasonably understood that its
opposite was also a noun ; and whereas I implied on
November 15th, 1916, also, that the word I wanted was
a noun, and whereas we were definitely endeavouring
to obtain a noun, to wit " Spork," we obtained on
May 2nd, 1917, most unexpectedly, the equally familiar
and characteristic adjective " Sporkish."
Section VIII. Memory of M. R. H.'s Method of Composing.
We next come to what would appear to be a retention
of memory regarding my methods of writing poetry ; these
were remarked upon by A. V. B. through Feda on June
27th, 1917, at a sitting taken by me, Lady Troubridge
acting as recorder. At a previous sitting on December
6th, 1916, at which I was the sitter and Lady Troubridge
recorded, I had repeated the first verse of one of my
own poems ; I naturally did not say that it was my
own, merely asking A. V. B. through Feda whether she
remembered it. It appeared that she did so, since Feda
gave me to understand, after having said that the poem
was recognised, that the communicator wished to add
450 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
something to what I had said, which was correct, as
there was one other verse to that particular poem. After
this Feda said the following words :
" Mrs. Twonnie, she
says, '
She makes it herself.' " In reply to this I asked
Feda to make her words a little less ambiguous ; I said
:
"I don't quite understand, Feda; did she say, 'I make it
myself,' or did she say, 'She makes it herself?" To which
Feda replied :
" No, she didn't say, '
I make it myself,'
her words were, '
She makes it herself ' "
;
by which I
understood that A. V. B. had been trying to give Feda
to understand that I wrote poetry.
I am a very minor poet, still, several books of my
verses have been published and a number of my lyrics
set to music. Supposing therefore that my anonymity had
not been preserved, as we think it had, Mrs. Leonard in
the normal state might easily have come across some of
my poems and recognised in me their author ; this
possibility should be taken into account. On June 27th,
1917, however, there occurred a further reference to my work.
Feda began it by giving a word here and there, such as
" flights," " canopy," " vast," " space," etc., which words she
stated were, according to - A. V. B., contained in some of
my poems. There appeared to be an effort to recall, by
this method, certain poems to my mind. No doubt
these words do appear in my poems, I should think they
probably did in most poems ; at all events the references
were not sufficiently clear to be of any interest. What
is of interest, however, is the following :
F. She says that you used to get a first and second
line like in a flash, and then you used to get
succeeding lines, perhaps two, and then you used
to go back and have to alter the first a bit,
sometimes. She says it seemed as though the
first and second came in a flash, and you wouldn't
be perfectly certain what was to follow. Although
the first and the second lines would suggest a
theme, you wouldn't know Avhat was to follow
them at all. You would hang on to the first line,
it would sing in your brain as though making
Lxxviii.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 451
music. She says it's funny, with your things
more than anyone else's, the first fine is always
the key-note to the rest.
M. R. H. How long ago is she speaking of %
F. Some time ago, not only just before she passed on.
M. R. H. I only meant to ask whether it was before or after
she passed on.
F. Oh ! before.
As A. V. B. lived with me for years, she, more than
anyone else perhaps, was aware of my methods of work.
It is perfectly correct to say that my first and second
lines come to me in a flash. It is also absolutely correct
to say that having got hold of two lines that please me,
I have very often not the slightest idea what I am going
to follow them up with. Lady Troubridge, in going over
my papers the other day, came upon innumerable scraps
of paper, as well as scrawls in exercise books, containing
two first lines, or sometimes only one, of a poem which
I had apparently never followed up. Feda says that
A. V. B. says that I would hang on to the first line
;
that it would " sing in my brain as though making music."
Now it is usually impossible for me to conceive a line
of original poetry without singing it mentally, so to speak ;
in other words, my lines always suggest to me a com-
plementary tune. It is, and always has been my habit
to write my poems at the piano, composing words and
music simultaneously. No one was as familiar with this
habit as A. V. B., as she was also with the fact that,
having got my two first lines, I would go to the piano,
playing and at the same time singing them over and over
again, in what must have been a most tiresome manner,
while waiting for further inspiration. Since, needless to
say, I am not in the habit of doing this in public, it is
difficult to see how knowledge of my methods of work can
have reached the medium normally.
Section IX. Memory of Swimming and Bathing.
We will next refer to memory shown regarding the
only form of sport much loved and at one time largely
2f
452 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
indulged in by A. V. B., namely, that of bathing and
swimming. There are, in all, six sittings in which
A. V. B. has mentioned bathing and swimming through
Feda. The first reference occurred on October 13th,
1916, during the description of Watergate Bay (see p. 437).
Mention was made at that sitting of A. V. B.'s having
bathed at Watergate Bay. The words are as follows :
" Oh ! There is water near there, she's showing Feda
splashing, blowing, ducking her head, spreading out her
arms. (Here Feda gives an illustration of swimming.)
The second reference occurred on October 20th, 1916,
and was given in the following words :
" She wanted you to know that she has got a private
bathing pool in her own garden, it's perfectly safe, and
clean, and clear, no rushes, she thoroughly enjoys it."
The third reference occurred on October 25th, 1916,
and was to this effect :
" Since she's gone over she's been swimming, and doing
all sorts of things."
The fourth reference occurred on December 6th, 1916,
and was as follows :
" She likes bathing better than riding."
The fifth reference occurred on January 24th, 1917, when
Feda said :
" Now she says she supposes you will be surprised to
hear that she was bathing this morning, because it's so
cold and wretched here on the earth plane."
The sixth and hitherto the last reference occurred, on
March 9th, 1917, and was given by Feda in A. V. B.'s
own words, which followed on a description of A. V. B.'s
supposed pursuits in her present state :
" Then I bathe ;
you know, don't you, that I always
loved that, I simply revel in that part of it."
We have already said that A. V. B. loved swimming
and bathing, and that it was her only form of sport.
lxxvhi.] Evidence of Memory retained by Communicator. 453
She loved it more intensely than most people clo. To
give an idea of how keen she used to be, she once gave
herself an attack of rheumatic fever by insisting, against
all advice, on bathing in the Lake of Como in the icy water
of early spring. Latterly, however, owing to her failing
health, she was almost entirely debarred from bathing. She
bathed on one occasion only at Watergate Bay. In all the
years I knew her she only swam about four times at the
Bath Club, of which she was a member ; but then so am
I, who cannot swim a stroke. I think I am safe in saying
that latterly, at all events, few people realised what a fine
swimmer A. V. B. was, but if we should accept the spirit
hypothesis, I cannot conceive of anything in the next state
which would fill A. V. B. with a greater joy than finding
herself able once again to indulge in one of her greatest
pleasures.
On the other hand, supposing / purported to com-
municate after my death, and mentioned through a
medium no less than six times the fact that I had
bathed, and that I not only had a private bathing pool,
but that I was enjoying the use of it, it would certainly
lead anyone who knew me well to doubt seriously the
identity of the communicator, as I dislike bathing quite
as cordially as it dislikes me.
And this we think is the last instance of memory,
given through Feda, which it would seem necessary to
include in this paper.
454 Miss Radclyffe-Hcdl and Lady Troubridge. [part
CHAPTER III.
Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events.
Section I. Actions and Conversations.
We will next deal with what would appear to be a
knowledge of contemporary events, shown by a dis-
carnate intelligence retaining an interest in the mundane
affairs of friends.
And here we find ourselves immediately confronted by
a difficulty, since two or three of the best examples
of this type of evidence that we have received are of so
private a nature that they cannot be included in this
paper. For instance, we had on one occasion an
interesting example of this kind of knowledge, when the
mental attitude of a certain person, and the situation
that had resulted therefrom, appeared to have been
thoroughly grasped by the communicator. Limitations
pertaining to my own position had also been noted and
taken into account. The case was stated more clearly
than / could have stated it in so few words ; in fact,
at the time I had not formed any very definite judgment,
being rather bewildered. I have now no doubt, however,
that the analysis given was correct. Quite recently we
have obtained references to another person, one who was
far from England at the time of the sitting. This person
was described in an unmistakable manner, together with
facts that we did not know ;
namely, that there had
been, and was, a state of mental anxiety, of scheming and
planning to effect some change, regarding which the
way was not clear. This change it was said would be
of assistance to someone else, and one of us was warned
that she might hear something in this connection, and
lxxviii.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 455
told that that was why this had been given ; in order
that if she did hear she should not be worried, as in
some ways the results would be for the best. We also
obtained a description of certain actions performed by
this person in the course of everyday life, and some details
regarding work, with a statement that A. V. B. was trying
to help.
Now neither of us had the slightest idea at the time
of that sitting that this person was contemplating any
change, since no mention of it had ever been made in
letters received from them. But two days after that
sitting one of us did receive unexpected news regarding
the person in question, the very news for which, it would
appear, we were being prepared by A. V. B., since it
transpired later that the news received was a direct con-
sequence of the mental processes accurately described by
her through Fecla. We had ample opportunity later on
of proving that all her statements had been correct, even
to the little details given regarding certain actions ; and
had the desired plans been able to be carried out in
accordance with the wishes of the person concerned, there
is no doubt that the results would have been of value
and of great help to someone else. Even in spite of
the fact that the plans in question were not carried out,
events did prove beneficial, as A. V. B. had foretold. This
we fear is but a bald statement of what was an interesting
incident, and it seems more than a pity that the
extract cannot be given and annotated in full, instead
of the statement resting, as it must do, on our word
alone. It is admissible to say, however, that considering
all the circumstances, and supposing that we admit of
an A. V. B. who still retains memory, and through that
a kindly interest in mundane affairs, there is nothing
far-fetched in the idea that she should have endeavoured
to get into touch with the person in question, with a
view to helping, if possible, as she stated through Feda
that she had done.
On May 2nd, 1917, a sitting was taken by Lady Trou-
bridge, I acting as recorder, and in this case it is a
matter of infinite regret to us, that, owing to the diffi-
456 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
culty of sufficiently disguising the circumstances discussed,
it is impossible for us to do more than allude to this
sitting in general terms ;
this, however, must be done,
as the sitting in question was, as far as our experience
goes, almost unique of its kind.
In this sitting no attempt was apparently made to
furnish evidential matter for subsequent verification ; the
sitting opened immediately with the introduction by A. V. B.
of a topic which was practically sustained throughout the en-
tire trance, which lasted one hour and three-quarters. A. V. B.
began by referring through Feda to certain circumstances
that had troubled Lady Troubridge some two or three
weeks prior to the sitting. These circumstances were
summed up with perfect accuracy, and allusions followed
which were extremely relevant to persons connected
with these circumstances, and to Lady Troubridge's mental
attitude. Enough was said by A. V. B., through Feda,
to make it appear that she had for some time past not
only accurately sensed my mental condition and that
of Lady Troubridge, but that she had apparently, at all
events in Lady Troubridge's case, gathered the substance
of a conversation held privately by Lady Troubridge with
a third person, whose mental attitude and motives had
also apparently been grasped ; the fact of this con-
versation having been held was unknown to me at
the time of the sitting. The train of thought suggested
by the allusion to the said person led to the description
of a fourth person, who was correctly stated to be con-
nected with myself ; the transition was affected with perfect
naturalness in the following words :
" Oh ! while speaking
of this, she says, by the way, there is someone who is
equaUy to do with Mrs. Twonnie who has very much the
same gift." The thread was then maintained throughout
a description of this person connected with me, and a
very clear and eminently characteristic statement of
A. V. B.'s views upon the subject under discussion was
given. This we are afraid is all that we can say re-
garding this sitting. What struck us particularly was
that the coherence and continuity with which a natural
discourse based upon one general topic was sustained in
lxxvhi.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 457
this sitting exceeded any example of that nature which
we had hitherto met with ;
although no names were given
by the communicator, it was quite impossible in any
instance to mistake the identity of the people to whom
reference was made.
Section II. A Flash of Colour.
We will now turn to sittings with which we can deal
more freely, and begin by giving a very slight extract
from the sitting of October 9th, 1916. This was a very
early sitting, and I was curious to know whether A. V. B.
laid any claim to be able to see my physical surroundings
;
I therefore put the following question :
M. R. H. Can you see me in my flat ?
F. Not always, in good physical conditions she can,
as at a Materialising Seance where the Medium
gives power ; when you are extra strong and
well, and the weather dry, she can see you. She
says, one night she saw something blue near the
bed and said :
" That's a flash of colour, I'll
remember and tell her that."
Now this is only a little incident, but one not entirely
devoid of interest. My bedroom contains nothing blue.
There are one or two bits of Italian woodwork painted
rather a dark sort of duck's-egg colour, but this is the nearest
approach to blue anywhere in the room, and these pieces
of Italian wood-work are not near the bed. I have in
my possession, however, a dressing-gown of a very bright
pale blue. I seldom wear it, in fact it had been
put away for months, but had been taken out about a
week prior to this sitting, to replace another gown that
had gone to the cleaners ; and it so happened that I had
been leaving this bright blue dressing-gown on one or
two occasions just then hanging over a chair at the foot
of my bed. Nothing else of a blue colour had been near
my bed.
Section III. A Diagram.
Another slight indication of knowledge of contemporary
458 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [pabt
events was received by us on October 20th, 1916, at a
sitting taken by Lady Troubridge, I acting as recorder.
Feda had just described a paper which we thought we
recognised, when she switched off to quite another paper
which she described in the following words :
F. One day she was doing something with you, that
also had to do with a paper. It was very funny ;
there was something from A to B, and strokes
in between. A to B and B to C, and lines
from one to the other. It was not the same
paper as she spoke of before, it was another one,,
it was like this : (here Feda indicates with her
finger in the air the letters and connecting lines).
U. V. T. She must have looked over my shoulder.
F. She thought it was very perplexing, she didn't
understand it herself, and she didn't think you
did, she says she thought :
" Oh ! poor Una, she'll
never be able to understand it."
A few days prior to this sitting Lady Troubridge, when
alone in her bedroom, had been puzzling over the diagrams
in Dr. Morton Prince's book, The Dissociation of a
Personality. If page 465 of the said book be turned up,
it will be seen how applicable are Feda's words to the
diagram on that page. This was the only book containing
such diagrams that Lady Troubridge had then read
since the beginning of her sittings with Mrs. Leonard,
or, in fact, for many years past. Why, however, did
Feda call it a paper instead of the page of a book ?
It is perhaps just possible that she got a mental picture
of that one page only, as detached from its context.
Section IV. U. V. T.'s House and circumstances
connected with it.
On December 6th, 1916, a description, decidedly good
on the whole, was given of the interior of my flat, but
we omit it in order not to add to the length of the
paper, and we will proceed to a more sustained effort to
demonstrate knowledge of contemporary events and
lxxviii.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 459
conditions, beginning with a rather good description of
a room.
On December 30th, 1916, Lady Troubridge took a sitting
and I acted as recorder, when the following occurred :
F. She's been to you since Feda saw you last, not at
Mrs. Twonnie's, somewhere else ; she would have
been glad to speak to you but she couldn't
succeed, she did try. She's showing Feda a
square room, it's a sitting room, not very large,
the walls are light, and there are pictures on
them, but not heavy ones ; Feda can't see the
details very well but they seem to be in light
colours and in light frames. The frames are
about the -width of your two fingers, and
they are flat, not rounded. The furniture in
that room is not heavy, there are no big, fat
chairs, like the one you are sitting in (here
Feda points to a heavily upholstered armchair),
the chairs are mostly like the one Mrs. Twonnie
is sitting in. (I was sitting in a small wooden
chair with arms.) Feda sees something on the
floor that is not quite light, but has something
in it that shows up light, the floor looks to
Feda a fawny, lighty brown. Feda doesn't know
what it is, but as you look to where the floor
goes off to the wall it's darker where it meets
the wall.
U. V. T. Yes, that's right, Feda.
F. It feels to Feda like a pretty, nice room. Oh !
she says there's a picture of an outside place,
of an exterior ;
in this picture there is something
slightly arched half-way up the picture, it's light
underneath the arch, and there's a dark ridge,
it's not in a wide frame, and there's white all
round outside of the picture, then comes the frame
and the picture is in the centre of the white.
U. V. T. I can't remember, I haven't looked very carefully.
F. She says there is something in the room covered
460 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
with a square of a bluey-green colour, it's a
smooth stuff, not painted.
Are you sure that there is nothing on the bluey-
green ?
No, Feda can't see that there is. She says, that
there is something in the room that has got a
bird on it, it's either drawn or worked, it seems
to be in a fumi}?- kind of place to Feda, you
might not notice it at first, look carefully, you
may laugh when you find it.
Now, this description is remarkably applicable to the
drawing-room of a furnished house in which Lady Trou-
bridge was living at the time of the sitting. It was
a house belonging to Colonel B. (the initial is altered),
which had been taken furnished by Lady Troubridge
since A. V. B.'s death. This room was not very large
;
although we have never actually measured the dimen-
sions, it certainly, judging by appearances, gave the
impression of being approximately square ; the walls
were panelled in cream, and the only pictures on the
walls were lightly coloured Japanese prints. These
prints were framed in light fumed oak, and the Avidth
of the frames measured approximately two fingers, as
stated by Feda. These frames were not rounded. In-
side the frames was a fairly wide white mount in
every instance. The furniture in this room was rather
strikingly light in character, there was no Chesterfield,
or heavily upholstered armchair of any land, there were
several small chairs very similar to the one on which I
was sitting while taking notes. Two armchairs and a
settee there certainly were in the room in question, but
they were composed of light wooden frames and cane
with cushions. The carpet of this room is accurately
described by Feda when she says that the floor looks
" a fawny lighty brown." She appears, however, to get
rather involved in her description of the carpet ; first she
says :
" The floor in not quite light, but has something
in it that shows up light," immediately after this she
states that " the floor looks to Feda a fawny lighty
U. V. T.
lxxvih.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 461
brown," which latter statement, as we have already said,
is correct ; the carpet was a plain fawn all over, but we
think that Feda may have been bewildered by the con-
trast between the carpet and the darker floor covering
surrounding it when she speaks of the floor having some-
thing in it that shows up light, as she is perfectly right
when she says : "As you look to where the floor goes
off to the wall, it's darker where it meets the wall."
Between the carpet and the wall of that room there was
a fairly deep margin of black linoleum.
The allusion to one particular picture, in which we
are told there is something slightly arched half-way up,
appears to refer to one of the Japanese prints. In this
print was shown a semi-arched tree trunk, upon which
sat a bird. The tree trunk came, roughly speaking, about
half-way up the picture, and that, together with the bird,
formed the sole subject of this print. The background,
which was of a light fawn colour, showed beneath the
arch of the tree trunk, thereby throwing the latter into
distinct relief. None of the other prints in the room
resembled this in the least in design. Had Feda con-
tented herself with saying that this was the picture of
" an outside place " it would have been to the good,
but she added the word " exterior," which is suggestive
of something architectural. Feda, however, is fond of
long words, cuUed from her various sitters, and her
knowledge of English does not always permit of her using
them correctly.
The thing in the room which is said to be covered with
a square of bluey-green smooth stuff is, we think, a
small card table, which had a folding top in two pieces.
Lady Troubridge was in the habit of opening only one
of these folds, thereby exposing to view a square of
green baize. This baize had a very smooth surface.
The baize on this particular table was not of that mossy-
green that one usuaUy sees, it was decidedly blue-green
in tint. The only bird other than those in the Japanese
prints, which we could discover, was one of several on
some cretonne, yet Feda's description suggests rather an
amusing and unexpected bird. At a later sitting, however,
462 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
she says that A. V. B. says that this bird was on the
cretonne. A little later on in the present sitting the
topic of Lady Troubridge's house recurs in the following
words :
F. Mrs. Una, she says, she doesn't feel settled in that
place where you are now.
U. V. T. How settled ?
F. She says, when she's been there to see you, she
feels as though it were not going to be yours
much longer ; she says there's an agitated vibra-
tion which makes her feel that you are only
going to be there for a while, she wishes she
could make it yours.
U. V. T. I wish she could.
F. She wonders if she could be permitted to help.
She says : "It wouldn't hurt anybody if that place
were your own," in fact, it would be doing some-
body a good turn she thinks, she says she wishes
the vibrations there could be made yours, she's
going to see what she can do about it, and she
says you must think her extra clever if she
succeeds. It seems to Feda that she connects
your place with someone at a distance, that it
belongs to them more than to you. She says
that everything in it seems to suit you exactly,
and yet that she has a feeling that you should
not get too fond of it because it isn't yours.
After this Feda went on to say that " Ladye " said
that "Mrs. Una" got very fond of certain things and
hated leaving them, etc., and that that peculiarity was
more developed in her than in most people, or words
to that effect. This statement Lady Troubridge con-
siders incorrect in the general way in which it was given,
though applicable to her in the isolated instance of this
particular house.
At the time of this sitting, although the house in
question had only been taken furnished on a short
agreement, Lady Troubridge had no idea that anything
was about to occur which would lead to an unexpected
lxxviii.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 463
termination of her tenancy ;
quite the contrary, for she
had definitely been told by Mrs. B. that she would be
able to renew her agreement if she so desired, and in
all probability to keep the house on until the end of
the War. Although, therefore, we were struck with the
description of the room, and also with the remark that
the owner of the house was a long way away (we
understood Colonel B. to be in France at the time,
although we learnt afterwards that he had just returned
to Ireland), we did not understand why A. V. B. should
feel that there were any particularly unsettled conditions
pertaining to the house. We were soon to find, however,
that A. V. B. was justified in her prognostications,
for only two days after this sitting of December 30th,
1916, Lady Troubridge received a letter from Mrs. B.
making the unusual suggestion that she should cancel her
present agreement, and allow Colonel B. and his wife
to take immediate re-possession. From this letter it
appeared pretty clear that it would be difficult for Lady
Troubridge to renew her agreement under any circum-
stances. The letter was written from Ireland, and a
curious point is, that this letter was dated Saturday,
December 30th, 1916, and had therefore actually been
written on the very day of the sitting.
Section V. U. V. T.'s Dining-room and the Work
done there.
The last reference to the house which we propose to
quote occurred on January 31st, 1917. I alone was present
at the sitting, acting as my own recorder. As sometimes
happens when I am taking my own notes, I had not
time to consider carefully the descriptions which were
being given, and on this occasion, as will be seen, I denied
and contradicted some of the points which afterwards
turned out to be correct.
Here is the extract :
F. She says something about a room at the back of
a house. A room that she sometimes goes into
in the early part of the evening ; it's at the
464 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [paet
back of the house on the ground floor, and it
opens—wait a minute, Feda can't get this—it's
as though a window opened in that room low
down, a window from which you can see something
green now.
M. R. H. I don't understand that—I'm not sure there's not
some muddle about the window.
F. Wait a minute—Feda sees better now what she
means. That room opens with two doors.
M. R. H. That may be correct.
F. Feda doesn't quite understand this, but she says that
the two doors meet. (To A. V. B.) What do
you mean ? She is showing Feda that if you
Avalk through those two doors you get into
another room, not into the hall.
M. R. H. That's right.
F. She says that this back room is furnished in a
different style from the room at the front part,
and she says that if you liked you could make
one big room of it, but that you have it as
it is because the back room is used for a different
purpose from the front one. You've got a larger
table hi one room than the other.
M. R. H. In which room do you mean ?
F. The table seems to Feda to be in the back room—
•
it's rather a large table. You've got a table in
the front room too, but it's not so large, it's a
smaller one altogether, and it's in a different
position to the table in the back room. One
part of the table in the back room comes pretty
near the fire, so that when any one is sitting on
that side of it, and she goes to get close to them,
she can feel the fire.
M. R. H. How can she see so well ?
F. She can't always, but sometimes she can ; she says :
" I often try to get into physical touch, but I
don't always manage to do it." She says some-
times, when she goes there, all she feels is
that you are there, but that one evening, she's
not quite sure which, she went there to be near
lxsviii.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 465
you, and to her great surprise, she found that
she could see the room physically.
M. R. H. (To A. V. B.) I'm so glad you could.
F. She says when a thing like that does happen she
makes up her mind to tell you about it here.
She supposes that you were surprised at her being
able to see Mrs Una's room so plainly ?
M. R. H. Yes, it was most interesting.
F. Do you understand it when she says that this
room of yours is a heavier type of room than
that one of Mrs Una's which she described before ?
M. R. H. Ask her where she thinks this room that she has
just described is.
F. She's not very clear what you mean by that, but
she thinks it's your room
—
yes, she does. She
thinks it appears to be your room at present
—
it's only lately that she has seen it. Mrs.
Twonnie, have you anything like fur in that
room ?
M. R. H. No.
F. Something with long stuff like fur ?
M. R. H. No, not if you're describing the room I mean.
F. It's something she has sensed—she hasn't seen it
physically, and it doesn't seem to Feda to be
in a conspicuous position. Now she's trying to
give Feda an impression of it, trying to make
Feda feel it, and it feels to Feda too long and
stiff to be fur, and it doesn't feel like a thing
that you would keep in a room, to Feda. You
can pull the stuff out, like hair, only it feels
coarser and thicker than hair. It's not very
large, it's about so—(Here Feda indicates a length
of about two feet). Oh ! now she says she thinks
you will laugh when you do see it. Mrs. Twonnie,
that window was not right, the way Feda saw it
before ; she seems to be trying to show Feda
that it bulges out a bit, and yet that the window
sort of sinks a bit. (Here Feda indicates a
curve with her hand.) (To A. V. B.) What are
you showing ? She's showing Feda that the
466 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
furniture looks rather dark in that room ; there
don't seem to be any light-coloured stuffs, not
creamy with roses on them, like Feda sees in
so many rooms. And some of the chairs are
of dark Avood, and she's showing Feda that
they've got straight backs. She says that they
are polished, but not highly ;
they haven't got
that very bright varnished look. Now she's show-
ing Feda the fireplace. Look, Mrs. Twonnie,
supposing the fireplace in that room to be there
(here Feda indicates a wall in Mrs. Leonard's
sitting-room), well, there's a rather low seat
—
it's not a chair—it's like a seat of some kind,
it's about so long (here Feda stretches out her
arms to their full width and manages to indicate
about five feet). Now supposing the fireplace
were there (pointing), this seat would be against
another wall along the side of the fireplace.
Feda went on to describe some other points in the
room, difficult to follow and apparently not correct.
She also described rather well a bedroom in the house,
but we will spare the reader these details. At a certain
point M. R. H. asked the following question :
M. R. H. Does she [A. V. B.] know whose house I'm living
in, or has she muddled it up with places to which
I go ?
F. She looks puzzled. She says : " Yes, I do know,
but I don't think I can say it. She feels you
in different places, but she happens to have been
in this place lately, and she says you've been
in a room at the back, and she thinks also in
that bedroom, but she's not perfectly sure. You
see, Mrs. Twonnie, she's not always able to get
things through very soon after she has seen them ;
sometimes she has to wait quite a long time
and to give them long after she wants to. She's
not perfectly sure about the bedroom, but she's
quite, quite sure about the other room.
lxxviii.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 467
M. R. H. What does she think I do in that room ?'
F. Well, she says you have something to eat there.
Oh ! it seems to be a mixture, because some-
times you do some work there. Sometimes the
work seems to be connected in a way with her,
and that helps her to sense the room. She says
when you "re there it's a kind of general post
sometimes. What does she mean ? She says it
sometimes looks like a sorting—sorting depart-
ment, she says—she sees some sorting going on ;
she says she hears this sort of thing :
" Put that
there, and that there ; that belongs to so-and-so ;
now you've got them mixed up. Oh dear !
I've put that Avith the other one." She says
sometimes she feels as if it were a serious affair
of State, but she says she likes to feel it's that.
Is she making fun ? She says it's like an Intelli-
gence Department, collecting and cataloguing.
Sometimes she sees a strange person there, Feda
thinks she's teasing, but she says that when that
strange person comes she sees wild excitement,
getting things in order, and there's a good deal
of discussion too, and a land of re-shuffling.
She says she's glad to see that you have got
someone to do the laborious part of the work
instead of you and Mrs. Una doing it. (Sotto
voce : Papers, papers, papers.) She's showing
Feda papers, not letters, they seem to be held
together with something ;
they look like tins :
(here Feda gives an exact indication of the
size of the quarto sheets used by M. R. H. and
U. V. T. in typing). Now she says they're some-
times held together, but sometimes they're any-
thing but held together. She says she thoroughly
enjoys it, but she says you must forgive her if
she sees the humorous side. She says if she
smiles sometimes, you mustn't mind. She feels
that she ought not to smile, because it is such a
labour of love. She says she doesn't think that
stranger always understands what it means. She
2 a
4 (is Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
says :
" Does that strange person think you are
writing a detective story ?
"
Why should she ?
Oh ! she just wondered. She says it seems to her
it must read so strangely. She says she senses
sometimes that that person thinks and says so,
but she says it doesn't matter.
As will have been seen by the extract, the descriptions
obtained here are rather complicated ; we will do our
best, however, to annotate them.
The first reference is to the back room of a house,
this room is said to be on the ground floor, and A. V. B.
is said to go there sometimes in the early part of the
evening. Now, there can be little doubt, in our opinion,
that the description that follows is intended to apply
to the dining-room in Lady Troubridge's house, in which
apartment we were at the time of this sitting in the habit
of doing the recording of our Psychical Research work :
we usually worked there from 3 until 6.30 p.m. and
often later. This room is at the back of the house, and
on the ground floor. Feda begins by describing a window,
which she says opens low down, from which can be seen
something green, but she. has apparently seen wrong,
or misunderstood the communicator, as she goes on to
say: ''Wait a minute, Feda sees better now what she
means, that room opens with two doors," and tells us
that the two doors meet, and that if you walk through
them you get into another room. This is perfectly correct
;
the dining-room in that house was separated from the drawing-
room by double doors opening in the centre. What the green
thing is that Feda sees it is impossible to say : had the window
of the dining-room been meant, this statement regarding
green would be correct, as the window looked on to the
garden, where there were green tubs and green woodwork ;
as it is, we can only say that there were some green
cushions and a card table covered with bluey-green baize
in the communicating drawing-room.
W7
hen Feda says that the back room is furnished
differently from the front one she is perfectly correct,
M. R. H.
lxxviii.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 469
and yet it is also quite pertinent when she says that if
one liked one could use the two rooms as one big room,
but that ive had it as we did. because that back room was
used for a different purpose from the front one. When
Lady Troubridge took the house there was no bolt or
other means of closing the communicating doors, the two
rooms, though furnished and coloured quite separately, having
apparently always been used as one ; but on account
of our work Lady Troubridge had fastenings put to the
doors, and we kept the rooms separate. Feda is correct
in saying that there is a larger table in one room
than the other, especially as she defines clearly that the
larger table is in the back room ; a big, round dining-
table stood in the back room, and an altogether smaller
table in the front room. We had, ourselves, put the
smaller table in the front room in order to have meals
there, owing to the dining-room being used for work ;
it is perfectly true that a part of the table in the back
room came very near to the fire-—we know this to our
cost, as we later received a claim for damage to the
table caused by the heat.
This back room, although not very heavy in type,
was certainly more so than the front room, having in
it among other things, and in addition to the large table, a
long, rather heavy oak settee, and several large oil paintings
in very heavy frames on the walls. A. V. B. seems to have
derived the impression that the room in question was my room,
or appeared to be so at the time of this sitting, adding that
it was only lately that she had seen it. This, we think,
is quite understandable ; I was, at the time of the sitting,
staying with a relation, in whose house there was no
room available for my work ;
Lady Troubridge therefore had
placed her dining-room entirely at my disposal, and all
our work was done in that room.
We cannot imagine what is meant by the mysterious
thing that appears to be something like fur and yet
which seems too long and stiff to be fur. Feda says
that it is something like hair, only coarser and thicker,
and apparently A. V. B. thinks that" I will laugh when
I see it. A wire-haired terrier, which I then possessed,
470 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
and which had a very shaggy, long coat, used often to
lie in that room while we worked ;
he is the nearest
approach to the article described that we can think of !
The final description of the window in that room is
rather vague. The window in the dining-room was an
ordinary sash window, but on either side of it the wall
was curved outwards, forming two semi-circles, in the
centre of which was set the window. The window,
however, not being in itself bowed or curved, may have
given Feda the impression which she tries to express in
the words, " the window sort of sinks a bit." The
furniture in that room was dark, and, as stated by Feda,
there were no light-coloured stuffs. The chairs were of
dark wood, had straight backs, and were not highly
polished. The reference to the fireplace with the seat,
about five feet long, which is said to be " against another
wall—along the side of the fireplace," is good.
A. V. B. appears to be so sure about the back room
at that house, that I ask her what she thinks I do there,
and the reply is interesting. First of all she tells us
through Feda that I seem to have something to eat
there, but that it seems to be a mixture, because some-
times I do work there which seems to be connected
in a way with her. Now this is absolutely accurate,
since although that room, as has already been stated,
was given over to me for work, we did upon several
occasions have a meal there, when we asked a few friends
to the house in order to discuss Psychical Research ;
on one occasion Miss Isabel Newton, the Secretary of the
Society for Psychical Research, was among those friends.
The description given by A. V. B. through Feda of what
she would appear to have overheard or sensed when I
was working there is rather amusingly accurate.
The stranger, whose arrival occasionally causes wild
excitement about getting things in order, etc., is no doubt
the typist, as A. V. B. expresses pleasure that we now
have someone to do the laborious part of the work instead
of undertaking it ourselves. At the beginning of our
studies we did not employ a typist, Lady Troubridge
doing all that part of the business single-handed ;
it was
lxxviii.] Apparent Knowledge, of Contemporary Events. 471
only a short time prior to this sitting that we had engaged
a typist. This typist was rather a supercilious young
person, and A. V. B. is correct when she says that this
person not only thinks that the work is strange, but
that she sometimes says so. From our typist's occasional
remarks we gathered that her frame of mind was decidedly
sceptical. There is nothing evidential in Feda's indicating
sheets of paper of a quarto size, as Mrs. Leonard cannot
have failed to notice that our notes are always made
on quarto-sized blocks ; it does happen, however, that we
always use quarto sheets and not foolscap, for our type-
written records, which records Mrs. Leonard had never
seen. In the reference to our work there is clearly visible
that keen, though kindly sense of humour which was
very characteristic of A. V. B. during her lifetime.
Section VI. Daisy's Plans and Movements.
We now come to quite a short extract which occurred
on February 21st, 1917, during a sitting at which I alone
was present, acting as my own recorder. The extract
refers to a person whom we will call Daisy, and of whom
we shall have more to say later on. This extract was of
a prophetic nature so far as my knowledge was concerned ;
here it is :
F. She says, did you see Daisy ?
M. R. H. No, I can't see Daisy.
F. But she says won't you be able to see her ?
M. R. H. No, I'm afraid I won't ; has she got a message for
Daisy ?
F. You won't be able to see her ?
M. R. H. I can't see her because she isn't here.
F. Your Ladye thought somehow that she was going to
be here ; are you sure she has no intention of
coming here ?
M. R. H. As far as I know she has none.
F. Your Ladye doesn't know why, but she gets the
impression, the sort of feeling, that you will have
a chance of seeing Daisy.
472 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
And again a few lines further on in my notes, after
a reference to Daisy having gone north and south, there
occur the following words :
M. R. H. Do I understand her to mean that this was in
England ?
F. She doesn't mention any particular country in con-
nection with it, but she does seem to feel that
things are tending towards your seeing Daisy.
Now, at the time of this sitting, the Daisy in question
was nursing the wounded in the Near East. I had not
the slightest idea that it would be possible for her to
break her contract, even in the event of her wishing to
do so, as I had always understood that one was obliged
to sign on for a definite period of time when undertaking
such work. I was not expecting to see Daisy for at
least a year, if then. I wrote to Daisy, sending her out
a series of questions, among which I asked her whether
she had any intention of returning to England. She
replied in the following words :
" Yes, it is possible that
I may return to England next month, in which case I
should of course see you. I have given in my resigna-
tion here." This reply was written from the Near East
on March 10th, 1917, and I saw Daisy shortly after her
return to England, which she reached on April 20th,
1917. She has since consulted her diary at our request,
and finds that her resignation was given in on February
18th, 1917 ; she says that she had been meaning to resign
for some time prior to that date. The question will
naturally arise as to why A. V. B. should have troubled
to get into Daisy's conditions, and to have divined
the unsettled state of her mind, which undoubtedly was
present at about the date of this sitting. There was a
reason why A. V. B. should have been interested in
Daisy, but we will not deal with this point here, as it
belongs to a later portion of this paper.
Lxxvm.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 473
Section VII. Knowledge of Small Incidents connected
with M. R. H. and U. V. T.
We will next mention another slight indication of know-
ledge regarding contemporary events ; it occurred on
February 28th, 1917. I took the sitting and Lady Trou-
bridge acted as recorder. A. V. B. gave the following
words through Feda :
F. She says :
" Shall I come this afternoon ?
"
M. R. H. Yes, and ask her to notice something about the
room and tell us about it next time.
F. She says :
" Yes, I will ; I've been many, many
times before when you were working, and I was
with you this morning before you got up." She
thought you spoke to somebody, moved over and
called out to somebody, not speaking quietly,
calling out something, can't you remember ?
Only a few words, you just moved over and said
a few words.
At the time of the sitting I denied this incident, but
immediately on our return home Lady Troubridge and I
remembered it perfectly. I had spent the previous night
at Lady Troubridge's house, and she had come in herself
to wake me in the morning. She did so by letting the
blind go up with a bang, and a flood of light struck
my eyes suddenly. I rolled over on to the other side
of the bed, loudly voicing my indignation. The usual
proceeding, when I am in my own flat, is much less
abrupt, I being discreetly aroused by a servant with a
cup of tea ; there is also no garish light let in upon me,
so I have no occasion to expostulate.
We will now give an extract from the sitting of June
6th, 1917, taken by Lady Troubridge and recorded by me.
F. (sotto voce ; Pictures, pictures, pictures.) She wants now
to talk about pictures.
U. V. T. What pictures ?
F. They're pictures on the earth plane, and it's
not one, particular picture either, it's pictures
474 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [paet
that people would go and look at. She's interested
in them specially, they're pictures that have to
do with you just now .
U. V. T. It's funny.
F. It's a place she wants to go to with you to look
at pictures for a special purpose. Oh ! she says,
she's not only going, but that she has been there,
and lately too. She says, there were several of
them, but one particular one, she wanted to see
how it was put.
U. V. T. Yes ?
F. She says she thought it was not put badly, but
that it certainty might have been put better.
She was pleased about it though, not so much
about where it was put, but about the picture
itself. She keeps on showing Feda a picture ;
it looks to Feda as if there was a very dark
shade half way across it ; it seems to be much
lighter across the top, then it's all dark at one
point in the middle. It's light on top and a
kind of particular streak seems to come across
the middle, like a dark shade.
U. V. T. What's the bottom like ?
F. It's light again at the bottom, but the lightness
at the bottom is a different kind to the top.
U. V. T. I think I place it.
F. Mrs. Una, it seems to be mixed up like at the
bottom, it's got a muddly look.
U. V. T. I wonder why she mentions all this.
F. Oh ! she only wanted you to know that she had
seen it, she likes to let you know when she sees
things on the earth plane clearly, she says that
lately she has been trying to exercise this faculty,
and to practise getting through what she has
seen. She says that she sees a great deal,
much more, she says, than she could ever get
on to Feda's brain ; Mrs Una, Feda doesn't think
that that picture was very important, it was
only something that she happened to see with
you.
lxxviii.] Apparent Knowledge of Contemporary Events. 475
U. V. T. Why did she say she was pleased ?
F. Because, she says, she does like it, she did and she
does.
Regarding the above extract, Lady Troubridge had
recently taken a house, and on May 31st, 1917, just six
days prior to this sitting, she and I had been together
to a Depository, in order to speak about her furniture
and effects which were stored there. She particularly
wished to go over a number of pictures, and for this
purpose was conducted into a special room ; she found
to her great distress that her pictures had been stacked
up anyhow, one against another ;
with the result that
some glasses were broken, and several frames injured.
She was particularly anxious as to the whereabouts and
condition of one special picture ; this was a large, square,
water-colour painting presented to her some years ago
by Admiral Togo. We found that this picture had not
suffered any damage, having been placed rather more
carefully than the others. We think that this picture,
which A. V. B. both knew and admired during her life-
time, is the one to which she alludes in the present
sitting. This picture is not only rather beautiful, but
in its composition is, to the European eye, unusual, and
we think that Feda's description is not devoid of interest.
Feda tells us that A. V. B. is showing her a picture
that looks light at the top, with a land of particular
streak like a dark shade across the middle, that it seems
to be much lighter across the top, and then that it is
all dark at one point in the middle. Now, the upper
part of the picture in question shows snow-capped Fuji
Yama, the sacred mountain, in early dawn against a pale
sky ;
nearly half-way down the picture in the middle
distance is a line of low hills forming, as Feda says,
a streak across the middle of the picture like a dark
shade ; in the very centre of the picture in the nearer
distance is a bold mass of black rock rising from the
sea ; this is apparently the object which leads Feda to say
that the picture is all dark at one point in the middk
.
Lady Troubridge then asks Feda what the bottom of the
476 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
picture is like, and Feda replies by saying that it is
light at the bottom, but that the lightness at the bottom
is of a different kind to the lightness at the top, she
adds that it seems to be " mixed up like " at the bottom,
and that it has got a " muddly look." Now, the whole
foreground of the picture which we believe A. V. B.
to have been attempting to show Feda, is a mass of
swirling, foamy shallows, the water and the foam together
giving a light, but as Feda rightly describes it, a mixed
up or muddly look. There are one or two half-submerged
points of rock among the shallows, but the general effect
of the foreground is one of light, swirling water.
And this, we think, is the last extract pertaining to
what would appear to be a knowledge of contemporary
events on the part of a purporting communicator, which
we will include in this paper. There are, of course, other
instances of this kind, but those that we have given, or
to which we have alluded are, we think, among the most
interesting.
\
lxxviii.] Personal Touches and the A. V. B. Control. ±17
CHAPTER IV.
Personal Touches and the A. V. B. Control.
We now feel it necessary to treat of what, for want of
a better term, we will call personal touches, which, although
they must rank as of very considerable importance among
those things which would appear to prove identity, are
none the less extremely difficult to define in a manner
which will carry conviction to the minds of those who
have not known, and known intimately, the purporting
communicator. What are personal touches ? At best
they are very subtle and often very elusive. We presume
that they would include, among other things, attitude of
mind towards life in general, and if this be admitted,
then we feel that we have obtained (as far, that is to
say, as it is possible to obtain such a thing through an
intermediary), a certain amount of evidence as to the
identity of the purporting communicator.
To begin then with the attitude of mind : throughout
the communications purporting to come from A. V. B.
which we have received through Mrs. Leonard, there have
been obvious a very marked tolerance, balance, and
moderation in the judgment of others ;
together with a
sense of humour which was never of an unkindly nature.
All these things were strongly characteristic of A. V. B.
From time to time there has also appeared a desire on
the part of the purporting communicator to moderate
any severe judgments on our part, and any tendency to
go to extremes, even in the matter of our work. This
mental balance was also characteristic. Throughout the
sittings there has also appeared a quiet determination,
almost amounting to a gentle sort of stubbornness, which
478 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
was very characteristic of A. V. B. This stubbornness
has once or twice been remarked on by Feda, as, for
instance, in the case of the mistake regarding the basement
rooms at the house in Malvern Wells. Another character-
istic which we have noticed, is that of a particular kind
of childishness which A. V. B. retained until her last
illness. This childishness took the form, among othei
things, of a love of appreciation, not of those things in
which she seriously excelled, but of unimportant actions,
or little new accomplishments acquired ; for instance, I
heard a great deal more from her about the first sock
that she knitted than about the many songs that she
had, from time to time, composed and published, or about
her much admired singing, which she was inclined to
neglect. Quite characteristic of this attitude of mind
was the incident of the horse, around whose neck A. V. B.
was said to have placed her arm, an action which she was
particularly anxious that I should notice. (See above, p. 362)
Had A. V. B. succeeded in sufficiently overcoming her fear
of horses to put her arm around the neck of one,
she would most certainly, in this life, have called my
attention to it, and expected me to praise her, as
I should equally certainly have done. This childishness
which we have spoken of often led to A. V. B.
getting her own way in a manner that was pleasant to
all concerned. When bent upon some particular little
trifle, or, in fact, on doing anything that amused her,
A. V. B. would sometimes repeat over and over again
to herself in a monotonous undertone, such words as :
'•I will," or "I want it," or "I shall," or "I love it,"
in so humorous a manner that all opposition waned.
The first allusion to this habit of repetition was given
through Feda on June 6th, 1917. Lady Troubridge took
the sitting and 1 recorded. Here is the extract. Lady
Troubridge had just been remarking how very good and
patient Feda was, when the following occurred :
F Oh ! but Feda loves it. Ladye says she loves it,
she loves it, she loves it, she loves it.
U V. T. Did she say that, Feda %
ixxviii.] Personal Touches and the A. V. B. Control. 479
F. Yes, you know she does repeat things sometimes,
like that.
U. V. T. How do you mean, Feda ?
F. Oh ! sometimes Feda catches her saying one or
two Arords over and over again like that, some-
times she does say little words over to herself,
in a funny little way unlike other people.
Another and still more characteristic repetition of words
occurred during an A. V. B. control later on in the same
sitting. It was coupled with a point of evidential interest,
with which we will presently deal. And here it is
necessary to make a slight digression, in order to give
a few details regarding the A. V. B. control.
The first personal control attempted by A. V. B. took
place on January 19th, 1917. I was taking the sitting
alone, and my attention was first called to the fact thai,
something unusual was about to occur by Feda, who
fidgeted uncomfortably, exclaiming at the same time :
" What are you trying to do, Ladye, what are you trying
to do ?
" After these words, no more was heard of Feda,
the medium remaining perfectly still, and apparently,
deeply entranced, for what I should say was the space
of a minute or two. When she began to speak again
she did so in an almost inaudible whisper, her first words
being :
" Where are you ? Pull me forward." There was
nothing evidential in this first A. V. B. control, as speech
appeared very difficult and movement almost impossible.
A certain amount of emotion was shown, but, on the
whole, admirable self-control was maintained on the part
of the purporting communicator, which was again very
characteristic of A. V. B. who was extremely self-controlled
during her life-time. Since January 19th, 1917, there
have been repeated efforts at an A. V. B. control, which has
been very slowly growing in power and evidential value.
To return to the sitting of June 6th, 1917 ; after
the allusion made by Feda to A. V. B.'s habit of
repeating words, there occurred dining an A. V. B.
control, at the end of the same sitting, a spontaneous
example of this characteristic. A. V. B. made a state-
480 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
ment the accuracy of which I doubted (but which after-
wards proved to be correct), and when I demurred, she
said : "I know it, I know it, I know it."
Another example of the habit of repeating words
occurred on August 6th, 1917, during an A. V. B. control.
A. V. B. had just announced her intention of accom-
plishing some difficult feat in connection with communi-
cation, and when Lady Troubridge expressed some doubt,
A. V. B. rejoined: "I will, I will, I will, I will."
During the early A. V. B. controls, A. V. B. com-
plained that she could not make the medium laugh. One
day, however, she suddenly succeeded in doing so, and
what ensued was extraordinarily reminiscent of A. V. B.'s
own laugh, and this characteristic laugh has, since thenr
often occurred. On several occasions the timbre of Mrs.
Leonard s voice has changed, and has become very like
A. V. B.'s voice ;
startlingly so, once or twice. A. V. B.
herself has remarked upon this, which appears only to
be possible during the earlier part of the personal controls.
On one occasion A. V. B. said discontentedly :
" Oh !
noAv the power is going, can"t you hear my voice getting
Mrs. Leonardy again ?
" which statement was correct.
Many little characteristic things have occurred during
these A. V. B. controls, which, however, are somewhat
difficult to put into words. With regard to the timbre
of the voice and laugh, I fully realise that under such
circumstances one's own imagination may play a very
large part, but fortunately my collaborator, Lady Trou-
bridge, has been present on many occasions when these
familiar intonations and the laugh have occurred, and she
also considers that they are strongly reminiscent of the
purporting communicator.
On July 13th, 1917, there was a personal control by
A. V. B., and the first movement that was made was an
attempt at a posture of the hand. This pose of the hand
was not quite completed, but appeared to be the beginning
of an old and well-known attitude characteristic of
A. V. B.'s hand. We made no remark upon it, hoping
that some day the position of holding the hand might
be accurately demonstrated.
lxxviii.] Personal Touches and the A. V. B. Control. 481
Another interesting feature of the A. V. B. control
is the fact that the purporting communicator has occasion-
ally appeared to be dissatisfied with the pronunciation
of certain words. For instance, A. V. B. has struggled
with the word " often." Mrs. Leonard, in the normal
state, pronounces the T in this word, she says " off -ten.''
A. V. B. always pronounced it " orfen." Constantly
during an A. V. B. control this word is pronounced in
Mrs. Leonard's fashion ; on one occasion, however, A. V. B.
appeared to realise what was happening, and a little
rehearsal ensued. She only once succeeded in saying
" orfen," repeating " off-ten," and then " orferten,
orferten," several times in rather a bewildered manner.
When asked what she was doing, she replied vaguely that
she
t;
was just trying it."
On August 5th, 1917, however, during an A. V. B.
control, this word " often " was pronounced in A. V. B.'s
own fashion ; after having said " orfen," twice, with
perfect ease and naturalness, the purporting communicator
suddenly slipped back into Mrs. Leonard's pronunciation,
without apparently noticing the difference.
A personal touch occurred very early in our sittings
with Mrs. Leonard, in fact, it was at the end of our
first joint sitting, on October 2nd, 1916. When saying
" goodbye " Feda said :
" She says '
Bless you both."
"
Bless you, or Bless you both, were expressions constantly
used by A. V. B., and had been used by her to Lady
Troubridge and myself many times, if we chanced to
be going out together on any occasion when A. V. B.
did not accompany us. This expression of " Bless you "
or "Bless you both" has recurred through the sittings,
and on August 5th, 1917, during an A. V. B. control,
was used for the first time by one of us. Lady Trou-
bridge, alluding to A. V. B. and another person, said :
" Well, bless you both." A. V. B. looked puzzled for
a few moments, remarking after a pause :
" / said
'
Bless you both,' too." It was as though, in searching
her memory for the association called up by these words,
it had struck her that they were words which she herself
had been in the habit of using. It must, of course;' be
482 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
understood that A. V. B.'s memory and powers of ex-
pression always appear to be adversely affected during
a personal control of the medium ; she has herself com-
plained bitterly of this on several occasions. And now,
before leaving the subject of the A. V. B. control, we
must mention three incidents, although they have no
bearing on personal touches.
On January 23rd, 1917, at which sitting A. V. B. was
controlling for the second time only, she began almost
immediately to feel Mrs. Leonard's face, with apparent
curiosity ; she then remarked :
" What's the matter with
my face ? It feels thinner and bonier than it used to be."
Now, this was correct, as Mrs. Leonard's face is quite
a different build from A. V. B.'s, it being not only
thinner, but the bony construction being larger and more
marked.
On May 2nd, 1917, another interesting incident occurred.
A. V. B. begged us not to talk while she thought some-
thing out, she then asked what date it was, and was
told that it was May 2nd. A pause ensued, during which
the communicator was apparently thinking deeply ; after
which she remarked that something had occurred about
this time of the year, and asked whether an anniversary
were not coming. She then murmured :
" The first of
May " several times. Being unable to place the date
for the moment, I promised to refer back to her old
diary, but A. V. B. said that there was no necessity for
this. I was still at sea, but having in mind the date
of her death, which took place on May 25th, I told
A. V. B. that one important thing had occurred about
this time of the year, asking her whether she remembered
what sort of a thing it was ; to which she replied in
words to this effect :
" You must look upon it as my
birthday, never think of funerals, they are horrible things,
you see it was like a birthday to me, as you will realise
for yourself when you come over. But something did
occur on the 1st of May, or round about that time, which
led up to the other thing." Now the date of A. V. B.'s
death appeared in the Press at the time, and consequently
the evidential value of the reference, as above given, is
lxxviii.] Personal Touches and the A. V. B. Control. 483
largely diminished ; but one evidential thing there does
remain in this statement, namely, the reference to " some-
thing " which was said to have occurred round about
the 1st of May, and which led up to the other thing,
namely, to her death. On the 29th of April, 1916,
A. V. B. got a sudden affection of her sight ; she began
to see long black streaks, which she described as being
like bits of chenille velvet floating in front of one of her
eyes. She consulted an oculist, who thought that this
condition would clear up, which, however, it did not do.
And on the 15th of May, 1916, there occurred her stroke.
We have had the opportunity of consulting two doctors,
in whose opinion we have confidence, and they both tell
us that it often happens that just such an affection of
the eye as A. V. B. suffered from, is liable to occur when
a stroke is imminent. Neither of these doctors was
aware when we questioned them that our interest in
this matter was connected even partially with Psychical
Research. This visual affection being of very short
duration, there was no opportunity for it to become
generally known. A few people may have known of it
outside of A. V. B.'s immediate home circle, but we do
not think so. Normal knowledge regarding this point
on Mrs. Leonard's part would therefore appear to be
improbable. It may be as well to insert here, one or
two extracts from A. V. B.'s diary, on the subject of
this affection of the eye.
EXTRACT FROM A. V. B.'s DIARY, 1916.
First Entry re Eyes.
Saturday, April 29th, 1916. Sat in Green Park trying
to read. Had black specks floating before
my eyes.
Sunday, April 30th, 1916. My left eye bothered with
floating chenille worms !
Monday, May 1st, 1916. Eyes rather better.
Wednesday, May 3rd, 1916. John went off at 9.30
to the flat. Picked me up at noon to see
2 H
484 Miss Radclyffe-HaM and Lady Troubridge. [part
P. [oculist], 1
he examined my eyes, thought
a small blood clot accounted for the specks
before my left eye. Slept and felt better,
but eye still bothering me.
There are other entries regarding the eye, which, as
we have previously stated, never got well. But those
given are, we think, sufficient to show that the affection
of the eye occurred around about the 1st of May, which
affection, as we have said, was considered by two doctors
to have been a premonitory symptom of the stroke.
[See Appendix A.]
Another interesting little incident during a personal
control occurred on June 13th, 1917. A. V. B. put
her hand up to her head and began to laugh, remarking,
as she did so :
" I am wearing a hair-net, hoiv funny !
"
Now, A. V. B. during her lifetime never, under any
circumstances, wore a hair-net. She had naturally wavy
hair, and knowing her as well as I do, I feel sure that
it would have struck her as humorous that she should
wear a net.
It may be as well to state how the notes of these
A. V. B. controls have been made. It has not been
possible to write them down during the actual control,
as it appeared to be absolutely necessary that the sitter,
and, when present, the recorder as well, should con-
centrate their entire attention on the medium, in order
to observe closely all gestures ; and still more in order
to be able to catch every word spoken, because the voice
during an A.. V. B. control is sometimes very weak and
low. The A. V. B. controls always occur at the end of
the sitting ; our method has therefore been to record
the notes while the medium is coming out of trance,
getting down in that interval all points of evidential
interest, and omitting everything of a merely personal
and non-evidential nature. This has not proved difficult
up to the present, as the A. V. B. controls have generally
been but of short duration, and there have seldom
1
The initial has been altered and the full name omitted.
lxxviii.] Personal Touches and the A. V. B. Control. 485
occurred more than one or two evidential points during
each control.
Nothing of any kind has ever been given away by
Lady Troubridge or myself, who have regarded the personal
control as a possible fruitful source of further evidence.
After this digression we must return, before closing this
section of our paper, to two other personal touches which
were obtained through Feda. On December 20th, 1916,
at a sitting taken by me, Lady Troubridge recording, we
obtained the following :
M. R. H. Tell Ladye that next Wednesday I shan't take
the sitting myself because I'm bringing a gentle-
man who will take it.
F. She says, all right, but unless you're good at
Christmas, she'll push that gentleman out, and
make you take the sitting yourself. And she
says you must be good after that awful threat.
Awful threat ! That sounds dreadful to Feda,
but she's only joking.
Now, A. V. B. during her lifetime constantly used the
words " awful threat." If I suggested doing anything
of which she disapproved, she would laughingly cap my
suggestion by a far rasher one, which she proposed to
carry out herself, in the event of my proving intractable.
She would often say :
" Now, I know you can't do it
after that awful threat." If / made any wild proposal
she was in the habit of saying :
" What an awful threat !
"
Consequently, when these words came through Feda they
struck us as being very familiar.
On May 30th, 1917, at a sitting at which I alone was
present, acting as my own recorder, a new communicator
arrived at the same time as A. V. B. He was
apparently a close relation of mine, and attempted to
prove his identity by describing through Feda, among
other things, the painting of pictures, for which he had
a talent during his lifetime. This purporting communi-
cator was able to give a very good account of himself,
assisted, as it appeared, by A. V. B., but he got rather
stuck when he tried to show Feda that he had been in
486 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
the habit of squeezing paints on to a palette from a
tube. Here is the extract :
F. And now he takes up something and does this :
(sotto voce : Squish.) (Here Feda makes the
gesture of squeezing paint out of a tube on
to a palette.) It's something very small he's
got in his right hand.
M. R. H. (laughingly) I understand that, but what made you
say " Squish " ?
F. Ladye says " Squish," she says it didn't always
make that noise, of course, but that somehow it
suggests it ;
you expect it to say " Squish."
Now, this is just the sort of thing that A. V. B.
would have said ; she was fond of coining words and often
thought of humorous similes ; in fact, it sounded like
her.
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 487
CHAPTER V.
Knowledge shown of Matters entirely unknown
to the Sitters.
We will bring this paper to a close by giving three
extracts from sittings which we consider, in one respect
at all events, to be the most remarkable which we have
had with Mrs. Leonard. We feel that the extracts with
which we are about to deal have a right to stand alone
.
since they treat principally of matters which were entirely
unknown either to myself or to Lady Troubridge at the
time of the sittings.
Section I. Concerning the Dog Billy.
We will begin with an extract from the sitting of
Dec. 6th, 1916. I took the sitting, Lady Troubridge
recording, and the following occurred :
F. Bihy, she says :
" Billy." Do you know who that
is ?
M. R. H. No.
F. She says : " Billy."
U. V. T. Who is it ? Someone she knew on the earth plane ?
F. When Feda asks her she is rather confusing. She
says : "I do know him, but in rather a peculiar
sense." You've got to go into the country for
this, right into the proper country, and Billy
doesn't seem to belong to the house, but to just
outside the house. She says Billy is a well-
known character. She thinks it will come to you.
488 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
U. V. T. I think I understand.
F. It seems funny, very funny to Feda. She says
it's rather difficult to explain her acquaintance
with this Billy. She says it's not quite on the
usual lines.
U. V. T. Is Billy nice to look at ?
F. She says :
" Not very pretty."
U. V. T. That's true.
F. She says it just depends upon your eye for beauty.
U. V. T. Is she sure she knew Billy on the earth plane ?
F. She doesn't seem sure, but she knows Billy quite
well now.
U. V. T. Did I know him ?
F. Yes.
U. V. T. How old was Billy when he left the earth plane ?
M. R. H. She hasn't said he's dead.
U. V. T. But she said that she knows him now.
F. Yes, she doesn't think she knew him on the earth
plane, but she knows him now, he has become
rather attached to her, rather to the amusement
of some of the people over there.
U. V. T. I'm rather interested in Billy.
F. She says Billy takes quite an uncanny interest in
her. (Here Feda gives an excellent imitation of
a dog sniffing.) She's doing like this, and she
says he takes an uncanny interest in her. She
says it's quite embarrassing sometimes. She says :
" I can't say more, but do you understand ?
"
U. V. T. Yes, will she give my love to Billy ?
F. Yes, she says do you want her to kiss Billy ?
U. V. T. Yes, please.
F. (Touches her forehead) She says she will kiss him
just here, not on his month. She says she won't
kiss him mi his mouth and she canM very well
kiss him on his cheek, she would rather kiss him
here. (Feda again indicates her forehead, and
begins making sniffing noises like a dog.) Feda
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 489
would like to know why she does that. She's
very happy to-day, and she's enjoying herself.
Now this Billy, who was, at first, unrecognised by
either of us, was recognised quite soon by Lady Trou-
bridge as being a wire-haired terrier of hers, who had
died about fifteen months prior to this sitting, and about
eight months prior to A. V. B.'s death. The dog had
been pensioned by Lady Troubridge's mother with some
ladies at Boscombe, owing to Lady Troubridge being much
abroad, and Lady Troubridge had not seen him for eleven
years. Feda says you have got to go right into the
proper country, when she describes Billy ; this may mean
that you pass through the country from London to reach
Boscombe. Boscombe itself, of course, is a town. All
his life Billy had been considered to be quite a character,
being not only remarkably intelligent, but very original.
In the present sitting, Feda does not appear to grasp
the fact that Billy is a dog, although her description of
him is pretty unmistakable as such. In any case, if
she has grasped that he is a dog, she either cannot say
so, or wishes to keep up the pretence of not imderstanding.
Elaborate description, allied with apparent inability to
recognise and name the simplest object, does sometimes
occur in the Leonard phenomena, as in that of most
trance mediums, and suggests forcibly that we are very
far from understanding in what manner the impressions
described reach the so-called " Control." Sentences occasion-
ally occur during the sittings which, although attributed
by Feda to A. V. B., do not suggest A. V. B.'s way of
expressing herself. One occurs in this extract when Feda
says :
" She says it just depends on your eye for beauty."
It is as if from time to time, words calculated to express
the sense of the communicator's remarks were picked
from the medium's brain, or perhaps have been learnt
by Feda from other sitters, and are used by her to save
herself trouble. On the other hand, very many turns of
phrase and of mind have been startlingly reminiscent of
the purporting communicator.
The next reference to Billy occurred on December
490 Miss Radclyffe-Hatt and Lady Troubridge. [part
13th, 1916, at a sitting taken by Lady Troubridge which
I recorded. The reference was spontaneously made by Feda,
and was as follows :
F. She says, she's seen Billy and kissed him.
IT. V. T. I'm glad.
F. She says Billy rubbed against her face. She says
he didn't lick her face, she says that wouldn't
have been very nice. She says he rubbed her
with his muzzle. What does she mean by
muzzle ?
U. V. T. Well, ask her why she doesn't show you Billy ?
F. Yes, Feda would like to see him. She says he's
not very pretty. Is his nioiith dark inside ?
(Here Feda indicates lips and gums.)
U. V. T. Dark ?
F. Yes, like liver colour, not pink colour, a kind of
mottly colour, she thinks you ought to know.
U. V. T. Well, I'm not sure.
F. She says it was mottly inside, and she says, can't
you ask someone who knows ?
U. V. T. I will see,
F. She says he is two shades, and that one merges
into the other and harmonises very well. (Sotto
voce : Brun Brin Brun Brin .) Oh f
It's a funny word, Feda can't get it. It doesn't
sound to Feda like a colour, but it begins with a
B, but it's not brown or black or blue, She says
it's a bit mottled, and that when you look at him,
it strikes you. It's somehow more like two shades.
(Sotto voce : Try to show Feda what he's like,
now.) She says she told him she was kissing
him from you, on the forehead. She says he
jumps about, that he bounds and jumps over
things, and that he's more graceful than Feda
thinks. She says he's very well, and will be in
a very good condition for you when you come
over. Did you know that when he first passed
over he was not in a good condition ? Because
he was not, and there was something the matter
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 491
with his hind leg, or his foot. He was not in
an unhealthy state for very long, she says he
went over rather suddenly. There was some-
thing wrong with his foot, or the lower part of
his leg. Oh ! Now she sarys there was some-
thing wrong once underneath his arm. (Here
Feda indicates the arm-pit.) Only he hasn't got
any arms, but it was under there.
U. V. T. I remember that.
F. But she says that had nothing to do with his
passing on, but that he certainly had something
wrong with his foot or his back leg.
U. V. T. That I can find out, perhaps.
F. She savs that they used to turn his feet up, and
look at them between the toes.
U. V. T. Yes ?
F. She says he didn't like it. (Sotto voce : What
are you saying ? He couldn't go for a walk
by himself.) She says he goes off by himself
sometimes on what she calls "foraging expeditions
"
and that he seems to enjoy himself, because he
looks so awfully pleased and proud when he
comes back. She says he's got a good deal of
expression. She says it's funny to talk of ex-
pression in anyone like Billy, but that he does
look as though he had done something he would
like to tell you all about. She says his front
legs are rather shorter than his hind legs.
U. V. T. I don't remember that.
F. His coat is very good, she says. She says she's
got him a collar.
U. V T. That's very nice of her.
F. She shows Feda that it's rather a funny shape, it
seems to be broader under the chin, and it
seems to have sparklies on it. She's very fond
of Billy, she says she's not at all wary of him.
She says that on the earth plane, she might have
wanted to keep him at his distance. She says
he goes walks by himself. Feda wishes she*d
show him to Feda.
492 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
U. V. T. Why won't she ?
F. She can't, perhaps ; she doesn't have him in the
house. There's a place for him in the garden,
she thinks he would feel strange in the house.
He loves the garden and he rolls and lies on his
back and kicks his legs, and he grunts and makes
a funny noise, not like a pig. She says he once
had a knobbly thing, sticking out on one of his
legs, it was a little peculiarity, she says.
U. V. T. I don't remember that.
F. She says that all these trifling things might appear
to some people like rubbish, but that these
intimate things are important.
This second reference to Billy included statements of
facts about the dog that were quite unknown to Lady
Troubridge or myself at the time of the sitting. Before
dealing with these, some mention must be made of those
points which, while being accurate, were within the
knowledge of one or both of us.
An attitude of mind very characteristic of A. V. B.
where dogs were concerned is shown at the beginning of
the extract, when Feda tells us that A. V. B. says that
it would not have been very nice had Billy licked her
face. A. V. B. was never a real dog lover, and would
certainly have objected to a dog licking her face. She
never allowed this even in the case of a dog that I gave
her, and of which she grew very fond. On the other
hand, Mrs. Leonard, who is a great dog-lover, has been
seen by M. R. H. and U. V. T. to allow her dog to do
this.
Fecla next tells us that Billy's mouth is dark inside,
indicating the lips and gums. Undoubtedly most dogs'
Hps are liver-coloured or black, Billy's certainly were
;
the roof of his mouth was dark and mottled, and his
gums may likewise have been mottled.
We next come to the description of his general colouring,
which, according to Feda, is of two shades, and she tries
to pronounce some word that appears to us to be an
attempt at " brindle." Billy was a very heavily marked
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 493
terrier, especially about the head and muzzle. There is
an oil painting of his head by Lady Troubridge in exist-
ence, which shows this very clearly. The dog's body
was also heavily marked ; his coat consisted of three colours,
to be accurate, white, black and tan. Feda mentions only
two. His tan and black merged into each other, but
brindle is not a very usual term to use in this con-
nection when speaking of a terrier, although it is not
incorrect. Undoubtedly Billy had markings on him that
were a mixture of black and tan.
A. V. B. next tells us, through Feda, that Billy jumps
about and bounds over things. One may say that this
would be apphcable to very many dogs, and yet Lady
Troubridge and I have both had several dogs who
never did anything of the kind. Billy, on the other
hand, was very active in his youth, and was given to
jumping over spiked railings among other things, to
the great anxiety of his owner. And now occur the
points re Billy's health, all of which, with two exceptions,
were unknown to us at the time of this sitting. We
must skip these points, for the moment, however, and
deal with the remaining generalities first.
A. V. B. tells us, through Feda, that Billy goes for walks
by himself on foraging expeditions. Now this was
markedly characteristic, at all events of the earthly Billy,
when Lady Troubridge had him. Billy was a person of
great independence, and would walk all over London by
himself, finding his way home from the most unlikely
places. He was not only a rover by nature, but a most
unregenerate scavenger, and his foraging expeditions, on
this plane, led to a permanent muzzle for the protection
of his digestion.
We do not know whether Feda is correct, or not, when
she states that Billy's front legs are shorter than his back
ones. Many terriers that are not pure bred have this
defect, but Lady Troubridge cannot remember whether it
existed in Billy's case.
Feda next tells us that A. V. B. remarks on his coat
being very good. In life Billy's coat was rather a
feature, at all events in the eyes of the uninitiated ; it was
494 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [pakt
thick and very silky in texture ; it is highly improbable
that A. V. B. would consider this a blemish, as I never kept
wire-haired terriers during our life together, and she knew
nothing at all regarding their points. Following on the
remark about Billy's coat, there occurs an example of pure
" Feda talk," when Feda begins to describe a collar of a
fancy shape, and goes on to elaborate her statement by saying
that this collar seems to have " sparklies " on it, " sparklies
"
being her term for precious stones. It would be hard
to imagine a collar more unsuitable for Billy than the
one described by Feda ;
especially in view of the de-
scription of Billy himself that she has already given.
Later on, she accentuates the fact that Billy was a rough
dog, by telling us that he is not kept in the house, but
in the garden, and yet this out-door dog is said to be
wearing a jewelled collar ! It appears possible that
A. V. B. did actually say that she had given a collar to
Billy, the description thereof, however, can only have
emanated from Feda. It is not at all suggestive of Mrs.
Leonard's influence. 1
This kind of elaboration on the part of the control
occurs very seldom during the Leonard trances, and
when it does occur, it nearly always seems to partake
1
Since this Paper has been completed, our attention has been drawn
to a photograph of A. V. B. taken with her French bull-dog. In this
photograph the dog is wearing a deep collar heavily studded with
circular brass bosses ; the brass bosses show up very brightly in the
photograph, and I remember that A. V. B. always insisted on their
being polished daily. In addition to the deep collar the dog is wearing
a jade ball on a chain, the chain is partly concealed by the collar,
being only visible in front, where it hangs down in a V with the ball
on the end, giving the impression that it forms a part of the collar.
It is just possible that it is this collar and ornament that the com-
municator was trying to show. The impression of "Sparklies" may
have been derived by Feda from the shiny brass bosses, and her curious
impression that the collar was " broader under the chin " may have
been derived from an imperfect vision on her part of the jade
ball on the chain above referred to. Dog-collars set with imitation
jewels are occasionally sold, but a dog-collar that is broader under
the chin is practically unknown ; at least I have never come across such
a thing, and this fact in itself makes it appear unlikely that Feda would
have mentioned such a peculiarity unless she had had something to
go on.
lxxviii.] Knoivledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 495
of the Oriental's childish love of gaudiness. A similar
instance was remarked on by us, when dealing with the
sitting of April 25th, 1917, during which Feda stated that
A. V. B. had a gold case for her guitar. Curiously
enough, in that instance, there came, side by side with
the mention of the gold case, the evidential statement
with regard to there being no ribbons on A. V. B."s
guitar. It would seem as though Feda's imagination
must have been strenuously controlled just there, and it
is rather amusing to notice a slight disapproval on her
part, regarding the simplicity of the instrument. She
remarks :
" Funny, Mrs. Twonnie, do you know, she
doesn't seem to like ribbons. Feda likes ribbons, lots
of ribbons !
"
To return to the present sitting of Dec. 6th, 1916.
Feda says that A. V. B. is very fond of Billy, and is
not at all " wary " of him, but admits that on the earth
plane, she might have wanted to keep him at his distance,
and that Billy lives in the garden, as A. V. B. thinks
he would feel strange in the house. There is no doubt
that A. V. B. would have wanted to keep a dog of the
" Billy " type very much at his distance, in her lifetime.
She was not at all fond of rough, effusive dogs ; in fact,
she was timid of them. When I first met her this
timidity was very marked ; she was frankly frightened
of dogs in those days. In this connection Feda uses the
word " wary," as she did also at a subsequent sitting on
January 3rd, 1917, when speaking of A. V. B.'s fear of
horses (see above, p. 363), and we comment upon it, because,
although we cannot remember that it was ever an ex-
pression of A. V. B.'s, " wary " is an expression of Mrs.
Leonard's. Both Lady Troubridge and I heard her use this
word one day, when in her normal state. But although
the word may have been picked from the medium's
brain, the sense conveyed thereby is, in this instance,
perfectly accurate, as expressing A. V. B.'s feelings in the
past towards dogs in general, and more especially towards
dogs of the " Billy " type.
Billy is said to prefer the garden to the house, and
here again a good point is made, as Billy, during his life
496 Miss Radclyffe-HaU and Lady Troubridge. [part
with Lady Troubridge, spent his days preferably outside
the front door, showing a marked aversion to remaining
in the house.
We will now return to the points about Billy's health,
around which centres the principal interest of this sitting.
These points were as follows :
1. Billy was not in a good condition when he first went
over (i.e. at the time of his death), but was
not in an unhealthy state for very long ; he died
suddenly.
2. Billy had something the matter with his hind leg
or his foot.
3. Billy had once had something wrong with him, under
his arm in the arm-pit (i.e. under the fore leg,
where it joins the body).
4. But that particular condition had nothing to do with
his death.
5. They would turn Billy's feet up and examine between
the toes, a proceeding which he did not like.
6. And lastly, Billy had a knobbly thing sticking out
on one of his legs.
We will deal first with the two points out of the six
which were known to us at the time of the sitting.
Firstly, then, Feda is correct when she states that Billy
died suddenly. Billy was destroyed at the request of
Lady Troubridge's mother, who hearing that he was
both blind and deaf from old age, took the most
merciful course open to her. Some time afterwards,
when Lady Troubridge happened to mention Billy, she was
told that he had been destroyed. Secondly, and thirdly,
Feda is correct in stating that, at one time, Billy had an
injury under what she calls his arm, but that this parti-
cular condition had nothing to do with his death. During
Billy's life with Lady Troubridge, he had a very bad
fight. He was attacked by a large bulldog and severely
bitten under the fore leg, nearly into the lung ; the wound
very nearly proved fatal, and was the only serious dis-
aster that ever befell him, so far as Lady Troubridge
Lxxvm.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 497
knew at the time of the sitting. We feel practically
certain that A. V. B., during her lifetime, had heard an
account of this battle, and we fancy, also, that she knew
that Billy had been destroyed, though we cannot be sure
of either of these points. Regarding the other four points
mentioned Lady Troubridge and I were in entire ignorance.
It must be borne in mind that Lady Troubridge had not
seen the dog for many years, and I never. It was
necessary, therefore, to write to Miss Collis, at Boscombe,
the lady with whom Billy had been boarded, and when doing
so, it appeared inadvisable to mention the alarming word
" Medium." Lady Troubridge therefore wrote to the effect
that she had had a very vivid dream about her old dog,
and proceeded to enumerate the points regarding his
health which she said she had dreamt of. She asked
Miss Collis whether any of these symptoms had ever
existed in Billy's case. Here is Miss Collis's reply to
that letter :
St. Thomas's Day, 1916.
Dear Madam,
We do not remember dear little Billy hurting his
foot specially at any time, but for years he used often
to cry out if his leg was touched. We used to think
it was rheumatism. And latterly he did have a wart,
my sister thinks it was on the top of his left leg, also
during the last part of the time he got little lumps or
warts all over. The vet. said it was from old age. He
was very old, I think Mrs. Taylor said seventeen years,
and very blind, and it made one anxious, and we thought
it better he should be put to sleep. Also, a few weeks
before the end, he had a bite from another dog on his
back, which we were afraid would not heal. I think this
helped us to make up our minds to part with him. Mrs.
Taylor thought when she saw him in the summer that it
might not be well to keep him much longer. I think it
was the 2oth of September, last year, that he was put
to sleep. We did not lay him to rest till the next day,
when we did it ourselves in his basket and his rugs, just
498 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
as he was, and covered him up very gently. He was
such a dear, funny little dog, with such sweet ways.
Hoping Mrs. Taylor and all are well,
Yours faithfully,
(Signed) Edith F. S. Collis.
This letter was quite clear, and corroborated Feda's
statements, inasmuch as Miss Collis said that Billy had
had a bite on his back shortly before the end, which
would not heal, and which we may therefore conclude
produced a specifically unhealthy condition. Also that
he had had for some time an affection of his leg, which
caused him to cry out when the leg was touched, and
also that he had a wart on his leg. She omitted to
state, however, whether anyone had examined Billy's
feet between the toes, and also which leg it was that
caused Billy to cry out when it was touched. Lady
Troubridge therefore wrote again to Miss Collis, asking
her to clear up these points, but being very careful in
no way to suggest to her which leg we thought it might
be that had hurt him. Miss Collis replied as follows :
Dec. 29th, 1916.
I am sorry to have been so long in replying to
your second letter about dear little Billy. One could
wish there was a future for him, and I felt that at the
time we lost him, but we can trust him with his Maker
and knoAv that if it is best, it will be so. It was a
back leg he did not like touched, but though my sister
washed him once a week, I am sorry we never thought
to look between his toes. I can't think of anything
more specially to tell you about him to-night, but shall
always be pleased to write about him if you think of
anything. . . .
Yours sincerely,
(Signed) E. Collis.
All the points given by Feda had thei'efore been
corroborated by Miss Collis, with the exception of one.
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 499
Feda speaks of someone having looked between Billy's
toes, a proceeding to which he objected, but, according
to Miss Collis, no one had looked between Billy's toes,
and we consequently wrote that down as a mistake.
It appeared to me to be likely that Lady Troubridge's
mother had known many of the details given, especially
as she had seen the dog during the summer prior to his
death, and I thought it just possible that she might have
mentioned them to Lady Troubridge in the course of
conversation. Lady Troubridge felt quite sure that this
was not the she had a definite recollection of
her mother's reply, on the last occasion when she had
asked her about Billy. She called upon her mother,
however, and made enquiries, in the course of conver-
sation, regarding Billy's ailments. During this conver-
sation Mrs. Taylor did not mention any of the four
symptoms under discussion. Lady Troubridge then told
her mother about these symptoms, and Mrs. Taylor said
that this was the first that she had heard of them. We
allowed a little time to elapse, and then Lady Troubridge
wrote to her mother, clearly stating the symptoms and
requesting her mother to make a statement in writing,
regarding her knowledge of same. Mrs. Taylor's reply
was as follows :
10. 3. 1917.
I cannot have told you the following facts about
Billy, because I did not know them myself, until you
* told me of them in February of this year.
1. That he had any kind of a lumpy thing on one of
his legs.
2. That his back leg was painful in any way, or had
anything the matter with it.
3. That there was any special reason why he should
have been in a particularly unhealthy condition just a
little while prior to his death, and I did not know that
he had been bitten by another dog just then.
(Signed) Minna Taylor.
Having got thus far, we read the sitting to Miss Newton,
and she felt that it would be advisable to get corro-
2i
500 Miss Radciyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
boration of the] points I regarding Billy's ailments from
someone in addition to Miss Collis, as the more evidence
obtained on such a point, the better. She suggested
that the Veterinary Surgeon who had attended Billy
should be communicated with, especially regarding the
bite on the back which Miss Collis had feared would
not heal, and which, having been received only a few
weeks prior to Billy's death, appeared to give a certain
importance to Feda's words when she said that he had
been in an unhealthy state at the time of his death,
but not for long. This statement of Feda's appeared
to us to point to some recent and particular condition,
rather than to a general and gradual state of infirmity
resulting from old age. We decided, therefore, to visit
Boscombe on the earliest opportunity, and did so on
April 10th. 1917. During that visit, we drew up very
complete notes of our proceedings, from which we have
been able to prepare a statement, and we cannot do
better, we think, than include it here.
The Linden Hall Hydro,
Boscombe.
April 13th, 1917.
Statement by M. R. H. and U. V. T.
The Billy Incident.
Leonard Sittings of Dec. 6th and Dec. 13th, 1916.
•
It was suggested by Miss Isabel Newton, Secretary of
the S.P.R., after the notes of the above-mentioned sittings
had been read to her, that a further investigation re the
details concerning Billy's state of health prior to his
death should be undertaken, and, if possible, corroborative
statements or the reverse obtained from the Veterinary
Surgeon and any persons, other than the Misses Collis,
who had seen Billy. In view of this, M. R. H. and
U. V. T. went to Boscombe, on April 10th, 1917. On
April 11th, they called on the Misses Collis. They
were only able to see one of the Misses Collis, namely,
the writer of the letters appended to the above-mentioned
lxxviii.] Knoivledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 501
sitting of Dec. 13th, 1916, the other Miss Collis being in
quarantine owing to measles.
M. E. H. and U. V. T. talked to Miss Collis about
Billy, visiting his grave, etc., maintaining always that
their interest in his symptoms had been aroused owing
to a very vivid dream. This was the explanation given
by U. V. T. in the first instance, when she wrote to Miss
Collis, as it was unfortunately thought necessary to sup-
press the truth for the time being, in order to avoid
creating a bias.
During this call they were unable to get any infor-
mation beyond that which Miss Collis had already given
in her letters. Miss Collis mentioned, however, that Billy
had a very beautiful, silky coat, which was rather inter-
esting in view of the fact that A. V. B. had remarked
on his coat through Feda. Unfortunately a certain curate,
formerly a guest at the Misses Collis 's house, who had
known Billy well, was found to have left Boscombe, so
his testimony could not be obtained.
Miss Collis, however, kindly supplied the name and
address of the Veterinary Surgeon who had attended Billy
prior to his death, and who had finally destroyed him,
at Miss Collis 's request.
Upon leaving Miss Collis's house, M. R. H. and U. V. T.
drove to the address of the Veterinary Surgeon, Miss Dutton,
of Boscombe, where they saw this lady's mother, Miss
Dutton being out. It happened that Miss Dutton's services
were required for U. V. T.'s present dog, who was with
them. They asked, therefore, that Miss Dutton should call
at their hotel on the following morning.
On April 12th, 1917, Miss Dutton called at the Linden
Hall Hydro at 11.30 a.m., and after an examination of
the dog's eye, in which he had a cold, had been made,
U. V. T. introduced the subject of Billy, by telling Misa
Dutton that Billy had belonged to her, up to eleven
years ago, and that her father had been very devoted
to him. Miss Dutton did not appear to know that the
dog had ever belonged to U. V. T. It was evident that
she remembered Billy merely as Miss Collis's dog and as
a very bad case.
502 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
U. V. T. then introduced the subject of the dream,
which she said had been of a very vivid kind, and had
dealt with Billy's recent ailments. She said that she had
been sufficiently interested to write to Miss Collis on the
sxibject, and much surprised to hear from that lady that
nearly every detail that she had dreamt was correct.
Miss Dutton expressed interest, and fully confirmed aU the
details that had previously been confirmed by Miss Collis,
after they had been carefully enumerated to Miss Dutton
by U. V. T.
Miss Dutton was especially clear regarding the lump
on Billy's leg, giving details regarding it and its exact
jwsition high up in front of the fore leg. This particular
lump, or as Feda calls it, " knobbly thing," had apparently
been of sufficient dimensions to have remained in her
memory, as in that of Miss Collis's sister, and of Miss
Collis herself.
U. V. T. told Miss Dutton that, in view of her having
dreamt that Billy was in an unusually unhealthy condition
only for a short time prior to his death, she had naturally
been interested to learn from Miss Collis's letter, that
he had received, a few weeks prior to his death, a bite
on his back from another dog, which bite, it was feared,
would not heal. U. V. T. asked Miss Dutton whether
there had really been any reason to suppose that this
bite would not heal ; to which Miss Dutton replied
that although the bite had been received three weeks or
so before Billy's final removal, so far from healing it had
been in a very bad condition from the first, having
rapidly become mortified ; and she went on to say that
the smell of the wound had been so offensive that it
was unpleasant having to dress it, which she had done
daily, the dog being brought to her by a servant.
Having ascertained this much, M. R. H. and U. V. T.
expressed their interest, and U. V. T. remarked that
apparently the only erroneous detail in her dream had
been that someone had picked up Billy's feet to look
between the toes, which proceeding he much disliked,
whereas Miss Collis stated in her letter that neither she
nor her sister could remember ever having done so. To
lxxviii.] Knoivledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 503
this Miss Dutton rejoined instantly :
" Oh ! but I did ;
he had pustules between his toes, and the examination
must have hurt him."'
After all the details above given had been verbally
obtained, M. R. H., who had been present throughout
the interview, told Miss Dutton that she and U. V. T.
were both interested in the investigation of dreams. She
asked Miss Dutton whether she would be willing, therefore,
to give a written statement regarding Billy's symptoms.
Miss Dutton replied that she was quite willing to do so, and
asked if she should write it from memory, or go home
and look at her ledger, in which all her cases were recorded.
M. R. H. and U. V. T. requested that she should go home
and examine her ledger before putting the statement in
black and white.
We think that the above account sets forth quite
clearly our mode of procedure in order to ascertain the
facts regarding Billy's ailments. We received Miss Dutton's
written statement on April 14th, 1917. It ran as follows :
John Dutton,
Canine and Feline Specialist.
Re Miss Collis's Terrier " Billy."
I found the "Terrier," after examining and treating same,
suffering from as follows :
Pustules between toes caused from old age.
Lump on top of right front leg caused from acute
Rheumatism.
Bite on back, shortly before death, the which was
mortifying and in a very bad state.
(Signed) (Miss) G. C. Dutton,
Canine and Feline Specialist.
April 13th, 1917.
Thus it will be seen that four points regarding " Billy's
"
condition prior to his death, were given by A. V. B.
through Feda, which were entirely unknown to either
Lady Troubridge or myself at the time when they were
504 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
given. All these four points were subsequently verified
by one or more persons as follows :
1. That Billy was not in a specifically unhealthy state
for very long prior to his death. This point was
testified to by Miss Collis in her own name and her
sister's, and by Miss Dutton.
2. That Billy had something the matter with his hind
leg, or his foot. This was corroborated by Miss
Collis, on her sister's behalf and her own.
3. That Billy had a knobbly thing sticking out on one
of his legs. This fact was clearly remembered by
both the Misses Collis and Miss Dutton.
4. That they would turn Billy's feet up and examine
between the toes, a proceeding which he did not
like. Neither of the Misses Collis had any know-
ledge of such a thing having been done, whereas
Miss Dutton clearly remembered the fact of having
done it herself, and of its having been painful to
the dog.
The next reference to Billy occurred on March 9th,
1917, at a sitting taken by me, acting as my own re-
corder. I was curious to know why and how A. V. B.
had hit upon Billy as a test. On this occasion, therefore,
I introduced the subject myself, and although the ex-
tract we are about to give is devoid of evidential value,
we think that it is not altogether without interest. The
extract is as follows :
M. R. H. (To A. V. B.) And now I want to ask a question.
How did you meet Billy, and how did you know
that he was Una's Billy ?
F. She says : " Well, I must tell you that I was
helped about Billy ; you know I told you that I
had seen him, but I got to know in a very round-
about way about that leg of his. You see I'm
not clever enough to get a thing like that through
without help, a thing from an animal mind.
Had Billy been a person, I could have asked
him, or have tapped his intelligence ; but I think
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 505
that the minds of two people who were helping
me on this side were able to interpret that part
for me. In some strange way that I don't under-
stand yet, they Avere able to tap the minds of
people on earth, who knew about that leg, and
they were also able to tap for me Billy's own
memory. I suppose it is admissible to speak
about a dog's memory. In any case this was
done for me, in order that I might give that
test."
M. R H. But how could you have known that Billy was
Billy ?
F. She says :
" That is difficult to explain, I can only
tell you that an understanding of facts of that
kind occasionally comes to one over here, not
always. I suppose, in this case, there must have
been some sort of link between Billy and Una
and you and myself, if only from the point of
view of something that would be of interest.
I don't know how those things come to one,
but they do, and I found myself somehow auto-
matically in touch with Billy. We have a far
fuller knowledge of things here than I can ever
hope to explain to you through Feda, it's much
too big a thing to get through one brain."
M. R. H. Have you actually got Billy, then ?
F. She says :
" Yes, I have, and you may ask why
I have. I think because Billy was a link and
it was extremely useful to have Billy, in order
to get that test through."
With this concludes the Billy incident. Since the
sitting of March 9th, 1917, the dog's name has been
mentioned by A. V. B. once or twice, but only as having
been the subject of an excellent test. Before leaving the
incident, however, we feel it incumbent upon us to
apologise to Miss Collis and Miss Dutton for the little
deception we felt it necessary to practice on them, and
we sincerely hope that in the unlikely event of this paper
ever falling into their hands they will find it in their
506 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
hearts to forgive us, and will realise how necessary it is
in such a matter to avoid any statement that might
create a bias. We have not hesitated to use the correct
names, in this instance, as no personal family matters
were under discussion.
Our grateful thanks are due to both the ladies in question
for the sympathetic and helpful attitude they displayed
towards our enquiries.
(See Appendix B.)
We will now deal with an extract from a sitting of
December 20th, 1916, I took the sitting and Lady Trou-
bridge acted as the recorder. I had been asked by
A. V. B.'s daughter to put a certain question to A. V. B.
As neither Lady Troubridge nor myself knew the answer,
it was considered that it would be a good test. The
following is the extract :
M. R. H. [A. V. B.'s daughter] has asked me to ask her a
few questions, but never mind if the conditions
aren't good to answer them.
F. She says, yes, you can ask them.
M. R. H. Well, ask her does she remember Dick Rogers [pseu-
donym] .
F. She says, in answer to that, that it was a long
time ago.
M. R. H. Does she remember a place where Dick Rogers
lived, called Burnham [pseudonym] ?
F. She doesn't say anything about that gentleman,
Dick Rogers, nothing at all, she only tells Feda
about a rather old-fashioned house ; it looks to
Feda like an old house, not a large house, though,
it looks like a big cottage ; are you sure she
really knew Dick Rogers ?
Section II. Concerning " Burnham.
M. R H. Yes.
V. Well, she says it was a long time ago, and it
seems to Feda as though she knew more about
the house than about the man, she says he's
not over there.
lxxviil] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 507
M. R. H. Not in the spirit world. No, I don't think so.
F. No, and she hadn't seen him for a long time.
M. R. H. Ask her, can she remember what kind of animals
they were, that this Dick Rogers kept in a cage
in the garden at Burnham.
F. Feda will try and get it, Feda feels that it is to
do with the old-fashioned house that she is
showing, which has a roof that goes up and down.
M. R. H. You don't mean the cottage, do you ?
F. No, but there is a cottage in connection with that
gentleman, but this is a larger house.
M. R. H. What [A. V. B.'s daughter] wants to know is about
the animals kept in a cage.
F. Yes, she remembers, she remembers they were not
very close to the house. You might be close
to the house and not see them unless you looked
for them. And in addition to the cages, and
near to them, there was a kind of little out-
building. She's leading up to telling you, she's
trying, (sotto voce : can't you tell Feda ?) She
says they made a noise, (sotto voce : do you
mean a squeak ?) As near as Feda can get it
she says they made a squeaky noise. And now
she's trying to show Feda something that sticks
up across the cage, it doesn't stick up quite
straight, it slants in a way from corner to
corner (here Feda indicates what might be
taken for a pole or branch slanting upwards and
crossways) ; she says it isn't quite a cage in the
ordinary sense of the word, not just wirework like
a bird cage, it's made too solidly for that, she
says, and she says that there used to be two
cages not only one cage. She's not sure that
there were always two, but there had been at
one time. It seems to Feda as though some-
thing dropped from the top of the cage to the
ground, Feda saw something dark drop, and now
there's a sort of scratching noise, but she calls
it a screechy, squeaky noise as well, but Feda
can't quite get from her what that is. She
508 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
hadn't seen Dick Rogers for a long time before
she passed on.
M. R. H. True.
F. And she doesn't think [A. V. B.'s daughter] had either.
M. R. H. That's quite true too.
F. She says he was very unusual in some ways, and
that he had a lot of books, too ; not ordinary
books that you read, like novels, but books upon
a particular subject ; a collection of books on
some life away from here altogether, away from
civilization ;
something he evidently took an
interest in. And he was interested in the people
who had to do with that kind of life. He had
something hanging on the walls too, long shaped
things, but not pictures. She says they were
not all long shaped, but the ones she's showing
Feda on the wall are long shaped. Oh ! she says
one thing he had got there had been dried.
It's nothing to do with pictures.
M. R. H. All right Feda, we've got that down.
F Then there's a room that she seems interested in,
it's not at the front of the house but at the
back, it's a corner room at the back, a room that
he was very fond of being in. It had shelves
in it and a kind of case, not a cupboard, it's
not built into the wall, it stands out. She says
he had some glass cases with something inter-
esting in them, she knows of two cases, not this
cupboard thing but smaller ones ; oh ! and he
used to have several big books ;
you opened
them and you could pull out pieces of stiff paper
with things on them, not writing, some kind of
design or drawing. It seems to Feda that they
were loose, because you can pull them out ; and
she says do you know if [A. V. B.'s daughter]
would remember a very old chest that he had ?
M. R. H. I will ask her.
F. She can't say more now about the thing in a cage.
It wasn't a usual thing, it was something out of
the ordinary, that's all she can say about him now.
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 509
We must first state that in the above extract the correct
names have been disguised by request. Sir Richard Rogers,
as we have called him, was an old friend of A. V. B.'s,
he is entirely unknown to Lady Troubridge, and I myself
have only had the pleasure of meeting him on, I think,
two occasions, some years ago. At the time of this sitting
Sir Richard was in Egypt.
The first thing I did after the sitting was to consult
A. V. B.'s daughter. She told me that the animal in
the cage, which she had hoped would be mentioned, was
a bear. Now there does not appear to be anything in
Feda's description applicable to a bear, except the
scratching noise, the branch or pole indicated (for
although Sir Richard in his answer does not mention this,
as will be seen later, a bear's cage usually contains some-
thing of the sort), the solidity of the cage, and possibly
the final remark to the effect that the cage contained an
unusual sort of animal. It would almost appear as
though some other animals or birds had been shown to
Feda. It would seem, however, as if towards the end
of the extract A. V. B. had remembered some single
animal ; because in my original question I spoke of
animals in the plural, but A. V. B., speaking through
Feda, says that she cannot say more about the thing
in a cage, thereby indicating the singular.
A. V. B.'s daughter was unable to be of much assist-
ance to me, as she had not, I understood, been to
Burnham (pseudonym) since she was a child, and could not
remember any of the objects mentioned. Some of the points
I myself knew to be correct, and we will deal with these
first. I knew it was correct when Feda said that
A. V. B. had not seen the gentleman in question for a
long time ; the last occasion upon which she saw him
was, to the best of my belief, when we lunched together
with him several years ago. I knew, however, that at
one time A. V. B. and her husband had been in the
habit of staying with Sir Richard at Burnham, and
that in those bygone days they saw a good deal of him,
and were intimately acquainted with the house ;
although
Feda's supposition that A. V. B. knew more about the
510 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
house than the man was wrong. During all the years
that A. V. B. and I lived together Sir Richard was
seldom in residence at his house, I think ; or if he was,
we did not meet him, except as I have said upon about
two occasions. I also knew that it was correct when
Feda stated that A. V. B.*s daughter had not seen him
for a long time either.
The old house which was given in connection with him,
and which appeared to Feda to look like a big cottage,
I placed at once, as I remembered that Sir Richard had
written to A. V. B. on one occasion saying that, as
Burnham was let, he was living in a Manse on his
property. I had also seen a photograph of the exterior
of Burnham itself, from which I was able to gather that
Feda's remarks regarding the roof of that house were
correct. I knew also that Sir Richard had some sort of
an aviary at Burnham. When I lunched with him
at his hotel he showed me a tame bullfinch, with
which he apparently travelled about ; and it was then
that he told me that he kept a great many birds at his
place in the country. Sir Richard and I had found a
congenial topic of conversation in our mutual love of
birds. He did not mention any other pets, however,
nor had I ever heard of them from A. V. B. In speaking
of his birds Sir Richard did not give me any details
regarding the position of the cages or aviaries at Burnham.
It appeared wise, however, to be quite sure that my
memory on these points had been accurate, and I was
fortunately able to verify them later on, with Sir Richard's
assistance. With the points above mentioned my know-
ledge of Burnham ended. I have never entered the
house, or been, to the best of my belief, in its vicinity,
nor have I ever heard a description of its interior from
A. V. B. During our long friendship she never went
there, and beyond telling me on one occasion, the occasion
I think when we lunched with Sir Richard, that Burnham
was a beautiful place, having pine woods near it, I cannot
remember having heard her mention it.
I wrote to Sir Richard in Egypt, and in that letter
I was very careful not to give him the least intimation
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 511
that there was any question of communication between
myself and A. V. B. I wrote of a clairvoyant who had
described to me a person resembling Sir Richard, and
had given me details regarding what might possibly be
his house. It was unpleasant having to use subterfuge,
but as in the case of the " Billy Incident " it appeared
absolutely essential not to create a bias. Wishing to
save Sir Richard all possible trouble, and at the same
time to obtain clear answers, I enclosed in my letter
eight question sheets ;
upon each of these sheets was
written a separate question, space being left beneath it
for an answer. We will give the questions and answers
exactly as they stand, the names alone being altered.
The original question sheets with their answers are in
our possession. We will begin with the confirmation of
those points already known to me at the time of the
sitting, two fully and one partially.
Question 1.
Is the roof of Burnham gabled, or has it turrets ?
Can it in fact be considered up and down, and not flat
in any way ?
Answer.
The roof is all up and down, and gabled and turreted,
not flat in any way.
Question 2.
Has Sir Richard lived since the War, or at some
previous time, in any farm, lodge, or cottage, on or near
his estate ?
Answer.
Yes, for some months in the Manse of B., about two
miles from Burnham, because the shooting was let when
the War broke out, and I could not get into Burnham
for some weeks or months.
Question 3.
Were there ever any cages in the garden at Burnham,
and if so, how many ? Were these cages unseen from
512 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
the house and surrounding garden ? Was there any kind
of shed or out -building near them ? Was there a slanting
branch or pole of any kind in one of these cages ? What
kind of birds, animal, or animals were kept in a cage
or cages ?
Answer.
Many cages, but not in the garden, in the Park, all
unseen from the house or garden, many out-buildings
also, at the kennels near the cages. A pole or poles
in the eagle's cage. Golden eagle, owls, hawks, falcons,
in one lot of aviaries. Golden and silver pheasants in
others. Also a bear, and ferrets near his cage. I think
also at one time, monkeys ; the scratching noise might be
made by ferrets.
(It will have been noticed that Sir Richard tells us that
the cages were in the park and not in the garden, and
it must be also noticed that the suggestion that the cage
in question was in the garden at Burnham emanated from
the wording of A. V. B.'s daughter's question, and not
from Feda. Sir Richard refers to the scratching noise
which was not alluded to in my question, but in an
accompanying letter. We now come to those questions,
the answers to which were entirely unknown to us at the
date of the sitting.)
Question 4.
Did any things hang on the walls at Burnham that
were not pictures, that were some of them long in shape,
and one of which had at one time been dried, if so,
what ?
Answer.
Many things, weapons, shields and stuffs from the
Soudan and elsewhere, many of them long in shape.
Also a dried crocodile from the Nile.
Question 5.
Was there, or is there.fany particular room used by
Sir Richard, which room is a corner room, towards the
lxxvhi.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 513
back of the house ? Did or does it contain a case like
a cupboard which is not built into the wall ? Are
there any smaller glass cases anywhere containing articles
of interest ? Were there shelves in this room ?
Answer.
My smoking room was at the back of the house, there
were in this room cupboards under the bookcases, but it
was hardly a corner room. A glass case containing
Egyptian antiquities is in the vestibule.
Question 6.
Had Sir Richard any designs or sketches, or plans of
any kind, which were kept on loose sheets of paper in a
book or portfolio ?
Answer.
Yes, portfolio, containing plans of buildings and sketches.
Question 7.
Had Sir Richard any collection of books on some
subject pertaining to distant life or peoples of a semi-
civilized nature, in which Sir Richard was or is interested ?
Answer.
Yes, books on Central Africa and earfy travels in Egypt
and the Soudan.
Question 8.
Had Sir Richard in his possession an old chest of any
kind ?
Answer.
Yes,r
an old Italian Cassone.
This is the end of the first batch of questions and
answers which I sent to and received back from Sir
Richard. As we have already said the answers to
Questions 1 and 2 were known to me at the time of the
514 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
sitting and only required the corroboration of Sir Richard,
which I obtained ; while something was also known by
me regarding Question 3.
Feda does not appear to be able to give anything very
definite regarding the cage and its occupant. The direct
question put by me met with the fate of many direct
questions, and drew very nearly blank. The result of
my question, however, was curious : it appeared as though
the mention of the name " Dick Rogers," coupled with
Burnham, had touched a spring of memory in the mind
of the purporting communicator, who, although when asked
a question point-blank, could not for the moment give
the correct answer, was nevertheless led by that question
to remember numerous other things which were in a
sense connected with it. And regarding the question
itself, although the answer expected by A. V. B.'s
daughter was not obtained, still Feda's description of
what was kept in a cage or cages at Burnham, although
somewhat vague, is fairly applicable to several of the pets
kept by Sir Richard.
We find Feda telling us that A. V. B. remembers
animals that were not kept close to the house. She says
you might be close to the house and not see them unless
you looked for them. Sir Richard, in replying to this
point, states that the cages were in the Park, and unseen
from the house or garden, and this is the first of the
statements regarding those things which were unknown
to us at the time of the sitting.
Feda tells us that near those cages there was a kind
of little out-building, and we find that, according to Sir
Richard, there must have been such an out-building, as
he states that there were out-buildings at the kennels,
near the cages, at Burnham.
Feda tells us that there was more than one cage, two
perhaps, at one time. From Sir Richard we learn that
there were many cages ;
just here, therefore, Feda's
statement might have been more accurate. Incidentally
we find A. V. B. remarking, through Feda, that Sir
Richard was an unusual man, and I know that he is
xxxvni.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 515
clever and that in some respects he is considered to be
original, and rather out of the ordinary.
Feda next tells us that he had a lot of books, and she
'
defines these books as being upon a particular subject ;
she says that they are books on some life and people
far from civilization, in which Sir Richard evidently took
an interest. To this Sir Richard replies once more in
the affirmative, stating that he had a collection of books
on Central Africa, and early travels in Egypt and the
Soudan.
Feda next describes things said to be hanging on the
walls, which things are long in shape, though not all long
in shape ;
they are, however, nothing to do with pictures,
and one of them is said to have been dried. To this
Sir Richard replies that he had on the walls weapons,
shields, etc., many of which were long in shape, and also
a dried crocodile from the Nile.
We are next told of a room in which A. V. B. seems
interested, a corner room at the back of the house, a
room which Sir Richard was fond of ; this room is said
to have contained shelves, and a kind of case which was
not a cupboard and was not built into the wall. We
learn from Sir Richard that his smoking-room was at the
back of the house, though it was not exactly a corner room,
that this smoking-room or study contained bookcases,
£tnd we shall see later on why this room may have been
taken by Feda to be a corner room, and also in all
probability why A. V. B. might be interested in it. Feda
refers to some glass cases containing objects of interest ;
she does not tell us exactly where these cases were, but
A. V. B., it appears, remembers two of them. Sir Richard
tells us of one such case which contained . Egyptian
antiquities, which he says is in the vestibule. We shall
see later on that there was more than one case containing
objects of interest at Burnham.
Feda next speaks of what she describes as several
big books containing loose sheets of paper which you
could pull out, she particularly tells us that writing did
not appear on these sheets, but that they contained some
kind of design or drawing. (We may reasonably suppose.
•2 k
516 Miss Badclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
I think, that when Feda says books in this instance
portfolios are meant. We noticed on one other occasion
that she referred to a portfolio as a kind of book con-
taining loose sheets of paper.) Regarding this Sir Richard
tells us that he had a portfolio containing plans of
buildings, and sketches.
And lastly, A. V. B. asks through Feda whether A. V. B.'s
daughter remembers a very old chest that was in the
possession of Sir Richard ;
and, although she did not
remember it, Sir Richard replies that he had such a chest,
an old Italian Cassone.
Thus we have a number of details given regarding the
interior of a house never visited by Lady Troubridge or
myself, together with indications of the owner's literary
tastes, of which we had no knowledge, and mention is
made of certain sketches and designs contained in a
portfolio.
All this appeared to us to be interesting at the time,
but there arose the question, suggested by Miss Newton, the
Secretary of the Society for Psychical Research, as to whether
or no there was any reason for supposing that A. V. B.
had ever seen the things mentioned, or taken any interest
in them, and might therefore be presumed to have retained
a memory of them. Acting upon Miss Newton's sugges-
tion I again wrote to Sir Richard in Egypt, enclosing a
fresh batch of question papers, as in addition to the
point raised by Miss Newton there were one or two other
points we wanted cleared up. This time I enclosed the
extract from the sitting, and told him quite frankly that
I was investigating the possibility of communication
between myself and A. V. B. We will again quote the
questions and the answers just as they stand, merely
changing the names as on the former occasion.
Question 1.
Can Sir Richard say whether he thinks it probable that
A. V. B. during her visits to Burnham saw the trophies,
etc., including the dried crocodile on the wall. Also the
cages of ferrets, birds, etc., in the park.
lxxvih.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 517
Answer.
Certainly A. V. B. saw all the things mentioned in the
question, hundreds of times, she often went to the cages
in the park to feed the bear with sweets.
Question 2.
Does Sir Richard remember whether A. V. B. or her
husband ever saw or heard him speak of the sketches
and plans kept in a portfolio ? Was there more than one
portfolio containing such things ?
Answer.
Yes, the portfolio (I can only think of one, but there
may have been more) contained sketches for the alteration
and decoration of the vestibule where the dried crocodile
hangs, and I am sure that both A. V. B. and her husband
saw the sketches and discussed them.
Question 3.
Was the collection of books on the Soudan, Central
Africa, etc., only one of many collections, or does Sir
Richard consider it a special collection in which he takes
a special interest ? Can he remember whether he ever
mentioned these books to A. V. B. or her husband 1
Answer.
There are many books, but there is a special collection
of books on Africa, the Soudan, etc. I have no distinct
recollection of having mentioned these special books to
A. V. B., but I think there is no doubt that I did mention
them to her, and she probably saw many of them.
Question 4.
Why does Sir Richard say that his study can hardly
be called a corner room, is it near the corner of the
house in any way ?
518 .Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
Answer.
Rough plan of part of the house below shows where
the study was, the entrance is at the back of the house,
drawing-room, etc., look the other way.
(Here Sir Richard sketched a rough plan of the house,
showing that the study was, as stated by Feda, at the
back of the house. His qualification as to this study
being " hardly " a corner room seems to have been
suggested by the fact that, although not strictly speaking
a corner room, it juts out beyond the room adjoining it,
thus forming a distinct angle. In drawing the plan of
the study Sir Richard has written across it these words,
" Study where the portfolio was." Now, if the port-
folio was, as stated, in the studj^, and if A. V. B. both
saw and discussed the contents of this portfolio, we may
logically presume that she may have done so in the
room in question ; and that being familiar with the room
she would, as Feda says, be interested in it.
We only mention this point because it seemed strange
at first that A. V. B. should have mentioned the study
or smoke-room as an apartment in which she was inter-
ested, but the fact that the portfolio and some books
were kept there appears to make this reference to the
study more intelligible.
Sir Richard's Plan of Burnham is appended.) [See
Appendix C]
Question 5.
Can Sir Richard remember more than one glass case
containing objects of interest at Burnham ? He mentions
one in the vestibule containing an Egyptian collection.
Was there, anywhere in the house, any other glass case,
or were there any other glass cases, that contained any
objects of interest, Egyptian or otherwise ?
Answer.
I cannot remember more than one case containing
Egyptian antiquities, but many cases containing stuffed
birds.
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unhnovm to Sitters. 519
(It will be remembered that A. V. B. mentioned through
Feda two cases containing objects of interest, but that
Sir Richard, in an answer to one of my questions in the
first batch, spoke of one case only ; from the later answer
above given we see that there were many glass cases
at Burnham, two of which would appear to have remained
especially in the memory of the purporting communicator.
I put one last question to Sir Richard Rogers, as in
view of the fact that so many of his replies were in
the affirmative we began to fear that Sir Richard, in his
desire to be kind, might have been giving certain points
the benefit of a doubt. This is the question I put to
him therefore.)
Question 6.
Will Sir Richard give his candid opinion on the extract
from the sitting of December 20th, in view of the com-
munications purporting to come from an old friend of
his, who knew Burnham ?
His answer was as follows :
" Some of the remarks
certainly seem to apply to Burnham, but they are not
quite so accurate as might have been expected from an
old friend who knew Burnham extremely well."
We think that this frank statement of opinion on Sir
Richard's part strengthens rather than weakens the
evidence obtained, since it shows clearly that his frame
of mind is quite unbiassed, or if bias there be, it certainly
is not on the side of credulity. We may conclude, there-
fore, that all the statements which he has confirmed had
been carefully weighed and considered by him. We do
not think that Sir Richard has ever been a student of
Psychical Research, and it is, therefore, quite natural
that the enormous difficulties attendant upon the investi-
gation of phenomena purporting to convey communication
from the dead should be unfamiliar to him. In any case
I feel deeply indebted to Sir Richard for the trouble and
courtesy which he expended on the matter ; without his
assistance I should have been unable to verify nearly all
the statements. There still arises one more point to
520 Miss Raddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
consider, namely, whether it is probable that Mrs. Leonard
may at any time have seen the interior of Burnham.
With this in mind I cabled to Sir Richard, asking if
Burnham was ever opened to the public. His reply by
telegram was " Rarely." In a letter received by me from
him at a later date, he referred to my cable, telling me that
Burnham was very seldom open to the public, and that he
could not recollect when last it had been so, but certainly
not for some years. He told me that the place had
been let several times during his absence, and that it
had occurred to him that it might have been possible for
friends and guests of the tenants to have seen the house.
This latter possibility we do not think affects Mrs.
Leonard, as she would not be likely to have seen Burnham
as a friend or guest of the tenants. With regard to her
having visited it as a sightseer—that also is unlikely, we
think, as Burnham is not a show property in the ordinary
sense of the word. I had never heard of it until I met
A. V. B., and Lady Troubridge had never heard of it at
all until I put the question suggested by A. V. B.'s daughter
at the sitting under consideration. It also appears to us
that neither a casual guest of a furnished tenant, nor a
tourist admitted to view the house, would be likely to
be allowed to inspect a special collection of the owner's
books, or to go over the contents of his portfolios.
However, with a view to ascertaining whether Mrs.
Leonard had ever been in the vicinity of Burnham, I
introduced the subject of Scotland, after a sitting on
April 18th, 1917. I knew that Mrs. Leonard knew Scotland,
because she had said so on a previous occasion, when,
however, I had not pressed the question, wishing as long
a time as possible to elapse before questioning her closely,
after the description of Burnham had been given in trance,
in order to avoid any association of ideas. On April 18th,
1917, I introduced the subject by saying that I thought
of going to a little place called X (here I mentioned the
name of the station for Burnham) for the summer holidays,
I asked Mrs. Leonard if she knew whether it was a nice
place. Mrs. Leonard replied that she did not know X.
She asked me in what part of Scotland it was. I said
Lxxvin.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 521
vaguely that I thought it was North, to which Mrs.
Leonard replied that she had never been there.
On September 5th, 1917, while we were preparing this
paper, I had a sitting with Mrs. Leonard, and after the
sitting I again asked Mrs. Leonard whether she had
been to X, the station for Burnham. I mentioned the
correct name, a-nd also asked if she knew a place called
Burnham, giving again the correct name. She said she
had never heard of Burnham, but, as I was anxious to
be certain, she wished to ask her husband about the
station. I gave her no reason for my question. On
September 12th, 1917, Lady Troubridge took a sitting, and
after the sitting Mrs. Leonard told Lady Troubridge
that she had asked her husband about Burnhani and the
station in question, and that he said he had never heard
of Burnham, and also that he had no recollection that
he or his wife had ever been to the station X. In fact
they were both certain that they never had been to these
places. Mrs. Leonard, we gathered, had only travelled in
Scotland with her husband, and we have no reason to
doubt Mr. or Mrs. Leonard's veracity.
Section III. Concerning Daisy's Second Father.
We have now arrived at the last of those incidents
selected by us as being worthy of special notice. The
extracts that we are about to give concern a lady whom
Lady Troubridge did not know personally, and although
this lady has been a friend of mine for many years, I
have seen very little of her, she having been out of
England for long periods together. She has already been
referred to in the extract from the sitting of February 21st,
1917, as Daisy. (See above, p. 471.) At her request her
name, and those of other individuals mentioned, are dis-
guised. It may be as well to state the circumstances which
led up to the incidents about to be considered.
Daisy Armstrong lost her husband in the War ; she
was, and still is, almost entirely unacquainted with
Psychical Research. Prior to leaving England for the
Near East she had had two anonymous sittings with an
522 Miss Raddyffe-Hall and Lady Trowbridge. [PART"
obscure medium, obtaining no results on the first occasion
at which I was present, and but very scanty results on
the second. She was alone on this last occasion, but.
assures me that she gave nothing away. I believe this
to be the case, as I noticed how careful she was at her
first sitting, and I have since taken notes for her
at Mrs. Leonard's, and have found her an admirably discreet
sitter. During the early weeks of 1917, Daisy wrote to
me from the Near East asking me if I would try and
obtain through Mrs. Leonard some evidence with regard
to her husband. I replied immediately, promising to do
my best, but pointing out the difficulties of a proxy
sitting and telling her that I would await a favourable
opportunity before mentioning her wishes to the pur-
porting communicator, A. V. B., who had both known
and liked Daisy during her lifetime. At the time of
writing I had not decided upon any special date for
making my experiment ;
consequently, Daisy could have
had no idea when the subject would be broached at Mrs.
Leonard's.
A few days after I had posted my letter I happened
to have a sitting with Mrs. Leonard, namely, on February
14th, 1917. Lady Troubridge was recording, and I enquired
of Feda whether the purporting communicator, A. V. B.,
remembered an old friend of mine called Daisy, who had
stayed with us in the country when A. V. B. was ill.
The following is the record of my questions and of the
ensuing dialogue :
M. R. H. I think she's [A. V. B.] rather confused this morning,
but I am going to ask her a question. I want to
know whether she remembers an old friend of
mine called Daisy, who came to stay with us
in the country after Ladye was ill ?
F. She can remember Daisjr, hut she says Daisy's
not with her.
M. R. H. No, that's right.
F. She's not with Ladye. Ladye says Daisy is con-
nected with somebody whose name begins with a,
round letter, it's not an 0, it's a C or a G.
Lxxvm.] Knowledge of Matters unknoivn to Sitters. 523
M. R. H. I don't place that letter.
F. Wait a minute she's got some word she's trying
to get through. It isn't an ordinary kind of
name at all (here Feda gave a sotto voce rehearsal
of attempts at Daisy's surname, which she gave
quite correctly twice).
M. R. H. (to A. V. B.) All right, what Feda has said is quite
correct, and you understand which Daisy it is.
F. Yes, she does, certainly.
M. R. H. I Avant to know if she's met anyone on her side-
who is connected with Daisy. And I want to
be very careful not to say anything myself that
may spoil any proofs that come through for
Daisj'.
F. She says :
" Yes, I have, but, you understand, not
soon after I passed over." There is some reason
why she wouldn't meet them soon after she
passed over, their ways lay differently.
M. R. H. But she has met them 1
F. Yes, she has.
M. R. H. This is for Daisj^ and not for me, and that is why
I cannot speak openly. Can she give me some
description so that I am sure that we are thinking
of the same person ?
F. (sotto voce to A. V. B. : A lady did you say, are you
sure it's a lady ?) She has met a lady connected
with Daisy, but that lady passed on befcre Ladye
did. She has met someone else as well, and she
says :
" I saw the lady first " ; this other one isn't
a lady at all, Feda doesn't know why Ladye
brings her in, as she is not the most important.
She passed over long ago, but afterwards Ladye
met a gentleman whom she says Daisy knows
quite well ; and Ladye thinks she could get more
through about him if you would give her time,
but she says : "It's never so good if I try too
much."
M. R. H. No. Did she know him on the earth plane or not ?
F. She says it teas the one she knew on the earth
plane.
524 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
M. R. H. Does she think she could see him ?
F. She says : "I'll try ; I got that name through
because you weren't expecting it, I am clever
sometimes."
.H. R. H. Daisy is very anxious to obtain a message, and it
would be most charitable if Ladye would help.
F. She says :
" I will try, because someone else is just
as anxious to get a message through to Daisy
as Daisy to him, and I'll try and push something
through about him." And she kno-ws which
Daisy it is.
M. R. H. Yes, because she gave me a name.
F. Yes, she's cleverer at names than anyone.
Having got thus far we did not write to Daisy, as we
were desirous of keeping her mind off the subject as
much as possible, and were most anxious that she should
not know the dates on which sittings which concerned
her were talcing place. A week later, on February 21st,
1917, I took a sitting alone, acting as my own recorder.
I was scarcely expecting to obtain any reference to
Daisy's affairs, yet the sitting had not progressed very
far before a spontaneous allusion to Daisy was made by
Feda.
The beginning of this reference we have already given
in the section of this paper dealing with knowledge of
contemporary events, when treating of what appeared to
be a prophetic statement on the part of A. V. B. re-
garding my seeing Daisy. After that statement, which,
as will be remembered, came true, A. V. B. said through
Feda that Daisy had gone north and come south again,
and that that happened a little time ago ; she thought it
might have been a few weeks ago.
The statement regarding a few weeks is incorrect. We
subsequently learned from Daisy that she had made no
excursion from where she was at the time of the sitting,
which had taken her north and south. This reference,
however, reminded her of her journey out, which had been
interrupted by the ship's calling at Mudros after leaving
Naples. Had A. V. B. said through Feda that this going
Lxxvm.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 525
north and then south on Daisy's part, had been accom-
plished some months ago instead of some weeks ago,
the reference would have been interesting. As it is it
is not entirely devoid of interest. Peculiarly poignant
circumstances were connected with Mudros for Daisy,
whose ship, going out of its usual course, stopped there
quite unexpectedly on the exact date upon which her
husband's ship had called at that port when he was on
his way to the Front one year previously.
We will now take up the extract from the sitting of
February 21st, 1917.
F. Now Feda wonders if she's getting mixed, because
she's speaking of the sea in connection with Daisy,
and it's not a little bit of sea like it would be
if you were going to France—it's not like a
Channel crossing. She is speaking of a big lot
of water, many, many miles by sea, she says.
Wait a minute, now she says something about
Daisy lost someone. She says did Daisy lose
two people—one of them rather lately, and one
of them two or three years ago ? Because your
Ladye says she's been looking about since you
were here last time, and she's got into touch
with them. But all this is very difficult to get
through, she says, because she is so anxious to
do it.
M. R. H. Tell her to take her time.
F. (To A. V. B. : Are they both men ?) She says they
are both men, and that one of them is a man
who is not young, a man in the prime of life.
Feda can see him.
M. R. H. Is he here then ?
F. Yes.
M. R. H. Well, tell him I am ready to give up the morning
to anything he wishes to say.
F. Feda sees a man in the prime of life, he is about
medium height, perhaps on the tall side ; but this
is difficult to judge because Feda can't see his
legs. He seems to be broad across the chest and
526 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
shoulders. He has rather a habit of throwing
his shoulders back and sticking his stomach out.
He used to put his hand in his pocket. He has
rather a good-shaped face, broad across the
cheek-bones, and the lower part of the face looks
rounded. He's got a brownish moustache, yet
now, when Feda looks again, that moustache is
not there.
M. R. H. I don't quite understand ; is he showing hair on his
face this morning ?
F. Oh ! Mrs. Twonnie, when Feda said just now that
the lower part of his face seemed rounded, Feda
sees that it was not his chin that comes round
like that ; now it looks like a beard, but not a
long one ; it seems to surround his chin and is
not straggly. He's got a nose that shows the
bridge, and then curves in a little at the end ;
the tip curves downward (here Feda indicates a
small aquiline nose). The nose is not broad
across the bridge but broadens at the nostrils.
He is so afraid he's not getting this description
clear.
M. R. H. Tell him to take heart and cheer up.
F. Feda can't see his eyes very well, but they don't
look big, and they're rather twinkly ; the colour
seems to be mixed—hazel perhaps ; Ins eyebrows
are broadly marked ;
they are more straight than
arched, but they bend round a little at the
extreme end ;
they look browny.
M. R. H. Would he like to give any message to Daisy ?
F. He wants to give a description first ; he's got a
square forehead, and it looks to Feda as though
the hair receded on the temples, or else it is that
he brushes it back very much. He wears a soft
sort of hat ; Feda doesn't think it's a cap with a
peak, it looks like a hat with a brim, and the
brim seems to be turned up more one side than the
other. He's showing a suit that he thinks Daisy
would recognise ; it's a sort of browny coloured
suit, and has what looks like a check pattern,
xxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 527
but it's a mixed-up pattern, not a decided check,
and there seem to be other shades in it as well
as brown. He once had a whole suit of that sort,
but sometimes he would wear something light
instead of the waistcoat that belonged to the
suit. He is making Feda feel that he has travelled
a good deal,—not always stuck in one place, and
that when he passed on he had an awfully choky
feebng in the throat. You know, Mrs. Twonnie,
Feda doesn't think that he had been well for
some time before he passed on, though she
doesn't mean that he had always been awfully
ill. He looks like a very kind man, but a man
of the world ; he was kind, but very obstinate
sometimes. Your Ladye's been helping him, he
says. Since you were here last time she says
she's seen quite a lot of him. She says :
" Isn't
it funny ?
" He's trying to show Feda how
awfully obstinate he would be sometimes with
regard to anytliing that was for his own good.
He thinks Daisy will recognise that. Now Feda
doesn't know about this, it's not clear, but he
seems to be trying to tell her about something
to do with the sea in connection with him. It's
not living on the sea properly, but it has to do
with going over water, and there's some parti-
cular thing to do with a certain place. He is
showing Feda a place with very high buildings ;
it's curious, because the buildings are so high
that they make the street look like an alley
almost. The buildings rise up very straight on
each side of the street.
M. B. H. Would Daisy know about this ?
F. He thinks she ought to, because it's connected with
him. Now he is speaking of a wide street, a
street that has a budding in the very middle of
it, and streets that branch on each side from that
building that is in the middle of the wide street.
It goes like this : (here Feda draws with her
finger on M. R. H.'s knee, and indicates a straight
528 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
street with a building apparently in the middle
of the road, and two streets branching left and
right backwards from the building). These streets
have got houses in them, no, Feda's not sure
that they are only houses, she thinks there are
shops as well.
M. R. H. He's getting on very nicely.
F. You see, he says that he remembers this place that
he has just described, this street with the building
in the middle of it, very well indeed ; he re-
members it so well because he nearly always came
up that broad street and the building would face
him, and he says it nearly always struck his
attention. Now he's telling Feda that he used
sometimes to sit at a table and write in jerks.
He must be trying to show a house ; there seem
to have been two rooms, one opening out of the
other, and he would sit in the second room.
Oh, they're trying to show Feda something which
is very difficult, it looks as though in one of
those rooms there was something almost like a
machine, it seems to be on a table ; it's nearly
all made of some dark-coloured metal. Now Feda
sees that it looks like rather a big thing on a
stand ;
perhaps it is a stand that it was on and
not a table. There's like a roily tiling or rod
running through the middle of this machine, and
there are two other narrower rods as well, and
above the rods something seems to rise up, some-
thing that looks curved. He says that Daisy
ought to know, as it was something that he used,
and that even if she has not seen it he must
have spoken to her about it.
M. R. H. I think I recognise him.
F. He's awfully pleased.
M. R. H. But of course I should like to have it clearly
defined what relation he was to Daisy, but I
don't want you to force it.
F. He won't give it unless he can be sure of it. Feda
doesn't know what this means, but he says :
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 529
" There were two of us that stood in the same
relation to Daisy, but in a slightly different way."
He says that means something, and he hopes it
won't be misunderstood.
M. R. H. If he can't get it clear, leave it.
F. But he says those words are quite clear, you can
take them absolutely literally. He says :
" Two
of us did stand in the same relation to Daisy,
with a slight difference." He's so afraid she
won't understand his putting it in that way.
He says :
" Do you follow me ?
"
M. R. H. Yes, I think I do.
F. He wants you to tell Daisy that he was glad about
everything she did after his passing ; he considers
that she did everything for the best. Now this
is important : he says that he was worried,
because he felt that he ought to have arranged
something differently. After he had passed on
he felt that he had tied her up, limited and
restricted her by some condition or some arrange-
ment that he had made. He is very sorry that
he did so, he knows that it was a mistake now,
and that there was nothing to be gained. He
says, and now he's speaking to you, Mrs. Twonnie :
" I suppose you have gathered that this has got
to do with financial matters ; do you understand ?
"
M. R. H. No, but Daisy may.
F. He says Ladj'-e has been good to him, helping him.
M. R. H. Does he think that he can get anyone else to come
here for Daisy ?
F. He says : " I think so ;
you know I've seen him,
and it was decided that I should come first,
as I have, to a certain extent, been able to
master conditions more quickly than he could."
He's trying to say some name. (Here Feda
makes inarticulate sounds). He knows who if
is you want him to bring, he says it's a much
younger man than he is.
M. R. H. Correct.
530 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
F. He says : "It's all right, I thought Daisy would
know that I should see him." And now he
says to you, Mrs. Twonnie :
" It's funny, I
never thought I should be speaking to you in
this way, it's most unlooked for, unexpected and
extraordinary !
" He says he has many good
friends in the spirit world, but that he finds
life there very •
different to the earth life. Your
Ladye says she doesn't.
M. R, H. Why is that ?
F. Because people look at things differently. It's to
do with the different way that things appeal to
us here. This gentleman says he likes it, though.
Oh, he had a stick, Feda thinks it was a walking-
stick, and that it had been given to him. It
seems to have a rather pretty, light top to it.
The stick is of dark wood, but it seems to have
a light handle, and it impresses Feda that there
are two different sorts of material used in that
handle. He says he does apologise for taking
up so much time.
M. R. H. Tell him not to, because I am glad for Daisy.
F. He says it has been very hard indeed for Daisy,
Why does he keep on building up a letter R. ?
Now he's trying to say something more about
that 3
r oung man. He says that he passed on
in quite a different manner from Avhat he did
himself. Oh, now he's jumping, like your Ladye
does sometimes, and speaking of himself again.
He says that he was clean-shaven once, or that
he did shave once, only, he says, that people
didn't like it very much.
On receipt of these numerous details we prepared and
sent out question papers to Daisy to the Near East.
We shall not in this case insert the original question
papers as Ave did in the case of Sir Richard Rogers, as
Daisy's answers were rather discursive, and would
require too much space. We shall deal with the whole
subject therefore, in narrative form. Of course all
Lxxvin.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 531
the original correspondence, including question-papers and
answers, is in our possession. Certain of the points
given regarding the gentleman with the short beard I
myself knew to be correct, and through them I had
quickly gathered that the purporting communicator was
Daisy Armstrong's father, Mr. Benson (pseudonym). I had
made Mr. Benson's acquaintance about fifteen years ago, he
was then living in a small country town, in which
I had been lent a hunting-box. We met on several
occasions, though I never saw very much of him ; his
daughters became friends of mine, but he was seldom
present when I visited them, nor did he, to the best of
my memory, visit me more than once, if at all. But his
appearance has remained in my memory, and I recognised
several details in the descriptions of himself, etc., which he
gave through Feda during the sitting under discussion.
There were certain important points, however, given by
this communicator of which I had absolutely no know-
ledge until they were verified by Daisy and her sister
many weeks later.
When preparing question-papers pertaining to the sitting
of February 21st, 1917, we included one or two questions
also regarding points which had been mentioned on
February 14th, 1917 ; we had, as has been stated,
suppressed all mention of that sitting until further definite
evidence had been obtained.
Regarding the sitting of February 14th, 1917, Daisy
was unable to place the lady who was said to have been
connected with her, and to have passed over long ago ;
she thought that that person might be some female
relation, but could not remember any particular female
relation who would be likely to retain any great interest
in her. The letter G, standing for a name with which
Daisy was said to be connected, was placed by her as
being applicable to either of two people ;
namely, to a
young girl whose surname began with G, and who had
died unexpectedly the month prior to that sitting of
February 14th, 1917 ; or to her husband's best man,
killed in France, whose Christian name and surname both
began with G. Daisy said that the girl friend would be
2l
532 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
a good deal connected with her, and in view of a subse-
quent mention at a later sitting, by a communicator pur-
porting to be Daisy's husband, of an abbreviation of this
girl's Christian name, by which she was always called by
Daisy and her husband, it would seem likely that she was
the person meant on February 14th, 1917. Beyond the fact
that I obtained Daisy's surname at that sitting nothing
very remarkable occurred on February 14th, 1917.
There is, however, one other point worthy of mention :
when A. V. B. was asked whether she had known the
particular man connected with Daisy during her lifetime,
she replied through Feda in the affirmative, stating that
he was the one that she had known, thus clearly implying,
and correctly so, that although she had personally known
Daisy's husband, there was another man connected with
Daisy whom she had not known. This implication of
A. V. B.'s is further emphasized on February 21st, 1917,
as we shall see.
We will now consider the extract from the sitting of
February 21st, 1917. To begin with Feda tells us that
A. V. B. is speaking of the sea in connection with Daisy
;
not a little bit of sea, like a Channel crossing, but many, many
miles of sea. This is correct. We next find A. V. B. telling
us through Feda that Daisy has lost two people, both men,
one of them rather lately, and one of them two or three years
ago. It is correct to say that Daisy has lost two people ;
her husband and her father are both dead. Her husband
had, at the time of this sitting, been dead a little over
a year, but her father had been dead a little over ten
years ; she has lost no special person who died two or
three years ago. This is a mistake in time again, as
from what subsequently occurred there cannot be any
doubt that the husband and the father are the people
meant ; both these people are said to be men, one of
them a man not young, a man in the prime of life.
Daisy's father, Mr. Benson, was sixty-three when he died,
but according to his daughter he was very vital, and
mentally the equal of any man in his prime ; in any case
this elderly gentleman leaves no manner of doubt regarding
his identity.
lxxviii.] Knowledge, of Matters unknown to Sitters. 533
Mr. Benson is described as being broad across the chest
and shoulders ; I recognised this as correct, I also re-
membered him as having been rather corpulent, and I
thought at the time that I recognised his habit, described
by Feda, of throwing his shoulders back and sticking his
stomach out. I may also have noticed his habit of
keeping his hand in his pocket ; in any case it would
not be safe to presume that I had not noticed these
things. I asked Daisy whether this description was
characteristic, and she replied in the affirmative ; she also
consulted her sister regarding these points, who not only
confirmed them but reminded Daisy of a painting of
then father in uniform, in which he was represented as
having one hand thrust into his pocket ;
according to
the sister this habit of thrusting a hand into the pocket
and squaring the shoulders had been characteristic of
Mr. Benson during practically the whole of his adult
life. I cannot remember having seen the portrait, though
it is possible that I may have done so.
The shape of Mr. Benson's face is well described by
Feda, as is his beard, which surrounded his chin and was
not straggly. The nose is particularly well described ;
in life it very much resembled that of his daughter Daisy.
The eyes are also well described, as far as their twinkly
look goes and the fact that they were not very big.
Feda apparently cannot see their colour distinctly, hazarding
a guess that they may be hazel ; as a matter of fact
they were blue. The eyebrows are weU described, and
the hair, as stated by Feda, grew far back on his forehead.
We next come to the mention of a certain soft hat,
followed by the description of a suit ; now I may have
seen this hat, but my recollection of Mr. Benson is that
he wore a cap ; I may also have seen the suit, but that
is not so important.
In Daisy's answer to my question regarding this hat she
merely stated that her father had worn such a hat as
described ; later on, however, her sister amplified this
by reminding Daisy that such a hat as described had
been in their father's possession for many years, that it
went by the name of " the old hat," and that he was in
534 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Tronbridge. [paet
the habit of remarking :
" You will spoil my afternoon if
you won't let me wear the old hat." Daisy was able
to verifv the suit described, at least inasmuch as that
her father had a fawny-brown suit of Harris tweed with
orange and darker flecks in it ; she described it
mixture. Feda, as will have been noticed, speaks of
it as containing colours other than brown, but as being of
a check pattern, but goes on to say that it is a mixed
up pattern, and not a decided check. With regard to
the " something light " which, according to Feda, Mr.
Benson wore occasionally instead of the waistcoat belonging
to the suit, Ins daughters think that this must refer to
Mr. Benson's shirt-front, as he was in the habit of taking
off his waistcoat in hot weather. This, I may state,
was a habit entirely unknown to me ; I had only seen Mr.
Benson in the winter time.
We next find the communicator making Feda feel that
he had travelled a good deal, and the words " not always
stuck in one place " are very characteristic of him. I
did not know that he had travelled, but I did know that
he had had a passion for moving, being never contented
in one house or town for long. His daughters were both
struck by this remark, and commented on it to me.
From his daughters I afterwards learnt that Mr. Benson
had travelled abroad quite a lot in his youth. The
choky feehng described in his throat at the time of his
death is correct. Mr. Benson died of angina pectoris,
a fact which was known to me at the time. Feda tells
us that she gathers that he had not been well for some
time before he passed on ; this statement is correct, and
the fact that he had for some years suffered much from
his heart was also known to me. And just here there
occurs a comment of A. V. B.'s which further strengthens
her remark made on February 14th, 1917, alluding
apparently to Daisy's husband as " the one " that she
had known during her lifetime. In this present sitting,
after telling us that she has seen quite a lot of Mr.
Benson since I was last at Mrs. Leonard's, she says :
" Isn't it funny ?
" There would have been nothing funny
about it had A. V. B. and Mr. Benson known each other
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 535
during their lifetime, but point is given to the words by
the fact that they had never met this side of the grave.
:
Mr. Benson tries to show Feda that he was very
obstinate with regard to things that were for his good.
I had no idea that Mr. Benson was an obstinate man ;
as I have said, I only saw him upon a few occasions,
and his daughters were not in the habit of discussing
their private affairs with me. Daisy, however, recognised
this obstinacy at once, as indeed the communicator had
said through Feda that he thought she would.
Mr. Benson next tries to make Feda understand that
there was something connected with him that had to do
with going over water, some particular thing to do Avith
a certain place.
I knew nothing at all about this, but was able later
to ascertain from the daughters firstly that Mr. Benson
when much younger used to go constantly to Canada for
salmon fishing, and secondly (and it is to the following
incident that Daisy and her sister think he is alluding),
that many years ago, before Daisy was born, Mr. Benson,
accompanied by his wife and Daisy's sister, set sail from
England for Canada, with a view to settling there. The
journey out proved adventurous, an explosion occurred
on the ship, and the family was obliged to return to
England and start afresh. Arrived in Canada, they
remained there only three months, when the failure of a
Bank in which Mr. Benson had large interests affected
his fortunes ; and he, and his wife and child, returned
once more to England. Daisy and her sister remember
that their father very often alluded to this adventurous
journey, remarking that he had had tracts of the ground
upon which Toronto now stands offered to him in those
days for a mere song, and that had he only bought
them he would have become a very rich man.
In connection with this going over water, and this
certain place, Mr. Benson shows Feda a street in which
the buildings are so high that they make the street look
almost like an alley ; these buildings are said to rise
up very straight on either side of the street. I have
since learnt from the daughters that on several occasions.
536 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
during subsequent trips to Canada, Mr. Benson visited
New York, to which city they think the allusion to high
buildings refers. I had no idea that Mr. Benson had
ever set foot in America, or that he had ever been to
Canada.
We next find him speaking through Feda of a wide
street, in the very middle of which there is a building ;
he tells us that streets branch off on each side of this
building, and that these streets have got houses in them,
and shops as well. He says that he remembers this
place, this particular street with a building in the middle
of it ; and that the reason why he remembers it so well
is because he nearly always came up that broad street,
when the building in the middle would face him, nearly always
striking his attention. The streets and the building in question
were immediately recognised by me as being unmistakably
characteristic of the country town in which Mr. Benson
was living at the time when I met him. We are not
at liberty to give the name of the town, but there are
not many like it in England. In the very middle of
its High Street there stands a beautiful old Market Hall ;
it is quite unique, and from the back of it to right and
left branch other streets, containing shops as well as
houses. Daisy and her sister both tell me that while
living in that town then father frequently commented
upon the beauty of the Market Hall, which he passed
nearly every day.
We will now skip a part of the extract, to which we shall
return later, it requires separate treatment and cannot
be dealt with just here.
The next remark on the part of the purporting com-
municator with which we will deal is that in which he
sends a message to Daisy, to the effect that he was very
glad about everything which she did after his passing,
as he thinks it was all for the best.
Daisy and I both consider that these words refer to
her engagement and marriage, which occurred a short
time after Mr. Benson's decease. He next tells me that
after his death he felt worried regarding some arrange-
ment ; after he passed on, he says, he felt that he had
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknoion to Sitters. 537
limited and restricted Daisy by some condition that he
had made ; he goes on to express his regret, and to say
that he now knows that there was nothing to be gained.
Apropos of this he says to me, " I suppose you have
gathered that this has got to do with financial matters,
do you understand ?
"
Being in total ignorance regarding all Mr. Benson's
financial arrangements I did not understand ; nor had
I ever heard his Will mentioned or discussed, or seen
it in the papers. In answer to my question, Daisy
replied to the effect that her father had left a letter
for his Executors, in which he particularly specified that
it was his earnest wish and desire that when his daughters
inherited their capital they should themselves tie it up
in such a manner as to prevent their husbands touching
it. He laid great stress on this, and Daisy assures me
that both she and her sister looked upon his wish as a
binding obligation. In Daisy's case there was, as Mr.
Benson states, nothing to be gained, since Daisy has not
yet inherited her capital, and her husband is dead.
We next find the communicator saying that he knows
who it is that I want him to bring, and that it is a
much younger man than himself ;
which, as referring to
Daisy's husband, is a correct statement. A little later
on Mr. Benson expresses his astonishment at finding him-
self speaking to me, and says :
" It's funny, I never
thought I should be speaking to you in this way, it's
most unlooked for, unexpected and extraordinary." Con-
sidering our very slight acquaintance during Mr. Benson's
lifetime, and also that I very much doubt whether the
idea of communication between this state and another
ever entered his head, these words seem quite to the point.
He next speaks of a walking-stick which had been
given to him ;
apparently he shows it to Feda, who
tells me that it seems to have rather a pretty light top,
but that the stick itself is of dark wood, though it seems
to her to have a light handle composed of two different
sorts of material. In reply to my question regarding
this stick, Daisy told me that the stick in question was
one which her father was actually carrying when he fell
538 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
dead in the street. Daisy described this walking-stick
of her father's as being of dark-brown bamboo cane, the
handle being composed of light-coloured horn, with a
silver band ; from her I also learnt that this walking-
stick had been a present to her father from her mother,
some thirty years ago.
I cannot remember ever having seen the walking-stick
in question ; I asked Daisy's opinion on this point, and
she assures me that her father did not make a practice
of carrying this stick every day in the country. She
told me that at the time when I met him in the country
town that must be nameless, she is sure that he was
using a rough ash stick.
At the end of the extract we find Mr. Benson saying
that things have been very hard indeed for Daisy.
Without going into private details, it is admissible for
me to say that this statement is correct. Mr. Benson
builds up a letter R which up to the present we have
been entirely unable to place. He tells me that the
death of the young man, presumably Daisy's husband,
occurred in quite a different manner to his own ; and this
is true. And at the extreme end of the extract he
suddenly says through Feda that he, Mr. Benson, was
clean-shaven once, or that he did shave once, only people
didn't like it much. I have ascertained that, as far as
his family can remember, Mr. Benson was never clean-
shaven, though at one time he had a moustache only.
Why he says that people didn't like it much is up to
the present moment not apparent.
We now return to the interlude which we skipped, and
which, as will have been noticed in the extract, began
after the communicator had finished his description of the
street with the building in the middle of it, and ended
just prior to his request that I should reassure Daisy
concerning all that she had done since his death.
The interlude in question begins with a mention of some
one, who is said to be the communicator, sitting at a table
and writing in jerks, and continues with the description
of some communicating rooms, in one of which there is
said to be some kind of a machine. I did not recognise
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 539
the rooms at the time of the sitting, but thought never-
theless that they might have been correctly described,
and that I had forgotten the construction of Mr. Benson's
house. Just here in the sitting it seemed advisable to
endeavour to get from the communicator some statement
to the effect that he was Daisy's father. Accordingly I
asked what relation he was to Daisy, and to my question
I obtained a reply which completely bewildered me.
Mr. Benson is reported to say :
" There were two of us
that stood in the same relation to Daisy, but in a slightly
different way," and to remark that this statement of his
" means something, and he hopes that it won't be mis-
understood." Now to me these words convej^ed nothing ;
hence my remark that if the thing could not be stated
clearly it had better be left. But my suggestion was
ignored, as will have been noticed, and the communicator
says emphatically through Feda :
" Those words are quite
clear, you can take them absolutely literally, two of us
did stand in the same relation to Daisy, with a slight
difference " ; he also expresses a fear lest Daisy should not
understand his putting it in that way, concluding with the
words :
" Do you follow me ? "
I sent the extract to Daisy together with the question-
papers previously referred to, and received them back
from her in due course with a letter, from which we will
give an extract ; the names and addresses have been changed,
otherwise it is unaltered.
Extract from Mrs. Armstrong's Letter.
" X " Hospital, Sisters' Mess,
X , 10/3/17.
There is one point I would like to consult you about,
A very, very dear friend of mine passed over some time
between February 18th and February 24th of this present
year. He was my father's great friend, and devoted to
my sister Norah and me. After Father died he told me
he wished to stand in my father's place, and I always
called him " Daddy," and we were more to each other
than many fathers and daughters are. Now I only heard
-540 Miss Raddyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
of his death yesterday, and I do not know the date,
but when my father said " there were two of us that
stood in the same relation to Daisy but in a slightly
different way " tins came into my mind. Also Mr. Wilson
[pseudonym] had a sitting-room which led into another room,
and from that to his carpenter's shop and photography
room. In the first of these rooms stood a lathe at which he
frequently worked, and T would help him at it; also a
printing press, which he used a great deal. He wrote
nearly all day at a table ; and a good deal of the des-
cription of the house suggested this Second Father's home
rather than my own father's. Look up his death will
you % His name is the Rev. Bertram Wilson, The Pines,
Wickham, Nr. York.
Thus, it appears to us that we have quite an interesting
little problem.
It seems that Daisy had two fathers : her real father
Mr. Benson, and her second, or adopted father, the Rev.
Bertram Wilson. On receipt of the extract from the
sitting of February 21st, 1917, she is, it seems, at once
struck by her father's words :
" There were, two of us that
stood in the same relation to Daisy but in a slightly
different way," and she is also struck by the fact that the
rooms described resemble her Second Father's rooms,
rather than those of her real father, in wdiose house,
according to an answer on one of my question- papers,
the sitting-rooms did not communicate. She tells us
that this Second Father sat at a table writing nearly all
day, and that he had a printing-press and also a lathe
standing in one of the communicating rooms ; and as,
in addition to this, she added on one of my qiiestion-
papers, the fact that this Second Father was a musical
composer, we think that in that fact may perhaps be
found the explanation of what Feda calls " writing in
jerks," as the writing of MS. music can fairly be des-
cribed as jerky, in comparison to ordinary script. This
point did not strike Daisy, and we merely put it forward
as a suggestion. In addition to this, an inspection of
the " Excelsior " and " Model " Hand-Printing Machines
lxxvih.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. 541
has revealed that Feda's description of the " machine
nearly all made of some dark coloured metal, etc.," was
very near the mark indeed.1
Now comes the problem. Before the words in answer
to my question re what relation the communicator is to
Daisy, Feda describes some rooms communicating, and a
machine, as belonging to Mr. Benson ;
which rooms it would
seem were not his at all, but belonged apparently to his
old friend, Daisy's Second Father. How does a mistake
of this kind arise ? There appear to us to be two just
possible explanations, for either of which, however, it
would be necessary to assume the hypothesis of genuine
communication with a discarnate spirit. It is conceivable
then that Mr. Benson may have wished to show a man
other than himself as the occupant of those rooms, but
have failed to teU Feda that the mental picture, or what-
ever modus operandi he may have been employing, did
not apply to him personally. In other words, he may
have jumped suddenly from one stibject to another ; a
failing often ascribed by Feda to novice communicators.
Another explanation might be, that the Second Father
himself was somewhere in the offing, crossing the line for
a moment or two, or flinging as it were his own mental
pictures on to the screen, and that Feda thought they
emanated from Mr. Benson, who lacked the skill to
clear up the mistake. Such explanations are merely
hypothetical of course, and do not lead us much further
towards solving the riddle.
The importance of this mistake, whatever its cause may
have been, is, we think, echpsed by the interest attaching
to Mr. Benson's words " there were two of us, etc.," and
" two of us did stand, etc.," which we must now analyse.
At the time of the sitting we had no idea that Daisy
had ever possessed a Second Father, in fact we did not
know that such a person as the Rev. Bertram Wilson had
existed, much less that he had stood in a paternal relation
1
1 have since learned that the Rev. Bertram Wilson's printing press was a
hand-printing machine of the kind usually used in private houses. It seems
probable that it was an "Excelsior" or a "Model," as these are the makes
usually patronised by amateurs.
542 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
to Daisy. We were, therefore, much interested on receipt
of her letter, the more so as she states therein that she
has heard, on March 9th, 1917, namely, not until two weeks
and two days after the sitting of February 21st, 1917, that
this Second Father had died upon some date between
February 18th and February 24th, 1917 ; and begs me
to ascertain the exact day. Accordingly I wrote to the
vicar of Wickham, saying that Mrs. Armstrong was
desirous of knowing the date of the Rev. Bertram Wilson's
death. His reply was as follows (the names of course
are changed)
:
Extract from the Rev. R. A. Smith's Letter.
The Vicarage, Wickham,
Nr. York, 20/3/17.
Dear Madam,
The Rev. Bertram Wilson died on February 18^
at 9.15 p.m. He had been failing for some months and
latterly suffered great pain, etc.
From the above extract we see that Daisy's Second
Father was actually dead at the time of my sitting of
February 21st, 1917, a fact entirely unknown to Daisy
at the time of the sitting. She did not know the date
of his death, even when she heard of his decease two
weeks and two days later. Now neither Lady Troubridge
nor I can have known of the Rev. Bertram Wilson's death,
seeing that we did not know of his existence. Hence it
appears to us that a considerable significance attaches to
the use of the past tense by Mr. Benson, when he speaks
of this Second Father in the words :
" there were two
of us that stood in the same relation to Daisy, etc."'
And later :
" two of us did stand, etc." Mr. Benson
might reasonably be supposed to have met his old friend
on the other side, and to have wished, in answer to my
question, to kill two birds with one stone ; namely, to
convey to his daughter Daisy his relationship to her,
in a manner calculated to do away with the hypothesis of
mind-reading from the sitter, and at the same time to
ixxvui.] Knowledge, of Matters unknown to Sitters. 543
give Feda no clue as to his relationship to Daisy ;
and
thus forestall any attempt on her part to elaborate state-
ments off her own bat, a temptation to which controls
occasionally succumb.
To Lady Troubridge is due the credit of having grasped
the significance of the use of the past tense by Mr.
Benson. But we were both uncertain as to how far her
interpretation was admissible ;
therefore, upon the receipt
of the letter from the vicar of Wickham, I wrote out
a statement giving briefly the incidents that had led up
to that part of the extract from the sitting of February
21st, 1917, in which Mr. Benson's significant words occur,
and sent it with an accompanying letter, and the extract
itself, to Mrs. Salter, Miss Newton, the Rev. M. A.
Bayfield, Mr. J. G. Piddington, and Mr. J. Arthur Hill,
and to Mrs. Alice Perrin, the well-known authoress. We
asked their opinion as to whether, in view of the words
spoken at the sitting, we must conclude that both men
were dead, or one dead and the other alive on February
21st, 1917. We were naturally very careful to give no
hint as to what reply would be most acceptable.
We thus obtained the opinion of six people, well quali-
fied, we think, to form unbiassed judgments. The pre-
ponderance of opinion is certainly on the side of Daisy's
Second Father having been dead at the time of the sitting.
Mr. J. Arthur Hill inclines strongly to the behef that
both the men should have been considered to have been
dead. He expresses himself as being " almost certain."
Mrs. Alice Perrin has no doubt whatever that the message
was meant to convey that Daisy's Second Father was
already dead. Mrs. Salter feels rather doubtful, finding
the communicator's words ambiguous, she thinks, however,
that if the communicator had wished to make it clear
that the other man was still alive he should have said
" someone now stands in the same relation to Daisy in
which I stood," or words to that effect ; and although
she feels that the communicator's words really leave the
question open, she thinks that the weight is a little on
the side of supposing that the other man was dead. Miss
Newton considers that the inference to be drawn from
544 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
the words is that both the real father and the Second
Father have passed away. Mr. M. A. Bayfield considers
that the natural conclusion to be drawn from the words
is that the Second Father is also dead. Mr. J. G.
Piddington cannot see how any meaning can be read
into the words, other than that the real father and the
Second Father both were dead.
In view of the opinions above given, it would seem
that there is good ground for* supposing that the state-
ment made by Mr. Benson meant something, as he told
us through Feda was the case.
There remained, however, yet one more point to con-
sider ;
namely, whether Daisy was actually in fear of
her Second Father's imminent death at the date of the
sitting in question. I wrote to her regarding this, and
will quote my questions and her answers just as they
stand
.
Question. 1.
Were you feeling anxious about Mr. Wilson prior to
February 21st, 1917 ?
Answer.
I had experienced an uneasy feeling that all was not
well with him, which was purely a presentiment because
I had had no news of him for some months, and had
myself written for his birthday on February 24th. I
was alwaj^s a little anxious, as his health was poor and
he was over seventy.
Question 2.
Did you know he was in ill health prior to February
21st, 1917 ?
Answer.
Yes, his health had been very poor for the past eighteen
months, but not of course bad enough to prevent his
writing and getting about a certain amount.
Question 3.
Did you fear he was in danger of dying prior to Feb-
ruary 21st, 1917 ?
lxxviii.] Knowledge of Matters unknown to Sitters. .">4.i
Answer.
No, but I knew the nature of his illness (as he had
told me privately the Doctor's opinion) ; but from what
he said I imagined he might go on living for some years.
It appears clear that although Daisy had a presentiment
chat all was not well, and that although she knew that
Mr. Wilson was not in good health, she was, according
to her own statement, under the impression that he might
live for some years to come ; and that although she Avas
worried about him at about the time of the sitting in
question, she was not feeling any apprehension regarding
his imminent decease. I have questioned Daisy very
closely on all matters pertaining to this Second Father
incident. One point especially appeared to us to require
further confirmation, namely, whether there had ever
been any suggestion of Mr. Wilson being regarded by
Daisy in the light of a second father during her real
father's lifetime. Had this been the case, there would
have been far less importance attaching to the use of
the past tense by the communicator as being indicative
of the fact that Mr. Wilson was already dead on February
21st, 1917. In her letter dated March 10, 1917 (see
above, p. 539), Daisy states that Mr. Wilson told her that
he wished to stand in her father's place after her father
died, but she did not definitely state that this suggestion
had never been broached during her real father's lifetime,
and, although improbable, it seemed just possible that
Mr. Wilson might have assumed the role of second father,
while the real father lived. This it appears was not the
case, and Daisy has most kindly signed a statement
regarding this and other points.
I may say that Lady Troubridge had never any doubt
that Mr. Benson's words must be taken as meaning that
his old friend was dead at the date of the sitting. She
argued in this way :
" Supposing a man's first wife to
be communicating with his second wife during a sitting,
and the first wife when asked to define her relationship
to the husband replied " there were two of us that stood
in the same relation to Tom," and again " two of us
546 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
did stand in the same relation to Tom,"' the sitter, being
the second wife, might reasonably reply :
" that is in-
correct, because I did not stand in that relationship to
Tom at the same time as you did, but I do stand in
it now that you have ceased to do so." And this I
think is quite logical.
It may be added that both Mr. Benson's daughters
were much struck by the phrase: "Do you follow me?"
This phrase, they tell us, was frequently used by Mr.
Benson during his lifetime, just as were the words :
" Do
you understand 1
" which occurred earlier in the sitting.
With this incident of Daisy's Second Father we end
this paper. At a later sitting, referred to in Mrs. Arm-
strong's statement, namely, on February 28th, 1917, Daisy
Armstrong's husband purported to communicate. This
communicator gave some good proofs of identity, and from
him also we obtained facts which were entirely unknown
to us at the date of the sitting. They were, however,
owing perhaps to the fact of the purporting communi-
cator being one of many young officers killed in the war,
not so striking as those purporting to come from Daisy's
father, Mr. Benson.
LXXVIII.] Appendix A. 547
APPENDIX A.
It has seemed advisable to us to obtain in writing from
the two medical men whom we consulted, a confirmation
of their verbal statement made to us regarding the affec-
tion of A. V. B.'s eye, which, in their opinion, was a
premonitory symptom of her stroke. Lady Troubridge
therefore wrote to these two gentlemen, and a copy of
the relevant portion of their letters in reply appears below.
The first extract is from the letter of one of the medical
men who actually attended A. V. B. from the onset of
her last illness. The second extract is from the letter
of a medical man who did not attend A. V. B., but who
knew her personally, and in addition to this, whose
practice has been of a nature to give him exceptionally
extensive experience in cases of apoplectic seizure.
Extract from Dr. 's Letter.
George Hotel, ,
Sussex, June 26th, 1918.
Dear [Lady] Troubridge,
Many thanks for your letter. I remember quite
well all you mentioned with regard to Mrs. .
Cerebral haemorrhages are often preceded by a rupture
of a delicate vein or artery in the eye, causing the exact
symptom of impaired vision you quote. 1
There can be
no doubt whatever that the condition was a part of the
whole ending, practically the first evidence of it, though
it may occur without the subsequent cerebral haemorrhage
coming on at the time.
1 The symptom quoted was that described by A. V. B. in her diary
for 1916, in which she described her visual affection as being like
" floating chenille worms " in front of her left eye.
2 M
548 Miss Radclyjfe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
Extract from Dr. 's letter.
St. John's Wood, N.W.,
July 2nd, 1918.
My dear Una,
Please excuse the delay in answering your letter,
but I was away in the country for the week end. Now
in reference to Mrs. B , I can assure you that our
mutual friend can let her mind rest quite tranquil. The
attack that Mrs. B had, there is no doubt had been
coming on for some time, and the black streaks which
you very well describe as like chenille worms often are
seen by the person when a clot has been forming on the
brain.
One lady I attended at , called me in one day on
account of having, as she described it, floating string
before her eyes ;
well, ten days after, although seeming
well at the time, she had a stroke from which she never
recovered.
I had also another case which I well remember, a woman
about fifty sent for me, and said " I am sorry to trouble
you to come and see me, for I am sure you will laugh
when I tell you what I am suffering from . . .
(some irrelevant symptoms omitted), and what is strange
is I see things floating before my eyes and I want to
catch them with my hands." I simply said they were
nothing, although I had my doubts. Well, three days
after, she had a seizure, she lived for about three months.
LXXVIII.] Appendix B. 549
APPENDIX B.
Since the above was written on the " Billy " episode it
has become necessary to add yet a few more words, for
A. V. B. through Feda has, we think, rounded up the
episode in question by clearly indicating that " Billy
"
was indeed a wire-haired terrier.
First of all it is necessary to remember that although
during the sittings of Dec. 6th, 1916, and Dec. 13th, 1916,
the description given apparently stamped the dog as
being " Billy," Lady Troubridge's wire-haired terrier, there
was very little reference made to " Billy's " personal
appearance. But, on Oct. 17th, 1917, during a Leonard
sitting, taken and recorded by me at Datchet, words were
spoken by Feda which we think it is admissible to
assume defined the dog " Billy " as being a wire-haired
terrier. Because, although " Billy " is not mentioned by
name in the present sitting, and is only referred to as a
dog in what Feda calls the "spirit world" of whom
A. V. B. sees a good deal, we have been clearly told on
Dec. 6th, 1916, and Dec. 13th, 1916, that A. V. B. sees
a lot of " Billy " and on no occasion has any other dog
been mentioned in conjunction with her life in her present
state.
It happens that Lady Troubridge had accompanied me
to Datchet, together with a wire-haired terrier at present
in her possession. She had not, however, attended the
sitting. But prior to the sitting Mrs. Leonard had seen
and petted the terrier in question. This was the first
time that Mrs. Leonard had spoken to the dog, though
she had seen him casually once after a sitting.
During the sitting of October 17th, 1917, just as Feda
was about to leave her medium, I obtained the following
words :
F. She says give her love to Mrs. Una. Ladye says
550 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge. [part
there is a dog like that, she often sees in the
Spirit World.
M. R. H. Like what ?
F. Like the dog that Mrs. Una's got with her to-day,
a white dog, with dirty marks on it.
Here we have apparently A. V. B. or Feda recognising
a similarity which most certainly does exist between Lady
Troubridge's present wire-haired terrier and the " Billy
"
of former days. When Feda says, " a white dog with
dirty marks on it " the description is correct for both
the terriers, but especially so for " Billy " who was more
heavily marked and had much more black about him
than the present dog.
One may ask, how comes it that Feda or A. V. B.
saw the present dog, on October 17th, 1917, as he was
not in the room when the medium was in trance, and the
fact that the medium had spoken to the dog just prior
to the sitting might suggest that a picture of him had
been found photographed on her mind and had been
utilised by the trance-personality or the purporting com-
municator. This does not explain, however, the fact of
the comparison being made between the living dog and
a dog often seen by A. V. B. in the " spirit world."
Feda and A. V. B. both claim to be on the spot, as it
were, before sittings begin, they both claim to overhear
conversations that occur, and to observe actions and
objects prior to sittings.
Interest is added to this little rounding up of the
" Billy " incident by the fact that about two months
prior to this sitting of October 17th, 1917, Lady Trou-
bridge and myself, although still anonymous, had spent
a couple of nights with Mrs. Leonard in Devonshire for
the purpose of holding sittings during Mrs. Leonard's
vacation. During that visit we had with us a black and
tan Pekinese, with whom Mrs. Leonard made tremendous
friends. During that visit also my collie-dog was mentioned
once in Mrs. Leonard's hearing, although no description
of him was given, and his name was not mentioned.
One would think that had any dog been very much
LXXVIII.] Appendix B. 551
associated with us in Mrs. Leonard's mind it should have
been the Pekinese, yet, although we had four sittings
during our stay with Mrs. Leonard in Devonshire, no
mention was made of "Billy," and no comparison was
drawn between the Pekinese with whom Mrs. Leonard
was hving in close contact and any dog in the " spirit
world." She was. in fact, seeing the Pekinese almost every
moment of the day. It was not until the present wire-
haired terrier was brought upon the scene that what we
think may reasonably be taken as being another allusion
to " Billy " occurred, the memory of him having been
revived apparently by the proximity of a dog of his own
particular breed.
552 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge.
APPENDIX C.
[part
W
X
pq
O
LXXVIII.] Appendix D. 553
APPENDIX D.
Mrs. Armstrong's Statement.
Regarding the sittings of February 14th, February 21st,
and February 28th, 1917, which were held with Mrs.
Leonard by M. Radclyffe-Hall at my request, I being
in X at the time : —I wish to state that I had not
the slightest idea that the sittings were taking place upon
the above-mentioned dates. I had written to M. Radclyffe
Hall requesting her to endeavour to get into touch with
my late husband, but I did not of course know when she
proposed making the effort. The first intimation I had
from M. Radclyffe-Hall that the sittings of the 14th and
21st had occurred was when, some weeks later, I received
extracts from the sittings sent to me by her ; and the
same applies to the sitting of February 28th. With
these three extracts M. Radclyffe-Hall sent me question
papers dealing with points in the sittings, which question
papers I answered to the best of my ability at the time,
returning them to her. On my return to England I
made further inquiries re certain details at the suggestion
of M. Radclyffe-Hall ; and through the assistance of my
mother and sister was able to completely verify one or
two little points. On May 10th, 1917, I went to M.
Radclyffe-Hall's flat, and during the afternoon and evening
was able to communicate to her the further pieces of
information which I had obtained. M. Radclyffe-Hall
made careful notes while I did so. She was very parti-
cular about one point, namely, whether my Father's
friend, the Rev. Bertram Wilson, had stood in the relation
of a " Second Father " to me during my own Father's
lifetime. I assured M. Radclyffe-Hall that there had
never been the slightest intimation given during my
Father's lifetime that Mr. Wilson wished to stand in a
paternal relationship to me ; it was only after my Father's
554 Miss Radclyffe-Hall and Lady Troubridge.
death that this gentleman asked me to look upon him as
a Father, and insisted that I should call him " Daddy."
Mr. Wilson wished me to go and live with him and fill
a daughter's place in his life. I did not go and five
with him, although after my Father's death he became
to all intents and purposes my Father. As may be seen
by my letter, written from " X " Hospital, X ,
10.3.17,
I did not know of my "Second Father's" death until
some sixteen days after M. Radclyffe-Hall's sitting of
February 21st, and even then I did not know the date
of his death, having only heard that he had died
some time between February 18th and 24th of this
present year. During my visit to M. Radclyffe-Hall's
flat on May 10th, 1917, I told her that I had turned
up the letter written to me by my late husband from
Malta, and posted after he left that place. Having the
letter with me, I requested M. Radclyffe-Hall to read for
herself that portion of the letter which pertained to my
husband's kit, etc., and which appeared to have a direct
bearing upon some words given through Feda during the
Leonard sitting of February 28th, 1917. M. Radclyffe-
Hall read that portion of the letter, and requested me to
make a copy of same, which I did. I saw the letter
written by M. Radclyffe-Hall to Mrs. Leonard asking for
an appointment for me. In it she gave no clue as to
my having returned from abroad—on the contrary, she
said that I was a friend of hers who was about to leave
England. I do not consider that her letter gave the
slightest clue to my identity.
(Signed) Daisy Armstrong.
May Uth, 1917.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidgwiok, - 1882-84.
Professor Balfour Stewart,
F.R.S., 1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidgwiok, - 1888-92.
The Right Hon. a. J. Balfour,
M.P., O.M., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894-95.
Sir William Crookes, O. M., F.R.s., 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers, - - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. - 1901-03.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S. , - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - 1905.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour,- 1906-07.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwiok, - - - 1908-09.
H. Arthur Smith, - - - 1910.
Andrew Lang, 1911,
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., .... i9i2.
Professor Henri Bergson, - - 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, - - 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LL.D., Litt.D.. - - - 1915-16.
L. P. Jacks. LL.D., D.D., - -1917-18.
The Rt. Hon. Lord Rayleigh,
O.M., F.R.S. , - 1919
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1920.
PRESIDENT.
Wm. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M.,
F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Sir George Beilby, F.R.S., LL.D.
Captain Ernest N. Bennett.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Prof.Gilbert Murray, LL. D.,Litt. D.
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt
W. H. Salter.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
"
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
W. Whately Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., P.R.S.
Charles Lloyd Tucket, M.D.
V. J. Woollet, M.D.
M. B. Wright, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
J. G. Piddington, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
HON. SECRETARY.
Mrs. Henrt Sidgwick, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. l.
EDITOR AND HON. RESEARCH OFFICER.
Mrs. W. H. Salter, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
SECRETARY AND LIBRARIAN.
Miss I. Newton, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
AGENTS FOR AMERICA.
The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
May, 1920.
President—Wm. M'Dougall, F.R.S. M.Sc, M.B.
Vice-Presidents.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M., F.R.S. , 4 Carlton
Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., Longcross House, Chertsey,
Surrey
.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, 519 West 149th Street, New York City.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., 82 Woodstock Road,
Oxford.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, Corpus Christi CoUege, Oxford.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., 20 Hanover Square, London,
W. 1.
Honorary Members.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., Longcross House, Chertsey,
Surrey.
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de
Physique Generale, 12 rue Cuvier, Paris.
Miss Alice Johnson, Meadowside, Grantchester Meadows, Cam-
bridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, c/o The Russian Legation,
Christiania, Norway.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
558 Members and Associates. [part
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Printemps, Le Cannet (Alpes Mari-
times), France.
Professor Henri Bergson, 31 Rue d'Erlanger, Paris.
Professor Bernheim, Hopital Civil, Nancy, France.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Dariex.
Dr. Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W.
Professor Th. Flournoy, The University, Geneva.
Professor Dr. Freud, ix., Berggasse 19, Vienna.
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Mrs. William James, 95 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Pierre Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, VIIe
, Paris.
Dr. C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
M. Maurice Maeterlinck, 32 rue Perronet, Neuilly-s.-S., France.
Professor Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de l'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 2 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Browning, Oscar, Palazzo Simonetti, via Pietro Cavallini, Rome.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
Edmunds, Miss L., P.O. Box 111, Alton, R.I., U.S.A.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Institute Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 63 Newbridge Road, Bath.
Grubb, Edward, 26 Avondale Road, Croydon, Surrey.
Hill, J. Arthur, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., The Rowans, Balsall Common, nr.
Coventry.
Reed, Miss E. M., 2 Gledhow Gardens, S. Kensington, London,
S.W. 7.
Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIVe
Arrt., Paris,
van Eeden, Frederik, M.D., Walclen, Bussum, Holland.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 559
Members and Associates.
An asterisk is i^refixed to the names of Members.
Abernethy, Mrs., 10 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena, 23 Vale Avenue, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Adair, Desmond, Little Flixton, Forest Road, Worthing.
Adamowska, Madame S., 11 Channing Street, Cambridge, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Adamson, T., 16 Dominion Buildings, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.
*Agar, Mrs. J. S., c/o Messrs. Agar, Cross & Co., Carlton House,
11d Regent Street, London, S.W. 1.
Aglen, F. A., Inspectorate General of Customs, Peking, China.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alden, H. W., 21 Edison Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allan, Miss J., Sauchrie, Maybole, Ayrshire.
Allan, Percy, M.D., Crogdene, Croham Road, South Croj^don,
Surrey.
Allen, B. M., 14 Gainsborough Gardens, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Allen, Professor H. J., c/o The National Bank of India, 26 Bishops-
gate, London, E.G. 2.
* Allen, P. F., c/o W. E. Clark Lbr. Co. Inc., 207 Whitney Central
Building, New Orleans, La., U.S.A.
Allen, William, M.B., 20 Sandyford Place, Glasgow.
Alston, Mrs. Rowland,
* Anderson, Lady, 4 Trebovir Road, London, S.W. 5.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Brig, -General A. T., R.A., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16
Charing Cross, London, S.W. 1.
Anderson, F., 1628 19th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Anderson, Mrs. Henry C, East Morningside House, Clinton Road,
Edinburgh.
Andrews, Dr. Marion B., 73 Shrubbery Avenue, Worcester.
Anstey, Lieut. -Colonel E. C, R.A., Junior Naval and Military
Club, 96 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Appleby, Joseph, Farnley, Great Crosby, Liverpool.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
560 Members and Associates. [part
Armstrong, Miss M. M., 57 Redington Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Arnold, Mrs. A. E., 98 Masbro' Road, London, W. 14.
*Arnold-Foster, Mrs. H. 0., Basset Down, Swindon, Wilts.
Ashcroft, Mrs., Ladies' Athenaeum Club, 32 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
*Assheton-Smitb ,
Lady, c/o Lady Montgomery, 25 Bruton Street,
London, W. 1.
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. Lawrence Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Auden, Harold A., 52 Calthorpe Street, Garston, Liverpool.
Aune, E., Raub, Pahang, Federated Malay States.
*Aun6n, Marquis de, Palazzo di Spagna, Rome.
Austen, Harold W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London,
W. 5.
Austin, C. G, I.C.S., District Judge, Kurnool, South India.
Babcock, Mrs. Bernie, 512 Palm Street, Little Rock, Arkansas,
U.S.A.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Highground, Waterford Rd., Oxton, Birken-
head, Cheshire.
*Baddeley, Colonel C. E., C.M.G., c/o Miss F. Baddeley, Cathedral
House, Gloucester.
Baddeley, Miss Florence A., Cathedral House, Gloucester.
*Baggally, Wortley W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
*Bagot, Richard, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, S.W. 1.
Baikie, W. S., Southend, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
Baker, Alfred, L., Lake Forest, Illinois, U.S.A.
Baker, Mrs. Charles, 27 Kensington Gardens Square, London, W. 2.
*Baker, Rev. F. C, 69 Cunningham Park, Harrow, Middlesex.
Baker, Miss Mabel, 21 Lansdowne Avenue, Slough, Bucks.
*Baldwin, Mrs., 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., M.P., O.M., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W. 1.
Balfour, F. C. C, 32 Addison Road, Kensington, London, W. 14.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
Banner, Mrs., Triven, Benson-on-Thames, Wallingford.
-*Barcellos, A. M. S., 47 Hampstead Road, Wallasey, Cheshire.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 561
Barclay, Edwyn, 8 Egerton Terrace, London, S.W. 3.
Barclay, Mrs. Edwyn, 8 Egerton Terrace, London, S.W. 3.
Baretti, Mrs., 156 Mill Lane, West Hampstead, London, N.W. 6.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., 2327 Grand Avenue, Milwaukee, Wis., U.S.A.
Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Ladies' Imperial Club, 17 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
*Barlow, Miss Katharine, St. Valerie, Bray, Co. Wicklow, Ireland.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., Longcross House, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Barritt, E. H., J.P., White House, Layer Breton, Kelvedon.
*Barrow, J. R., Chittagong, Bengal, India.
Baruch, Edgar, 563 I. W. Hellman Building, Los Angeles, Cal.,
U.S.A.
Basden, Miss Isabel K., 21 The Drive, Hove, Sussex.
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S., Chhindwara, Central Provinces, India.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Clinton, Tring, Herts.
*Batty, Mrs. V. Roy, 40 Harley House, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1524 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Bayfield, L. Arthur. Park Grange, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*Bayfield, Rev. M. A., The Rectory, Hertingfordbury, Hertford.
Baynes, W. E. C, Assiut, Upper Egypt.
*Beadon, Mrs., at 11 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton.
*Beavis, Captain P. E., O.B.E., North Lynn, 106 Highbury New
Park, London, N. 5.
Beckett, Mrs. Clifford, 111 Iverna Court, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Beckett, W. N., D.Sc, Lieut. R.N., c/o Messrs. Stilwell & Sons,
42 Pall Mall, London, "S.W. 1.
*Behrens, Captain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
*Beilby, Sir George, F.R.S., LL.D., 11 University Gardens, Glasgow.
Belaribi, Mrs., Bartlands, Holt Heath, Worcestershire.
Bell, Miss Alison H., Exmoor, Quickley Lane, Chorley Wood,
Herts.
*Bell, Dr. Mary C, 30 Priory Road, London, N.W. 1.
Bello, Constantin, Delegation Hellinique, Hotel Mercedes, Paris,
France.
Bennett, Colin N, Escot, Penzance, Cornwall,
562 Members and Associates. [part
*Bennett, Captain E. N, 12 Prince Arthur Road, Hamjostead,
London, N.W. 3.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 65 Cornhill,
London, E.G. 3.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College,
Cambridge.
*Benson, E. F., 25 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
Benton, Dr. J. R., Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
*Benton, W. E., 18 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
Bergen, Axel von, Abbey Road, Darlington, Durham.
Berrington, Rev. Leslie G., Churchover Rectory, Rugby.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
*Bertie, L. W. H., M.A., The Nook, 110 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Betton, C. Steuart, c/o Grincllay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Bevan, Arthur 0., Townsend House, Nantwich, Cheshire.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Bevan, Rev. W. 0., Kalutara, Ceylon.
*Beveridge, Erskine, L.L.D., St. Leonard's Hill, Dunfermlime, N.B.
Bibesco, H.H. Prince Antoine, 114 Grosvenor Road, London,
S.W. 1.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W. L
:;:
Binney, Lady Marjory, Pampisford Hall, nr. Cambridge.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Ringwood, Hants.
Black, Mrs., 33 Rectory Place, Woolwich, London, S.E. 18.
Blackburn, A. J., Aruba House, The Leazes, Burnopfield, Durham.
Blacklock, Miss O, Salvington Grange, nr. Worthing, Sussex.
Blane, Miss Edith H., 16 St. Augustine.'s Mansions, Vincent Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House. Batheaston, Bath.
Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Bishop of, Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
*Bodley, Mrs., Exton, Lopsham, Devon.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. Robertson Bois & Co., 12 Fenchurch
Street, London, E C. 3.
Bond, F. Bligh, F.R.I.B.A., 25 Sydenham Hill, Bristol.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 563
Bond, Major W. G, O.B.E., Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Bond, Mrs. W. C, Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Bonus, A. R,, Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Boothroyd, A. E., Warley, 4 Meadway Gate, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 4.
Booyalsky, Jean de, 54 Rue de la Liberte, Liege, Belgium.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 38 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
Boustead, Mrs., Westfield, Wimbledon Common, London,
S.W. 19.
Bouwens, B. G., Old Manor House, Littleton, Shepperton,
Middlesex.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Bowditch, C. P., Ill Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bowen, Miss Anna O, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
Box, Alfred Marshall, Woodlands, 14 Magrath Avenue, Cambridge.
Boxer, Miss Cecile F., Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Boxer, Major H. C, Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Bozzano, E., Salita Emanuele Cavallo, N. 92, Genoa.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., Langham House, Wallington.
Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 54 Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Bradley, F. H., Merton College, Oxford.
Braithwaite, Lieut. -General Sir Walter, K.C.B., e/o Messrs. Cox &
Co., 16 Charing Cross, London, S.W. 1.
Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.G. 3.
Bray, F. E., 17 The Boltons, London, S.W. 10.
Brayshaw, John L., Settle, Yorkshire.
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Brierley, Mrs. D. F., Hazel Hurst, Haywards Heath.
Bristowe, The Hon. Mr. Justice, Supreme Court, Pretoria, South
Africa.
Broad, C. D., Litt.D., 159 South Street, St. Andrews.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and 'Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
564 Members and Associates. [part
Brown, Captain A. D. Burnett, M.C., Greenhurst, Beaconsfield,
Bucks.
*Brown, B. G., 46 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
*Brown, B. H. Inness, 24 Broad Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Inglewood, Pathhead, Kirkcaldy.
Brown, Mrs. Frank Clifton, 16 Half Moon Street, London, W. 1.
* Brown, Haydn, L.R.C.P., Manor Lodge, Chislehurst, Kent.
Brown, Leo M., P.O. Box 953, Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
*Brown, Wm., M.D., D.Sc, 14 Welbeck Street, Cavendish Square,
London, W. 1.
Browne, Professor Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cam-
bridge.
Browne, 0. H., Hyderabad, Deccan, India.
Brownrigg, Lady, White Waltham, Maidenhead, Berks.
Bruce, James, Craik, Sask., Canada.
*Bubb, Henry, J.P., Ullenwood, near Cheltenham.
*Buchanan, Lieut. -Colonel H. M., Medical Headquarters, 4th N.Z.
Inf. (Res.) Brigade, Sling Camp, Bulford, Salisbury.
*Buist, Mrs., Swalcliffe Lea, Banbury, Oxon.
Bullard, Dr. W. N, 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,
Canada.
*Bulley, Mrs. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
*Bullough, EdAvard, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burnett, Miss Ethel, Crathes Castle, Crathes, N.B.
Burnham, Mrs., Staindrop Lodge, Chapeltown, Sheffield.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, Mrs. Charles, c/o Lloyds Bank, Knightsbridge Branch,
Brompton Road, London, S.W. 1.
Burton, Mrs. Harry, 25 via dei Bardi, Florence, Italy.
Bury, Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
*Bush, E., 11 Silver Street, Wakefield, Yorks.
Bushell, Miss S. D., The Hermitage, Harrow-on-the-Hill.
*Busk, Mrs., 6 Wadham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, 25 Broadwater Down, Tunbridge Wells.
Butt, Lady, c/o London Joint City & Midland Bank, South Ken-
sington Branch, Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., 9 Huskisson Street, Liverpool.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 565
Caccia, Major A. M., 24 Morpeth Mansions, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Caird, Mrs. Henryson, 34 Woronzow Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
Call, Major Felix, D.S.O., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W. 1.
'"Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, Mrs. Burnley, Ormidale, Glendaruel, Colintraive, Argyll-
shire.
*Campbell, Mrs., Arduaine, Lochgilphead, N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., 9 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W. 1.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., Christ Church Vicarage, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
*Campbell-Lang, Miss, c/o Professor Brunton, LL.B., 180 Hope
Street, Glasgow.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road East, London, E. 1.
Candler, Miss M. I., 37 Commercial Road East, London, E. 1.
*Carew, Mrs. R. T., 4 Trebovir Road, London, S.W. 5.
*Carlton, Arthur, J.P., Colehurst, Worcester.
*Carnarvon, The Earl of, 13 Berkeley Square, London, W. 1.
Carnock, Lord, 53 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Carpenter, Mrs., 43 Teignmouth Road, Cricklewood, London,
N.W. 2.
Carr, H. Wildon, D.Litt., 107 Church Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Carr, Lucien, 163 Brattle Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Carrington, Hereward, Ph.D., 504 West 111th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
Carruthers, Mrs. W., c/o Bank of Montreal, 9 Waterloo Place, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Carter, Mrs. F. M., 252 Union Street, Aberdeen, N.B.
*Carter, Mrs. H. A., Mena House, St. Erth, Hayle, Cornwall.
Case, Miss A. J., 35 Elm Bank Mansions, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
Cave, Captain A. L., Sherwood, Newton St. Cyres, Devon.
*Cave, Charles J. P., Ditcham Park, Petersfield, Hants.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Alford House, Alford, Somerset.
566 Members and Associates. [part
Chadwick, Mrs. Ellis, St. Moritz, Parkstone, Dorset.
*Chadwick, Miss M. W., 34 Brunswick Square, London, W.C. 1.
*Chambers, John, Mokopeka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
^Champion de Crespigny, Mrs. Philip, Artillery Mansions, West-
minster, London, S.W. 1.
*Chapman, C. F., 6 St. Aubyns Mansions, Hove, Sussex.
Chapman, E. &., Belsize, Friern Watch Avenue, N. Finchley,
London, N. 12.
Charles, Clifford P., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Bancroft, Hitchin,
Herts.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W. 8.
Chatterjee, A. K., Deputy Magistrate and Collector, P.O. Birham-
pur, District Murshidabad, Bengal, India.
Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc, Heathfield Cottage, Crowcombe, nr.
Taunton, Somerset.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 64 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H, The Wyche Cottage, Malvern.
Chitty, Hubert, M.S., M.B., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Chubb, Mrs. C. A., Longforgan, The Ridgway, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Clapham, Mrs. H. H, 50 South 6th Street, San Jose, Cal., U.S.A.
Clapham, J. H, Bang's College, Cambridge.
Clark, Mrs. Cecil, c/o Bank of Canada. Port-of-Spain, Trinidad,
B.W.I.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H, Magdalene College, Cambridge.
Clarke, J. F. Mostyn, Whins, Polzeath, Wadebridge, N. Cornwall.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, The Ship Hotel, Crediton, Devon.
Clarkson, Mrs. St. John, 8 Milner Street, Cadogan Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Clay, The Hon. Mrs., 11 Tite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Clayton, Mrs. C. E., Holmbush Lodge, Woodmancote, Nr. Henfielcl,
Sussex.
Clive, Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., Apt. 405 The Woodward, Connecticut
Avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Clowes, Major C. E., Arthur's Club, 69 St. James's Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Clwyd, Lady, Bryngwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Coates, Mrs., Hazel well, Cheltenham.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 567
Cobden-Sanderson, Mrs., 15 Upper Mall, Hammersmith, London,
W. 6.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., The Rectory, Swinford, Co. Mayo, Ireland.
Coe, Mss M. A., 195 Via Le Alessandro Villa, Florence, Italy.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
*Cole-Hamilton, Mrs. L. A., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 9 Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Coleridge, Miss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collard, Mrs., 120 St. Julian's Farm Road, W. Norwood, London,
S.E. 27.
Collins, Miss M., 29 Glenluce Road, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., 44 High Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Compton, Henry, 1709 Sills Street, Fort William, Ontario,
Canada.
^Constable, F. C, Wick Court, near Bristol.
Conway, Lady, A9 The Albany, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Cook, Mrs. T. S., Bailey's Hotel, Kensington, London, S.W.
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Mrs. P. H., 283 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
*Coote, J. F., 3 Malwood Road, Balham, London, S.W. 12.
Cornford, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Cornish, J. Easton, The Water Works, Alexandria, Egypt.
*Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, Campden Hill, London, W. 8.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, Groenhove,
The Hague.
*Cory, Mrs., The Empress Club, Dover Street, London, W. 1.
Cotesworth, Miss Lilias E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Cotterell, Miss Alice, 1g Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W. 1.
*Courage, Mrs., The Mount, Ifield, Crawley, Sussex.
Courtauld, R. M., M.B., Grey Friars, Whiting Street, Bury St.
Edmunds.
Cowan, Sir W. H., M.P., The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield,
Sussex.
Cox, Mrs. Rowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J., U.S.A.
Coxe, Henry R. H., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament
Street, London, S.W. 1.
Coxeter, Harold, 34 Holland Park Road, London, W. 14.
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
568 Members and Associates. [part
Craufurd, Commander Quentin C. A., R.N., c/o Admiralty, London,
S.W. 1.
Crook, A. H., 4 Torres Buildings, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
*Crosfield, J. J., Gwernyfed Park, Three Cocks R.S.O., Wales.
*Oosfield, Miss M. C, Undercroft, Reigate, Surrey.
Crouch, H. N., Summerfield, Weston Park, Bath.
Currey, Mrs., 29 Dover Street, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Currie, Mrs., 7 Sunderland Terrace, Bayswater, London, W. 2.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 53 Romney Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
Curzon of Kedleston, The Earl, Hackwood, Basingstoke, Hants.
Dale, J. Gilbert, 68 Holland Park, Kensington, London, W. 11.
*Dalton, J. H. C, M.D., The Plot, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Damant, Mrs. H. C, Kendal Mount, Totlancl Bay, Isle of Wight.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
*Danson, F. C, 74 Bidston Road, Birkenhead.
DArcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
Davies, Benjamin, Wilford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middlesex.
*Davies, D. Berrington G., J.P., Parcygors, Llechryd, Cardiganshire.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., Glenlaggan, Parton, N.B.
Davies, Miss M. H. Lloyd, Lynton, Curzon Road, Hoylake, Cheshire.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 71 Rodney Street, Liverpool.
*Davis, Mrs. Kennard, The School House, Woodbridge, Suffolk.
Davis, Romney R., Old Grove House, The Grove, Hampstead,
London, NW. 3.
*Davis, Mrs., 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
Davison, Miss Annie, 4 Ranelagh Grove, Pimlico Road, London,
S.W. 1.
Davison, Miss R., Milverton, Wilmslow Road, Alderley Edge,
Manchester.
Davys, Lieut. -Colonel G. I., I. M.S., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co.,
Hornby Road, Bombay, India.
Dawes, Mrs. Frank, 11a Portland Place, London, W. 1.
*Dawson, Captain G. de H., R.A.M.C., Ashhurst War Hospital,
Littlemore, Nr. Oxford.
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington Hall, Skipton.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. H., Newton House, Belmont, Hereford.
Day, Miss Mabel K., 15 Elgin Court, Elgin Avenue, London, W. 9.
Dearmer, Rev. Dr. Percy, Corner House, Radnor Place, London,
W. 2.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 569
De Gramont, Comte A., 179 Rue de l'Universite, Paris, France.
Deichmann, Baroness, Abbey Lodge, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
De Jong, Dr. K. H. E., Anthoine Duyck Str. 48, The Hague.
Deland, Mrs. Lorin F., 35 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Delap, Alfred D., Priorsland, Carrickmines, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Denny, Rev. H. L. L., St. Mark's Vicarage, 66 Myddelton Square,
London, E.G. 1.
Derby, Miss Isabel C, 66 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Devenish, Mrs., The Mount, Whitchurch, Oxon.
*Dewar, Lady, East Cosham House, Cosham, Hants.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay, Scotland.
de Winton, Mrs. R. F., c/o The Grange, Shorncliffe Road, Folke-
stone.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, Arlena Towers, Ramsey, N.J., U.S.A.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Consulate, Pernambuco, Brazil.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W. 7,fand
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, R.A., 3 Greville Place, London, N.W. 6.
*Dimmock, Mrs. H. P., 77 MayowRoad, Sydenham, London, S.E. 26.
* Dingwall, E. J., 73 Corringham Road, London, N.W. 4.
*Dixon, Edward T.
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
*Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, Glasgow, W.
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Dodge, Miss Mary H., Warwick House, St. James's, London, S.W. 1.
Doe, George M., Enfield, Great Torrington, N. Devon.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W. 1.
Dorr, George B., 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
*Dougall, Miss Lily, Cutts End, Cumnor, Oxford.
Douglas, Mrs., 4 Campden House Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Douglas, Mrs. Charles, Auchlochan, Lesmahagow, Lanarkshire.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., 5 East 88th Street, New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
Dowson, Mrs., Landhurst Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
Dowson, Mrs. W. E., Felixstowe, The Park, Nottingham.
570 Members and Associates. [part
Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham. Crowborough, Sussex.
Drew, Ringrose C, Klaung, Johore, via Singapore, Federated
Malay States.
Drewry, Mrs. George, 4 Calverley Park, Tunbridge Wells.
Driesch, Professor Dr. Hans, Universitat, Lindenstrasse 38, Coin.
Dudley, James, M.Sc., 23 Albert Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Duff, J. R. K., 100 Sunningfields, Hendon, London, N.W. 9.
Duncan, Harold M., c/o Dr. G. W. Stewart, Oak Lane, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Epsom Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., Yetholme, Liverpool Road, Birkdale, Southport.
Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
Duveen, Mrs. Geoffrey, 15 Stratton Street, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Eastwood, H. E., The Conservative Club, 74 St. James's Street,
London, S.W. 1.
* Eckstein, Mrs., 18 Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., 8 Reach Lawn, Waterloo, nr. Liverpool.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.C. 4.
Edwardes, Mrs. Dyer, Charmandene, Broadwater, nr. Worthing.
Ekin, James, West Rocks, Grand Parade, Eastbourne, Sussex.
Elder, Frederick, 57 Antrim Mansions, Haverstock Hill, London,
N.W. 3.
Eldred, Fleet-Paymaster E. H, R.N., c/o Capital and Counties
Bank, Ltd., Southsea, Hants.
Ellershaw, Major Henry, R.A.F., 124 Pembroke Road, Clifton,
Bristol.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blackfriars Road, London, S.E. 1.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, 9 Grafton Street, London, W. 1.
Elliott, Captain B. H, R.A., Oakleigh, Godstone, Surrey.
* Ellis, Herbert, The Gynsills, Groby Road, Leicester.
Emmerson, Robert, M.D., Apartado 143, Calle Aldama 107,
Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Emmet, Rev. C. W., West Hendred Vicarage, Steventon, Berks.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Entee, Professor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhaunagar, India.
Enthoven, Mrs. F. V., 33 Cambridge Square, London, W. 2.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 571
Erskine, Mrs. Gratney, The Buries, Bishopstrow, Warminster,
Wilts.
Evans, W. A., Inglewood, Ratcliffe Road, Leicester.
Everard, Captain H. N, R.A.M.C., 21 Denning Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
Farwell, Mrs., Roanoke, Chorley Wood West, Herts.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W. 1.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 5 John Street, Mayfair, London, W. 1.
Felkin, Mrs., 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
*Fellowes, The Hon. Lady, Honingham, Norwich.
Fergusson, Rev. A. W., The Manse, Dundee.
*Fernald, Mrs. C. B., 4 Marlborough Road, London, N.W. 8.
Findlay, J. Arthur, Woodside, Beith, Ayrshire.
*Fisher, Mrs. C. D. Corbett, 11 Upper Cheyne Row, London, S.W. 3.
Fisk, Rev. George, c/o British Emigration Bureau, Weihsien,
Shantung, China.
*Fitch, Hugh B., 31 Campden Grove, Kensington, London, W. 8.
^Fitzgerald, The Hon. Mrs. Eustace, 15 Neville Street, Onslow
Square, London, S.W. 7.
"Fletcher, L. S., 3 Elm Court, Temple, London, E.G. 4.
*Flude, Mrs., Glyn House, Argyle Road, Bognor.
Flugel, J. C, 11 Albert Road, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
Footner, Mrs., 187 Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Forman, Josef, c/o Messrs. AgarJJutton & Coe, 6 Princes Street..
Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Forman, Colonel R. H., A.M.S.
Forrester, Mrs. Robert, Annfield, Stirling, N.B.
Fortescue, Miss Frances, 45 Alexandra Road, Worthing.
Foster, Mrs. Garland, Nelson, B.C., Canada.
Fotheringham, W. B., 17 Upper High Street, Worthing.
Fowler, Major Alfred, 17 Board of Trade Buildings, Kansas City,
Mo., U.S.A.
*Fox, Mrs., Fawe Park, Keswick, Cumberland.
Fraenkel, Dr. Joseph, 101 East 94th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
* Francis, Mrs. Francis.
Franklin, The Hon. Mrs., 50 Porchester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Franks, Mrs., 51 Dacre Hill, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead.
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London. S.W. 1.
Freeman, Rev. H. B., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent, Staffs.
2o
572 Members and Associates. [part
* Frith, Mrs., Swynnerton Rectory, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Frost, Miss Annie, Carnelloe Cottage, Zennor, nr. St. Ives, Cornwall.
Frost, Lowell C, M.D., 6856 de Longpre Avenue, Hollywood, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Frostick, J. A., Christchurch, New Zealand.
*Pry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Fryer, Mrs. F., 9 St. Peter's Grove, York.
*Fullerton, Colonel J. D., 172 Gloucester Terrace, Hyde Park,
London, W. 2.
Gabb, F. B., The Willows, Abergavenny, Wales.
Gaff, T. T., 1520 20th Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Gage, Lyman J., Point Loma, Cal., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., 3 South Place, Letchworth, Herts.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 187 Main Street, Northampton, Mass.,
U.S.A.
"'Gardner, Mrs., 3a White Gables, Wood Vale, Forest Hill, London,
S.W. 23.
* Gardner, Rev. A. R. L., 52 Beaufort, Mansions, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Gard'ner, Miss K. L., 126 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
Gates, Rev. Horatio, 355 Oakland Avenue, Milwaukee, Wis., U.S.A.
Gatliff, H. E. C, Balliol College, Oxford.
GeUert, J. W., c/o Box 396, G.P.O., Adelaide, S. Australia.
*George, Mrs., 88 Prince of Wales Mansions, Prince of Wales Road,.
Battersea Park, London, S.W. 11.
*George, H. Trevelyan, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 33 Ampthill Square,
London, N.W. 1.
Gibson, Professor W. R. Boyce, D.Sc, Ennerdale, Tower Street,
Surrey Hills, Melbourne, Australia.
*Gill, A. Wilson, M.D., Chatterley Cottage, Hanley, Stoke-on-Trent.
Gilson, R. Gary, King Edward's School, Birmingham.
*Girdlestone, Mrs. Frank, The Bridge House, Sible Hedingham,
Essex.
Girod, Madame, 4 Avenue Hoche, Paris.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., 51 St. George's Road, Harrogate.
Gledstone, Miss Mary, 73 Gleneldon Road, Streatham, London,
S.W. 16.
*Glenconner, Lord, 34 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 573
Glenconner, Lady, 34 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Glenny, George C, Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle.
Glenny, Mrs. G. C, Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle.
Glidden, Walter S., 13 Centre Street, Bath, Maine, U.S.A.
Glover, Cedric H., 35 Steele's Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Goedhart, P., Koningen Maria Straat 18, The Hague.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, Clarefield, Pinkney's Green, Maidenhead,
Berks.
Gooch, G. P., South ViUa, Campden Hill Road, London, W. 8.
*Goodden, Mrs. Robert, The Cheyney Court, The Close, Winchester.
Gorce, M., 19 Grande Rue, Gueret (Creuse), France."
Goucher, F. S., Ph.D., Toynbee HaU, 28 Commercial Street,
Whitechapel, London, E.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., Sandcroft, Upper Bridge Road, Redhill,
Surrey.
Gough, Rev. E. P., The Vicarage, Chiswick, London, W.
*Gould, Mrs., 8 Elsham Road, London, W. 14.
Gover, J. M., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
*Gowan, Commander C. H. B., R.N., United Service Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Gower, John H., Mus.Doc. (Oxon.), 23 East 18th Avenue, Denver,
Colo., U.S.A.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
Graham, Mrs. W. P. Gore, Burntwood, Goring-on-Thames.
Grahame, Miss Helen, c/o Mrs. Taylor, 71 Edith Road, London, W.
*Grant-Suttie, Major H. F., R.A., R.A. Mess., Shorncliffe, Kent.
Green, Mrs. Alan B., Riviere House, Phillack, Hayle, Cornwall.
Green, Mrs., Northcott, Chesham Bois, Bucks.
Green, H. W., 35 Gate Street, Sedgley, nr. Dudley.
*Greene, J. G., 34 Stiles Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Greg, Mrs., 56 Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
GrenfelL Prof. B. P., D.Litt., Queen's CoUege, Oxford.
*Grenfell, Field-Marshal Lord, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., Overstone Park,
Northants.
Grew, J. C, c/o American Embassy, 4 Grosvenor Gardens, London,
S.W. 1.
Grey, E. H., 261 Essex Road, Islington, London, N. 1.
*Grey, R. C, Meelich, Wlhtegate, Co. Galway (via Limerick).
574 Members and Associates. [part
Grignon, Miss A. E., 41 Filton Avenue, Horfield, Bristol.
Grosvenor, Hon. Mrs. R. C, 13 Motcomb Street, London, S.W. 1.
Grottendieck, W. G., Charlotte de Bourbon Str. 8, The Hague.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
*Gunnell, A. Mortimer, F.R.A.I., F.R.Met.Soc, Broomfield Park
College, New Southgate, London, N. 11.
Gurbaxani, Professor H. M., D.J. Sind College, Karachi, Sind, India.
*Guttwoch, Charles, 7 Kingswood Avenue, Queen's Park, London,
N.W. 6.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 Netherhall Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Hackett, James T., c/o The Bank of Adelaide, 11 Leadenhall Street,
London, E.G.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, 39/3b Sukeas Street, Calcutta.
*Hall, Captain Basil, R.N., Hotel d'Angleterre, Geneva.
Hall, R. D., c/o W. H. Hart, Esq., Sutton-on-Hull, Yorks.
Hall, Miss S. Elizabeth, 6 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
Hambro, Lady, 4 Norfolk Street, Park Lane, London, W. 1.
*Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, Hamilton Palace, Lanark-
shire.
Hamilton, Mrs. C. M., Fulton Apartments, 1084 W. 7th Street, Los
Angeles, Cal., U.S.A.
Hamilton, J. J.
Hamilton, Mrs. Vera.
Hamilton, W. Bernard.
Hammond, Miss Winifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
Hannes, Mrs., c/o London County and Westminster Bank, 1 Con-
naught Street, London, W. 1.
Hanson, Mrs., Pleasaunce Cottage, Dormans Park, Surrey.
Hardeman, Miss Frances E., Beulah, Green Lane, Godalming.
Harding, Miss A. K., 34 Colville Terrace, London, W. 11.
Hardwick-Terry, Mrs. E., Urquhart, Boxwell Road, Berkhamsted.
*Hare, Dr. A. W., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
Hargreaves, Miss, 115 Clarence Gate Gardens, Regent's Park,
London, N.W. 1.
Harper, Miss E. K., The Apple Gate, Coombe Hill Farm, nr.
Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 575
Harriman, T. G., M.P., 2291 East Ocean Avenue, Long Beach,
Calif., U.S.A.
Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place
Vendome, Paris.
Harris, Miss Agnes G., 8 Cambridge Place. Falmouth, Cornwall.
*Harris, Rev. C, D.D.', Colwall Rectory, Malvern.
* Harris, Mrs. Herbert A., 22 Bina Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
*Harris, Lady, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W. 2.
* Harris, Hon. J., Lyndhurst, Hampshire.
Harris, Mrs. W. F., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
* Harrison, Francis, 104 Craven Park, Harlesden, London, N.W 10.
Harrison, William, 17 Tirlemont Road, Croydon, Surrey.
*Hart, Mrs. H. Burcham, Eshott, Eastbury Road, Northwood,
Middlesex.
Hart, Mrs. H. H., H.B. " Zephyr," Srinigar, Kashmir, India.
Hart, General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O., 39 West
Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont, U.S.A.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, Ware Hall, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Harvey, G. H., P.O. Box 254, Quebec, Canada.
*Haslam, Oliver H., Sand Ridge, St. Anne's-on-the-Sea, Lanes.
Hasler. Miss K. M., East Mount, Brunswick Road, Douglas, Isle
of Man.
Hassan, Princess Aziza, 139 Mahmoudia, Alexandria, Egypt.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C. 3.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancaster.
*Hatton, G. C, 3 Vernon Chambers, Southampton Row, London,
W.C. 1.
Hauxhurst, Mrs. W., Columbus Avenue and East 6th Street,
Mount Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
Hawarden, The Viscountess.
Hawker, Mrs. George, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Hawker, Miss Elizabeth, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Hawley, Miss Zoe, 129 Church Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., West Thurrock Vicarage, Grays, Essex.
Head, Miss Alice L., 52 Pembridge Villas, Notting Hill Gate,
London, W. 11.
*Heape, Mrs. Walter, 10 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London,
E.C. 4.
Heard. G. H., Percy Villa, Front Street, Tynemouth.
57G Members and Associates. [part
Heath, George H., 277 Brockley Road, London, S.E. 4.
Heaton, Guy, 51 Westcliff Road, Bournemouth.
Hedley, Dr. E. P., Chesterfield Villas, Ockbrook, Derby.
*Hefford, Percy H., 387 Pershore Road, Selly Park, Birmingham.
Heller, Rabbi James G., 1807 Arch Street, Little Rock,
Arkansas, U.S.A.
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus, Readville, Mass., U.S.A.
Hemmerle, Madame, Colbjornsensgade 6iii, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Henderson, J. J., 494 Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
Henrici, Jacob, 201-203 Chestnut Street, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenham.
*Hepworth, Captain W. C. P., Moorings, Dovercourt.
Herriot, Miss E. F., 2 Sunningdale Gardens, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Herschel, Colonel John, F.R.S., Ro}^al Engineers, Slough, Bucks.
*Hervey, Miss G. M., 8 Gliddon Road, West Kensington, London,
W. 14.
Heseltine, Mrs., 19 Launceston Place, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hesketh, Thomas, 42 Castle Hill Avenue, Folkestone, Kent.
*Heyer, J. C, LL.D., 83 Nic. Maestreet, Amsterdam.
Heymans, Prof. G., Ubbo-Emmiussingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
*Hichens, Rev. Canon A. S., The Rectory, Penicuik, Midlothian.
*Hichens, Mrs. Cyril, Summertree, nr. Herstmonceux, Sussex.
Hichens, Mrs. W. Lionel, 15 Buckingham Palace Gardens, London,
S.W. 1.
*Hicks, Miss Lucy, 36 Westminster Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
Higbee, Colonel George H., Burlington, Iowa, U.S.A.
Hildyard, F. W., 14 Lambridge, Bath.
*Hillard, Miss Mary R., Westover School, Middlebury, Conn.
U.S.A.
Hillman, E. Haviland, 4 Somers Place, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
Hills, Miss H. D., Cecil House, 14 Bernard Street, London, W.C. 1.
Hillsmith, Mrs. Montfort, Ragged Place, South Danbury, New
Hampshire, U.S.A.
*Hinkley, Mrs. W., Meadowland, Headington, Oxford.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.G. 4.
Hcare. Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London,
W. 1.
Lxxvur.] Members and Associates. 577
Hobart-Hampden, Rev. A. K., 127 Queen's Gate, S. Kensington,
London, S.W. 7.
*Hobhouse, Mrs. Henry, 1 Airlie Gardens, London, W. 8.
*Hobson, Walter D., Tan-y-Bryn, Bangor, N. Wales.
*Hockliffe, ]\lrs. Ernest, Littlebrook, Uppingham.
Hodding, Miss, 28 The Close, Salisbury.
Hodgkinson, Rev. F. K., 67 Clifton Hill, London, N.W. 8.
Hodson, L. J., LL.B., The Mill House, Robertsbridge, Sussex.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, Emerson Hall, Harvard Univer-
sity, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Hogg, Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hogg, Mrs. Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hoggan, Mrs. Frances, M.D., Hillview, Squire's Lane, Finchley,
London, N. 3.
Holder, Henry L., Monkbarns, Wheatlands Road, Harrogate.
Holding, Sam, Columbia, Tenn., U.S.A.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Holland, Mrs. H. C, The Wheathills, Kirk Langley, Derby.
Holland, W. A., Plantation House, Bishop's Stortford, Herts.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D.. 57 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
*Hoilick, Captain A. J., 9 Eaton Gardens, Hove, Sussex.
*Hollick, Mrs. A. J., 9 Eaton Gardens, Hove, Sussex.
Hollins, Mrs., 24 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
Hollins, Mrs. A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Holmes, Miss Lilian, The Firs, Charing, Kent.
*Holmyard, R., 5 Hedgerow Lane, Clifton, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
Holt, Henry, 34 West 33rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Holt, Miss M. D., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Homan, C. H., 12 Sogaden, Christiania, Norway.
Home, Miss Georgina, Halcyon Club, 13/14 Cork Street, London,
W. 1.
Home, Miss Mary M., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
Home, Mrs. Robert, b/78 Portsdown Road, Maida Vale, London,
W. 9.
Home, Walter, CLE., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
Hookham, Philip, 15 Chad Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Hope, Lieut. -Commander R. H. K, R.N.
Hopkinson, Mrs., Ellerslie, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Hoppin, J. C, 310 Sears Building, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
578 Members and Associates. [part
Horridge, Miss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southport.
*Horwood, C. Baring, D.Sc, F.C.S., Phelps House, Castle Gary.
*Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Arden, Birmingham.
Hotblack, Prank A., Fairfield, Hambledon, Hants.
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
Howe, Mrs. M. A. De Wolfe, 26 Brimmer Street, Boston, Mass...
U.S.A.
*Howell, Mrs., Ethy, Lostwithiel, Cornwall.
*Howell, Mrs. Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Howgrave-Graham, Captain A. H., M.C., Box 59, Randfontein,
Transvaal.
Hubback, Mrs., 19 Reynold's Close, London, N.W. 4.
Hubbard, Mrs. Cyril, Willingdon, Sussex.
Hude, Mrs. Anna, Ph.D., 35 Vestre Boulevard, Copenhagen, B.
Hudson, Miss Alice, Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Miss Katie E., Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Morris, St. Cuthbert's, Bathampton, Somerset.
Hughes, Professor Alfred, Eastnor House, Malvern Link.
*Hull, Mrs. Carrie G., 20 Garfield Place, Poughkeepsie, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hume-Rothery, J. H., Mendip House, Headington Hill, Oxford.
Humphreys, E. Noel, Caerycaee, Hoole, Chester.
Humphreys, T. H. A., Survey Department, Giza (Mudiria)^
Egypt.
Hunkin, Rev. J. W., M.C., C.F., 126 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove Lawns, St. Albans, Herts.
*Hyslop, Professor J. H., 519 West 149th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Imamura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Univer-
sity, Kioto, Japan.
Ince, Miss Gladys, c/o R. Hasted, Esq.,Yeatton Lodge, Ootacamund,
S. India.
"Tngham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingram, Mss M. I., The Priory, Wimbledon Common, London,
S.W. 19.
limes, C. E., 31 Randolph Crescent, London, W. 9.
Innes, Miss H. K., 4 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
* Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Isaac, Miss Edith, The Lodge, Kempsey, Worcester.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington, Oxford.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 579
James, Brig. -General C. H. L., C.B., United Service Club, London,
S.W. 1.
*Janies, Major E. A. H., Newtown, Newbury, Berks.
James, Henry, 10 East 10th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
James, Mrs. Joseph, Southwood, Barnt Green, Birmingham.
* James, Miss S. Boucher, Hallsannery, Bideford, N. Devon.
*Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1,
Jaye, William R., Springwood Lodge, Oakfield Road, Clapton.
London, E. 5.
Jeboult, F. M., 19 Edith Villas, West Kensington, London, W. 14.
*Jekyll, Miss D., Sunnybank, San Remo, Italy.
Jenkinson, W. E., Highthorn, King Cross Road, Halifax, Yorks.
Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex.
Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Asolo (Treviso), Italy.
Job, H. S., c/o The National Bank of Egypt, Khartoum, Egypt.
Johnson, Charles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnson, Miss E. C, 25 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
Johnson, Mrs., Abbot's Bay, nr. Keswick.
Johnson, R. F., Chang Wang Hutung, The Old Drum Tower Road,
Peking, China.
*Johnstone, Hon. Gilbert, 43 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Jones, Miss Constance. Meldon House, Weston-super-Mare.
Jones, J. Herbert, Hollydene, Montague Road, Cambridge.
*Jones, Sir Lawrence J., Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
*Jones, Miss Lilian I., 120 Maida Vale, London, W. 9.
*Jordan-Smith, Benjamin, Orchardlea, Grosvenor Road, Caversham,
Reading.
Joscelyne, A. F. Cecil, 65 Richmond Road, Dalston, London,
E. 8.
*Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Judd, Mrs. Sylvestre Dwight, 163 Maple Street, Maiden, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Justum, J. A., 224 Ashley Gardens, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Karstaedt, L., 6015 Washington Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Keep, A. P. Perceval, The Hut, Holmwood, Dorking.
*Kellett, Mrs. Kelsall.
Kelly, Miss Eleanor B., Windy Harbour, Ashwell, Baldock, Herts.
580 Members and Associates. [part
* Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kelso, Mrs. H. J., 425 W. Church Avenue, Knoxville, Term., U.S.A.
Kenneth, H., Lindley, Bycullah Park, Enfield, Middlesex.
*Kennion, T. Alfred, The Maples, Hoddesdon, Herts.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Keough, John J., 119| Calyer Street, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Ker, Miss, Napier Lodge, Strathblane, Glasgow.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
Kershaw, Mrs. Ronald H., Seacourt, Hayling Island, Hants.
King, Miss R. Estelle, 19 Highfield Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*King, H. F. Locke, J. P., Brooklands, Weybridge, Surre}^.
*King, Dr. W. A. D., 1 Bishop's Place, Paignton, Devon,
*Kingscote, Mrs., 4 Southwick Crescent, London, W. 2.
*Kingsford, Miss S. M., 5 Doneraile Street, Fulham, London, S.W. 6.
Kingsley, Mrs., 65 Belsize Park Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Kittermaster, Rev. Digby B., Dame Armstrong House, Harrow-
on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Knight, Charles N., 36 Kensington Park Road, London, W. 11.
Knight, Maxwell, 18 University Mansions, Putney, London, S.W. 15.
*Knoblock, Edward, G2, The Albany, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Lafone, A. W., Springfield, Oatlands Park, Walton-on-Thames.
Laing, R. M., " Ogilvie," Cashmere Hills, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, 77 Glisson Road. Cambridge.
Lambert, G. W., 86 Chester Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Larken, E. P., 98 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 14.
Latham, Miss Edith, 9 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Latshaw, Allen, Berwyn, Penn., U.S.A.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Laverton, Major H. S., Leighton, Westbury, Wilts.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Mrs. A. H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leaf, F. A., Newlands, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
Ledyard, Mrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett, c/o Illinois Central Railroad Co., 32 Nassau Street,
New York, U.S.A.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 581
*Lee, Dr. H. D. C., Technical College, Huddersfield.
*Legg, W. A., 14 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, Warwickshire.
Lenon, J. W., c/o P.O. Kyambu, British East Africa.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W. 1.
Leonard, Thomas, 223 W. School Lane, Germantown, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Le Patourel, Miss M. L., 26 Walpole Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Leslie, Rev. G. Lindsay, The Manse, Eddleston, Peebleshire.
Leslie, James, 1029 Corydon Avenue, Winnipeg, Canada.
*Lethbridge, Alan B., Stockwood House, nr. Keynsham, Somerset.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St. John's Parsonage, Keswick.
Lewis, David J., United States Tariff Commission, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Lewis, Mrs. Gerald V., The Yews, Bletchingley, Surrey.
Librarian, Public Library of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, New York,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Binghamton Public Library, Binghamton, New York,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, lOf Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, etc., Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Embankment,
London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, The John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
Librarian, Grosvenor Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, 'W.C. 2.
582 Members and Associates. [part
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.G. 2.
Librarian, Hackley Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Library, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Imperial Library, Metcalfe Hall, Calcutta, India.
^Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Hornby Road,
Bombay.
Librarian, Free Public Library of Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, Minneajiolis, Minn., U.S.A.
Librarian, Natal Society and Central Library, Pieterrnaritzburg,
Natal, S. Africa.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs. Truslove
& Hanson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W. 1.
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Omaha Public Library and Museum, 19 and Harvey
Streets, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City, Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, Selskabet for psykisk Forskning, Nordahl Brunsgade 22,
Christiania, Norway.
Librarian, Selskabet for psykisk Forskning, Graabrodretorv 7,
Copenhagen.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 18 Tavistock Square, London
W.C. 1.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 583
Librarian, General Library of the University of Chicago, Chicago,
111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Bibliotheque Victor Cousin, L'Universite de Paris,
Librarian, University Library, Glasgow.
Librarian, University of Minnesota Library, Minneapolis, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
Librarian, Victoria Public Library, Melbourne, Australia.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Williams' Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
* Linden, Edward F. B., 11 South Mansions, Brondesbury, London,
N.W.
*Little, Mrs., Park House, Whaley Bridge, nr. Stockport.
*Llewellin, Mrs. W., Upton House, nr. Poole, Dorset.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Hillside, Berkswell, nr. Coventry.
Lodge, Miss E. C, Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Mariemont, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Lombardi, G, 2817 Routh Street, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Long, Miss Constance, M.D., 48 Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Lorimer, Miss Emilia S., 45 Marston Street, Oxford.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Greenhill, Sutton-Veny, Wiltshire.
Lucy, Miss Mabel, 1 Laurence Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Ludford-Astley, Mrs. A. G., 8 Sloane Terrace Mansions, Sloane
Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Lunn, Arnold, Palace Hotel, Montana, Sur Sierre, Switzerland.
Lyall, Mrs., 6 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square, London,
W. 1.
Lyall, Sir Charles James, 82 Cornwall Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
*Lyall, Major Edward, D.S.O., 19 Victoria Road, Darlington.
Lyell, Major A. G., 68 Upper Richmond Road, Putney, London,
S.W. 15.
*Lyon, Miss C. C, Ashcroft, Prestwood, Great Missenden.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
*Macaulay, Miss Gertrude F., Cairnbrae, 109 The Boulevard,
Westmount, Montreal, Canada.
584 Members and Associates. [part
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W. 1.
*Macfarlane, Mrs. Scott B., Torpedo Station, Newport, R.I., U.S.A.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
Mackenzie, Miss Maud R. R., 56 South Eaton Place, London,
S.W. 1.
Mackenzie, Lady Muir, 22 Draycott Place, Cadogan Gardens,
London, S.W. 3.
*Mackie, Dr. John, Ockbrook, nr. Derby.
Mackintosh, Robert, 3 Frognal Lane, London, N.W. 3.
Macklin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W. 2.
Macleod, Surgeon Commander G. E., R.N., 18 Vyvyan Terrace,
Clifton, Bristol.
Macnaghten, E. L., c/o National Bank of India. Bishopsgate,
London, E.G.
Madders, Mrs. H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
*Magrane, Mrs. Victor, c/o Willett Building, Sloane Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Mahler, Mrs. John, Bronygarth, Oswestry, Salop.
Mainwaring, Mrs., 11 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Malda, Luis, Gante No. 1, Mexico City, Mexico.
Mallet, Right Hon. Sir Louis, G.C.M.G., C.B., Wardes, Otham,
Maidstone, Kent.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
*Manfield, Miss Muriel R., 63 Delaware Mansions, London, W. 9.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Coombe Dale, Coombe Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
*Manning, Miss H. T., 102 Central Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey,
U.S.A.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Mount Vernon, Melton Mowbray, Tas-
mania.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., c/o Rev. T. C. Angrave, East Leake Rectory,
Loughborough.
Marriott, Mrs., 11d Hyde Park Mansions, London, N.W. 1.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs., Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshire.
Marsden, E., 12 Ellerdale Road, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Marsh, Edward H., 5 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn, London,
W.C. 1.
Lxxvur.] Members and Associates. 585
Marston, Charles, J. P., Afcot, Compton, nr. Wolverhampton.
*Marston, Commander G. M., R.N., Park Lodge, Albert Gate,
Knightsbridge, London, S.W. 1.
Marten, Miss A. R., Osbornes, Liphook, Hants.
Marten, Rev. G. H., St. Mark's, Purley, Surrey.
*Martin, E. Le Breton, 20 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury.
Martin, T. B., Woodlands, Snaresbrook, London, E. 18.
*Martindale, Miss B., 4 Piazza Paganica, Rome, Italy.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Norfolk Lodge, Crowborough.
*Mason, Miss, 211 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Mason, Miss M. H.
*Mather, Mrs., Langholme Bridge Cottage, Lowick, nr. Ulverston.
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, Royal Automobile Club, PaU Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
*Matthews, Dr. F., Welsh Row House, Nantwich.
*Matthews, H. N., Aldwick House, Bognor, Sussex.
Matthews, Dr. Caroline, 13 Longton Grove, Sydenham, London,
S.E. 26.
*Maunsell, Captain G. A., R.E.,
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 37 rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., 21 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W. 8.
M'Alpine, Robert, The Croft, Totteridge, Herts.
M'Clellan, Mrs. Clara D., Briarcliff Manor, New York, U.S.A.
McClelland, Rev. C. P., Carmel, New York, U.S.A.
M'Clure, Henry, M.D.
*M'Connel, D. R., M.A., The Camp, Steep, Petersfield, Hants.
M'Connel, Mrs. D. R., The Camp, Steep, Petersfield, Hants.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
M'Connel, Mrs., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
*M'Donald, Miss E. M., 6 Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland.
M'Dougall, WiUiam, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B., 89 Banbury Road,
Oxford.
M'Gusty, G. A., 35 Leeson Park, Dublin, Ireland.
*MKay, H. G., St. Bede's School, Duke's Drive, Eastbourne.
M'Keever, Buell, 3900 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*M'Kenna, Mrs. Theodore, 24 Bryanston Square, London, W. 1.
MTntyre, Mrs., The Nook, Cross Lanes, Findon, Sussex.
586 Members and Associates. [part
M'Laren, Rev. David J., The Manse, Trinity Gask, Auchterarder.
M'Laren, Miss M. C, Great Comp, Borough Green, Kent.
M'Lauchlan, G. M., Claremont Lodge, College Hill, St. Heliers,
Jersey, C.I.
M'Neile, Rev. R. F., Redgate, Uppingham.
M'Vickar, Mrs. John A., 128 East 60th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Mead, G. R. S., 47 Campden Hill Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Meek, Maximilian de.
*Meek, Mrs., 6 Alexandra Villas, Brighton.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 3 Batlivala Villa, Sleater
Road, Bombay, India.
Meissner, Mrs. de, 1524 31st Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Merton, Gerald, Slopes, Woldingham.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
Milburn, Rev. R. Gordon, Black Bridge, Beaulieu, Hants.
*Mildmay, The Hon. Mrs. St. John, 121 Mount Street, London, W. 1.
*Miles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*Millard, Mrs. Alrnira B., c/o The American Society for Psychical
Research, 44 East 23rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
* Millard, C. Killick, M.D., Groby Road, Leicester.
Miller, Mrs. Carolyn A., Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
*Milward, Graham, 77 Colmore Row, Birmingham.
*Mirlees, W. J., Shelford, Cambs.
* Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
*MoncriefT, Captain M. M., Hemley, Woodbridge.
* Montague, Mrs., Penton, Crediton, Devon.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, Co.
Limerick.
Monypenny, Mrs. A. E. G., 5 Talbot Square, London, W. 2.
*Moore-Brabazon, Lieut. -Colonel J. T. C, 11 Ennismore Gardens,
London, S.W. 7.
*Moore, His Honour Judge, 42 Acacia Road, London, N.W. 8.
Morier, Mrs., 65 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
*Morley, Mrs. Evelyn, 7 Green Street, Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Morris, Miss D. M., 284
Bramham Gardens, South Kensington,
London, S.W. 5.
Morris, Mrs., 284
Bramham Gardens, South Kensington, London,
S.W. 5.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 587
*Morse, Major John, Vinehelez-de-Haut Manor, St. Ouen, Jersey,
CJ.
Morton, Mrs. F. N., 73 West La Crosse Avenue, Lansdowne, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Morton, Miss Mary, 15 Greville Road, London, N.W. 6.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., 4 Mission Row, Cal-
cutta.
Moss-Blundell, F. B., 19 Lebanon Park, Twickenham, Surrey.
Moultrie, Miss A. J. C, 6 Oakhill Road, Putney, London, S.W. 15.
Muirhead, Mrs. James F., 19 Lancaster Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Mullins, Colonel W. B., Ambersham House, Midhurst, Sussex.
-Murphy, Gardner, 88 Main Street, Concord, Massachusetts, U.S.A.
Murphy, Miss Imogen H., 23 Somerset Terrace, Duke's Road,
London, W.C. 1.
*Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., 82 Woodstock Road,
Oxford.
Murray, Miss Jessie, M.B., 14 Endsleigh Street, Tavistock Square,
London, W.C. 1.
Murton, Miss Josephine, The Firs, Charing, Kent.
*Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., 12 Cleveland Row, St. James's, London,
S.W. 1.
*Myers, L. H., Twyford Lodge, East Grinstead.
Myers, W. Wykeham, M.B., H.B.M.'s Consular Agency, Pagoda
Anchorage, China.
*Nash, Miss Diana, 2611 Guilford Road, Cleveland Heights, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Nation, Captain Cecil, R.E., 59 St. James's Court, London, S.W.
*Neale, Edward, 6 Lyndhurst Gardens, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Neild, Miss Maria, 27 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
Neustadter, Louis W., 461 Mission Street, San Francisco, CaL,
U.S.A.
*Neville, Lady, Banstead Place, Banstead, Surrey.
*Newbold, Eric, Roundbush, Aldenham, Herts.
*Newbold, Mrs. E., Roundbush, Aldenham, Herts.
^Newcastle, The Duke of, Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
Newton, Miss F. E., 156 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
Newton, Heber, Oamaru, New Zealand.
Newton, Miss I., 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Nicholson, Lady, 35 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
588 Members and Associates. [part
*Nicoll, Mrs. DeLancey, 3 Seamore Place, Park Lane, London, W. 1.
*Nicolls, Brig.-General E. G., C.B., 19 St. Andrew's Road, Bedford.
*Ninnis, Roger E., M.B., H.M.S. Neptune, c/o G.P.O., London.
*Nisbet, E. T., Birnieknowes, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
Niven, G., Shiantelle, Aldrington Road, Streatham Park, London,
S.W. 16.
Noel, Miss Frances, Becket House, Thaxted, nr. Dunmow, Essex.
Noel-Cox, H. L., M.D., F.R.A.S., 12 Kilburn Priory, London,
N.W.6.
Norris, Stuart, 3 Birchfield Road, Birmingham.
Northcote, Rev. H., Twinstead Rectory, Sudbury, Suffolk.
Nott, William F., 3 Glebe Villas, London Road, Mitcham, Surrey.
Nutter, Miss H. G., 6 Acacia Road, Norbury, London, S.W. 16.
Odell, S. W., 410 Citizens Savings Bank Building, Pasadena, Cal.,
U.S.A.
Ogilvie, Mrs. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, Esq., 10 Hill Street,
Edinburgh.
Ogle, Major N., 67th Punjabis, Quetta, Baluchistan, India.
*01dham, Mrs., 11 Albany Villas, Hove.
Oldham, G. F., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Dunelm, Haden Road, Old
Hill, Staffs.
Oman, Sir Charles W. C, Frewin Hall, Oxford.
"Onslow, Hon. H., Clandon Park, Guildford.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Street, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
:::
Osmaston, Mrs., Stoneshill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
:::
Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Owen-Williams, Mrs., Ridgeway, nr. Narberth, Pembrokeshire.
Oxenham, Mrs., 3 Baring Crescent, Exeter.
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., J.P., Fenagh House, Bagenalstown, Co.
Carlow.
Pagan, Mrs. G. L., 6 Clarendon Crescent, Edinburgh.
Paget, Sir Richard, 12 Chester Square, London, S.W. 1.
Page-Turner, G. A., J. P., 15 Palmeira Square, Hove, Sussex.
*Paley, G. A.,
*Palmer, Mark, B.A., 33 Fitzjames Avenue, West Kensington,
London, W. 14.
*Park, Major William, 28 Nassington Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
* Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 589
*Parr, F. C, Llwynoun, Great Ormes Head, Llandudno, N.
Wales.
Parr, W. H., 10 Westbury Park, Bristol.
Parsons, Ambrose, Said House, Chiswick Mall, London, W. 4.
Parsons, Karl, Speedwell, Northwood, Middlesex.
*Parsons, Miss Llewellyn, 99 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Parsons, N. M., 19b Pembridge Square, London, W. 2.
Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., 3 Church Gate Street, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., Royal Marine Hotel, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight.
*Patton, Mrs., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Payne, Ernest, 10 Wellington Court, Knightsbridge, London,
S.W. 1.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Peck, Miss Charlotte L., Maidencombe House, St. Mary Church,
S. Devon.
Peck, Geo. L., 227 Walnut Street, Sewickley Pennsylvania, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Peckham, Orville, Oak Hall, Tryon, N.C., U.S.A.
Pedley, Chas. H., Winterley House, nr. Crewe.
Pennington, Mrs. Henry, c/o Barclays Bank Ltd., 10 London
Road, Camberley, Surrey.
Penny, W. R., Railway Stores Department, S.A. Railways, Salt
River, nr. Cape Town, S. Africa.
Perceval, Hon. Mrs. Dudley, 153 Church Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
*Perdicaris, Ion, The Manor House, Chislehurst, Kent.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Dr. Perkins, 57 Harley Street, London,
W. 1.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., Superintendent's House, Guy's Hospital,
London, S.E. 1.
Perrott, F. D. M., 24 Bridge Road, Worthing.
Perry, Horace H., Court Royal, 144 King's Cliff, Brighton.
Perry, T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Pfau, A. R., Junr., Mankato, Minnesota, U.S.A.
*Phillimore, Hon. Mrs., Kendals, Elstree, Herts.
*Pickard, Mrs. Fortescue, 31 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
*Piddington, J. G., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
590 Members and Associates. [PAKT
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
*Pinney, Miss Ida A., 17 Doune Terrace, North Kelvinside. Glasgow.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue,Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 18.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
*Pitt, St. George Lane Fox, Travellers' Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Pitt, Mrs. Fox, Presaddfed, Bodedern. Valley, Anglesey.
Place, Rev. C. A., Lancaster, Mass., U.S.A.
*Platt, Mrs. Evelyn, Kingwood, Thames Ditton, Surrey.
Plenty, E. P., Hill House, Wash Hill, Newbury, Berks.
Plowden, Mrs. Strachur Park, Loch Fyne Side, Argyllshire.
Pollard, J. Ellery, L.R.C.P., 7 Esme Road, Sparkhill, Birmingham.
*Pollard, W. H., M.B., 343 Hagley Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B., 14 West Halkin Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Pontifex, Dudley D., 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London,
S.E. 21.
Pooley, H. F., Scotter, Well Walk, Hampstead, London, NW. 3.
*Poore, Mrs. J. B., 17 Rosemount Road, Bournemouth West.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Post, Mrs. Wm., St. Lucie, Fla. ; and Buckhannon, W. Va., U.S.A.
* Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J.P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Powell, Mrs. C. Berkeley, 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Powell, Ellis T., D.Sc, Rosedene, Brondesbury Park, London,
NW. 6.
*Powell, Mrs., Ashdown Place, Forest Row, Sussex.
Powles, Lewis Charles, Bother Cliff, Rye, Sussex.
*Preedy, Kenelm, 77 Warwick Road, London, S.W. 5.
:;:
Prideaux-Brune, H., 21 Micheldever Road, Lee, London, S.E.
Prindle, H. E., New Paltz, Ulster Co., New York, U.S.A.
*Proctor, Captain G. Norman, c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., Hornby Road,
Bombay, India.
*Pulver, S. H, Dunedin House, Basinghall Avenue, London, E.G. 2.
*Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hall, Stockfield-on-Tyne.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 591
Putman, Miss Irene, 328 Walnut Avenue, San Diego, CaL, U.S.A.
Pye, W. A., Priest Hill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Pynsent, R. B., Isthmian Club, 105 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
Quackenbos, John D., M. !).. 37 West 73rd Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Br'idgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*RadclyftVHall, Miss M., Chip Chase, Hadley Wood, Herts.
Rae, J. Burnett, M.B., 145 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Raikes, E. B., Drayton Old Lodge, Norwich.
Raikes, Mrs., Beomonds, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
*Rajagopaliengar, R. V., Royampet, Tiruvadi P.O., Tanjore Dt.,
Madras Presidency, India.
*Rampling-Rose, W., Llyndir Hall, Rossett, nr. Wrexham.
Ramsden, Miss, 16 Incognito Gade, Christiania.
* Ransom, Francis, Newlands, Hitchin, Herts.
*Rashdall, The Very Rev. Hastings, The Deanery, Carlisle.
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
Rawlinson, Rev. G. C, 20 Holbein House, London, S.W. 1.
Rawsthorn, Mrs., Yew Trees, Ashton-on-Ribble, Preston.
*Rayleigh, Lady, Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
Reade, Herbert V., C.B., 181 Queen's Gate, S. Kensington, London,
S.W. 7.
Ready, Miss E. A., 74 Regent Road, Leicester.
*Reckitt, Miss Juliet E., 20 Dulwich Wood Park, Upper Norwood,
London, S.E. 19.
Regina Madre, S. M. La, Palazzo Margherita, Rome.
Reid, Mrs., Crescent House, Effingham Road, Surbiton.
Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
* Richardson, Dalton, M.D., 19 Chalfont Court, Upper Baker Street,
London, N.W. 1.
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
Bradford.
Richmond, Kenneth, St. Merryn, North Cornwall.
Riddle, Mrs., Hillstead, Farmington, Conn., U.S.A.
*Ridley, Henry N, F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew,
Surrey.
Ridley, M. Roy, 11 Percival Road, Clifton, Bristol.
* Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
592 Members and Associates. [part
Ridley, The Viscountess, 10 Carlton House Terrace, London,
S.W. 1.
Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Ritchie, Thomas, J.P., Conservative Club, St. James's Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W. 1.
Rix, Rev. A. H., The Vicarage, Shelf near Halifax, Yorks.
* Roach, 0. A., 401 Cedar Street, San Antonio, Texas.
Robbins, Judge Rufus M., West Palm Beach, Florida, U.S.A.
Roberts, Mrs. Hugh.
Roberts, W. M., Bar Harbour, Maine, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
Robinson, George R., 25 Water Street, Liverpool.
Robson, Miss E. M. U., 35a Charlwood Street, London, S.W. 1.
Robson, Hon. Kathleen, 26 Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
Rogers, Edmund J. A., M.D., CM., 222 West Colfax Avenue,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
Rogers, Rev. E. C, St. John's Vicarage, Colchester, Essex.
Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Henleaze Park, Westbury-on-Trym, Glouces-
tershire.
Rolleston, T. W., Ineld, 16 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Romanes, N. H., c/o Rev. W. Ingham, The Hall, Old Malton,
Yorks.
Ross, Samuel, 67 Willis Street, New Bedford, Mass., U.S.A.
Row, Miss L. M.
Rublee, Mrs.
Russell, Mrs., 68 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Russell, Mrs. E. S., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
*Rust, Dr. Montague, Boyndie, Newport, Fife.
Ryder, Miss M. L., 122 Pevensey Road, Eastbourne.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Damory Cottage, Walton-on-the-Hill.
St. Hill, Mrs., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
St. John, Mrs. E. N., 13 Washington House, Basil Street, London,
S.W. 3.
*Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
''Salter, W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
*Salter, Mrs. W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 593
Samaldas, Hon. Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay, India.
Sanderson, W. R., Little Highleigh Farm, Exbridge, N. Devon.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 35 Weymouth Street, London, W. 1.
*Savory, Ernest J. C, 61 Carey Street, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., 14 Park Square, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
Schaaf, Albert E., Autonller Pen Co., Zenobia Buildings, Toledo,
Ohio, U.S.A.
Schauffler, R. H.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schofield, Mrs., 1 Phillimore Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Schoff, Wilfred H., 110 Montgomery Avenue, Cynwyd, Pa., U.S.A.
Scott, Miss A. D., Darent Hulme, Shoreham, nr. Sevenoaks.
Scott, Rev. D. D., OF., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New
Zealand.
*Scott, Major G. B., 27th Punjabis, Egyptian Expeditionary Force.
Scott, Captain J. E., Chelsfield, Sneyd Park, Bristol.
Scott, Mrs. Minturn, Waterside Copse, Liphook, Hants.
*Scott, Sydney O, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W. 2
*Scott, Mrs. W. E., 3 Newnham Walk, Cambridge.
Scott, W. Sibbald, M.B., Irwell, Winchcombe, Glos.
Seabra, Alberto, M.D., rua 15 de Novembre No. 9, Sao Paulo,
Brazil.
*Sebastien, O, Sanchez, Samana, Republica Dominicana, W. Indies.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., 120 E. 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Sellers, Miss R. A., Wellesley Girls' High School, Naini Tal, India.
*Sempill, Colonel The Master of, 12 Gardnor Mansions, Church Row,
Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, London, W.6.
*Sewell, Mrs. C. H., 21 Royal York Crescent, Clifton, Bristol.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet Sir E. H., O.M., G.C.B., G.C.V.O.,
Hedsor View, Maidenhead Court, Maidenhead, Berks.
Shackleford, Hon. Thomas M., Room 420, American National
Bank Building, Tampa, Florida, U.S.A.
Shakespear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Shastri, B. G., Railway Magistrate and Registrar, Udaipur
(Mewar), India.
594 Members and Associates. [part
Shaw, Arnold E., Grove House, Aspley Guise, Beds.
*Shaw, Mrs. Bernard, 10 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Shaw, Rev. Sir Charles J. Monson, Bart., The Rectory, Wrotham,
Kent.
Shaw, Lady, 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Sheldon, Miss M., The High School, Bargate, Grimsby.
Sheets, J. C.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
*Shore, Mrs. Ross, 8 Delamere Terrace, Paddington, London, W. 2.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
Sibly, F. Arthur, LL.D., Haywardsfield, Stonehouse, Glos.
*Sidgwick, Arthur, LL.D., 64 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Silver, Mrs. Kingston, 33 Marsham Street, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Silvester, Captain R. S., 27 St. John's Hill, Clapham Junction,
London, S.W. 11.
Simmonds, Miss C. E., 33 Clarence Gate Gardens, London, N.W. 1.
Simmons, Judge Daniel A., Jacksonville, Florida, U.S.A.
Simpson, Captain H. V., R.N., C.M.G., United Service Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Simpson, Miss Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
Sinclair, Miss May, 1 Blenheim Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
*Slight, L., 66 Wadham Road, North End, Portsmouth.
Sloggett, Lieut. -General Sir Arthur, K.C.M.G., K.C.B., 6s Bicken-
hall Mansions, London, W. 1.
:;:
Sloss, Mrs., c/o Sunderland House, Curzon Street, London, W. 1.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W. 6.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove, Brighton.
*Smith, H. Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W. 6.
Smith, Sir H. Babington, C.B., 121 St. James's Court, Buckingham
Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Smith, J. Hoyle, Spring Bank, Eccles, Lancashire.
*Smith, J. Parker, P.C., J.P., D.L., 41 Drumsheugh Gardens,.
Edinburgh.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Hebden Bridge Vicarage, Yorkshire.
lxxviil] Members and Associates. 595
*Smith, Mrs. Wansey, 71 Queen's Avenue, Finchiey, London, N. 3.
Smith, Mrs. William, c/o The Royal Bank of Australia, 18 Bishops-
gate, London, E.G. 2.
'
Smith, William Hawley, 2039 Knoxville Avenue, Peoria, 111., U.SA.
Smith, Rev. William J., St. Marnock's Manse, Kilmarnock.
*Smith, W. Whately, Rackenford Lodge, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
Snow, Mrs., 1 Brown Road, Hoe Street, Walthamstow, Essex.
Soley, Mrs., 66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
Southern, H., 24 Carholme Road, Forest Hill, London, S.E. 23.
*Spencer, H. H. F. E., 58 Hornsey Lane, London, N. 6.
Spencer, Captain R. E. E., Walbottle Hall, Newbum-on-Tyne,
Northumberland.
Spens, WiUiam, Corpus Christi College, Cambridge.
Stacey, F. C, 5 Fulreacly Road, Leyton, London, E. 10.
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., 1818 Arch Street, Phila-
delphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Stawell, Miss F. M., 33 Ladbroke Square, Notting Hill Gate,
London, W. 11.
*Steel, Mrs., Court o' Hill, Tenbury, Worcestershire.
Steele-Perkins, G., M.D., Arts Club, 40 Dover Street, London. W. 1.
Stephens, Mrs., Hotel Continental, rue Castiglione, Paris.
Stephens, W. F., Mahe, Seychelles, via Bombay.
*Stevenson, Mrs., 52 Abinger Road, Bedford Park, London, W. 4.
Stevenson, A. Creery, Cranbrook, Fellowes Road, South Farn-
borough, Hants.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coupar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Stobart, Mrs. St. Clair, 7 Turner's Wood, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 4.
Stoehr, Miss, Hotel Belvedere, Bordighera, Italy.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachan, W. M., Stroocl Park, Horsham, Sussex.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,
Strand, London, W.C. 2.
*Stradling, Capt. R. E., R.E., Civil Enginering Dept., The University,
Birmingham.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Streatfeild, W. H. R„ M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 42 Ovington Square,
London, S.W. 3.
596 Members and Associates. [part
Strode, Miss E. L. C, 63 Lonsdale Road, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
Strutt, Captain Hon. A. C, R.N., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Sturdy, Edward T., Norburton, Burton Bradstock, Bridport,Dorset.
Sturge, Miss M. Carta, Cranbourne Grange, Wonston, Micheldever,
Hants.
*Summerson, E. C, St. Bernards, Lancing, Sussex.
Swaine, Mrs. R. C, Letchworth Lane, Letchworth, Herts.
Swainson, Miss E. J., Stonecross, Kendal.
*Swainson, Miss M., 23 Warrington Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., Drawer N., Ardmore, Pennsyl-
vania, U.S.A.
Swinburne, Mrs., Western Withdean, Brighton.
Tait, Mrs., St Andrew's House Club, 31a Mortimer Street, London,
W. 1.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., Lismullen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
London, S.W. 19.
*Talbot, Mrs. Hugh, 1 Oakwood Court, Kensington, London, W. 14.
Talbot, P. Amaury, c/o Mrs. Hugh Baker, The White House,
Netherbury, nr. Beamster S.O., Dorset.
*Tatham, A. T., Mountain Rise, Pietermaritzburg.
Tatham, Hon. Justice F. S., D.S.O., Parkside, Alexandra Road,
Pietermaritzburg, S. Africa.
*Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 23 Warrington Crescent, Maida Hill,
London, W. 9.
*Taylor, H. Dennis, Stancliffe, Mount Villas, York.
*Taylor, Mrs. Lewis S., 14 Frobisher Terrace, Falmouth.
*Telling, W. H. Maxwell, M.D., 29 Park Square, Leeds.
Temple, Reginald W.
Tennent, W. J., 69 Essex Street, Masterton, New Zealand.
Thatcher, Mrs. G. R., 20 Alexandra Road, Kingston Hill, Surrey.
*Thaw, A. Blair, 29 Washington Square West, New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Thesiger, Mrs. Ernest, 6 Montpelier Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, Turf Club, Cairo, Egypt.
Thompson, Edwin, Woodlands, 13 Fulwood Park, Liverpool.
Thompson, Sir Matthew W., Bart., 39 Steeles Road, Haverstock
Hill, London, N.W. 3.
lxxviii.] Members and Associates. 597
^Thompson, Owen, K.C., 2 Arkwright Road, Harnpstead, London,
N.W. 3.
^Thomson, Edward J., 6 Windsor Terrace West, Kelvinside,
Glasgow.
Thomson. Mrs. Leslie, 9a St. Mary Abbott's Place, Kensington,
London, W.8.
Thorburn, Rev. T. J., D.D., LL.D., The Bungalow, St. Helen's
Down, Hastings.
Thornley, Miss F. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Thorp, Richard, Colenso Hill, Napier, New Zealand.
Thrupp, T. C, Claremont, Woodlands Road, Redhill, Surrey.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, 31 Farm Street, Berkeley Square, London,
W. 1.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
Torkildsen. Vilhelm, Bergen, Norway.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow,
Ireland.
*Trethewy, A. W., 4 St. James's Place, London, S.W. 1.
Trevor, The Lady Juliet, 16 Upper Brook Street, London, W. 1.
*Trotter, Mrs., Chatley, Norton St, Philip., Bath.
*Troubridge, Lady, Chip Chase, Hadley Wood, Herts.
*Tubby, Miss G. Ogden, 5 West 47th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Tuckey, C. Lloyd, M.D., 27 Silverdale Road, Eastbourne.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill. Haslemere, Surrey.
*Tugwell, Mrs. Arthur, Harlyn, Chessel Avenue, Boscombe, Bourne-
mouth.
Turton, R. W.,
Tuson, K. H., Lieut., R.E., Brompton Barracks, Chatham.
Tyler, Professor C. M., 1601 Washington Avenue, Scranton, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Tyrone, The O'Neill de, 59 rua das Flores, Lisbon, Portugal.
Tyrrell, G. N., 73 Park Road North, Acton.
Tyrwhitt, Rev. H. M., 19 The Glebe, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Ulman, Mrs. Jacob A. ,
Brooklandville, Baltimore County, Md. , U.S.A.
* Upton, Miss Florence K., 21 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
Urquiola, Manuel de, Calle de Alfredo Calderon 8, Valencia, Spain.
Van Deren, H. S., Nashville, Term., U.S.A.
*Van Loon, Dr. F. H., c/o Hoofdbureau B.G.D., Weltevreden, Java.
Van Meurs, H., Schenck-de-jong-weg 6, Buitenzorg, Java.
598 Members and Associates. [part
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam.
Vanderspar, Mrs., Spring Vale House, Spring Vale, I. of Wight.
Vatcher, Mrs., 21 St. Leonard's Road, Ealing, London, W. 13.
*Venancourt, Comte de, 7 Rue Duperre, Paris.
*Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
Verrall, Miss M. E., The Lydd, West Hoathly, Sussex.
Vyvyan, Mrs. T. C, Poldhu, Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
Wagner, W. Q., St. John Street, Melrose, Johannesburg, S. Africa..
Waite, Miss E. V., Ackworth, Station Road, Epping, Essex.
*Wales, Hubert, Homewood, Hindhead, Surrey.
Walker, Mrs. Claude, 19 West Ashton Road, Trowbridge.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Walker, Miss May C, Halcyon Club, 14 Cork Street, London, W. 1.
Walker, Lieut.-Col. P. L. E., 36 Princes Gardens, London, S.W. 7
Walker, R. A., Rolleston, Stretton, Cromer Road, Bournemouth.
*Walker-Munro,
L., R.N., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
Wall, Perry G., Tampa. Florida, U.S.A.
*Wallace, Abraham, M.D., Wendela, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Wallace, C. A., 1 Adelaide Avenue, Belfast, Ireland.
Walsh, Rev. A. Bigby, Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall,
London, S.W. 1.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grossa, Brazil.
Wang, C. Y., Rue de Paris Extension, Hankow, China.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Cairnbinn, Whitehouse, Co. Antrim, Ireland.
* Warner, Rev. D. V., 42 Belsize Park, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Warren, Mrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Wastell, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 73 Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
Watson-Taylor, Mrs., Dibleys, Blewbury, Didcot.
Webster, Mrs. Julia C, Swanton, Vermont, U.S.A.
Weinberg, Dr. A. A., Helperoostsingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
* Weinberg, Harry, J., North Road, The Park, Nottingham.
*Wellesley, Victor A. A. H, C.B., 20 St. Loo Mansions, St. Loo
Avenue, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Wemyss, Countess of, 23 St. James's Place, London, S.W. 1.
Western, F. J., Cambridge Mission, Delhi, India.
*Westlake, Ernest, Godshill, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
LXXVIII.] Members and Associates. 599
Weston, Miss Lena E., Shipbourne Grange, nr. Tonbridge, Kent.
*Westray, Mrs., 25 Cavendish Road West, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 80 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
*Whetham, W. C. D., F.R.S., Cadhay, Ottery St. Mary, Devon.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., ViUa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
* Whitehead, Miss Mercia D., St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge.
*Whitfield, A. Stanton, F.R.Hist.S., Bentley Moor, Walsall, Staffs.
"*Whitmee, A. C, Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D., 65 West 127th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
*Whittingham, F. S., Rodborough Rectory, nr. Stroud, Gloucester-
shire.
Wigan, W. L. :
Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
Wight, Edward, M.R.C.S., 9 Regency Square, Brighton.
Wild, Miss Ida, Old Larkshayes, Dalwood, Axminster, S. Devon.
Wilding, Mrs., Penbryn, Montgomery, Wales.
Wilkins, Mrs., 10 Grosvenor Square, Rathmines, nr. Dublin.
Wilkins, C. F., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 9 Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
*Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Green, Bristol, Glos.
"Wilkinson. Mrs. L. G., Cromwell House, Haresfielcl, nr. Stonehouse.
Wilkinson, Miss Marian, S., 7 The Avenue, Clifton, York.
Wilkinson, Sidney, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 49 Rodney Street, Liver-
pool.
Willcocks, Miss M. P., 35 Pennsylvania Road, Exeter.
Willett, Mrs., Fir Tree End, Haywards Heath, Sussex.
Willett, Miss Cicely.
Williams, Mrs. Glynne, 7 Berkeley House, Hay Hill, London, W. 1.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lome Road, Oxton, Cheshire.
'Williamson, Mrs., The Copse, Brook, Godalming. Surrey.
* Williamson, John, M.D., The Rhallt, Burgh Heath Road, Epsom,
Surrey.
*Williamson, The Very Rev. Dr. Wallace, 44 Palmerston Place,
Edinburgh.
Williams-Walker, A., Surgeon- Lieut., R.N., 25 Belchers Lane,
Birmingham.
Willis, Grant B., 173 W. Second Street, Mansfield, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Willock, Mrs. C. J., Elderton Lodge, Thorpe Market, Norwich.
Wilson, Charles J., Derlamogue, Ailesbury Park, Dublin.
600 Members and Associates. [part lxxviii.]
*Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, Gresham House, Sharia Sulieman Pasha,
Cairo, Egypt.
Wilson, Mrs. F. E., c/o Hon. W. Warren-Vernon, 105 Cadogan
Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J., 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Wilson, Perey, 48 Clarendon Road, Putney, London, S.W. 15.
* Wilson, W. E., 45 Maiden Road, Kentish Town, London, N.W. 5.
*Winby, Lieut. -Col. L. P., 39 Upper George Street, London, W. 1.
Wingham, T. A., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
Wise, Miss A. Stewart, 16 West Kensington Gardens, London, W. 14.
Witherby, Arthur George, Newtown Grange, Newbury, Berks.
*Wodehouse, The Lady Isabel, Kimberley House, Wymondham.
*Wolf, Franciso Eugene de, P.O. Box 269, Bristol, Rhode Island,
U.S.A.
Wood, E. Cope, 150 School Lane, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
*Wood, Richard, RoseviUe, Sunday's Well, Cork.
*Wood, T. Eugene, The Limes, Kedleston Road, Derby.
Wooclhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.
Woods, Miss Alice, St. Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Miss C. E., 13 Cowley Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
Woollett, Lieut. -Colonel W. Charles, F.S.A., 4 The Ridges, Farn-
boro', Hants.
*Woolley, F. Duke M.D., 13 Maresfield Gardens, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Woolley, V. J., M.D., 18 Freta Road, Bexley Heath, Kent.
*Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, Romden Place, Smarden, Kent.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, Wandsworth, London,
S.W. 18.
Wriford, Mrs., 21 Bullingham Mansions, Kensington, London, W.
*Wright, Captain A. F., M.C., Trent Valley House. Lichfield.
!:
Wright, G. E., Plas Macloc, York Road, Guildford, Surrey.
* Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 118 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Wynn, John, Lieut., Widney, Solihull, Warwickshire.
Yaraschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
Yeats, W. B., 18 Woburn Buildings, Tavistock Square, London,
W.C. 1.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Zeehandelaar, Dr. I., 39 Sarphatistraat, Amsterdam, Holland.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX to VOL. XXX
(PARTS LXXV-LXXVIII AND APPENDIX)
1920
A. V. B. See Leonard, Mrs. Osborne : Communicators and
Controls.
Abnormal psychology, Problems in - - - - 1-32, 134-173
Adaptation to reality, Function and Difficulties of
3, 6, 22-23, 32, 148, 149-150, 158, 159-162, 164-165
Address, Presidential - - - - - - - 275
Adler, AIL, Interpretation of dreams - - - - - 166
Aeschylus. See Scripts, Literary references.
Anaesthesia, Hysterical ------- 138-139
Analyses of Dreams 10-11, 16-22, 30-31, 39, 44-46, 47-58, 60-69,
70-79, 80-91, 92-118, 123-124
Analytical Psychology, Collected Papers on, by Dr. C. G. Jung,
2nd edit., Review of - - - - - - - - 134
Animals, Trance-communications about - 361-365
" Armstrong," Mrs., and evidence contributed by her 521-546, 553-554
Automatic Messages (Table-Tilting, Writing, etc.)
115-229, 230-250, 268, 278-279, 340-341, 349
Automatic Writing, Analogy between and dreaming - - 34, 132-133
Azam, Dr., Case of Felida X., Reference to - - - 145
Balfoub, The Rt. Hon. G. W., References to :
On the " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment 219 (footnote), 298, 299
,, Statius case - - - - - - - - 106
On Telepathy 258 (footnote)
602 Index to Vol. XXX. [parts lxxv-
Barrett, Sir W. F.
Evidence of Super-normal Communications through Motor
Automatism --------- 230
Experiments with a ouija-board - 235
Note on Telepathy and Telergy - - - 230 (footnote), 251
On the Threshold of the Unseen ------ 235
Report on a Sitting with Dr. Crawford's medium - - 334
Bayfield, Rev. M. A., On a point in the " Daisy's Second Father "
case 543, 544
" Benson, Mr." See Comiminicators.
Billy. See under Mrs. Leonard's Trance-phenomena.
Brevier (and Freud), Studien iiber Hysteric, References to - - 33, 63
Burnham. See under Mrs. Leonard's Trance-phenomena :
Memory of places.
Card, Madame, Reference to ------ - 277
Co-consciousness, The Hypothesis of a - 139-140, 141, 142, 144-145
Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology, by Dr. C. G. Jung.
2nd edit., Review of - - - - - - - - 134
Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology, by Dr. C. G. Jung,
Reference to ------- 66 (footnote)
Collis, Miss, Evidence contributed by - - - - 497-498
Communications, Evidence of Super-normal, through Motor
Automatism --------- 230
Communicators
—
A. V. B. (Ladye) ... - 340-341, 344, 348-554
Mr. " Benson " 525-530, 531, 532-538
" Daisy Armstrong's " husband ----- 546, 554
" Daisy's Second Father " (Rev. " Bertram Wilson ")
521-546, 553-554
Sir Hugh Lane 238-242, 245-247
F. W. H. Myers. See " Fresh Light on the One-Horse
Dawn Experiment " 238-242, 245-247
Condensation of dream ideas ----- 29-31, 91-101
Coniston. See Cross-correspondence.
Consciousness, Modifications of, as the explanation of conserva-
tion of past experience ----- -1-2,135-145
Constable, F. C, Personality and Telepathy, Reference to - - 259
Controls
—
A. V. B. 344,354,411,439,446,479-485
Feda. See Mrs. Leonard's Trance-phenomena.
Hugh Lane ... - - 238-242, 245-247
Peter Rooney - .... 243, 245
Coover, John Edgar, Experiments in Psychical Research, Review of 261
Crawford, W. J., D.Sc, The Reality of Psychic Phenomena. By
W. Whately Smith 306
LXXVIII.] Index to Vol. XXX. 603
Creery Experiments in Thought-Transference, Reference to - 268
Crookes, Sir William, Death and scientific work of - - 275-276
„ " Notes on an Enquiry into the Phenomena
called Spiritual " - - - 278-279, 280
Cross-Correspondence : Coniston, Brantwood, Severn 189, 206-209
" Daisy's Second Father." See Communicators.
Dionysius, Ear of, Reference to - - - - - - - 300
Dissociation of consciousness, Hypothesis of - 138-139, 140, 144
Dream-Analysis, by Alice Johnson ----- 33-133
Dream Analysis, Bearing of, on automatic Scripts - - 132-133
Method of - 14, 15-22, 31-32, 34, 38-40, 163
,, „ ,, Hermeneutical - - - - 17
Dream, Psychology of the 4, 22, 24, 27-28, 29, 34-37, 58-60, 91, 121-
123, 125-131, 155, 156, 160, 163-168, 170
Dream Censor 36-37,120-125
„ Condensation 29-31, 91-101
,, „ Cryptic words ----- 91-101
„ Content, Latent - - - 11-12, 34, 91-92, 128, 131, 167
Manifest - - - - 11-12, 29, 34, 125, 126, 167
„ Interpretation - 11-12, 13-14, 17, 59, 160, 163-169, 170-171
„ „ Technical methods ... 167-171
Personalities, Identification of 27, 29, 34, 58-60, 91, 93, 95, 98-99
„ Symbolism 4, 24, 29, 30-31, 66, 68, 155, 156, 160, 163-164, 168
Dreams, Analogies between myths and 4, 35-36, 152-154, 155, 156, 168
,, ,, ,, literary compositions and 34-35, 40-43, 59
„ Analyses of 10-11, 15-22, 30-31, 39, 43-58, 60-65, 69-91, 92-120,
123-125, 152-154
Self 32, 33-133
Continuity of thought in - - - - 126-128,129
Dutton, Miss, Evidence contributed by - - - - 501-503
Experiments in Psychical Research, by John Edgar Coover,
Review of - - - - - - - - - - 261
Extravert type 158-159
Feda. See Mrs. Leonard's Trance-phenomena : Controls.
Fox, Miss. See Jencken, Mrs.
Fresh Light on the " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment - -
175, 291, 296
Freud (and Breuer) Studien uber Hysterie, References to - - 33, 63
„ Three Contributions to the Theory of Sex, Reference to - 146
„ The Unconscious in Psycho-Analysis, Reference to - - 34
Freud's Psychology 1-2, 3, 4, 6, 29, 33, 34, 36, 37, 39-40, 58, 59, 63,
65-66, 67, 68, 91, 93-94, 96, 98, 121-122, 128, 142-148, 150, 152,
157, 159, 161-162, 163-164, 166, 167, 168, 171, 172
2q
604 Index to Vol. XXX. [parts lxxv.-
Freud's Psychology, Use of the word Sexual, - -
146-148,150
Unconscious, The, Views of - - - 1-2, 33-34, 142-145
Views, and Jung's, Fundamental differences between
1-3, 4, 65-68, 145-172
Globe lightning £85
Goethe. See Scripts, Literary references.
Goligher, Kathleen, Mediumship of 306-337
» Genuineness, Question of - - 321-328
» ,, Salient features .... 307-309
Hicks, Rev. Savell, Experiments with a ouija-board
235, 238-239, 240, 242
Highfield House, Malvern Wells. See Mrs. Leonard's Trance-
phenomena : Memory of places.
Hill, J. Arthur, On a point in the " Daisy's Second Father " case 543
Hinkle, Dr. Beatrice, Introduction to Jung's Psychology of the
Uyiconscious, Reference to - - - - - - - 146
Holland Script, References to - 73-75, 76, 81, 94-95, 100, 207, 208
Home, Reference to the mediumship of 277, 279
Hude, Mrs. Anna, Evidence for Communication with the Dead,
Reference to -------- - 298
" Hugh Lane Case " - - ... 238-242, 245-247, 255
Human Personality, References to - - 33, 63, 77, 78, 95, 141
Hypnagogic vision ......... 25
Hypnotism, Its relation to, and difference from, Psycho-analysis 4-6
Identity, Evidence of. See under Mrs. Leonard's Trance-
phenomena.
Infra-conscious, The - - - - - - - - - 137
Interpretation of dreams - 11-12, 13-14, 17, 59, 160, 163-169, 170-171
Technical methods - - - - - - - 167-171
Introvert type --------- 158-159
James, William, cited ........ 167
Janet, Dr. Pierre, Hypothesis of dissociation of consciousness
138-139, 140, 144
Jebb's note on ow^coiw. See Scripts, Literary references ; and
" The '
One-Horse Dawn '
Experiment."
Jencken, Mrs., Reference to the mediumship of - - - 279-282
Johnson, Miss Alice, Dream-Analysis - .... 33-133
Jung, Dr. C. G.
Collective Papers on Analytical Psychology (Second edit.),
Review of - - - - • - - - - 134
LXXVIII.] Index to Vol. XXX. 605
Jung, Dr. C. G.
Psychology of the Unconscious. A Study of the Transforma-
tions and Symbolisms of the Libido, Review of - - 134
Wandlungen und Symbole der Libido, Review of - - - 134
Jung's Psychology 2-3, 4, 6, 9, 27-28, 31, 32, 58, 66-68, 134-135,
145-146, 148-173
Sexual, Use of the word 150, 156, 157
Unconscious, The - - 2-3, 4, 6, 9, 31, 32, 145-146, 148-173
Views, and Freud's, Fundamental differences between
1-3, 4, 65-68, 145-172
King, Mrs., Automatic Script of, reference to - - - - 216
Kirby, Mrs., Case of, reference to 234
Knowledge, Apparent super-normal, shown in trance-communica-
tions 454-476, 487-554
Ladye. See Communicators.
Leland Stanford Junior University's Psychical Research Mono-
graph, No. 1, Review of - - - - - - - 261
Leonard, Mrs. Osborne, On a Series of Sittings with, by Miss
Radclyffe-Hall and (Una) Lady Troubridge - - 339-554
Communicators :
A. V. B. (Ladye).
"Rilly. See below, under Knowledge . . . unknown to
the Sitters.
Burnham. See below, under Knowledge . . . un-
known to the Sitters.
Controlling. See below, under Controls.
Identity, Evidence of - - - - 348-453, 477-486
Appearance, Description of 348-360
Gestures, Familiar ----- 424, 427
Memory 361-453
Personal Touches - 477-486, 492
Knowledge, Apparent, of contemporary events 454-476
Actions and Conversations - - - 454-457
A flash of colour ------ 457
A diagram 457-458
Daisy's plans and movements - 471-472,524-525
Small incidents 473-476
U. V. T.'s House, Circumstances connected with
it, and work done there - - - 458-471
Knowledge shown of Matters entirely unknown to
the Sitters ------ 487-546
Concerning the dog Billy - 487-506, 549-551
"Burnham" - - - 506-521,552
" Daisy's Second Father " 521-546, 553-554
2q2
606 Index to Vol. XXX. [pa rts lxxv.-
Leonard, Mrs. Osborne, On a Series of Sittings with :
Communicators :
A. V. B. (Ladye).
Memory shown by the Communicator - - 361-453
Characteristics of the Sitter - 361-366, 449-451
Guitar 438-444
M. R. H.'s method of composing - - 449-451
Photographs of U. V. T. - - - 436-438
Physical Symptoms - - - 417-436, 547
Places - - 366-417, 431-433, 435-436
Burnham. See above, under Knowledge . . .
unknown to the Sitters.
Malvern Wells, Highfield House - - 384-389
White Cottage 342-343, 366-383,
431-433, 435-436
Teneriffe 391-417
Swimming and Bathing - 451-453
Words peculiar to Communicator - - 444-449
Personal Touches 477-486, 492
Mr. "Benson" 525-530,531,532-538
" Daisy Armstrong's " husband .... 546, 554
"Daisy's Second Father" (Rev.Bertram Wilson) 521-546, 553-554
Controls: A. V. B. - - - 344,354,411,439,446,479-485
Feda 340, 342, 344-345, 346-347, 348-479, 481, 485-510,
512, 514-516, 518, 519, 522-544, 549-550
„ Characteristics of - 344-345, 346-347, 494-495
Integrity of the Medium, On the .... 342-344
On the possibility of her knowledge of Subject-
matter - - - 342-344, 354, 378-379, 400, 413
Sittings, Conditions (Light) 345-346
Gestures at 345-346
Number of 342
Proxy 506-508, 514, 522
Records of ....... 345
Table 340-341, 349
Lethe Case, References to ... . 300, 305
Levitations - - - 307-308, 309-312, 314-317, 335-337
Libido, Freud's use of the term ------ 145-148
„ Jung's „ „ 6, 145, 148-151, 155-156, 157
Symbolisms of - - - - 152-154
„ Theory of the - ... 6-7, 134-135, 145-151
Libido, A Study of the Transformations and Symbolisms of the, by
Dr. C. G. Jung 134, 145-173
Lodge, Sir Oliver.
Note on Mr. Piddington's paper, Fresh Light on the '
One-
Morse Dawn '
Experiment - - - - - 291
LXXVUI.] Index to Vol. XXX. 607
Lodge, Sir Oliver.
Reply to, by Mr. Piddington 296
Long, Dr. Constance E., The Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal
Material 1-32
Mackenzie-Ashton, Arundel, Case contributed bj- - - 230-233
Malvern Wells. See under Mrs. Leonard's Trance-phenomena :
Memory of places.
Martin, Professor Lillien J., Contributions to the Leland
Stanford Junior University's Psychical Research Monograph,
No. 1 267-268
Medical Part of the Proceedings - - - -. - - -1-173
Members and Associates, List of ------ 555
Memory retained by Communicator (Trance-phenomena) - 361-453
Miller, Miss Frank 152-154
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., On Psychoanalysis, References to 33 (and footnotes)
,, ,, Psychology of the Unconscious and Psycho-
analysis ...... 134
Morgan, Professor Lloyd, Hypothesis of the Infra-Conscious - 137
Motor Automatism, Evidence of Super-normal Communications
through 230
Murray, Professor Gilbert 289
Myers, F. W. H. See Communicators ; and Scripts, Literary
references.
Myers, F. W. H., References to
—
On Freud's early work ------ 33, 63, 95
„ the Subliminal Self - - - 2, 33, 140-141, 143
„ Telepathy and Telergy - - 234, 251-255, 256, 257, 259
See also Scripts, Literary references.
Nbwkham, Rev. P. EL, Experiments in Thought-transference,
Reference to ------- 233-234
Newton, Miss I., On evidence in Miss Radclyrfe-Hall's paper
500, 516, 543-544
Nicholson, Colonel E. EL, Evidence contributed by 230, 231, 232, 233
Note on Mr. Piddington s paper called " Fresh Light on the '
One-
Horse Dawn '
Experiment,'" by Sir O. Lodge - - -
291
Reply by Mr. Piddington 296
Oedipus. See " The '
One-Horse,Dawn '
Experiment,'"
" Old Man in White " (" The '
One-Horse Dawn '
Experiment "),
Scripts relating to ------ .
179-185
" One-Horse Dawn " Experiment, Fresh Light on the, by J. G.
Piddington 17 5
Note on, by Sir Oliver Lodge 291
A Reply to, by J. G. Piddington - - -
296
Ouija-board Experiments .
235-249
608 Index to Vol. XXX. [parts lxxv.-
Palladino, Etxsapia, References to - - 282, 321, 322 (footnote)
Parakinesis 319
" Pearl tie-pin " case 236-238
Perception falsified by suggestion or emotion - - - 266-267
Perrin, Mrs. Alice, On a point in the " Daisj^'s Second Father "
case ----------- 543
Personality, Double or multiple, On ----- 139, 145
Phantasy, Subconscious 7, 8-12, 13, 19, 20, 22, 23, 25, 152-154, 155,
159-160, 162-163
Physical Phenomena 280-282, 306-333, 334-337
Piddington, J. G.
Fresh Light on the. " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment - - 175
Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note on - - - - 296
On a point in the " Daisy's Second Father " case - 543, 544
Pigou, Professor A. O, On Cross-Correspondences, references to
298, 299
Preconscious, Freud's conception of the - - 2, 142-143, 144
Presidential Address, by the Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh - - 275
Prince, Dr. Morton, Hypothesis of Co-consciousness - - ' - 139
Prophecy, Supposed, of California Earthquake in 1906 - - 267
Psychic energy. See Libido theory.
Psychic Phenomena, The Reality of, W. Whately Smith on - 306-333
Psychical Research, Analogies in Science and - - - 283-285
Difficulties in - 282-283, 286, 288, 318
,, ,, On the need for a laboratory - 270 271
Psychoanalysis, Definition and therapeutic function of
4-6, 34, 142, 143, 155, 157, 160-163, 171, 172-173
Differences between the two Schools of 65-68, 157-171
,, As a method of psychological investigation
33-133, 172-173
,, References to discussion on, in Proceedings - 33-34
Psychoanalysis, Psychology of the Unconscious and - - - 134
Psychoanalytic Use of Subliminal Material 1
Psychology, Analytical, Collected Papers on, by Dr. C. G. Jung,
2nd edit., Review of
Psychology of the Unconscious, by Dr. C. G . Jung, Review of -
134
" Quelqttes faits d' imagination creatrice subconsciente
"
(Archives de Psychologie) ----- 152-154
Radclyffe-Hai.l, Miss M., On a Series of Sittings with Mrs.
339
Osborne Leonard - - - -
-
Raps 280, 308, 313-314, 317, 335, 336
Rayleigh, The Right Hon. Lord, Presidential Address -
275
Beality, The, of Psychic Phenomena - - - -
-
306
LXXVIII.] Index to Vol. XXX. 609
Reviews
—
John E. Coover's " Experiments in Psychical Research "
{Leland Stanford Junior University^ Psychical Research
Monograph, No. 1) - - - - - - - 261
Dr. W. J. Crawford's The Reality of Psychic Phenomena - 306
Dr. C. G. Jung's Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology
(Second edition) ; and Psychology of the Unconscious - 134
Richet, Professor Charles, Experiments in Thought-transference,
reference to --------- 234
Robinson, Lennox, Experiments with a ouija-board - - 235-249
" Rogers," Sir Richard, and evidence contributed by him 509-520, 552
Ruskin. See Cross-correspondence : Coniston.
Salter, Mrs., On a point in the " Daisy's Second Father " incident 543
Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Review of Experiments in Psychical
Research, by John Edgar Coover ----- 261
Scripts, Literary references and reminiscences
—
Aeschylus, Agamemnon ...... 215, 216
Arnold, Thyrsis 215, 220
Goethe, Wanderer's Nachtlied 215,220
Homer, Odyssey - - 215, 216-219
Jebb, Note on olofavov (Oed. Tyr.) 189-195, 210-211, 212, 213,
214, 218-219, 222-223, 292, 296-297, 300, 301, 302-303
Myers, Obituary Notice of Ruskin - - 207-211, 292, 300
Scripts. One-Horse. Dawn - - - - - - 215, 220
Sophocles. Oedipus Coloneus
179-180, 181, 183-184, 185, 187, 195-205
Oedipus Tyrannus - 179, 182, 186, 188-189, 292
Stevenson, R. L., A Song of the Road - - - - 215, 220
Tennyson. Crossing the Bar ----- 215-216
Ulysses 215, 220
Self -projection, Telepathic, reference to cases of - - 234-235
Sex, Three Contributions to the Theory of - - - - - 146
Sidis, Dr. Boris, Conception of a Subconscious Self as a diffused
Consciousness -------- 141-142
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, " The Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance-
phenomena," reference to - - - 133
» >> On Telergy and Telepathy, reference to 255, 259
Smith, Mrs. Travers, Experiments with a ouija-board - 235-249
Smith, W. Whately, The Reality of Psychic Phenomena, by W. J.
Crawford, D.Sc. --------- %qq
Society for Psychical Research, Dr. Coover on - -
268-269, 272
Sophocles. See Scripts, Literary references.
Statins Case, Reference to - - - - - . . 106 300
Stevenson, R. L. See Scripts, Literary references.
Studien iiber Hysterie, Reference to 33, 63
610 Index to Vol. XXX. [parts lxxv-
" Subconscious, An Experimental Study of the," by Professor
L. J. Martin, reference to - - - . . . - 268
Subconscious, Difference between the, as applied by writers on
normal, and on abnormal, psychology -
139
Subliminal Material, The Psychoanalytical Use of 1
Subliminal Self, Hypothesis of a 2, 140-142
Suggestion, Effect of, on perception 266-267
Survival, A development in the evidence for - - -
303-305
Table Sittings 340-341, 349
Taylor, Mrs., Evidence contributed by 499
Telekinesis
—
Distinction between, and parakinesis - - - 319 (footnote)
Dr. Crawford's experiments .... 306-333, 334-337
On the question of the genuineness of the phenomena 317-328
On the means by which the control is exercised - 329-333
Phenomena of
—
Levitatidns - - - 307-308, 309-312, 314-317, 335-337
Raps - - - 280, 308, 313-314, 317, 335, 336
Telepathy, Experimental 233-235, 262-266
» „ Self -projection, Cases of, reference to 234-235
,, Spontaneous ,230-233
Telepathy, On 251-260, 262-266, 268-269, 272-273, 286-289, 303-304
,, On the mode of transmission of 256-260
Telepathy and Tclergy, Note on - - - - 230 (footnote), 251
Telergy, Note on Telepathy and - - - - 230 (footnote), 251
Teneriffe. See under Mrs. Leonard's Trance-phenomena
:
Memory of places.
Three Contributions to the Theory of Sex, Reference to - - 146
Thought-transference, Experiments in 262-266
Trance-phenomena. See Leonard, Mrs. Osborne.
Troubridge, (Una) Lady, On a Series of Sittings with Mrs. Osborne
Leonard .......... 339
Unconscious, The - ... 1.32, 134-173
See also Dream-Analysis, by Alice Johnson.
Unconscious, The, Psychology of, by Dr. C. G. Jung, Review of - 134
Unconscious, The, Psychology of, and Psychoanalysis - - - 134
Unconscious, The, in Psychoanalysis, reference to - - - 34
Verrall, Dr. A. W. Sec " Fresh Light on the '
One-Horse
Dawn '
Experiment."
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., On the " One-Horse Dawn " Experiment,
references to 176-178, 185, 187, 198-199, 203, 209, 220, 229,296-297
Verrall (H. V.) Script, References to 95-96, 100, 185, 190 (footnote),.
201, 205-207, 208, 209, 215-222, 229
LXXVIII.] Index to Vol. XXX. 611
W., Db., Sittings with Miss K. Goligher .... 334-337
Wandlnngen und Symbole der Libido, by Dr. C. G. Jung - - 134
Ward, Professor James, Hypothesis of subconscious presenta-
tions ---------- 136, 137
White House. See under Mrs. Leonard's Trance-phenomena :
Memory of places.
Will of the Wisp 285-286
Willett, Mrs., Automatic Scripts of - - - - 207-208, 227
" Wilson, Rev. Bertram." See " Daisy's Second Father."
Woolley, Dr. V. J., On Psychoanalysis, references to - - - 33
X., Felida, Dr. Azam's Case of, reference to - - - - 145
•GLASGOW : PRINTED AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
SPECIAL MEDICAL PA&T >>.
PROCEEDINGS* V ^ / %f
OF THE ^ Vfr
V<
Society for Psychical Research.
Part LXXV. Vol. XXX.—July, 1918. Price 4s. 6d. net.
CONTENTS.
PAOE
I. The Psychoanalytical Use of Subliminal Material. By
Constance E. Long, M.D., 1
II. Dream-Analysis. By Miss Alice Johnson, 33
III. Psychology of the Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. By
T. W. Mitchell, M.l>., - - - 134
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers published
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
printed for the society by
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Aytnts for the sale of publications:
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebonk, W. 1.
GLASGOW: JAMES MACLEHOSE & SONS, 61 St. Vincent Street.
AMERICA: THE W. B. CLARKE CO., 20-2S Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1918.
PRESIDENT.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
A.~ J. Balfour, M.P., O.M.
Rt. Hon.
F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Right Rev. Bishop
Carpenter, D.D.
W. W. Baggally.
The Rig ht Hon. G. W. Balfour
Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Captain Ernest N. Bennett.
J. Milne Bramwell, M.B.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feildino.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
W. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.Sc,
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Mauric
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Boyd Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
COUNCIL.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,
Litt.D.
J. G. PlDDINGTON.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
Lord Rayleigh, 0. M., F.R.S.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
H. Arthur Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., P.R.S.
M.B. Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
V. J. VVoolley, M.D.
e B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - - - - - 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.R.S.,- - 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1888-1892.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, - 1894-1895.
Sir William Crookes, F.R.S., ------ 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., ------- 1901-1903.
Sir William Barrett, F.R.S., ------ 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - - - - 1905.
The Right Hon Gerald W. Balfour, - 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 1908-1909.
H. Arthur Smith, - ... 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., - - 1911.
The Right Rev. Bishop Boyd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson, - - - 1913.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, ------- 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., - - - 1915-1916.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.; ------- 1917.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1, are
open every week-day from 1] a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of Parts LXXI.-LXXIV.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.]
Part LXXI. —December, 1915. Price 6s. net.
A ( ontribution to the Study of the Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance
Phenomena. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick :
Preface, . . . . .
List of Papers concerning Mrs. Piper, previously published,
Synopsis of Contents, .....
Chapter I. Introductory, ...
,, II. Theories of Controls as to their Relation to the
Medium, . . . .
-
,, III. Individual Controls, ....
,, IV. Language of Controls, and their Common Memories
and Associations of Ideas,
,, V. Communicators, ....
,, VI. The Waking-Stage, ....
,, VII. Relation of the States of Consciousness to each oth
,, VIII. Effect of Sitters and of so-called "Influences,"
,, IX. Conclusion, .....
Appendix to Chapter I. Some Prophecies, .
,, II. Theories of Controls,
,, III. Specimens of Individual Controls
,, IV. Speaking by Thought,
,, V. Communicators,
,, VI. Examples of Waking-Stages,
„ VII. Relations between the States of
Consciousness, .
VIII. Sitters and "Influences," .
Index to Vol. XXVIII
Part LXXIL—November, 1916. Price 4s. net.
1. Cross-Correspondences of a Gallic Type. By J. G. Piddington,
II. Presidential Address. By Professor Gilbert Murray, LL. D.
Litt.D., -.V . 5\ ....
III. Report on a Series of Experiments in "Guessing." By Mrs.
A. W. Verfall, ......
IV. Recent Evidence about Prevision and Survival. By Sir Oliver
Lodge, F.R.S.,
V. Obituary Notice : Mrs. A. W. Veri>all, ....
Supplement : Reviews
:
Mr. Henry Holt's " On the Cosmic Relations." By Professor
W. R. Newbold, .......
Professor Boris Sidis's "The Foundations of Normal and
Abnormal Psychology." By F.. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc,
Professor Jung's "Collected Papers on Analytical Psychology"
(translated by Dr. Constance Long). By T. W. Mitchell,
r,
i
ii
v
1
29
75
130
159
205
258
294
315
332
335
437
518
520
549
614
619
653
1
46
64
111
170
i //
186
191
Proceedings of the Society.
—
Continued.
Part LXXIII. —March, 1917. Price Is. 6d. net.
Thk Ear of Diovysius: Further Scripts affording Evidence of Personal
Survival. By The Right Hon. U. W. Balfoor,
Part LXXIV.—December, 1917. Price 4s. 6d! net.
I. On the Development of Different Types of Evidence for Survival
in the Work of the Society. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
II. The Ear of Dionysius : - A Discussion of the Evidence. By
Miss F. Melian Stavvell, .....
III. The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. By The Right Hon. G. W.
,ii y.i .. Balfour, fc-vi-Sfl** •
.
";
. •..
t
•
.. .
IV. Presidential Address : The Theory of Survival in the Light of
its Context. By L. P. Jacks, LL.D., ....
V. Some Experiments with a New Automatist.
• • Salter, • . . . . . ..Jnti ! <
By .Mrs. W. H.
VI. "
Some "Recent' Cases- of Premonition and Telepathy. By the
REVr M. A. Bayfield, . . . . .
Supplement.
VII. In Memoriam—Mrs." A. W. Verratt, ....
VITI. Reviews :
. Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research,
" The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality." By
F. C. S. Schiller, J). Sc., .
''
.
f.*
Sir Oliver Lodge's "Raymond."' By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Bound Copies of Volumes I. -XXIX. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, or separate Parts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretary, Society for Psychical
Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The W. B.
Clarke Co., 26-28 Tremont Street, Boston, Mass.
197
245
260
270
287
306
350
376
386
404
Vol I. (Parts I.-IV.) pp. 336. 5s.
II. ( „ v.-vn.)pp. 340. 5s.
III. ( „ vm.-ix. ) pp. 500. 5s.
IV. ( ,,
x.-xi.) pp. 605. 4s.
V. ( ,, xn. -xiv.) pp. 606. 5s.
VI. ( ,, xv. -xvii.) pp. 707. 5s.
VII. ( ,,' xviul-xx.) pp. 442. 4s.
VIII. ( ,, xxi. -xxiii.) pp. 647. 5s.
IX.( ,, xxiv.-xxv.) pp. 407. 4s.
X. ( Part xxvi. ) pp. 466. 4s.
XI. (Pts.xxvn.-xxix.)pp. 037. 5s.
XII. ( „ .
xxx.-xxxi.)pp. 391. 4s.
XIII. ( ,, xxxn. -xxxiii. ) pp. 653. 6s.
XIV. ( ,, xxxiv.—xxxv. )
pp.436, os.
XV. ( ,, xxxvi. -xl.) pp. 522. 6*.
XVI. (Part XLi.)pp. 650. 6s.
Vol. XVII. (Parts xlii.-xlv.) pp. 468.
6s. 3d.
, X VIII. ( ,, xlvi.-xlix ) pp. 548. 7s.
,
XIX.(,, L.-Lii.)pp. 508. 6s. 6d.
, XX. (Part Lin.) pp. 444. 6s.
, XXI. (Pts. liv.-lvi. ) pp. 5S4. 6s.
•
XXII. (Part lvii.) pp. 445. 6s,
, XXIII. (Pts. Lvm.-Lix.)pp.602. 7s.
, XXIV. ( „ lx.-lxi.) pp. 758. 7s.
, XXV. ( ,,
Lxn.-LXiv.)pp. 540. 6s.
, XXVI. ( ,, Lxv.-Lxvn.)pp. 544, 6s.
,XXVII.( ,,LXVin.-LXX.)pp.562. 6s.
,XXVIII.(Part Lxxi.)pp.657. 6s.
. XXIX,(Pts. lxxii.-lxxiv.) pp. 467
lis. 6d.
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. each.
The Society also issues a Monthly Journal for Privatf Circulation
among Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co. Ltd., University Press, Glasgow.
0
