{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pattie_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Pattie T NDE 4047","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pattie T NDE 4047  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pattie T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1946 Pattie T NDE 4047  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I remember looking both ways then starting to cross. I still don't know if it was just a dream but it didn't feel like it, it felt like I was there, it was so real. All of a sudden, I'm in this beautiful place, such a beautiful landscape, the colors were so vivid. It was full of trees, flowers, and the smell from the flowers. 

I saw people walking in this garden and a white building in the middle of this wonderful place. I started walking towards the people and the building when I saw this one man. He seemed so full of love and tenderness. I felt drawn to him. He looked at me and said, 'It's not your time yet. You have to go back as you still have things to do.' I argued as I didn't want to go back, even if it meant I'd have to leave my daughter behind, somehow I knew she'd be okay, and this place was so full of love and peace and joy and beauty. I can't even begin to describe it, the words we have in this language just don't seem to come close to the experience. He smiled at me and touched my shoulder and said, 'You have to go back - it's not your time to come back home yet.' The next thing I remember is coming to and thinking, excuse the language, what the hell am I doing in an ambulance?

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  13 October 2007

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   Was hit by a van as I was crossing the highway. I was on a bicycle.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the whole time I was there - it was when I came to that the pain and the rest hit me and I got foggy.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Just everything was so much more vivid, real - makes the here and now seem dull in comparison.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Like I said I am hard of hearing but there I could hear everything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     There was people walking in this garden and I seemed to recognize them and was walking to meet up with them when this one man stopped me and said I had to go back. This man was surrounded by a glowing light all around him. He had such a loving feeling about him, a gentle spirit.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Not sure - things just seemed very bright, but not blinding just glowing.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I found myself in a beautiful garden, filled with flowers, trees, a lake ar river...some type of water....a while building in the middle of the garden...looked like marble.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, joy, the feeling of loving and being loved without any judgments.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I guess for me it's wondering why I was sent back and how will I know what I'm supposed to do. But I do know one thing, I know there is no death, we just move out of this house our spirit is in and go Home. I have no fear of death and believe me when it's finally my time to go Home I'll be pounding on the door to be let in.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Part of me has come more introspective - I'm reading more, spending more time outside. I haven't shut myself away but I'm like still trying to understand.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It is and isn't. Some parts I can describe. Others are just too hard - it's hard to put into words that can describe the things I saw, felt and heard.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I just seem to have an inner knowing - hard to explain.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the beauty - the whole experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   You know I heard about them, etc. and thought to myself, 'Sure, right.' Not to say they didn't happen, but until I had it happen to me.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I just know, I was there. It was too real. I know dreams and this was too real. I can still close my eyes and see it and I have to admit I was angry for a long time for Him sending me back. One thing, even though I wore no helmet and bounced my forehead off the pavement (I flew across two lanes of traffic) I was told this as I don't remember anything of the accident.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It's just still vivid in my mind and heart. I can still see the gardens, the building and feel the joy and peace I felt there.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It's hard for me to understand why I was sent back when just a week ago someone else had almost the same exact type of accident and they didn't come back, that haunts me. They had two little babies and were well loved in the area, why did he not be allowed to come back and I was?      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pattie_t_nde.html