{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V31 1921","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v31_1921.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V31 1921","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXI
(CONTAINING PARTS LXXIX, LXXX, LXXXI &^ APPENDIX)
192I
The respofisibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely zvith their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1921
Agen/s for the sale of publications:
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W.
GLASGOW: MACLEHOSE, JACKSON & CO., 73 West George Street
AMERICA: THE F. W. FAXON CO., 83 Fran-cis Street, Bosto.s, Mass.
All rights rise;fed
THK RlcniT HON. L(I1!D IlAYLEICiH, O.M., T.K.S,
,/. l;iisi,ll .1 Sana.
CONTENTS.
PART LXXIX.
May, 1920.
I. In Memory of Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. By Sir Olver
Lodge, F.R.S. 1
II. In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S. By Sir
William Barrett, F.R.S. - - - - - l"^
III. The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. By T. W.
Mitchell, M.D. 30
IV. The Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. By
C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. - 75
Supplement.
Review :
—Dr. Ernest Jones's " Papers on Psycho-Analysis."
f<:v By T. W. Mitchell, M.D. 94
( Note on " A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena
of Trance" {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VI.). By Sir Oliver
LODGE, F.R.S. 103
PART LXXX.
November, 1920.
I. Presidential Address. By William McDougall, F.R.S.,
M.Sc, M.B. 105
II. Report on a series of Cases of Apparent Thought-Transfer-
ence without Conscious Agency. By Hubert Wales - 124
Supplement—Reviews :
Dr. Troland's " A Technique for the Experimental Study
of Telepathy and other Alleged Clairvoyant Processes."
By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc. 218
Professor Sigmund Freud's Totem and Taboo. Resem-
blances between the Psychic Lives of Savages and
Neurotics." By J. C. Flugel 224
Lieut. E. H. Jones's " The Road to Endor." By W. H.
Salter 229
198871
iv Contents,
;
.':
/ /„•' \
\' </ ;-'';RaRT LXXXI.
_ . , , . .4pii.lL, 1921.
. An 5I]^caiiiinat ion of •
Book'-tests Obtained in Sittings with Mrs.
' ' '
'
'
Leonard. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
PAGE
§ 1. Introductory 242
§ 2. A Case where the Communicator's Memory seems the
Probable Source of Information . . . - - 253
§ 3. Mrs. Beadon's Book-Tests 260
§ 4. Instances of Statements about Words or Sentences in a
Book which turn out to be Verbally Accurate - - - 270
§ 5. Some Miscellaneous Cases ------- 289
§ 6. Special Experiments 300
§ 7. Question of Cross-Correspondences ----- 313
§ 8. Seemingly Genuine Mistakes, and others - - - 338
§ 9. Discussion of Statements which may throw Light on the
Mode of Perception of a Page in a Closed Book - - 349
§ 10. Conclusion - 375
AjDpendix A : Note on Chance in Book-Tests - - - 379
,, B : Cases of Accurate Description of Objects in con-
nection with Book-Tests - - - - 386
., C : Supplementary to § 8 - - - - - 393
„ D : Supplementary to § 9 - - - - - - 398
APPENDIX TO PART LXXXI.
Officers and Council for 1921 417
List of Members and Associates - - - - - - 419
Index to Vol. XXXI. - 465
PROCEEDINGS
'OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXIX.
May, 1920.
I.
IN MEMORY OF
LORD RAYLEIGH, O.M., F.R.S.
By Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
Lord Rayleigh was the second President to die during
his tenure of office ; and it is well that the Society
should place on record in its Proceedings the main facts
in the life of one whom posterity—certainly scientific
posterity—will regard as in many respects the greatest
of those who have occupied our Presidential chair.
Accordingly I extract the salient facts from a summary
made for Science Progress, by his one-time assistant
and constant co-worker, Sir Richard Glazebrook, F.R.S.,
first Director of the National Physical Laboratory.
.John William Strutt, third Baron Rayleigh, was born on
November 12, 1842, and succeeded his father in the title in
1873. He took his B.A. Degree at Cambridge in 1865, gradu-
ating as Senior Wrangler. The same year he was first Smith's
prizeman, and in 1866 he became a Fellow of Trinity College.
This position he held until the time of his marriage in 1871
to Evelyn, daughter of IVIr. James Maitland Balfour of Whittinge-
hame, and sister of the Rt. Hon. A. J. Balfour. Two of their
sons survive him—Robert, his successor in the title, now
2 Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. [part
Professor of Physics in the Imperial College, South Kensington ;
and Arthur, who through the War has served with the Grand
Fleet.
He lived at TerUng Place in Essex until 1879, when, on
Maxwell's death, he accepted the invitation to become Caven-
dish Professor of Physics at Cambridge, a post which he held
until 1884. This same year he took part as President, at
Montreal, in the first meeting of the British Association outside
these islands.
In 1887 he became Secretary of the Royal Society, an
office retained until 1896 ; he was Professor of Natural Philo-
sophy in the Royal Institution from 1887 to 1905 ; and he
held the high office of President of the Royal Society from
1905 to 1908. In this latter year he became Chancellor of
the University of Cambridge, in succession to the eighth
Duke of Devonshire. He was closely connected with the
National Physical Laboratory from the time of its foundation,
first as Chairman of the Treasury Committee appointed to
report on the desirability of establishing the Laboratory,
then as chairman of the Executive Committee, an office
which he held almost up to the time of his death.
He acted as adviser to the Government on a number of
scientific matters, such as electrical units, explosives, aero-
nautics, acoustical questions, and many others. In fog-
syrens and other marine safety applicances he was adviser
to the Trinity House.
In 1905 he became a Privy Councillor ; he was also one
of the first members of the Order of Merit. In 1904 he was
awarded a Nobel Prize ; the Royal Society gave him the
Copley, the Royal, and the Rumford medals ; he was an
Officer of the Legion of Honour, Foreign Member of the
Institute of France, and of many British and Foreign Scientific
Societies, while he received degrees from numerous Universities
at home and abroad.
At Cambridge he commenced that great series of Electrical
Measurements which established on an accurate basis the
system of Electrical Units to which the jsrogress of Electrical
Engineering is so greatly due. ... In his later work he had
the assistance of his sister-in-law, Mrs. Sidgwick, and with her
carried out his classical measurements on the Silver Volta-
Lxxix.] In Memory of Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. 3
meter and the Latimer Clark Cell, thus establishing definitely
the units of resistance, current, and electromotive force.
These researches illustrated in a marked degree Lord
Rayleigh's genius as an experimental physicist. The apparatus
employed, except when high precision was required, was of
the simjolest ; that which came nearest to hand was utilised ;
and, whether at the Cavendish Laboratory or at his private
laboratory at Terling, visitors were astonished at the means
by which results of surprising accuracy—accuracy which has
only been further substantiated by more elaborate research
were reached. . . .
All his investigations were marked by the same character-
istics—a clear grasji of principles—a fearless courage in attack-
ing difficulties, and a firm determination to reach the truth.
For many years past he has been recognised and revered as
the leader of Enghsh Physical Science. The public knew
him but Uttle ; we who were proud to be his pupils and
his helpers realise only too sadly the greatness of our loss.
With those words, so far as applicable, I heartily
assoicate myself ; and I append some critical observations,
made in the columns of Nature by his great successor
in the chair of experimental Physics at Cambridge, Sir
J. J. Thomson, President of the Royal Society and now
Master of Trinity College, Cambridge.
For more than fifty years Lord Rayleigh put forth without
any interruption, and without a trace of diminution in quality
or quantity, a succession of researches covering almost every
branch of the older physics. He must during his career have
published nearly 400 papers ; not '
one of these is common-
place, and there is not one which does not raise the level
of our knowledge of its subject. " Collected Papers " are apt to
form a kind of memorial tablet in our libraries to men of
science, but, if I may judge from my own experience, Rayleigh's
are a remarkable exception ; there are few, if any, books
which I consult more frequently than these volumes and froni
which I derive greater delight and benefit. No small part
of this is due to the clearness and finish with which they
are written.
Rayleigh had, like Kirchhoff, the spirit and feeling of the
Artist in the preparation and presentation of his papers. His
4 Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. [part
mathematical analysis seemed to flow naturally into the most
concise and elegant form, and, whatever might be the difficulty
of the subject, it was never increased by any obscurity or
ambiguity as to the meaning of the writer. This quality
was so ingrained that it could resist the rush and excitement
of a competition as keen as that of the Mathematical Tripos ;
for Avhen he was Senior Wrangler in the Tripos for 1865,
one of the examiners said : Sti'utt's papers were so good that
they could have been sent straight to press without revision.
Another feature brought out by this collection of papers
is their catholicity. The papers are indexed under the headings
Mathematics, General Mechanics, Elastic Solids, Capillarity,
Hydrodynamics, Sound, Thermodynamics, Kinetic Theory of
Gases, Properties of Gases, Electricity and Magnetism, Optics,
Miscellaneous ; and there is such a goodly array under each
of these headings that it is difficult to decide in which branch
f)f physics his work was the most important. . . .
Whatever may be the subject of the paper, some character-
istics are always apparent. One of these is the quite ex-
ceptional power Rayleigh possessed of seeing what was the
essence of the question ; he always Avent straight for the
critical spot. Another—perhaps to a considerable extent the
result of the last—was the remarkable gain in clearness any
subject acquired after it had passed through his mind, which
was like a filter which cleared every subject passing through
it from obscurity and error. . . .
Another characteristic was the soundness of his judgment.
I question if in this respect he has ever been surpassed ;
his mind was crystalline, not affected by any cloud of pre-
judice ; he did not dislike or shy at an idea because it was
new, neither did he think that because it was new it was
necessarily better than the old: ...
His book on the Theory of Sound may be said to have
found the subject bricks and left it marble ; it is ideal.
Finally, concerning his public spirit, and willingness to
sacrifice time in working with others, Sir J. J. Thomson
well says :
Though Rayleigh disliked even more than most men the
loss of time inseparable from attendance at committees and
meetings, he took his full share of such work, and it has
Lxxix.] In Memory of Lord Eayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. 5
been a great thing for British science to be able to call to
its councils a man whose judgment was never influenced by
prejudice or by a shadow of self-seeking.
To these authoritative utterances I must add words
of my own. It is difficult to convey to the general
public the enthusiastic admiration felt by mathematicians
and physicists for Rayleigh's work. It is as distinguished
for neatness as for power. His well prepared mind drove
straight to the heart of a problem, and his mathematical
machinery was polished and copious enough to be able
to attack almost any problem however abstruse.
His papers are necessarily abstruse, and he was some-
times a little discouraged by the way in which at the
time they sometimes seemed to fall flat, merely because
there were so few who could fully understand them. That
is a real difficulty felt by those who are working on the
heights of science, the atmosphere is bleak and cold.
Pure mathematicians do try to encourage each other, and
cordially express admiration for each other's work ; but
it has hardly been the custom for applied mathematicians
to do so. In time no doubt the papers get read,—at
least whenever someone is working on the same precise
branch of a subject,—and then the beauty and clarity
and power of the treatment are impressive, but even now
several of the papers have hardly attracted any attention.
And once when I spoke to him with admiration about
his treatment of Capillarity on the mathematical side, he
said I was the first person who appeared to have noticed
it, certainly the first who had spoken to him about it.
Probably he felt that he was to a great extent writing
for posterity, and he took pains to collect together his
writings up to 1910, in five substantial volumes, thereby
rendering a great service to future science, and performing
a task which is often left to executors, and is not alwavs
very satisfactorily performed.
His writings show signs of real study of the work of
others, and copious reading ; he was well acquainted
with the work of foreigners, and often took up some
subject which they had begun in a suggestive manner,
but left in an unfinished and loose condition. His work
6 Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. [part
in science might always be said to have been a clearing
up after other people : he took the half-begun problem
or the half-asked question, re-examined it from the
beginning, and carried it through to a sort of perfection.
So that when he had finished, it would remain for a later
generation, in the light of further advance and a general
rise of the tide of scientific knowledge, to carrj the
matter any further.
Scientific men in all countries are constantly making
use of Rayleigh's theorems, or Rayleigh's mathematical
expressions, and seldom indeed do they fail to stand the
test of subsequent impersonal scrutiny.
If asked for specific instances of his discoveries it is
not easy to pick out jewels from the setting. Argon is
the one achievement which can stand out in the general
mind, because it is so easily intelligible. In that respect
it is like the discovery of Neptune. The planet before
discovery was trembling on the lines of mathematical
analysis, as Argon was trembling in the balance during
the delicate long-continued weighings which detected its
existence. Both were felt by recondite means, then
hunted down, found, and named.
Adams and Leverrier had the assistance of Galle of
Berlin in ferreting out the stranger planet. Rayleigh had
the cooperation of Ramsay in actually bringing the
stranger element to birth ; but the discovery and pioneer
work were Rayleigh's. Says Sir J. J. Thomson, :
" Though
both shared in running down the hare, it was Rayleigh
alone who started it ; and this not by a happy accident
or by the application of new and more powerful methods
than those at the disposal of his predecessors, but by
that of the oldest of chemical methods—the use of the
balance."
Ramsay discovered so many other gases, helium, neon,
krypton, etc., and left so deep and abiding a mark on
Chemistry, that his disciples can afl^ord to be generous
and recognise that Argon was discovered by physical
means.
Rayleigh had done all but the consummation of the work,
and would undoubtedly have discovered the atmospheric
Lxxix.] In Memory of Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. 7
gas alone, had he not by a friendly letter in Nature
been understood to invite the cooperation of his chemical
confreres at a certain stage of the research. Most men
who had gone as far as he had then gone would have
been ready to announce something like a conclusion, but
Rayleigh's caution is proverbial and that was not his way.
So also when he treated of our kind of investigation,'
his cautious habit and deferred judgment prevented his
expressing himself in language other than that to which
he was accustomed. What he has said ought to carry
weight among other scientific men, as coming from him
but to the public his utterance may sound hesitating
and doubtful and inconclusive. When he had thoroughly
worked a thing out, and elaborated his mathematical
exposition, he could be clear and definite enough. One
or two examples may be used as illustrations.
Lord Rayleigh's explanation of the blue of the sky
though it differs only in detail from previous ideas, is
a great improvement upon them in every way; 'and
he worked out accurately what had previously heen only
vague. This is typical of his work. It was known that
the blue must be caused by small separate particles
smaller than the waves of light, so that they are able
to affect the smallest waves most, reflecting the waves
which cause the sensation of blue more than the red or
the green, but it was thought that the particles which
did this must consist of a fine grade of dust; and there
was no accurate or complete theory. (As a side issue
we may remember that Mr. Ruskin rebelled aesthetically
against anything so beautiful as the sky being caused bv
the suspension of foreign matter, or anything that could
be called " dust," however fine. Fogs and mists and clouds
mignt be so caused but not sky-blue.) Lord Rayleigh
examined the subject mathematically and proved that the
dispersing or scattering particles which selected and
reflected the smaflest waves of light were of atomic
dimensions, and were accordingly the very molecules of
air itself.
Among other simple and yet typical investigations are
the explanation of the twinkling of stars at rising and
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.8. [part
setting and the complete theory of the colours of opal.
Opalescent colours had been thought of as some modifica-
tion of the colours of thin plates—which are simple to
explain but are by comparison of coarse and unattractive
appearance—but Rayleigh found the colours of opal and
other crystals, Chlorate of Potash, among others, were
singularly pure in tone and could only be explained by
reflexion from a succession of equidistant strata, each of
which reflected a barely perceptible amount and yet which
in the aggregate reflected quite a fair proportion of hght,—
of hght whose wave length depended on the distance of
the strata apart.
He illustrated it by a screen of muslin disks at regular
distances one behind another, employed as a reflector,
or even a generator, at any rate a selector, of a, high
pitched note. The theory has since been apphed to
investigate the structure of crystals by X-rays, and even
to the constitution of atoms.
The regular arrangement of molecules in a crystal give
rise to stratifications which reveal their dimensions by
the wave length of the radiation which they reflect.
The twinkling of stars low in the horizon might easily
seem an indefinite and so to speak lawless phenomenon,
like the flickering of flames. But nothing is lawless in
reality, and a rising star twinkles one way, while a setting
star "twinkles another way; and if they be examined
spectroscopically, obstruction bands are seen to move down
or up the spectrum, from right to left for a rising, and
from left to right for a setting star.
Particles or irregularities ui the earth's lower atmosphere
are responsible, in combination v/ith the rotation of the
earth
All manner of comparatively insignificant phenomena
attracted his attention—and after he had dealt with
them they ceased to be insignificant, but revealed un-
suspected beauties. Near the end of his life he was working
at the colour of beetles' wings—as always, with a com-
bination of accurate observation, careful experiment, and
refined mathematical analysis. These were his weapons
and with them he achieved his success.
Lxxix.] In Memorij of Lord Rmjleigh, O.M., F.R.S. 9
The examples chosen for mention here are chosen for
their simplicity and inteUigibility. To give any idea of
Lord Rayleigh's mathematical power, and of the way ui
which he apphed it over the whole realm of physics, is
hopeless. Senior students and professors of Physics will
find a wealth of material in the five volumes and future
supplementary volume of Collected Papers for many years
to come.
And then there is his Theori/ of Sound. The two
volumes of this work stand out as a landmark in science.
Nothing more complete has been done, and the results
obtained for the acoustic vibration of gases and solids
are applicable to electrical vibrations also ;
but the
volumes are stiU more general, they contain the mathe-
matical theory of vibration in general, and of waves-
waves at least of the longitudinal type. Light waves are
dealt with in a compressed and unfortunately shortened
article in the last volume of the ninth edition of the
Encydo'paedia Britannica.
What about his work on our subject? Many members
wiU remember his brilliant and humorous address when
he did us the honour of accepting our Presidential Chair.
He was more impressed with what we call a physical
phenomenon than with those which are purely psychic. He
had not paid much attention or devoted much first-hand
experiment to the ordinary phenomena of automatic writing
and trance utterance. He knew about them, of course,
as he knew of our experiments in telepathy, but they did
not seem to drive home the security of conviction which
his cautious mind required.
Things he could see and handle impressed him more.
The evidence for telepathy he apparently thought not
quite conclusive ;
though he made the remarkable state-
ment that, given irrefragable evidence for telepathy
between living persons, he would have no difficulty m
extending it to telepathy from the dead. Few of us at
any time could have said anything like that. For myself,
at"^ any rate, long ago in the eighties of last century,
telepathy from the living was one thing, telepathy from
the dead quite another. I regarded thought transference
10 Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. [part
as fairly well established ; —the activity, the existence
even, of dead people, I confess I did not then believe in.
It was through the mediumship of Mrs. Piper in 1889
that the larger question began to force itself on my
attention.
I am not sure whether Lord Rayleigh had sittings
with Mrs. Piper, and other mediums of that kind, or
not. But he did have sittings with physical mediums,
and he was non-plussed by the results obtained. Well
instructed about fraud, there were phenomena which he
observed—in his few sittings with Eusapia for instance
—
which the fraud hypothesis did not explain ; and he
never gave way to the easy temptation of rejecting every-
thing wholesale : although it is true the things which he
had an opportunity of seeing were small compared with
some of the things which I myself saw.
Caution indeed he possessed in an eminent degree, but
he was cautious about rejecting, and not only cautious
about accepting. He realised that what we were re-
sponsible for was careful statement of truth, and that
it was as posssible to err on the popular negative side as
on the unpopular and difficult positive side. It is easy to
obtain credit in the scientific world for strong sense and
robust intelligence by wholesale denials, and such an
attitude is politic in our day and generation ; but pro-
gress in knowledge can only be made if some pioneers
at any rate are willing to run the risk of harbouring
strange guests of knowledge, and of declaring themselves
convinced about new facts, while still their acceptance is
regarded as a sign of feeble brain and lax character.
That Lord Rayleigh was as convinced about physical
phenomena of heterodox type as some of us have gradually
grown to be, cannot be said. That he was more convinced
than others of us, is, I think, true. But what I am sure
of is that if he were absolutely convinced of any fact
—
and it took a good deal to convince him—he would
stand up for the truth in any assembly in the world,
and not be debarred from utterance for fear of damaged
reputation. This may sound easier than it is.
But the reputation of a scientific man is a delicate
Lxxix.] In Memory of Lord Eayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. 11
growth. None but his fellows can appreciate his work
;
the popular notion of him must depend upon their
opinion, in the long run ; and if skiUed opinion turn
against him his day is done. So it was with Thomas
Young, in the early years of last century : in spite of
his brilliant pioneer work, as we now see it to have
been,—one of the great men of science of all time,—he
was intellectually killed by Lord Brougham and other
contemporary critics, and at the present day is practically
unknown except among physicists. Through such criticism
another of our Presidents, Sir WilHam Crookes, had to go,
and who shall say that he was not weakened thereby as
well as distressed. Through such criticism Lord Rayleigh
did not have to go ; he was never suiificiently and com-
pletely persuaded about our phenomena to find it necessary
to declare himself coratn populo. But he did take a keen
interest in our subject ; he acted on the Committee of
Reference and passed papers for publication ; and at
length he allowed himself to occupy the Presidential
Chair, and in his Presidential Address he exposed his
views. Would that we could have retained longer his
ripe judgment and penetrating intellect, his cautious
candour, and truly religious spirit.
He was the last of the giants of the Victorian Era in
Physical Science—Stokes, Thomson and Tait, Clerk Maxwell
and Rayleigh. Cambridge may well be proud of its
alumni. From the days of Isaac Newton to the present
day, it has magnificently upheld the fiag of Mathematical
Physics ; and from no University in the world have
greater men in this branch of science ever emanated.
12 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
II.
IN MEMORY OF
SIR WILLmi CROOKES, O.M., F.R.S.
By Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
We have to mourn the loss of another President of our
Society who was also a most eminent scientific man.
Sir William Crookes passed into the unseen on April 4th,
1919, in the eighty-seventh year of his age, and scientific
men in every country throughout the world mourned the
loss of one of the most famous and indefatigable workers
in physical science. He possessed—as Sir J. J. Thomson,
President of the Royal Society, truly remarked—unsur-
passed experimental skill and the instinct of selecting
those particular subjects of enquiry which enabled him
to be a pioneer in perhaps a greater variety of subjects
that any sava7it of the past century. Moreover, Crookes'
fearless courage as a pioneer, his independence of spirit,
and his liberahty of thought, were coupled with the
sincerity and modesty of a truly great man, whilst his
high principle and affectionate nature made his character
as beautiful as his fame was great.
This is not the place to review in detail the wonderful
record of chemical and physical researches and discoveries
with which Crookes has enriched science. It may, how-
ever, be of interest to notice very briefly his life history
and some of the scientific work on which his enduring
fame will rest.
Crookes was born on June 17th, 1832, at 143 Regent
Street, London, where his father had established a
successful business. Surely we owe it to posterity to
mark the place of birth and residence of famous scientiiic
SIR WILLIAM CROOKES, O.M., F.K.S.
:
i
I.XXIX.] In Memonj of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 13
men more frequently than is now done. A tablet should
"be placed on the house in Regent Street and also on the
house in Kensington Park Gardens, where Crookes died,
and where he lived from 1880 and conducted most of his
researches. That house (according to Crookes' statement
to an interviewer) was the first ever lit with the electric
licrht all the glow lamps having been made by Crookes
hfmself, he having been one of the first to bring our
present electric lamps to practical success, an honour
which he shares with another member of our Council,
Mr. Lane Fox-Pitt.
Crookes had no university training, and very httle
regular school education; he studied chemistry at the
old Royal College of Chemistry in Oxford Street, under
Professor Hofmann ; a place I know well, for twelve
years later I was a humble student in the same college
under the .
same eminent Professor. Only three years after
Crookes had entered the CoUege of Chemistry, in 1851, he
pubhshed his first scientific paper, which at once attracted
attention both in England and Germany and marked the
author as a new and promising young chemist. Crookes
was then assistant to Professor Hofmann, a position be
retained till 1854, when he was appointed superintendent
of the meteorological department of the Observatory at
Oxford, and the following year became lecturer of
Chemistry in Chester Training College.
In 1856 Crookes married and settled in London, at
Mornington Road, Regents Park, moving in 1880 to
7 Kensington Park Gardens, where, at his own expense,
he built and equipped a fine chemical laboratory. Crookes
had eight children,—of whom four sons and one daughter
are now living. Those of us who attended the funeral
of Lady Crookes in 1917 and saw the stricken husband,
felt that Sir Wilham would never recover from the loss
of one who had been his devoted partner for sixty-one
years. Nevertheless with rare courage, though with
enfeebled health, he returned to scientific work in his
eighty-fifth year and wrested fresh secrets from the
illimitable storehouse of nature.
The first great discovery which Crookes made (in 1861)
14 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
was of a new element, a metal he called Thallium^
from the green line it showed when its vapour was
examined in the spectroscope. This splendid instrument
of research had then recently been discovered, and it
was Crookes' right-hand all his life. He became in fact
the greatest living authority on spectroscopy, so much so
that when the gases argon and helium were discovered by
Rayleigh and Ramsay, they submitted specimens of these
gases to Crookes to examine ; he determined their novelty,
and the identity of helium with a new element previously
found in the sun.
The revelation of a new element sixty years ago was
a great event, and Crookes' discovery of Thallium created
world-wide interest. He isolated the element, and found it
to be a soft white metal very like lead, and it was exhibited
in this state, at the great Exhibition in London in 1862. For
many years Crookes exhaustively studied the chemistry of
Thallium, he found its various compounds, and with infinite
labour determined its atomic weight. This arduous task
revealed to the scientific world the singular experimental skill,
and the wonderful accuracy of Crookes' work. For in spite
of more recent attempts, and more modern appliances, the
atomic weight which Crookes found, still ranks as the most
correct.
It was in the course of the exceedingly delicate weighings
in vacuo, which were necessary for the determination of
the atomic weight that Crookes discovered a new fact,
Repulsion by radiation in high vacua. This led him to the
construction in 1875 of the famous Radiometer. This is a
little mill, the delicate horizontal vanes of which are in
vacuo, and rapidly rotate when exposed to light. The
motion, however, is not due, as first thought, to the mechanical
effect of light, but to the heating of the blackened face of the
vanes, which causes a repulsion of the residual molecules of
air within the exhausted vessel, and thus the vanes are kicked
back ; a continuous motion being sustained by the cooling
of the air molecules on the surface of the glass vessel.
The very high exhaustion of glass vessels—which
Crookes carried to a higher state than had ever before
been achieved—led him in 1876, to his next discovery.
Lxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Croakes, Q.M., Etc. 15
perhaps one of the most far-reaching and epoch-m.aking
in the history of experimental physics; Crookes found
that when an electric discharge passed throii^h -these ve'-y
highly exhausted glass vessels, the residual gas within, tiie^ .
glass vessel was revealed in a new or, as he called it, a
fourth state of matter ; neither solid, liquid, nor gaseous.
The stream of these infinitely minute and ultra-molecular
corpuscles, driven from the cathode, or negative pole,
by the electric discharge behaved like a beam of light ;
they threw sharp shadows of any obstacle in their path,
and they could be reflected and converged to a focus
by means of a concave mirror. Objects placed at this
focus were raised to intense heat, and even platinum
might be melted. Precious stones when thus bombarded
by these ultra-gaseous molecules, showed characteristic and
brilliant phosphorescence, whilst the walls of the glass
tube on which these cathode rays fell glowed with a
green phosphorescence, now familiar to us in the X-ray
tubes. In fact, Crookes' "radiant matter," or cathode rays,
became, later on, the source of Rontgen's discovery of the
so-called X-rays, these being generated by the impact
of the cathode rays upon a suitable anode.
Some twenty years after Crookes' discovery of the
cathode rays a telegram in the Times newspaper, at the
end of the year 1895, announced Rontgen's discovery of
the X-rays, to which many substances opaque to light
were perfectly transparent. I happened to have had in
my possession for many years a small very high vacvium
tube Crookes had made and given me, which showed
the green phosphorescence just referred to.^ After reading
the telegraphic report in the Times I coimected up my
little " Crookes tube " with an induction coil and succeeded
after a long exposure in taking a photograph, or radio-
graph, of my spectacles when they were enclosed in their
1 This small vacuum tube had the two platinum electrodes about aa
inch apart and was made for the j'lu'pose of showing that at the very
high vacua Crookes obtained the electric discharge would not pass even
from a coil giving a 12 -inch spark in air. In course of time its vacuum
became less, a discharge passed causing a brilliant green phosphorescence
on the walls of the tube around the anode.
16 ,
. Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
opaque cardboard case. The metal rims were clearly seen
and also the glass lenses faintly indicated.
.Early in 189.6 a Dublin surgeon brought a patient from
his hospital to my laboratory, in the hope that I might
be able to detect, by a delicate magnetometer, the position
of a broken needle that the patient, a maid-servant, had
run into her hand a year before. The broken needle had
travelled since its entrance and was now crippling the
use of the patient's hand. Repeated attempts to find and
remove the broken needle had failed ; the magnetometer
showed the needle was there but failed to locate its
exact position. Having had a rudimentary X-ray tube
made, I succeeded in obtaining a good radiograph of the
exact position of the needle, which the surgeon thereupon
removed and the patient recovered the use of her hand.
This was I believe the first application of the X-rays for
surgical purposes ; and it shows how narrowly Crookes
missed the discovery made later on by Rontgen.
The dark space which appears round the negative or
cathode pole in a vacuum tube is known as the " Crookes
space," and in the Bakerian lecture which Crookes gave
before the Royal Society in 1883, he considered that the
cathode rays, or particles of " radiant matter " discharged
from the cathode, were of the dimensions of molecules. It
became clear to Crookes a little later on that these
particles were ulfra-molecular, and were indeed the in-
finitely minute corpuscles, called by Dr. Johnstone Stoney
Electrons ; and this he expressed in his paper on the
" Stratification of Hydrogen," published in Proc. Eoyal
Society, vol. 79. With wonderful prevision he wrote
nearly forty years ago :
" We seem at length to have
within our grasp, and obedient to our control, the little
indivisible particles which constitute the physical basis
of the elements," and he goes on to say, " we have
actually touched the borderland between the known and
the unknown which for me has always had a peculiar
temptation. I venture to think (he adds) that the
greatest scientific problems of the future will find their
solution in this borderland or even beyond."
This prediction has a double aspect, for so far as
Lxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 17
psychical phenomena are concerned Crookes kimself spent
four years in exploring the borderland between the known
and the unknown ; and as regards physical phenomena
Crookes' cathode rays have become the starting point of
a series of astonishing discoveries of great practical and
theoretical importance.
Crookes" scientific prevision is further seen in the belief
he publicly expressed, and to which he was led from his
spectroscopic researches, that the so-called elements might
be resolved into a few simpler types, which he termed
meta-elements, and that therefore the alchemists' dream
of the transmutation of metals might after all prove to
be true. Years later Ramsay and Rutherford proved
that this was no dream, and established the disintegration
of the radio-active elements into bodies of lower atomic
weight. Crookes himself was, I believe, the first to discover
that the element helium could be obtained from the
disintegration of radium.
The discovery of radio-activity by Becquerel and of
radium by Mdme. Curie, towards the end of the last
century, led Crookes to make a series of important investi-
gations, and to the construction of the Httle instrument
which he called the Spinthariscope, whereby the alpha
rays emanating from radium could be counted ; each
particle producing a scintillation on a small zinc-sulphide
phosphorescent screen.
Crookes' researches on the rare earths and their spectra
occupied him for more than twenty years and led to his
exhaustive and classical study of the element Scandium
and its various salts. He returned to this subject at the
close of his life and in December, 1918—only a few
months before his death—sent a paper on his investigation
of the " Arc Spectra of Scandium " to the Royal Society.
As he was then eighty-six years old, this is probably
an almost unique record of mental vigoru? and original
research at so advanced an age and after such a long and
strenuous life.
In 1898 he was elected President of the British Asso-
ciation and in his presidential address at Bristol he
pointed out that a gradual exhaustion of the wheat crops
18 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
of the world would occur from the want of fertilisers ;
and hence the necessity of creating artificial fertilisers by
the fixation of atmospheric nitrogen. He urged that this
should be done on a large commercial scale to avoid a
future catastrophe. The Germans took the hint and led
the way, and when the war came their big plants for the
fixation of atmospheric nitrogen, were utilized for the
production of explosives, otherwise their army would have
been helpless. We are now turning our attention to the
warning Crookes gave us twenty-one years ago.
Time will only allow me to mention in passing Crookes'
researches on diamonds. For this purpose he visited the
diamond fields in S. Africa in 1896, and again in 1905,
and published an admirable little book on diamonds in
1909. Crookes showed that minute crystals of diamond
could be obtained artificially by the explosion of cordite
in a closed steel cylinder.
One other important discovery which we owe to Crookes'
later years, must be referred to. This was the protection
of the eyes of glass and steel smelters from the intolerable
glare of the molten glass or metal. Hitherto no trans-
parent substance had been found which would cut off the
invisible and hurtful rays from the white hot furnace.
Crookes' aid was sought, and at an age when most men
would long since have ceased to work, he threw himself
into this problem, and after long and painstaking research
discovered a glass with onty a very slight yellow tint,
that cut off practically all the injurious rays. These
" Crookes spectacles are now widely used. He might,
obviously, have derived very great financial benefit from
this discovery bvit, like all his other discoveries, he gave
it freely to the world.
In reviewing the varied and prodigious amount of
original scientific work accomplished by Crookes during
his lifetime (of which I have only given an imperfect
sketch), it is astonishing to find that he had time, not
only for his protracted psychical investigations, to which I
will turn directly, but also for numerous other occupations.
His literary work was large enough to have filled most
men's lives. He founded, owned, and for half a century
Lxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 19
alone edited the Cheynical News, the leading chemical weekly
journal ; for years he edited and wrote for the Quarterly
Journal of Science. It was in this quarterly he published
his researches on spiritualism. He wrote a standard text
book on Chemical Analysis, besides numerous important
works on the applications of chemistry to the arts, the
industries and the agriculture of our country ; he edited
in addition several technical books and numerous scientific
reports. Nor was he a recluse, holding aloof from society;
on the contrary he was given to hospitality and enjoyed
dining out at public functions or with friends or with the
Council of the S.P.R., and for some forty years rarely
missed the monthly dinner of the small group of like-
minded friends who formed the " Ghost-Club."
Sir W. Tilden, F.R.S., in the long obituary notice of
Crookes he wrote for the Royal Society, has well said :
" It would be almost impossible to enumerate all the
various directions in which Sir William Crookes occupied
himself in connection with problems of public interest or
as expert adviser to the Government, but, in passing,
may be mentioned his work in the disposal of town
sewage, his Reports on the composition and quality of
daily samples of the water supplied to London from 1880
to 1906, and his services as Consulting Expert on the
Ordnance Board from 1907 onwards during the period of
the war. Nor should it be forgotten that the office of
President is in many learned societies no sinecure. In
presiding over the Chemical Society (1887-1889), the
Institution of Electrical Engineers (1890-1894), the British
Association (1898), the Society of Chemical Industry (1913),
and finally the Royal Society (1913-14-15), Sir William
paid close attention to all the multifarious details of each
Society. He also served as Honorary Secretary to the
Royal Institution from 1900 to 1913, and was Foreign
Secretary to the Royal Society from 1908 to 1912. Every
man of science among his contemporaries will be read}"
to affirm therefore that the numerous honours which were
showered upon Crookes by the most distinguished Academies
and Universities in the world were well earned and very
fittingly conferred. He received a knighthood in 1897 and
20 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.8. [part
from the Royal Society the Royal, the Davy, and the
Copley Medals ; from the Royal Society of Arts the
Albert Medal, and finally, in 1910, the Order of Merit
was conferred upon him by the King."
This, of course, is the highest honour our Sovereign can
bestow, and it has been conferred on no less than four
members of our Society. Nor must it be forgotten Crookes
was President of our Society from 1896 -1899, he was a
valuable member of our council and a contributor to
our Proceedings. The French Academy of Sciences gave
him their gold medal and prize of 3000 francs and elected
him their correspondent in 1880. It is singular that whilst
the various British and Irish Universities conferred honorary
degrees on Crookes, the Scotch Universities appear to
have held aloof ; was it because of his psychical researches,
to which we must now turn.
Crookes' psychical investigations were so prolonged, so
important and so unique that I should have preferred to
have devoted a special meeting of our members for their
review and discussion.
One would have thought Sir W. Crookes would have
been the most unlikely man of science to take up the
investigation of psychical phenomena. His hands at the
time were full of pressing scientific and literary work
;
moreover, his somewhat austere temperament and his
passion for exact data and extreme accuracy in all his
experimental researches naturally suggest that he would
look with scorn on the contradictory, loose and incon-
clusive psychical evidence which existed when he began
his investigations. The truth no doubt is, as he stated in
the paper I have quoted, that the borderland between the
known and the unknown had always a peculiar attraction
for him, and hence as a patient seeker after truth he
set to work to examine the novel and perplexing pheno-
mena which seemed to occur in the presence of a medium-
istic acquaintance of his own. His psychical investi-
gations were mainly concerned with what are called the
physical phenomena of Spiritualism,—and they engrossed
his attention from 1870 to 1874.
Lxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 21
In the first paragraph of the reprint of his articles on
the " Phenomena of Spirituahsm," Crookes tells us that
he " considered it the duty of scientific men, who have
learnt exact modes of working, to examine phenomena
which attract pubhc attention, in order to confirm their
genuineness or to explain the delusions of the honest, or
to expose the tricks of deceivers." And Crookes adds,
" That certain physical phenomena such as the movement
of material substances, and the production of sounds
resembling electric discharges, occur under circumstances in
which they cannot be explained by any physical law
at present known, is a fact of which I am as certain,
as I am of the most elementary laws of chemistry. My
whole scientific education (he continues) has been one
long lesson in exactness of observation, and I wish it
to be distinctly understood that this firm conviction is
the result of most careful investigation."
And yet, after this expHcit statement, by one of the
highest authorities in experimental science in our country,
Crookes was ostracised by those who had never given an
hour's serious study to the phenomena in question ! As
is well known Crookes at first inclined to the view that
the phenomena were due to some new force emanating
from the medium " which for convenience," (he says in
his first paper), " may be called the Psychic Force.'"
But subsequent investigations, more especially the marvel-
lous phenomena he witnessed with the medium Miss Cook,
led him to accept more or less completely the Spiritualistic
point of view.
It is imnecessary to detail the remarkable series of
experiments which Crookes made with that gifted medium
Mr. D. D. Home, and later with Miss Cook. In the
Proceedings of the S.P.R. for 1889, Vol. VI., Sir W.
Crookes published a lengthy paper entitled " Notes of
seances with D. D. Home," and in the discussion that
followed the reading of Sir 0. Lodge's report on Eusapia
Paladino, Crookes gave interesting details of some of the
more striking phenomena he had witnessed in Home's
presence,^ such as the fire-test, the levitation of Home,
1 See S.P.R. Journal for 1894, Vol. VI. p. 341.
22 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. I
PAKT
and the production of " spirit " hands and forms. As
regards the handling of fire Crookes says :
" Several times I saw the fire-test both at my own and
at other houses. Home certainly put his hand into the
grate and handled the red-hot coals in a manner which
would have been impossible for me to have imitated with-
out being severely burnt. I once saw him go to a bright
wood fire and taking a large piece of red-hot charcoal,
put it in the hollow of one hand, and covering it with
the other hand, blew into the extempore furnace till the
coal was white hot and the flames licked round his
fingers. No sign of burning could be seen then or after-
wards on his hands."
Several other competent witnesses like Lord Dunraven,
Sir W. Huggins, O.M., Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, etc. have
testified to this fire test. Mr. S. C. Hall gave me minute
details of how a white hot coal was placed on his head
whilst his long white hair was unsinged, and no pain was
felt.i
Then as regards levitation Crookes tells us he has seen
Home rise off the ground and that he passed his hands
under and around him when in the air. Several times
the chair on which Home sat rose up, no one being
near it, all present saw it, Crookes felt under the legs of
the chair, and Home's feet were all the time tucked up
on the chair. General Boldero, a friend of mine, and
others have confirmed these statements.
As trickery and every normal explanation are excluded
from Crookes' observations there remains the only alter-
native, that he was hallucinated, by some subtle hypnotic
influence exercised by the medium. But this has been
completely disproved by eminent investigators like Lord
Crawford, F. W. H. Myers, Lord Rayleigh and others.^ Nor
1 If I may refer to my work On the Threshold of the Unseen,''
the reader will there find in Chapters IV. to VI. a brief resume of the
marvellous phenomena witnessed and critically examined by Sir W.
Crookes.
- Count Petrovo-Solovovo has ably discussed the hallucination theory
in a paper published in Proc. S.P.B. Vol. XXI. p. 436 et seq., and
has shown that it is quite inadequate as an explanation of the mar-
velloiis phenomena witnessed by Sir W. Crookes and others.
Lxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 23
can we say Crookes was mad, for the facts are testified
to by scores of other sane and sensible men.
Crookes records many other marvels which occurred
with Home. Thus he repeatedly saw a hfe-like human
hand in full light take a flower from a vase and hand it
to him. Yet there was nothing visible but the dehcate
hand of a lady, no body was seen and no human being
was near.
Crookes touched this hand repeatedly and more than once
held it firmly,—resolved not to let it escape. There was
no struggle but the hand melted away into vapour and
faded from his grasp. That was precisely my own ex-
perience once, when I held a small, so called spirit, hand
that touched me. The hand pulled me upwards till I had
to stand on a chair and then on a table in front of me,
grasping the hand firmly ; it suddenly faded away. Lord
Rayleigh says if Crookes was deceived by an inflated
Tubber glove, still the rubber would remain when the
glove deflated in Crookes' hand. .
It must be remembered that Crookes repeatedly states
Home always refused to sit in the dark. In fact
the room was so well lighted, Crookes says, that not
only could he see everything and write his notes, but
could read them when they were written. Crookes
records his opinion of Home as one of the most upright,
honest and lovable of men, who insisted on every pre-
caution being taken to avoid deception. " Don't consider
my feelings," Home once said to Crookes, " test the
phenomena in every way you can devise." No wonder
that we find Crookes writing, " I think it a shame that
whilst Home was willing and anxious to place himself at
the disposal of men of science for investigations he should
have lived so many years in London, and, with one or
two exceptions, no one of weight in the scientific world
should have thought it worth while to look into the truth
or falsity of things which were being talked about in
Society on all sides." ^
1 It is most desirable that all Crookes' notes and papers and his
discussion of Home's phenomena at the S.P.R. should be carefully
collected and published, as the well-known American publishers, Messrs.
24 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
We must all heartily concur in this, and it is a strong-
argument in favour of our Society, which was not founded
until eight years later. But it must be remembered that
the success which attended all Crookes' researches, whether
physical or psychical were largely due to his open mind
and fearless courage in exploring new regions. He did not,
like so many men, refuse to investigate what seemed
impossible, he followed the dictates of that distinguished
scientific man, Sir John Herschel, who said, " the natural
philosopher should believe all things not improbable, hope
all things not impossible.'" Nor did he hesitate to accept
what he had once firmly proved. Progress in knowledge
would be impossible, if—like a recent reviewer in our
Journal—he expressed doubts of what has already been
established quite as conclusively as the existence of
meteorites, which were regarded as fabulous stories a
century ago. On this point Lord Rayleigh made inter-
esting and pertinent remarks in his presidential address
to our Society.
In conclusion I must briefly refer to the still more
amazing phenomena Crookes carefully tested with another
medium. Miss F. Cook. Here an actual human form
appeared calling itseK " Katie King." Sometimes this form
showed itself and the medium side by side. Crookes was
allowed to grasp the ghost and found it as substantial
human body ; in fact, it appeared in all respects
identical with a living woman. So much so that Crookes
took its pulse and rate of breathing, its height, and
examined it minutely to see what difference there was
between it and the medium. He found the figure had
a very different pulse rate, and differed in many other
respects. Lady Crookes has told me that she and her
family repeatedly saw this ghostly lady when the medium
stayed in their house. That it spoke to them and was
as natural and life-like as any earthly person.
No wonder everybody was incredulous, and said Miss
Cook (the medium) and " Katie," were the same person, or
that she had a clever accomplice. Hence Crookes under-
H. Holt & Co., wish to do. I have given in an Appendix references
to Sir W. Crookes" contributions to our Society.
Lxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 25
took an elaborate investigation which lasted five months,
and which he tells us completely established that there
was no accomplice and that '
' Katie King '
' was not the
medium Miss Cook. He also used photography to test
the matter. He was himself an expert photographer and
so was his assistant. In his laboratory he fitted up five
complete sets of photographic apparatus, and each time
had several plates exposed in all the five cameras. These
he developed himself, and of course procured his own
photographic plates. Thus he obtained forty-four negatives
and out of these got several excellent photographs of the
ghost "Katie King," who appeared somewhat to resemble,
but was more beautiful, than the medium. The photo-
graphs were obtained by means of a couple of brilliant
arc electric lamps he had fitted up in his laboratory.
To test the resemblance of the ghost form to the medium
more accurately, Mrs. Crookes dressed the medium in a
white robe similar to that worn by the materialized spirit,
and when the latter appeared she was photographed in
exactly the same spot, and under the same conditions,
as the medium had previously been photographed. When
the two photographs were compared it was seen that
" Katie " was half a head taller than the medium Miss
Cook, and was a bigger and more beautiful woman. Her
ears were not pierced whilst the medium always wore
ear-rings. Previous to this Crookes had devised the most
elaborate and admirable electrical tests, witnessed by
several scientific men, which proved that the medium had
not moved from her place behind a ciu'tain, when the
ghost Katie appeared.
The soidisant Katie having told Crookes that the time
of her final departure was near at hand, he invited 'the
medium to stay at his house. This she did, bringing
only a small unlocked hand bag with her, and was con-
stantly under the close supervision of Mrs. Crookes. After
dinner she was taken to Crookes' laboratory (which was
used as a dark cabinet), and laid on a sofa or on the
ground, the outer door was locked and the key retained
by Crookes. Between that room, which opened into
the library, where the observers were placed, a curtain
26 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
hung. Soon after the medium had become entranced
" Katie " appeared, and when about to be photographed
wrapped a shawl round the medium's face to prevent
injury from the powerful electric light. Crookes says,
" It was a common thing for the seven or eight of us
investigators to see Miss Cook and '
Katie ' at the same
time under the full blaze of the electric light. . . . We
saw the medium move uneasily under the influence of the
intense light and we heard her moan occasionally. I have
one photograph of the two together, but '
Katie '
is
seated in front of Miss Cook's head." The final disappear-
ance of " Katie "'
occurred shortly afterwards, and the
account which Crookes and others wrote of it at the time,
is one of the most amazing stories in the history of
spiritualism. After " Katie " had invited Crookes into the
inner room or cabinet, where Miss Cook was lying senseless
on the floor, she closed the curtain and told Miss
Cook to wake up, as she must leave her. Miss Cook
woke and implored " Katie " to stay ; this she could not
do, and for several minutes the two conversed ;
then,
following " Katie's " instructions, Crookes tells us he came
forward to support Miss Cook " who was falling on to the
floor sobbing hysterically. I looked round but the white
robed '
Katie '
had gone." ^
One hesitates to express any opinion on these apparently
incredible phenomena. They are unique in the records
of psychical research. No such startling demonstration,
1 See The Plienomena of Spiritualism, p. 111. This reprint of Crookes'
papers and letters was published without his authority or revision.
No date and no reference is given to the paper from which the above
is quoted. It was, I find, taken from a letter which Crookes sent to
and was published in a weekly journal called The Spiritualist, long since
defunct. The Editor, Mr. W. H. Harrison, and Mrs. Ross Church
(Florence Marryat) also contributed to that journal their reports of
the final scene with '
Katie,' and from these reports it appears '
Katie
'
cut oft locks of her hair and white robe and gave them to those
present, together with a note of adieu wliich she wrote in pencil adding
" Pensez. d moi. May 21, 1874." This gives the date of the sitting.
Full particulars are given in Dr. Fournier d'Albe's book, New Light on
Immortality, p. 256. In the Journal of the S.P.R. Vol. XII. p. 268,
is a disclaimer by Crookes of a subsequent account of this scene given
by Mrs. Ross Church.
Lxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 27
under stringent conditions, of what seemed to be a
perfectly natural human form, yet able to appear and
disappear, had ever been observed before. The only
parallel (we speak with reverence), is the appearance of our
Lord after His resurrection. If we accept that cardinal
fact of the Christian religion, we have less difficulty in
accepting Crookes' statements.
If, however, as the years pass, no similar phenomena
recur, even if no further evidence of the more remarkable
phenomena that occurred with Home can be obtained,
then scepticism will be more legitimate and we should
then be disposed to reject what many of us now accept.
Crookes, we must remember, was one of the most exact
and accomplished experimental investigators the world has
known, he was not suffering during his spiritualistic
experiments from any mental failure, for he was con-
currently conducting other scientific work of great value,
work that has never been impugned. The hallucination
theory Lord Rayleigh and Court Solovovo have discredited
:
the latter well says, " I lay it down as a general pro-
position . . . that the testimony of several sane, honest
and intelligent eye-witnesses is, broadly speaking, proof of
the objectivity of any phenomenon. If there are people
who maintain an opposite view, why, let them make
experiments themselves." ^
Nor can it be said that Crookes changed liis views
in later life and thought he had been deceived. As late
as the year 1916 Sir W. Crookes authorized the editor of
Light to publish the following :
" I adhere to my published statements and have nothing
to retract . . . they point to the existence of another
order of human life continuous with this, and demonstrate
the possibility under certain circumstances of communion
between this world and the next." For my own part,
honoured as I have been for nearly fifty years with the
friendship of this eminent savant, and knowing as we
all do Sir W. Crookes' unchallenged probit}^ and love of
truth, T look forward to the time when his psychical
researches will be fully confirmed and accepted by science
^Proc. S.P.R. Vol. XXI. p. 477.
28 Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S. [part
with the same confidence as his physical and chemical
researches now are.
It may be said, how is it that Crookes obtained results
which other psychical researchers have failed to obtain.
The same remark might perhaps be made about the
extraordinary richness of his discoveries in pure science.
Both results were in part due to the patient, unwearying
zeal and the ability with which he pursued the particular
object of his quest—added of course to the penetrating
intelligence and experimental skill he possessed. But in
his psychical researches we must recognize that he had
the good fortune to experiment with one of the most
gifted mediums (D. D. Home) of whom we have any
knowledge. We must await another such, and when he
appears let us follow Crookes in his methods of approach
to the subject.
Here let me add that too many investigators forget
that the mental atmosphere they bring is almost as im-
portant as the part played by the medium ; it does not
occur to them that their co-operation is necessary. No
advance in any branch of science would have been
possible if the investigator set out not to elicit truth, but
with the determination to expose what he considered was
fraud. Moreover, in psychical research a medium is a
sensitive instrument that reacts to its environment ; a
sitter who is suspicious, or who plays the fool, may
entirely inhibit the production of any phenomena.
And now that Crookes himself has passed into the
unseen, it is quite possible that his profound interest in,
and knowledge of spiritualism, may enable his original
genius to devise some fresh methods of communication
throiagh the veil,—some proof of survival more convincing
than any we now possess. It was so after the passing
over of Frederic Myers, for since that time the plausible
explanations of telepathy from the living—as the source
of all messages purporting to come from the discarnate—
—
has been disproved, through what is generally believed
to be Myers' intelligent co-operation in the spiritual world.
Nor are there wanting glimpses of evidence that Crookes
in very truth is trying to communicate with us from
xxxix.] In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., Etc. 29
the unseen. It is as yet too soon to form a conclusive
opinion on this subject, but, I hope later on to contribute
a paper to the Society where the evidence will be critically
discussed.
APPENDIX.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE S.P.R. BY SIR W. CROOKES.
Journal, VIII., p. 193
A case of telepathy or coincidence -
An important paper entitled " Notes
of Seances with D. D. Home " -
On the same subject in discussing
Sir 0. Lodge's paper on Eusapia
Presidential address, abstract -
Ditto full report
Ditto before British Association,
part relative to psychical pheno-
mena ------
TSlote on the " Fire-test
"
See also Mr. A. Lang's paper on
this subject - - -
-
Reply to Dr. Lehmann's criticism
of Crookes' experiments with
D. D. Home by Dr. Schiller
Note by Crookes on same subject -
Disclaimer by Crookes of certain
statements made as to demateriali-
zation of "Katie King "
Proc, VI., p. 98 et seq.
Journal, VI., p. 341
et seq.
VIII., p. 25
Proc, XII., p. 338
XIV. , p. 2
IX., p. 308
XV. , p. 14
„ XV., p. 438
Joimial, IX., p. 324
XII., p. 268
80 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
III.
THE DORIS FISCHER CASE OF MULTIPLE
PERSONALITY.
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
The story of Doris Fischer has been told, in the Pro-
ceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research,'^
by Dr. Walter F. Prince, an American clergyman, and
Dr. James Hyslop, the Secretary of that Society. It is
a story of dissociated personality, more full}' reported
than any hitherto recorded, and in some respects unique.
Dr. Prince's record occupies over thirteen hundred pages
and is the outcome of more prolonged and more con-
tinuous observation than is usually possible in such cases.
His unusual opportunities for observing the many pecu-
liarities described by him arose from his having, at
an early stage of his investigation, adopted Doris as his
daughter and brought her to live in his house. Dr.
Hyslop's share of the record consists of over eight hundred
pages in which he advocates a spiritistic interpretation
of some of the phenomena of multiple personality, and
claims support for his views from a series of observa-
tions and experiments conducted with his medium, Mrs.
Chenoweth, when Doris was the sitter.
In trying to get a grasp of the various personalities
in this case, two courses are open to us ; we may either
consider the personalities in the historical order of their
appearance, or we may consider them in the order of
their discovery by Dr. Prince. The latter is, perhaps,
the course which will be most helpful to those who have
no knowledge of the case. What can be said about the
1 Proceedinys American Soc. for Psychical Research, Vols. IX. X. and XI.
Lxxix. The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 31
order in which they arose in the hfe-history of Doris
will then be more easily understood.
Towards the end of October, 1909, a somewhat forlorn
and careworn-looking girl, twenty years of age, joined
the Sunday School of the Episcopal Church of which Dr.
Prince was then rector. She was invited by Mrs. Prmce
to the Pvectory and soon became a frequent visitor.
There Dr. Prince made her acquaintance. At first he
did not pay much attention to her but he thought there
was something odd about her. She seemed to be " singu-
larly mercurial in temperament with moods that passed
like the cloud and sunshine." At times she was jolly
and amusing. At other times she was sedate and
melancholv.
T^Irs. Prince discovered that she slept Uttle at home
and began to encourage her to come to the rectory in
the evening and he down. It was then discovered that
she talked in her sleep. At times she appeared to be
describing visions of beauty, at times appeared to be
sustaining her side of a dialogue, at still other times she
uttered impatient or angry ejaculations or seemed to be
threatening herself. In this last mood she would look
positively mahcious, clutch savagely at her hip, which
was supposed to be tuberculous, or make efforts to mal-
treat other parts of her body. Mrs. Prince was forced
to watch her every movement and often to hold her
hands or to put forth all her strength to restrain her
from injuring herself. This went on for about eight
months, and the nervous and physical strain entailed by
her self-imposed task began to tell on Mrs. Prince's
health. On account of this Dr. Prince suggested that the
girl might occasionally try to sleep on the lounge in his
study where he could keep watch on her, and thus arose
the opportunities for the prolonged and continuous obser-
vations which are contained in the " Daily Record." Dr.
Prince began his observations on January 17th, 1911,
and next day started the records which he continued
daily, with almost no exceptions, for more than three
years. On January 20th, it suddenly dawned on him,
accompanied by wonder that it had not done so before,
32 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
that here was probably a case of dissociated personaUty.
He proceeded to test his hypothesis and was very soon
convinced that it was correct.
Underneath the Doris that he knew, who afterwards
came to be known as Sick Doris, he discovered a person-
ality, child-hke and winsome, to whom the name Margaret
was given. This doubling of the personality was the
explanation of some of the oddities that had struck him
when he first ioiew the girl. When she had appeared
forlorn and careworn Sick Doris had been " out "—as
being supraliminal came to be called. When she had
been }o\\y and amusing Margaret had been " out " and
Sick Doris had been "in."
Although Margaret was on the whole a very lovable
personality she was at times mischievous and malicious.
If Sick Doris did anything of which Margaret disapproved,
Margaret would take her revenge at night during sleep
by clutching at the hip and otherwise maltreating the body.
This habit of hers was the original cause of the need
for watching and restraint during sleep. In the evening
of January 22nd, Sick Doris came to the rectory looking
very jaded and miserable and was evidently suffering.
Presently she lay down and went to sleep. Margaret
came and clutched savagely at the hip and scratched
the neck. Dr. Prince remonstrated in vain. Stern
commands to desist had no effect but to increase the
manifestations. The scene that followed is so important
for the understanding of the case, and so dramatic in
character, that I give it in Dr. Prince's own words
:
" Attempting suggestion I began to say impressively,
(' I am going to take away your power. You are growing
weaker. You are losing your strength '). The struggles
became weaker. Finally I said (' Your strength is gone.
You are powerless '). All striving ceased, the face changed,
and she [S. D.l awoke. She now appeared extremely
languid and spoke with difficulty, but said that she felt
no pain. Her vital forces seemed to be ebbing away
and she gradually passed into a condition which made
Mrs. Prince and me think, not for the first time, that she
was dying. Her pulse descended to 54, and became feeble.
IjXXIX.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 33
She seemed only half conscious, but occasionally looked
wonderingly at the two who were sitting by her, affected
by their impression that she was near her end. At length
she murmured: 'Am I dying ^ (I think so.) Don't you
want me to go ?
'
She smiled peacefully, as though glad
both to go and to know that she was to be missed.
She looked singularly unhke her afternoon self, the very
shape of her face altered—it seemed thinner, as though
she had passed through a period of sickness since. Under
the spell of considerable emotion I was looldng into her
eyes, and presently her gaze fixed upon mine, and with
parted hps she continued to look, not rigidly, but dreamily
and peacefully, while we waited for the end which we
thought so near. After some time it suddenly struck
me that her gaze and features were unnaturally fixed
—
I stooped to examine her.
Just then a voice issued from her lips, though no other
feature moved :
'
You must get her out of this. She is
in danger.' It was as startHng as Mghtning from the
blue sky. Of course I thought it must be Margaret
speaking, but there was a calm authority in her tone
which was new. I shook the girl gently, her face did
not change. '
Shake her harder,' the voice went on.
'
Hurry ! Hurry !
'
It was evident that Doris was in
a profoxmd state of hypnosis, and I began vigorous
measures to bring her out, with the result that her eyes
rolled and her limbs moved. Shaking her and shouting
in her ear brought her to a sitting position. '
Walk her !
walk her !
'
said the voice, At first there was difficulty
in carrying out this order, she stumbled and tended every
moment to collapse upon the carpet. Directions occasion-
ally continued to issue from the lips . . . directions which
I never thought of disregarding, they were delivered with
such authority and characterised by such good sense.
Finally we heard, '
She is coming to herself now ; she
will be aU right soon.' No more directions were given,
and almost at once the face showed more animation and
intelligence."
I do not know what impression the account of this
singular episode may produce on the mind of a non-
34 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
medical reader, but I know what they may suggest to
anyone who has had some experience of hysteric and
hypnotic phenomena. Dr. Prince's suggestions, " I am
going to take away your strength. You are growing
weaker. You are losing your strength. Your strength
is gone. You are powerless," were more potent than he
had anticipated. Not only did they cause a cessation
of Margaret's savage movements, but they produced, as
suggestions of this sort may, a depressing effect on the
whole physical organism. Such suggestions given to a
person already in enfeebled health may bring about a
state that appears very alarming and may easily lead one
who is unfamihar with such phenomena to lose his head.
Dr. Prince's final suggestion, conveyed in his reply, " I
think so," given to the question, " Am I dying," was
the cUmax. Something was bound to happen and the
patient's only way of appearing to carry out the suggestion
short of actually djdng, was to go into a deeper stage
of hypnosis. This was faciUtated by the fixed emotional
gaze which the situation had chanced to bring about.
The voice that came Uke a bolt from the blue was an
interesting and no doubt startling phenomenon. But
there is no reason to suppose that the voice had any
other source than some deeper stratum of her own being.
This deeper and more sane personaHty, recognizing that
Dr. Prince had lost his bearings, feels the need to take
control herself, and she issues commands which he duti-
fully obeys. The voice was the voice of Sleeping Margaret,
and from this moment she dominates the scene, she
doininates Dr. Prince, and she does so to the end of the
whole story.
The futility of Sleeping Margaret's instructions as to the
best way to get a person out of deep hypnosis gives a
good clue to her natvu-e and origin. Her wisdom was
the wisdom of popular belief and practice. No one who
had any true knowledge of hypnotic phenomena would
have given such instructions, and no one having any
practical experience would have acted upon them. They
served their purpose, it is true ; but they would probably
have been equally efficacious if they had taken some
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 35
other form. Their efficacy depended on the fact that they
were a suggestion from within —-a counter suggestion to
the death sentence pronounced by Dr. Prince, a counter
suggestion made strong by the mil to live inherent in her
being.
Dr. Prince had now discovered three personaUties in
his patient, namely, Sick Doris, Margaret, and Sleeping
Margaret. About a month after the discovery of the
last named, what he calls the central secret of the cai:e
was disclosed to him by Margaret. " You never saw
the Real Doris but a very little—when it was all Doris,"
she said impressively, and went to sleep, adding, " I will
wake Doris so that she will be all Doris for a little
while." And she did so. Dr. Prince adds, though he
did not fully comprehend that the clear-eyed girl looking
wonderingly about her was the primary personality, and, as
such, quite another than Sick Doris.
Still another personality in the case is described by
Dr. Prince on grounds that perhaps may be regarded as
inadequate. From the beginning of his watching Doris
asleep he had at times observed certain somnambuhstic
phenomena which came to be known as conversation-
recitals. Only one side of the dialogue—her own—was recited,
the other being represented by pauses. Late in his
observation of the case he was led to beMeve that these
recitals were produced, by an inchoate but valid person-
aUty distinct from the others, and to this personahty the
name of Sleeping Real Doris was given.
Such are the five personahties of this case in the order
in which they were discovered by Dr. Prince. His first
acquaintance was with Sick Doris, whom for a long time
he took to be the primary personality. Then he found
Margaret and Sleeping Margaret. Then Margaret dis-
closed to him the existence of a Real Doris, different
from the Sick Doris. Finally he beheved there was
still another personahty—Sleeping Real Doris, and this
belief was confirmed by Margaret and Sleeping Margaret.
When we come to consider these different personalities
in the historical oider of their appearance instead of in
the order in which they were discovered by Dr. Prince,
I
36 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part j
i
we find that almost all our information is derived from
one or more of the personalities themselves. But so
consistently, on the whole, do their separate accounts ;
fit in Avith each other, that we are justified in believing i
that the history of their origin thus obtained is in some \
sense true. Yet the story they tell is unique in the \
records of multiple personality and there is much in it [
on which at present it would be hazardous to venture <
to give any decided opinion. Very briefly, this story |
is as follows.
Doris Fischer was born in 1889. She was the youngest j
child of German parents who Uved in poor circumstances |
in a large American city. Her father was a drunkard, j
and one day, after a quarrel with his wife, he took up \
Doris, then three years old, and dashed her on to the '\
floor. The shock to Doris, caused by this quarrel and 1
act of violence, is supposed to have started the series of |
dissociations which gave rise to the different personalities
already enumerated.
Sleeping Margaret, so called because she manifested only i
when Margaret was asleep, is the chiel: source of our
knowledge of the lives of all the personalities before the 1
case came under Dr. Prince's care. She claimed that she ]
herself was the first to appear. She came during the 1
quarrel between the parents, just before Doris was thrown j
on the floor. She came as a mature personality although
Doris was only three years old at the time. But there was ;
no outward manifestation of her presence for nineteen years
and her existence was totally unknown and unsuspected
until Dr. Prince discovered her on January 22nd, 1911. \
Mentally, Dr. Prince says, she was the maturest of j
them all, and impressed him as if she were a woman j
of forty. In another place, however, he says she " is at i
least as mature as R. D. is, and the range of her know- i
ledge is greater." Whatever the degree of her maturity \
may have been, she claimed that she had been the same |
from the beginning. She professed never to sleep, but
she was never " out " as an alternating personality, \
having control of the whole body, as Sick Doris and
Margaret had when they were out. She never took ^
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 37
control of the body to any great extent except as regards
the vocal organs, and then only when Margaret was
asleep, or at a later stage, when Real Doris was asleep.
She claimed to persist as a continuous, co-consciousness
and to know all the thoughts, and feeHngs, and actions
of all the other personahties (except S. R. D.). She
said she saw M.'s thoughts directly, those of S. D.
through, or reflected from, the consciousness of M., and
those of R. D. as reflected from the consciousness of
S. D. to M. and again from that of M. to herself. Dr.
Prince says she was the only one of the group who was
not suggestible.
The advent of Margaret was stated to have taken place
a few minutes after Doris had been dashed on the floor.
With trifling discrepancies, Margaret and Sleeping Margaret
gave the same accoimt of this occurrence. Here is
Margaret's own original description of it :
" When Doris
was three years old I came one night when she was lying
on the bed crying as if her little heart would break
because her father had thrown her on the floor, well,
I made her play with her fingers and toes and finally
had her laughing and then she went to sleep." This
description impHes, I think, that Margaret first came as
a co-consciousness and not as an alternating personality,
and I have been unable to trace the record, if such
exists, of Margaret's first coming " out."
Margaret was in many respects the " Sally " of the
Doris case. She grew until she attained the age and
capacities of a child of ten, and remained at that stage
until, in the course of Dr. Prince's treatment of the
case, she began to decline. Finally she disappeared alto-
gether. '
She was mentally and emotionally a child of not
more than ten years, with some extraordinarily naive
notions not usually carried beyond the age of five or six.
Her facial expression was strikingly child-Hke, her
voice in speech or laughter that of a young tom-boy,
her point of view, mental habits, and tastes, in every
way juvenile. . . . She was mischievous, roguish, witty,
a consummate mimic, ingratiating, winsome and altogether
lovable, as a rule." Margaret was co-conscious with S. D.
38 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
and R. D., and knew their thoughts, their feelings and
their actions, but she knew nothing of S. M. She
claimed that her knowledge of S. D. was immediate while
of R. D. it was mediate, reflected as it were from S. D.'s
consciousness as from a mirror. Dr. Prince considered
her the most suggestible of all the personahties.
From the age of three to the age of seventeen these
three personalities existed side by side. Doris [R. D.]
and Margaret alternated one with the other, while
Sleeping Margaret remained in the sub-conscious as a
silent watcher and guardian of Doris's welfare.
On May 6th, 1906, when Doris was seventeen years old,
her mother, whom she adored, died after a few hours'
illness. Although overcome with grief, Doris " managed
to retain her individuaUty until she had performed the
last offices in her power for her dead idol, whereupon
Margaret took her place. Almost immediately thereafter
a terrible pain shot through the left cerebral hemisphere,
M. vanished, and a new personahty, afterwards to be
known as Sick Doris, came into the drama."
Sick Doris, on her first appearance, and for some days
thereafter, was an infantile personahty, at least as regards
the content of her mind. She had no memory of anything
that Doris or Margaret had ever learnt. She Ivnew no
one, she could not speak, nor could she understand Avords
spoken to her. She could walk and handled objects with
her fingers, but she hardly Imew how to eat or drink.
" All affection was gone and all grief ; not a tremor
remained of the mental agony of a few moments before.
She was as one born with an adult body . . . but with
absolutely no memory and absolutely no knowledge."
But she had a " maturely inquiring mind " and she very
soon learned many things. Her progress was rapid after
the third evening, when Margaret undertook her tuition.
In a week Sick Doris was fairly competent to get along
though she had many difficulties yet to meet.
The Real Doris of the record is in many respects the
most elusive and most unsatisfactory of ail the person-
alities described. In the early days of Dr. Prince's
observation of the case, Real Doris very seldom appeared.
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 39
and when she did so, her time " out " was so short that
there could have been Uttle to record concerning her
sayings and doings. When at a later date she was " out
"
more frequently and for longer periods, Dr. Prince
apparently did not consider it necessary to reveal her
character and disposition as fully as he had revealed
those of the other personalities. His own afJection and
esteem for her has blinded him to the fact that the
Real Doris of his record entirely fails to win either the
interest or the liking of his readers in the way that
Margaret, for example, does.
The only detailed account of Real Doris's mental and
moral characteristics is given in the opening pages of the
main narrative. But it is expressly stated that " this is
a sketch of the normal personality functioning unhindered
by the other personalities, as is the case continually now
that she is cured." Throughout the whole record the
Real Doris that appears as an alternating personality, at
first fitfully and for short periods, later more frequently
and continuously, is explicitly regarded as the primary
personality and implicitly as a normal personahty. Yet
there is plenty of evidence to show that the alternating
Real Doris of the record is a hysteric personality with
many hysterical stigmata.
The fifth and last personahty in the case appeared
about a year and a half after the advent of Sick Doris.
Margaret was startled when going up a flight of steps
and fell, striking her head violently against an earthen
crock. As a result of this fall, Margaret said, " a little
crack was made in Real Doris," which led to the somnam-
bulistic conversation-recitals ascribed by Dr. Prince to
Sleeping Real Doris. The " crack," however, would seem
to have affected Sick Doris also, for some of Sick Doris's
memories appeared in the recitals as well as those of real
Doris. This personality may be disregarded in our
further consideration of the case.
The problems raised by the Doris Fischer case of
multiple personahty are so many and so diverse that it
is well to have some common ground from which we may
view them. Such ground may be found in the interest
40 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
we all have in Psychical Research. But although we all
have in common some interest in the subject matter of
Psychical Research, it is not to be supposed that we
are all at the same stage of inquiry. Some have already
reached conviction in regard to the ultimate object of
our quest. Others are still seeking for proof of the
occurrence of any supernormal happenings whatsoever.
Both groups, however, should find some interest in the
Doris case. It would, indeed, seem to provide a good
standpoint from which to view the whole field of Psychical
Research. From it we may look backwards over the
wide field of abnormal psychology, into whose mazes
Mr. Myers so patiently led us in the early days of our
Society's work ; or we may look forward to the still
uncharted country whose survej^ will form the chief work
of this Society for many years to come.
Whatever bearing the Doris case may ultimately be
found to have on the higher problems of Psychical
Research, we must be content, for the present, to employ
the elementary principles of method which are necessary
in every scientific investigation. We must try to arrange
our data in some sort of order. The facts must be
classified and their correlations with other facts discovered.
In doing so we may perhaps be able to reduce the observed
facts to more generalized terms, and this is perhaps as
far as we can usefuUy go at present. We may, indeed,
indulge in tentative hypotheses, but until we have a
much larger number of trustworthy observations than we
at present possess, it is unhkely that our formulations
regarding the problems of multiple personahty will have
much value.
Besides the obvious ground of comparison with other
recorded cases, there are at least two directions in which
we may usefully look when we try to find something with
which to compare the facts observed by Dr. Prince. In
one direction we find many similarities or analogies
between Doris phenomena and the phenomena of Hysteria
and Hypnosis. In the other direction we find interesting
grounds for comparison of the Doris personalities with
the so-called controls of mediumistic trance.
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 41
The relations of the Doris case with Hysteria may seem
too obvious to be mentioned. From one point of view
it is just a case of hysteria, and its symptoms show, not
resemblance to, but identity with those of other hysterical
conditions. On the other hand, it presents so many
unusual features, that it may be well to understand what
we mean by hysteria, before we class all its peculiarities
under this term.
Anaesthesia was regarded by Charcot as the great
stigma of hysteria, and although it is not now beheved
to have the diagnostic importance formerly ascribed to
it, we may still look upon it as one of the most common
featm'es of the disorder and the one best suited for study
as a type of hysterical disabihty. Janet showed that in
the anaesthesia of hysteria sensation is not wholly sup-
pressed as it is when anaesthesia is due to organic disease.
Although the patient has no supraUminal perception of
impressions, such as pinpricks, it can be shown by various
devices, that perception is still present in some sub-
hminal form. We have in these experiments the simplest
illustration of that division or dissociation of consciousness
which reaches such remarkable proportions in cases of
multiple personahty.
Janet apphed the principle of dissociation of conscious-
ness throughout the whole range of hysterical disabilities,
and it became common to regard hysteria and dissociation
as synonymous terms. Every hysterical symptom was
due to dissociation of consciousness, and every dissociation
of consciousness was evidence of hysteria.
The doctrine of dissociation has been accepted, in a
general way, by all competent authorities ; but there is
no unanimity of opinion in regard to the way in which
dissociation is brought about. Janet looks upon dis-
sociation as a merely mechanical splitting of consciousness,
a letting go of certain functions because the personahty
is too feeble to hold on to them. Freud puts in the
first hne, as a determining factor of dissociation, the
mental conflict that ensues when incompatible wishes or
desires arise in the mind. The sphtting of consciousness
is explained dynamically as being due to a conflict of
42 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
opposing forces within the personality. From the merely
descriptive standpoint Janet's work has been the more
important, but from the standpoint of interpretation that
of Freiid has been far more fruitful. Outside the work
of the psychoanalysts we have no real understanding of
hysterical phenomena, and if dissociated personality be
regarded as hysteria its true mechanism may be explicable
only when it is submitted to psychoanalytic interpretation.
Hitherto psychoanalysts, so far as I know, have not
dealt explicitly with the phenomena of multiple personaKty ;
but that these cases can be interpreted on psychoanalytic
lines I have no doubt. Many of the data necessary
for such an interpretation, in so far as these can be
provided by documentary evidence, are to be found in
the Doris Fischer record. But even if such an inter-
pretation should be given, there would still be left many
important problems,—subsidiary problems, perhaps, from
the analyst's point of view, but important problems from
other points of view, such as those of Psychical Research.
There is, for example, one matter on which the des-
criptive work of Janet is more helpful in the consideration
of these cases than is the interpretive work of Freud.
Janet appeared to demonstrate the existence of conscious
subliminal activity in his hysterics, and there is no more
striking feature of the Doris case than the mass of
evidence which points to the reality of the co -consciousness
which the various personalities claim. Freud on the other
hand denies that co-consciousness ever occurs. In a
communication which he contributed to our Proceedings
in 1912, he said : "I venture to urge against this theory
that it is a gratuitous assumption based on the abuse
of the word '
conscious '
. . . The cases described as
sphtting of consciousness, like Dr. Azam's, might better
be denoted as shifting of consciousness,—that function
—
or whatever it be—oscillating between two difierent
psychical complexes which become conscious and un-
conscious in alternation." But this explanation is not
applicable to such a case as that of Doris Fischer, for here
we seem to have good evidence of two or more psychical
complexes being simultaneously conscious.
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 43
Thus for the present it may be more helpful to regard
the hysterical features of the Doris case from the stand-
point of dissociation as described by Janet, whilst bearing
in mind that such a view may not be fundamentally
inconsistent with the interpretive methods of the psycho-
analysts. Moreover, we may hold that the conclusions
arrived at by the use of these methods are, for certain
purposes, irrelevant, and, in regard to certain special
problems, inadequate.
But if we are to regard all hysterical symptoms as
being the outcome of dissociation, we must guard against
Janet's implication that every dissociation is evidence of
hysteria. We must distinguish between dissociations
that are hurtful and those that are indifferent or helpful.
It would be well to restrict the use of the word hysterical
to those dissociations which result in defects or dis-
abilities. For only in so far as dissociation causes some
mal-adjustment to environment can it be looked upon
as a disease. We should be prepared to find dissociations
that lead, not to defects, but to enhancements of the
natural powers ; and before concluding that such dis-
sociations must tend to mal-adjustment, it might be well
to ask if we know all that is to be known of the environ-
ment to which man has to adjust himself.
In man the evolutionai'y process would seem to be
no longer restricted to the struggle for purely biological
existence. In the course of cultural development, in the
growth, of the moral character, conflicts within the mind
take the place of the conflicts with foes or circumstances
which determine biological or economic survival, and the
internal conflict may be so intense that the unity of
consciousness is sundered. Such conflicts are in some
degree common to all mankind, and if sometimes they
lead to dissociation and sometimes they do not, we must
suppose that the different results must be due either to
differences in the intensity of the conflict or to differences
in the inherent liability to dissociation ; or both of these
factors may be present and, indeed, both may be dependent
upon some common underlying peculiarity of psycho-
neural organization. The intensity of the conflict may be
44 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
the outcome of a moral or aesthetic hypersensitiveness
which meets with rude shocks in the actual experiences of
life, or from thoughts that arise in the mind in relation
to desires whose true meaning and significance are ex-
plicable only by reference to more primitive forms or
conditions of life. The inherent liability to dissociation
must be correlated with some psycho-neural peculiarity
which makes dissociation possible.
The capacity for dissociation may be supposed to
depend on a plasticity of psycho-neural dispositions which
permits departure from habitual modes of reaction. In
the earlier stages of evolution this plasticity is exploited
solely in the interests of biological survival and is slight
in amount ; for so long as the physical struggle for
existence is stiU the dominating factor in evolution, these
reactions must become stereotyped along biologically useful
lines, and only so much plasticity as is necessary for
adaptation to common environmental changes is desirable.
Along the lines of growth and integration psycho-neural
organization leads to functional and structural rigidity,
but some degree of plasticity must always be retained at
the gi'owing point.
So long as chai'acter is in process of formation there
is always a growing point in the structure of the mind.
It is at the growing point that plasticity will be found,
and the possibility of the occurrence of dissociation may
indicate the high-water mark of mental evolution. We
speak with respect of persons whose nervous systems are
said to be stable ; but stable nervous systems are like
fossils in the evolutionary process. They record the
attainments of the past, but show nothing of the promise
of the future. But where plasticity and instability are
found, dissociations may occur. Some of these may have
survival value in the present ; some may have survival
value in the future ; while some will be inimical to the
well-being of the individual or the race.
With the safeguards to life and limb afforded to the
individual in civilized communities it is no longer necessary
to have all the faculties continuously alert to every
environmental change. The mind may become absorbed
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 45
in an object to the exclusion of all other sensory solicita-
tions without any danger, and if the psycho-neural organ-
ization is sufficiently plastic such absorption may lead to a
true, though temporary, dissociation of consciousness. The
student or inventor who becomes so absorbed in the
object of his pursuit that he loses touch with his sm'-
roundings and is oblivious of time and place, may be
said to have consciousness dissociated ; but he is not
therefore to be classed as a hysteric. The poet in his
moments oi inspiration, the genius of any kind in the
full exercise of his powers, is reacting in an unusual way
to ordinary stimuli, and his doing so is in part dependent
on the psycho-neural plasticity which permits it.
I have said that the occurrence of dissociation is
the outcome of a departure from habitual modes of reaction,
and that we have no right to conclude that dissociation
is always or entirely disadvantageous. It may, indeed,
be argued that in some cases and in some ways, it may
be beneficial. Dr. Schiller says, in his review of the
Doris Fischer record :
" So-caUed '
dissociations '
are not
mechanical processes, even when they are excited by
bodily injuries, nor are they whoUy morbid. What stands
out very clearly in Doris Fischer's case is that they are
really teleological—protective reactions to alleviate the
burden of living." ^ This is in substance the teaching
of psychoanalysts. The neurosis is a flight into sickness
in order to escape from a reality that is unbearable.
Its teleological character, however, is restricted to the
avoidance of mental pain, and it is doubtful if any
psychoanalyst would admit that a split-off secondary
personality is ever an improvement on the normal '
whole
'
self. The most he would admit is that a secondary
personaUty may contain much that is estimable which
ought to belong to the normal self. Thus he would say
that the Real Doris would have been much improved by
the incorporation in her character of those traits which
made Margaret so lovable—traits which really belong to
Doris and have been unnecessarily repressed.
The protective nature of dissociation, in the sense
^Proceedings S. P. R., Vol. XXIX., p. .395.
46 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
that it is a defence reaction against unbearable ideas, is
admitted by iDsychoanalysts just so far as they consider dis- 1
sociation to be a consequence of repression, but some
ambiguity may be found to arise from assuming that ;
dissociation of consciousness can always be directly cor-
related with repression. The occurrence of a splitting of
consciousness in hysteria is admitted by both Janet and
Freud, but on Janet's hypothesis the splitting is due to
an inability of the self to assimilate certain ideas and
feelings which ought to belong to it. On Freud's hypo-
thesis the dissociation is due, not to an inability but to
an unwilHngness of the personality to accept or acknow-
ledge certain experiences as its own. Yet it must be
observed that besides this difference in these two explana-
tions of the origin of dissociation, there is, or may be, a
further difference in respect of the mental material on which ,
the dissociation is supposed to bear. In a '
hysterical
'
paralysis of the arm, on Janet's hypothesis, the ideas i
and feelings related to the use of the arm have become
'
dissociated from the personal consciousness. But accord-
ing to Freud dissociation in such a case bears primarily |
on a totally different system of ideas. It bears on some |
wish-formation which, after being dissociated by repression, \
becomes ' converted '
into this particular physical disa- :
bility. But the motor disability is itself a dissociation, i
as Janet has shown, and it is not a dissociation directly
due to repression. It seems to depend on some con-
stitutional peculiarity—an '
adaptation for conversion '
—
that is not always present.
'
When a conscious wish is repressed it may be said i
that a dissociation occurs in so far as something that was
in consciousness has become split off from it ; but when i
the repressed wish tries to become conscious again and |
succeeds only by becoming converted into a paralysis or 1
an anaesthesia, a further dissociation would seem to
occur ;
for here again something that was in conscious- !
ness becomes split off from it. As a dissociation of I
consciousness the repression of a wish may be almost
negligible, but when the repressed wish becomes con-
verted into bodily paralysis or anaesthesia there is no
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 47
mistaking the gap in the field of consciousness which
occurs. On the other hand repression may involve so
great a section of consciousness that the presence of
dissociation may be made manifest by the amnesia which
it entails ; and the repressed material may at intervals
force itself to the surface and dominate the organism in
somnambulistic attacks or as an alternating secondary
personality.
Even if it cannot be maintained that dissociation is
ever a wholly beneficial process, it is noteworthy that
even in admittedly hysterical dissociation we sometimes
find evidence of increased capacity in some directions
combined with disabilities in other directions : but it is
the disabilities and not the unusual abilities that justify
the diagnosis of hysteria. And we may get dissociations
in which the disabilities are negligible and the enhanced
powers or the unusual modes of functioning are the only
noticeable features.
In illustration of this, reference may be made to the
considerable number of persons who have the power of
producing automatic writing. Such " automatic " activities
must be regarded as the work of dissociated states of
consciousness. We cannot look upon them as true auto-
matisms ; such a view seems quite untenable. Nor
can we regard them as being evidence of hysteria, for
the persons who can produce automatic script are often
far from being hysterical in any useful sense of the word.
There is, moreover, a considerable body of evidence
in support of the belief that dissociated activities of this
kind are sometimes accompanied by the manifestation of
supernormal powers, such as telepathy or those medium-
istic phenomena which are thought by some people to
afford proof of spirit communication.
If we accept the possibility of telepathy, and if we
find that telepathy is observed in connexion with dis-
sociated states more frequently than with states in which
no dissociation is suspected, we must conclude that we
have here an instance of dissociation leading to enhance-
ment of the natural powers. Whether such manifestations
of supernormal powers are necessarily accompanied by
48 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PAET
defects in other directions must be determined empirically ;
we are not entitled to conclude on theoretical grounds
that it must be so. And we know that in individual
instances of automatic writers or trance mediums, it is
often extremely difficult to justify any such conclusion.
They may seem to be as well adapted to life as their
fellows.
Here, moreover, comes in the question of our know-
ledge of the environment to which man has to adjust
himself. If there is a transcendental world and if these
dissociated states are a means of getting into relation
with it, we shovdd perhaps regard these individuals, in
this respect at least, as being more fully adjusted to their
environment than ordinary men and women are.
When we consider the later stages in the evolution of
human personality we may see that man's environment
extends beyond his physical and social surroundings.
His intellectual aspirations are not limited by utility, his
emotional needs are not satisfied by intercourse with his
fellows, his moral nature transcends the obligations of
civic duty and social service. The struggle for existence
is no longer confined to the interaction between the self
within and the not-self without but is transferred to
the veiy centre of the self as a struggle between the
elements which enter into its construction. The relative
dissociation of concentrated thought may be a biological
gain, the repression of a wish that is incompatible with
the moral nature may be a victory for the struggling
personality, but the paralysis of a limb, although it may
be a successful means of defending the personality against
an unbearable idea, is biologically a failure. Personality
may develop at the expense of the bodily organism, but
biologically it must not. For although the struggle of
conative trends within the self may be necessary for the
evolution of the moral consciousness, the older struggle for
existence of the whole organism can never be abrogated.
Hysterical symptoms may be regarded as the outcome of
dissociative processes that take place at the growing point
in the development of personality and are biologically
failures. When dissociation is biologically helpful, or in
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 49
no way injm'ious, we may suppose that we are witnessing
phenomena which point the way to the future evolution
of mind in man.
It might be supposed that in the Doris case examples
of hypnotic phenomena would be difficult to find, for Dr.
Prince tells us that his experience on the night he dis-
covered Sleeping Margaret determined the permanent
exclusion of hypnosis in the after conduct of the case."'
But anyone who reads this case, and fails to identify
with hypnotic phenomena many of the incidents therein
recorded, will be apt to misconceive the true nature of
these incidents and to regard them as more wonderful
or more unusual than they really are.
T open the record at random to look for an example
of the kind of incident I have in mind. My eyes fall
immediately on the foUomng passage : "at about 2 p.m.
I suggested to M. that she close her eyes and sleep.
She laughed and looked at me with an expression which
showed that she kncAv what I was after. She did not
seem inclined to close her eyes so I began to say, '
You
are sleepy. Your eyelids are heavy,' etc., and the hds
dropped and in a minute she was asleep."
Or take the following incident : "I took R. D. to a
dentist to have some teeth fiUed. ... As soon as she
was in the chair I took her hand and dii'ected her to
close her eyes, but this she seemed unable to do. The
moment the work began she went to sleep. . . . She
continued unconscious and motionless until two teeth had
been filled, then M. awoke. I put her to sleep by the
suggestion process, and a thu'd cavity was bored." ^
In the light of such incidents and many others of a
similar land, I confess I do not know what Dr. Prince
means when he says that he did not employ hypnotism
in his treatment. For he was on these occasions employ-
ing the most usual method of inducing hypnosis, and was
as truly a hypnotist as was Liebeault or Bernheim when
they introduced this method more than thirty years ago.
^ Cf. the cases of self-induced anaesthesia, while undergoing dental treat-
ment, of Mrs. Thompson and Mrs. Verrall, both automatic writers
(Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XVIII., pp. 107-111).
D
50 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
But the knowledge that Dr. Prince actually used hypnotic
methods is hardly necessary. The hypnotic character of
many of the phenomena stares us in the face on almost
every page of the record. And if we fail to realize that
between Dr. Prince and his adopted daughter there was
at all times the same rapport as exists between the
hypnotist and his patient, much that is famihar or
commonplace may seem obscure and mysterious.
It is not only those incidents that may have been due
to suggestion, conscious^ or unconsciously given by
Dr. Prince, that reveal the hypnotic character of many
of the Doris phenomena. Every suggestion from without
before it is efficacious, has to be " accepted," and thus
becomes really a suggestion from within. This is probably
true of all hjrpnotic suggestion. It is demonstrably true
of suggestion in trained hypnotic subjects. For in trained
hypnotic subjects we have a sort of new integration of
consciousness at the hypnotic level, which is practically
an incipient secondary personahty,—a personahty, capable
of independent judgment, on whose goodwill the success
of all suggestion from without depends.
If a person be deeply hypnotized at the first attempt
and a suggestion be made that he will perform some
simple action at a specified time after awaking from
hypnosis, the action will be duly carried out although
there is no conscious recollection of the suggestion, and
its performance will be characterized by all the peculiarities
of suggested post-hypnotic acts. Such suggestions are
usually given in the form of commands, and the popular
notion of hypnotic compulsion is mainly derived from the
witnessing of such experiments. If, however, this same
person be frequently hypnotized, and if during hypnosis
he be talked to, and encouraged to talk, as if he were
in the ordinary waking state, it may then be said that
we are dealing with a hy|Dnotic personahty rather than
with a hypnotized person. Such a personality may show
no difference from the waking personality except as
regards memory. In the waking state all the events of
the hypnotic state are forgotten, while in the hypnotic
state all the events of the waking state are remembered..
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 51
If now a suggestion, to be fulfilled after hypnosis, be
given, it is not necessary to assume any tone of com-
mand. It may be put in the form of a request, and,
if it is assented to, its fulfilment will be indistinguishable
from an ordinary post-h5rpnotic act : or the choice of the
act to be performed may be left to the hjrpnotic person-
ality, and the hypnotist may be left in ignorance of the
action determined upon. Yet here again its fulfilment,
after hjrpnosis, is indistinguishable from an ordinary post-
hypnotic act, and the subject himself, in the waking state,
may regard it as having its origin in a suggestion from
the hypnotist.
It may thus be seen that any idea or intention arising
in the hypnotic stratum of consciousness, vv^hether spon-
taneously or by suggestion from without, may work itself
out in the waking state in ways indistinguishable from
those that are characteristic of post-hypnotic suggestions.
The personahty formed at the hypnotic level has, there-
fore, what we may call suggestive power over the
personahty at the higher level ; and I would assert that
when there are several personalities in co-conscious series,
whether they are artificial products or have arisen
spontaneously, this same relation subsists between them
all. Any idea arising in or entering into the mind of
a co-conscious personahty may have suggestive power over
the personalities above it in the series,—that is to say,
personahties to whom it stands in the hypnotic relation
of linowing but being unknown by them.
The importance 'of this conception in its apphcation to
the Doris personahties is most apparent when we consider
the part played by Sleeping Margaret in the therapeutic
management of the case. Dr. Prince says :
" She was
my chief coadjutor in the case, though Margaret was
also generally anxious to help, studied the progress of
R. D. and gave valuable information. But Sleeping
Margaret studied the interior situation unremittingly,
watched the result of my experiments and reported there-
on, suggested measures which often proved of great
importance, and made predictions as to the development
of the case which were nearly, not quite, always justified
52 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
by the event." Dr. Prince says Sleeping Margaret was j
his chief coadjutor. I am incHned to think she was his
j
commander-in-chief, while he was her hard-working chief-
j
of -staff.
Successful prediction of the course of the illness is a
common feature in hysteria when the dissociation is at
all profound, and especially when anything of the nature
of a secondary personahty has developed. The usual
explanation of this—and, so far as it goes, no doubt the
true explanation—is that the prediction is a self-suggestion,
a suggestion from within, whose fulfilment brings its own
verification. And I would maintain that the predictions
of Sleeping Margaret, and the measures recommended to
Dr. Prince by her, brought about their own fulfilment
because they were examples of that suggestive power i
which a co-conscious personality can bring to bear on
personalities to which it stands in hypnotic relation.
It is only by keeping in mind the remarkable results
of suggestion in dissociated states and the preponderating |
part played by suggestion from within rather than from
without, that we can bring any order into the multifarious ,
phenomena of this case. One unique feature, and one |
which to me seems inexplicable except in the light of
|
these considerations, is the fate of the secondary person- !
alities in the process of Doris Fischer's restoration to
j
health.
'
Sick Doris, immediately after being installed in Dr. |
Prince's household, and Margaret at a later date, began
to decline in their faculties and powers ; and the decline
took the curious form of a gradual retrogression towards j
childhood and infancy before they finally disappeared.
Sick Doris was the first to be affected by the change
of environment brought about by the removal from her
old home. She began to lose her memories and to be
" out " less, while her lost memories became absorbed by
Real Doris who now began to come more frequently, |
and to stay longer, as an alternating personality. As
Sick Doris's memories disappeared her manner changed,
becoming more cold and reserved. Her bodily anaes-
thesia deepened until she could neither feel, taste, nor ,
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 53
smell. Her vision gradually narrowed and shortened.
She grew more childish and apathetic, she became unable
to read, and her vocabvilary diminished until she had
only a very small stock of words. She finally reached
complete mental infancy, not only as to the content of
her mind, but also as to her power of thought. In the
end she could not walk, stand, or sit, and when she could
retrogress no farther she just ceased to come. After
being the dominant personahty for nearly five years she
made her last appearance four months after Doris went
to five in Dr. Prince's home.
The getting rid of Margaret was a much slower process,
but it followed the same general course as that followed
by Sick Doris. The methods adopted to facihtate her
dechne and departure varied in many ways from those
found to be efficacious with Sick Doris, but the final
result was in its main aspects the same. In the case
of Margaret, however, the regression to childhood was
more definite and precise in regard to details, and the
return to childish ways of thought and speech gave
evidence of being a return to the ways of the life which
she had actually lived as an alternating personality in
Doris's childhood.
This was impossible in the case of Sick Doris, for she
had never been a real child in her own personality.
When she first appeared she was, it is true, an infantile
personality as regards the content of her mind, but in
her regression she does not seem to have retraced her
steps through this infantile fife. It seemed rather as if
the forces directing the process of her extinction had led
her backwards through an abstract sort of infancy which
was not the infancy of anyone in particular. With
Margaret it was different. It appeared to be her own
childhood she was retracing. Moreover, there was this
further difference, that when the mental regression of
Margaret had brought her to the age of five, she dis-
appeared and came no more. She never became truly
infantile as Sick Doris had done.
The fate of Sick Doris and of Margaret had been the
subject of much speculation by these personahties them-
54 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
selves and also by Sleeping Margaret and Dr. Prince.
At the beginning of his treatment of the case Dr. Prince
regarded Sick Doris as the primary personality, and his
efforts were directed towards reinstating her as the per-
manent personahty and banishing Margaret. He some-
times told Sick Doris that Margaret appeared to be
weakening and that eventually she would be got rid of.
But Margaret was of a different opinion. She said she
knew that Sick Doris would go first and teased her by
teUing her so. Sick Doris was somewhat worried by
Margaret's assertions but believed that Margaret would
be the one to go.
At an early period of the treatment Dr. Walker of
the University of Pittsburg was consulted on this matter.
He gave it as his opinion that Sick Doris would be
assimilated with Real Doris but that Margaret would
never blend. At first Margaret's opinion of her own
fate was that she would join up with Real Doris. " We
are going to be one," she said. But three days after
Dr. Walker had expressed his opinion she said, speaking
of Sick Doris's decline :
" We don't want her, any way.
ME NEXT !—loudly and archly—isn't that right papa ?
"
Two days later Sleeping Margaret enters into the
drama for the first time since the night of her discovery.
She asserts that Sleeping Margaret and Margaret are in
a sense one, and she expresses the opinion that " both
Margarets will eventually disappear. As to Sick Doris
she is disappearing, '
going into Real Doris,' has in good
part already gone." About a week later she informs Dr.
Prince that " Margaret is getting to be a little child. She
always was a girl but she is getting younger and younger.
I think that is probably the way that she will disappear.
(Do you think she will come to have the mind of a
baby ?) Probably not really a baby, but the mind of a
very small girl." At the same time, in reply to the
question : Who do you think will go first, you or Margaret ?
she replied : "I don't know ;
probably we will go to-
gether." (How do you think that S. D. will go ?)
" Why, she is going now Don't you see that she is
going ? She remembers hardly anything. . . . She will get
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 55
weaker and weaker, and all of a sudden she will be
gone and not come back." Some weeks later when Mrs.
Prince said something about Margaret blending with Real
Doris, Sleeping Margaret spoke up decidedly, " No, she
will disappear. The difference is that S. D. was separated
from the R. D. (And wasn't Ml) No, she just came."
Thus early in the treatment of the case the different
personalities had fairly clear notions of the course they
had to run. At a later date Sleeping Margaret, however,
seems to have changed her mind about her own future
and also about her own nature.
The way in which Sick Doris and Margaret disappeared
is, so far as I know, unique in the records of multiple
personality ; and although we may agree with Sleeping
Margaret that no two cases are exactly ahke, it would
seem very unhkely that this mode of disappearance of
secondary personahties should not have been met with
before, if it is an inherent or natural pecuKarity of the
Doris Case. I must confess that I am incKned to regard
the whole course followed by Sick Doris and Margaret
in their disappearance as having been largely brought
about artificially,—in the sense that their mode of going
was not a necessary part of their going. Their going
was necessary if Doris was to be cured, but they might
have been got rid of in some other way. Not that I
would decry Dr. Prince's management of the case. On
the contrary, I think no one can read his record without
a profound feeUng of admiration for his patience and his
skill. All I mean is that if Dr. Prince, and especially
if Sleeping Margaret, had by any chance come to have
had different notions as to the course to be run and the
measures to be adopted, then an equally good end might
have been attained though the way might have been
different.
It is not to be supposed that suggestion from without
is all that is necessary in a case such as this. Secondary
personalities, although they may be suggestible enough in
some respects, are often impervious to suggestions from
without directed towards their own exorcism, or even
towards the disappearance of symptoms which seem to be
56 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
within their control. Yet when, by any means, they can
be got to predict the disappearance of morbid symptoms^
these symptoms disappear in the same sudden and un-
accountable way as do similar sj^mptoms in ordinary
hysteria in response to suggestion from without.
This peculiarity was forced on my attention in a case
of hysteria with incipient multiple personality which I
reported to this Society some years ago.^ I was struck
by the unequal success of suggestion in this case. Some
symptoms disappeared instantly at the first suggestion ;
others seemed to be quite uninfluenced, no matter how
often, or how impressively, appropriate suggestions were
given. It soon became evident that the symptoms which
were easily relieved were those which, in her waking
state, the patient asked me to relieve, or those to the
relief of which I had gained her free and unqualified
assent during hypnosis. Why she came to desire the
relief of one symptom more than another I do not know ;
but it was clear that once she got the idea that I could
remove it, the symptom in question alw^ays disappeared,
and if she did not have such idea it did not. Sometimes
I expressed a doubt as to my ability to remove it, but
what she predicted always came to pass.
Thus so far as suggestion affects the course of cases
of this kind it would seem essential that it should be,
in some sense, a suggestion from within. The idea of
the course to be followed must somehow arise in, or gain
admission to, the patient's mind, and act with suggestive
force at some hypnotic level. The possibility of such an
occurrence in cases of co-conscious secondary personalities
is shown by the case I have recorded, and it may be
useful to bear such a possibility in mind in connection
with the Doris case, especially with regard to the re-
gression to child-like states which preceded the final
disappearance of Sick Doris and Margaret.
In continuing our comparisons of the data supplied by~
the Doris case with those derived from other sources,
we are led beyond the individual features presented by
it to a comparison of the case as a whole with other
Wroceediwjn, S.l'.R., Vol. XXVI. p. 286.
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 57
cases of multiple personality. We may try to find out
if knowledge of the Doris case helps us in any way to
classify these cases, or if we can find a place for it in
any classification we may provisionally have adopted.
In attempting to classify cases of multiple personality
we start with the assumption that in every instance we
have to deal with some sort of dissociation or division
of the self. Until such an assumption is clearly shown
to be false or inadequate, we are not justified in ascribing
to any other source the secondary personalities which they
may reveal. We must suppose that such unity and
continuity as the self ordinarily displays has in some way
become disrupted, and a basis of classification may be
found if we can discover the lines of cleavage along
which such disruptions most commonly do or may take
place. To know where to look for these fines of cleavage
we must first know what sort of unity the self has and
in what it consists.
We may distinguish between the unity of consciousness
and the unity of the self. When we speak of the unity
of consciousness we should refer only to the unity which
is observed within the field of consciousness and to the
continuity which normally chai'acterises the stream of con-
sciousness. The unity of consciousness, thus understood,
depends on the immediate contiguity of the components
of a.ny present moment of consciousness and the contiguity
of the successive moments in the transition from one to
another which constitutes the stream of consciousness.
Disruption of the unity of the field of consciousness
is observed in the common symptoms of hysteria such as
anaesthesia, where some part of the conscious field that
ought to be supraliminal has become subliminal. Dis-
ruptions of the continuity of the stream of consciousness
are exhibited in the amnesia of hysterical fugues and still
more clearly in that of multiple personality. Such unity
and continuity of consciousness is a necessary and im-
portant part of our conception of personality, but in this
there is also impHed a higher unity of the self which is
not dependent on a mere contiguity of elements. This
unity is essentially a conative unity. It is a unity and
58 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
continuity of interests and purposes. It is a unity that
is not given in the structure of the mind but is some-
thing that the self can aspire to, and it may be, by
struggle attain. In the struggle towards this ideal,
character is formed, and when such unity as may have
been attained is disrupted the resulting change in person-
ality will reveal itself change in character and
conduct.
There are thus at least two directions from which we
may approach the problem of classification of secondary
personalities. From one point of view we may regard
them as breaches in the continuity of the stream of
consciousness. From another point of view they appear
as disturbances of that relative unity of the self which
we know as character.
In a former communication to this Societj^ ^ I tried to
divide all secondary personalities into two great groups,
the basis of division being the memory relations existing
between the different selves. In the first group, of which
the BI and BIV personalities of the Beauchamp case are
examples, there is reciprocal amnesia between the different
selves. BI had none of BIV's memories and BIV had
none of BI's. When BIV succeeded BI as an alternating
personality, BIV knew nothing of what BI had been doing
during the time that BI was " out " ; and when BI
succeeded BIV, BI was equally ignorant of what BIV
had been doing.
In the second group, of which " Sally " of the Beau-
champ case is an example, the amnesia occurs in one
direction only. BI did not know Sally, but Sally knew
BI. When Sally gave place to BI, BI came on the scene
quite ignorant of what Sally had just been doing, hwt
when Sally succeeded BI she had full knowledge of what
BI had been doing. Moreover, Sally claimed to have been
present as a co-conscious personality, distinct from
BI, during the period of BI's emergence, and to have
been aware, at all times, of BI's thoughts and actions.
Secondary personalities of this kind may be referred to
as belonging to the co-conscious type.
1 Pro<:ntdinu!>, S. P. R. , Vol. XXVI. , p. 2.57.
'
'
'
'
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 59
On reading the Doris record we are at once struck by
the fact that all the personalities, with the negligible
exception of S. R. D., may be arranged in a co-conscious
series. If we regard the personalities in such a series
as having different thresholds we may say that the
personahty formed at a higher level is always amnesic
for the personalities that may occur below it, while the
personahty formed at a lower level is always co-conscious
with those that may occur above it. Thus, in the Doris
case, as we have seen, S. M. knew all the thoughts and
feeUngs and actions of all the other personahties. M.
was ignorant of S. M., but knew all the others above
her in the series. S. D. had no direct knowledge of
M.'s experiences and was also ignorant of S. M., but she
knew the experiences of R. D. R. D. had no direct
knowledge of any of her secondary states.
Divisions of the self based upon amnesia and co-
consciousness, although interesting to the psychologist,
are not the ones that appeal most strongly to the ordinary
reader. So long as a man's character is but little altered,
a gap in his memory of his own doings excites little
wonder or comment. But if he shows any marked
change in his character and conduct, whether it be
accompanied by loss of memory or not, his friends will
say he is " a different man." And so it may be that,
in the history of Doris Fischer, many will be more im-
pressed b\^ the differences in the characters of the person-
alities than by the pecuharities of the memory relations
subsisting between them. It would seem very desirable
that some classification of secondary personalities, based
upon character rather than upon memory, should be
attempted.
The most superficial examination of ourselves or our
fellows will reveal to us that when we speak of unity
of character we are referring to an ideal unity, and that
in actual Ufe we know hardly any but a relative unity
in this respect. We are all subject to moods in which
our capacities and achievements fall short or surpass those
that we regard as pertaining to our true selves. At
times we may follow interests and pursue ends that are
60 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PART
inconsistent or incompatible with our main purposes, and
only the stern necessities of life may debar us from giving
rein to these different sides of our character. For most
of us some limitation of interests and systematization of
purposes must be submitted to. William James expressed
this in his own inimitable way when he wrote about the
rivalry and conflict of the different selves that may be
found in all of iis.
' With most objects of desire," he says, " physical
nature restricts our choice to but one of many repre-
sented goods, and even so it is here. I am often con-
fronted by the necessity of standing by one of my
empirical selves and relinquishing the rest. Not that I
would not, if I could, be both handsome and fat and
well dressed, and a great athlete and make a million a
year, be a wit, a hon-vivavt, and a lady-killer, as well as
a philosopher, a philanthropist, statesman, warrior, and
African explorer, as well as a '
tone-poet '
and saint.
But the thing is simply impossible. The miiUonaire's-
work would run counter to the saint's ; and the hon-
vivant and the philanthropist would trip each other up ;
the philosopher and the lady-killer could not well keep-
house in the same tenement of clay. Such different
characters may conceivably at the outset of life be alike
possible to a man. But to make any one of them
actual, the rest must more or less be suppressed." ^
When a splitting of personality occurs these suppressed
selves seem to find their opportunity, and we may some-
times interpret the character of a secondary personality
as being the outcome of tendencies, potential in the
original structure of the self, which had been suppressed
or subordinated to the purposes that had been chosen
and the ends that had been pursued.
In James' list of the empirical selves which he, with
some reluctance, put aside, no mention is made of one
which, consciously or unconsciously, is common, perhaps,
to all mankind. James may have been of too robust a
nature ever consciously to feel the wish to be a child
again ; but weaker spirits, when they find life hard,.
^ Principles of Psycholoyy, Vol. I. pp. 309-310.
txxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality . 61
tnow well the craving for the dependence and irresponsi-
"bility of childhood. The self that does not want to grow
up may be detected in some of the most lovable of our
adult friends ; and when dissociation occui's we need not
be surprised to find that sometimes a child-hke secondary
personality is revealed.
Several examples of this may be found in the records.
" Twoey " and " The Boy " in the case of Alma Z. were
child-like personalities. More than one of the secondary
states of Mary Barnes exhibited childish traits. Mx.
Hanna, in his secondary state, was described as being
" pure and innocent as a child." The secondary state
of Mary Reynolds was child-hke in its cheerful gaiety and
boisterous love of jests. Sally, of the Beauchamp case,
was incorrigibly a child. And now in the Doris case
we have Margaret,—one of the most fascinating and
lovable of all the child personalities revealed in these
states. Further, it may be noted, that the '•
controls
"'
in mediumistic trance have not infrequently had the
semblance of being child personalities.
Thus, we might classify secondary personalities according
as they are child-like or grown-up, but it is doubtful if
such a division would be very helpful. There are perhaps
more fundamental lines of cleavage to be discovered
along which disruptions of the unity of the self may
take place.
If we examine character as a whole and try to see of
what elements it is built up, or along what lines it grows,
we may notice that it displays certain features which
correspond to the three fundamental modes of our being
conscious. We know objects, we are affected by them,
and we act upon them. So we may say we have an
intellectual or cognitive character, an emotional character,
and a practical character. Our intellectual character
expresses the whole of our power to know and to think,
but like each of the modes of experience it requires for
its fulfilment the co-operation of the other two. Growth
in knowledge is accompanied by and dependent on grow^th
in interest and desire. In the main we think and know
the things that are of practical importance to us, though
62 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [PABT
at the higher levels of development thinking and knowing
may obtain an interest on their own account. Our
knowledge to be of use must be organized into systems
which are at least congruous and coherent within them-
selves, and, as an ideal, into systems which are congruous
and coherent one with another.
The intellectual character by itself is a relatively un-
important part of man's personality. His knowledge
grows in the service of his interests and desires, and
these are shown by what he does rather than by what
he knows. Our emotions reveal our interests in things
and our attitude towards them, and our whole interest
in things and our attitude towards them form our
emotional character. In the development of the emotional
character the primary emotions and their complex com-
binations undergo a gradual systematization. This is in
part effected by the objects that arouse them, since they
belong to particular spheres of interest such as material,
social, moral and religious spheres. But the emotions
aroused by any object will depend on the aspect pre-
sented, for different emotions may be aroused by the same
object under different aspects or situations. Such a
system of emotions organised about an object has been
termed by Mr. Shand a sentiment, and the formation
of sentiments is the most important factor in the growth
of the emotional character.
It is not very profitable, however, to consider the
emotional character apart from the practical character.
Doing is the end of both knowing and feeling. Our
practical character is being formed when our interest is
in what we shall do, rather than in what we know or
how we feel. It grows out of the striving aspect of
experience, but implies knowledge of ends that are
desirable. It also implies the power to choose from the
ends that may be represented in consciousness, those that
are most desirable, and ability to control the impulses
that are opposed to their realization. Success in the
building up of the practical character depends on habitua-
tion in the seeking of right ends, in the habitual acting
up to ideals and resolves. It is this actual seeking of
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 63
ends that distinguishes the practical character from the
intellectual and emotional characters.
The three characters can be considered separately only
as abstractions. Each of them may have a unity within
itself, but the unity of character as a whole requires
theii- integration ; and any want of balance, harmony and
cohesion between them may determine a line of cleavage
along which personality may disintegrate.
The Doris case seems to show some evidence of dis-
integration along such lines of cleavage. Sleeping Margaret
was the embodiment of the intellectual character. She
was cold and unemotional and she never did anything.
She appeared to be of a " highly analytical and philo-
sophical mind," she was " never known to wander in her
speech or to oscillate ui the clearness of her understand-
ing." " Her facial expression was usually that of philo-
sophical calmness, though she would ofter smUe sedately,
or even break out into laughter."
If Sleeping Margaret was all intellect, Margaret was all
feeling and emotion. She was demonstrative and affec-
tionate. Though amiable as a rule she had occasional
fits of sullenness and even of rage. She was a child of
the emotions with the emotions of a child. She never
developed beyond the age of ten, but it was her intellec-
tual expansion that first became curtailed. At one time she
used to assist Real Doris with her lessons, but two years
before the schooling was over she ceased to help because
the exercises had become too advanced. She had the
emotional character's dislike of monotony and restraint.
The Real Doris of those school days had no easy time, for
incessantly there emerged in her consciousness the clamours
of Margaret, '•
Come on ! let's go out !
" or Margaret would
come as an alternating personality and cut some ridiculous
caper which set the room in a giggle.
If Sleeping Margaret was the intellectual side and
Margaret the emotional side of Doris, then Sick Doris
was preponderatingly the practical side. After her advent
she was the only one of the group who appeared to do
things. For five years she was the dominant personality
who bore the brunt of all the hardships and the excessive
64 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
and prolonged exertions which the poverty of the family
entailed. She was characterized by woodenness of ex-
pression. She was lacking in humour, in conceptions
of the abstract, and in other respects. To the end she
was lacking on the side of the affections, but she was a
slave to her narrow conceptions of duty.
This way of looking at secondary personalities may
seem fanciful and not very profitable. And indeed it
is likely that more commonly we should find the line of
cleavage running through the emotional and practical
characters, which are hardly separable, rather than
between them. Could we do so it would be consonant
with our most recent knowledge of the nature and source
of psychical dissociation. Everything points to the
emotional life as being the source from which the dis-
integrating forces are derived. Here is to be found the
subterranean fire which in volcanic action bursts the
bonds that keep the self a unity of endeavour.
The emotional conflict that ensues when incompatible
wishes arise in the mind may be, as the Freudians main-
tain, the one constant factor in all psychical dissociation.
But to search for the lines of cleavage which may thus
be established would necessitate a long and arduous
examination of the unconscious roots of the emotional
life. The knowledge we already possess on this matter
has not yet, so far as I know, been applied to well-
marked cases of multiple personality, and this is neither
the time nor the place to attempt it ; but when it is
done we shall perhaps be within sight of some basis
whereon to found a scientific or natural classification of
these states.
In the meantime we may make ixse of provisional
classifications of a moi'e superficial kind, and we may here,
as in other matters, arrange our data in groups determined
by the end we have in view. We have good authority
for saying that each science or art may form its classifi-
cation of things " according to the properties which fall
within its special cognizance, or of which it must take
account in order to accomplish its peculiar practical end."
As students of Psychical Research we may ask whether
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 65
secondary personalities show any peculiarities which fall
within our special province. If they do, we may use
these peculiarities as a basis for classification.
In many of the recorded cases of multiple personality
some evidence of the occurrence of supernormal phenomena
has been given, and if there are any cases in which there
is no such evidence, then we may divide all cases of
multiple personality into those which provide evidence of
the supernormal and those which do not. Or, more
conveniently, all the secondary selves revealed in these
cases may be divided into those that give evidence of
possessing supernormal powers and those for which no
such claim can be made.
That in the cases hitherto recorded some apparently
supernormal phenomena have been observed cannot be
denied. In some instances the prejudice of the observer
has almost blinded him to their occurrence or has led
him to record them only shamefacedly in a footnote.
In other instances his credulity has caused him to see
evidence of spirit possession or obsession in the common
symptoms of hysteria as well as in less usual phenomena.
In the earlier records of the Doris case we are fortunate
in having had an observer who, if not trained in the
methods of science, was at all events apparently scrupu-
lously careful and unbiassed. Towards the end of his
conduct of the case Dr. Prince was undoubtedly more
favourably inclined towards spiritistic hypotheses ; and in
the observations of Dr. Hyslop, set out at great length
in the third volume of the record, we recognize the work
of a spiritist whose views are, I imagine, of an extreme
kind.
The incidents recorded by Dr. Prince, of which some
supernormal explanation may be called for, are numerous,
but not many of them come up to the evidential standard
required by our Society. Dr. Prince often has to admit,
about some particular incident, that taken by itself it
cannot be regarded as evidential, and that it has to be
read in the light of other similar incidents in other parts
of the record. This is a procedure we are only too prone
to adopt in the investigation of the supernormal. As
66 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
rule of method it is probably fundamentally false. A
collection of half-truths can never prove the whole truth
about anything. The accumulation of doubtful cases
would rather tend to magnify the doubt.
All the personalities in the Doris case are said to have
had supernormal experiences. The Real Doris claimed
that when she was quite small she used sometimes to
see things which afterwards came true. When she was
away from home, at work, she sometimes got the im-
pression of seeing her mother doing something, and when
she got home at night would learn that her mother had
been doing that thing just at the time she saw her.
The last experience of the kind was on the day before
her mother died. She saw, " pictured in the glass panel
of the door," her mother lying on a lounge with her
face turned towards the wall. The vision was repeated
three times, and at last Doris became alarmed and went
home. She found her mother in the position foreseen in
the vision, very ill and half-conscious. She died a few
hours later.
After the advent of Sick Doris the Real Doris appears
to have lost this clairvoyant faculty, but she was still
subject to auditory and visual hallucinations. On one
occasion she said she was sitting in the hen-yard holding
a chicken, looking down at it. She saw a shadow, looked
vip, and saw her dead mother, just as plainly as she had
ever seen her, dressed in a calico dress which she wore
when Doris was a child about eight years old. The
occurrence of this vision was corroborated by Margaret
and Sleeping Margaret, but, as Dr. Prince says, " of course
this isn't evidence." :
Sick Doris not infrequently during her first year had
a hallucination of the mother standing or walking at her
right side. Sometimes she felt a touch, or she became
otherwise conscious of a presence, and turned, only to
get a fleeting glimpse. Sleeping Margaret said that
" S. D. had these apparitions, R. D. never. S. D. never
had seen the mother living, yet she saw her as she
looked in her house wrapper. Perhaps it was from M.
thinking a great deal about the mother."
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multi-pie Personality. 67
One clairvoyant incident in which S. D. was the per-
cipient is recorded in some detail. " (What are you
thinking about ? )
Something I would like to ask about
Adelaide. (Well, ask it.) But it is silly ... I would
like to find out if she was looking into a shop-window
between one and two o'clock to-day. I imagined she
was. It must have been after quarter past one. She
was dressed in blue and wore a turban. Her back was
turned, and she was stooping and looking at something
in a dry-goods store window. I don't know what it
was, but it seems as if it were something like a cushion."
In the evening Dr. Prince called up Adelaide by tele-
phone. " (Were you out between 1.15 and 2 tliis after-
noon ?) Yes. (Where chd you go ?) Let me see.
I went to a drug-store. (How were you dressed ?) In
a blue suit. (Did you wear a turban ?) Yes. . . . (Did
you look intently into a shop window ?) Yes, I believe
I did. (What Idnd of a shop ?) A dry-goods store.
(Was it a cushion that you were looking at ?) I believe
so,—yes." On the following day Adelaide was seen by
Dr. Prince and made a statement about her visit to the
drug-store. On the way, she said, she had stopped and
examined a pillow-cushion in a dry-goods shop window.
She had almost forgotten the fact when Dr. Prince called
her up, but afterwards recalled it distinctly.
It is unfortmiate that corroboration of the veridical
character of S. D.'s vision was obtained in response to
so many leading questions. Dr. Prince says he had to
ask them " to recall so trivial an incident as looking
into the shop-window." But even so, they might surely
have been worded less suggestively than " Did you wear
a turban ?
" " Was it a cushion that you were looking
at ?
" For evidential purposes it is probably better to
fail to get corroboration at all than to get it in such
a way.
The majority of the supernormal incidents in the case
are connected with Margaret. She is the only one who
showed what appears to have been genuine telepathic
power. One of the best examples is that in which she
told Dr. Prince :
" You wrote to a man named Prince
68 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
to-day^—to Dr. Prince. . . . You wote about Doris. . . .
You asked him how someone was getting on."' The facts
were that Dr. Prince had, that afternoon, without acquaint-
ing anyone with his intention, written to Dr. Morton
Prince for the first time. He wrote chiefly about Doris.
He did not ask how anyone was getting on, but he did
very distinctly debate in his mind whether to ask him
if Miss Beauchamp was still mentally stable. He took
pains to make it impossible that anyone should see him
write either the letter or the addi'ess on the envelope,
mentioned to no one that he had written, and while alone
put the letter where no one could possibly get at it.
When Margaret made announcements of this kind it
was always after she had gazed steadily, with a look of
interested amusement, into Dr. Prince's eyes. She
claimed that she saw, not what he was consciously
thinking at the moment, but what was " passing like a
parade down underneath."
On another occasion Margaret, who had been kept in
ignorance of the existence of Sleeping Margaret, surprised
Dr. Prince hj stating that she knew there were three
personahties, and that Sleeping Margaret was the name
of the third one. She said she saw it in his thoughts.
But the fact that this knowledge was in the possession
of S. M. robs this instance of all evidential value so far
as telepathy between Margaret and Dr. Prince is in
question.
An example of what used to be called '•
travelling
clairvoyance " is recorded of Margaret. She had claimed
that she could leave Doris and go back to her old home
and see what was happening there. Dr. Prince asked
her if she could go anywhere else and she said she could
" if Doris knows the people." So Dr. Prince asked her
to go to the house of a Mr. S.
—" the first house after
a big one on the left " in a certain avenue. When she
" came back " she reported : "I went into the hall. I
think it was the right house, the second from Colorado
Avenue on the left. (Yes.) I only saw a httle girl,
going through the hall. Her hair was cut bobbed, and
she had a ribbon on one side. I could see into the dining
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 69
room, and saw dishes on the table. There was no one
else. I was scared and did not go into any other part
of the house,—just the haU where the little girl was.
(Was there any food on the table ?) No, just dishes."
Next day Dr. Prince called up Mrs. S. and ascertained
a number of facts which were favourable to the view,
though not very conclusive, that some clairvoyant faculty
had been in operation. One of these facts was that
" Marie did . . . pass through that haU alone at just
about the time of M.'s alleged vision." At a later date
Margaret declared that " she made a mistake and entered
the wi'ong house, but that the httle girl whom she saw
was really Marie ; that she had seen her since and
recognized her." Afterwards Sleeping Margaret stoutly
affirmed the same. Here Dr. Prince leaves the matter.
He seems to have made no effort to find out if Marie
had passed through the hall of this second house about
the time of M.'s alleged vision. He was becoming in-
clined to accept any declaration of Sleeping Margaret as
good evidence which needed no corroboration.
Although Margaret is the only one who gives good
evidence of possessing supernormal powers, most readers
of the record will come away from it with the impression
that Sleeping Margaret is the source, more than any of
the other personahties, of the supernormal atmosphere
which pervades the story as a whole. Yet when we try
to find out why this should be so, we find it difficult to
explain. Apart from the claims she made, towards the
end, as to her own nature and powers, there is httle in
the record to suggest that she needs any supernormal
explanation. But there is good evidence of Dr. Prince's
growing behef that Sleeping Margaret was something
supernatural, and this behef is subtly suggested to the
reader throughout hundreds of pages of a very engrossing
story. In the end one is almost ready to beUeve, with
Dr. Prince, that Sleeping Margaret is a spirit.
When she first began to talk about herself Sleeping
Margaret seemed to think that she and Margaret were
in some sense one, and, consequently, that when Margaret
went she would go too ; but as time went on she made
70 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
many assertions about herself which are incompatible
with her earlier statements. At first she implied that there
was, to begin with, a very close relation between herself
and Margaret, if, indeed, they were not one and the
same personality, but that they had become " separated
"
after Doris came to live with Dr. Prince. Later she
claimed that she came as a mature personahty when
Doris was three years old. But when Dr. Prince asked
her to explain how she could have come from baby
Doris and have a mature mind, all she could say in reply
was, " Well, Margaret was brighter than Real Doris."
Her new claims were obviously so much opposed to her
original statements that she seemed embarrassed when
the question of her own origin and status was broached,
and for a long time she either denied knowledge on
these points or refused to discuss them.
Dr. Prince was greatly puzzled to account for Sleeping
Margaret's character and powers, and on November 10th,
1911, he suggested to her that perhaps she was a spirit.
This she strenuously denied, and she persisted in her
denial for many months. During the first period of his
investigation of the case Dr. Prince would seem to have
had no partiality towards a spiritistic interpretation of
any of the phenomena. But in September, 1911, Dr.
Hj^slop paid him a visit and examined Doris. Prom this
time onward Dr. Prince's attitude appears to have under-
gone a gradual change, and he became obviously more
disposed to beUeve that Sleeping Margaret was some
kind of spirit possession.
This change in Dr. Prince's attitude may not have been
without effect on the opinion of Sleeping Margaret herself.
In her early references to her own going she did not
appear to make any distinction between the nature of
her own final disappearance and that of Margaret. But
as time went on her remarks on this topic were con-
sonant with Dr. Prince's growing opinion that she was not
a mere secondary personality in the sense that Sick Doris
and Margaret were. In June, 1913, she said :
" I shall
go a day or two before Margaret does. ... I shall be
in sight of her [R. D.] after that until I know that
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 71
she is safe. ... I will always know how she is getting
on, and if I am needed I shall come back."
Her prediction that she would go a day or two before
Margaret did was not fulfilled, but, she said, " this was
not because she was deceived in her foresight, but because,
for what appeared to her good reasons, she changed her
mind." The only ostensible reasons for her remaining
after Margaret's departure (April 19th, 1914) were that
Dr. Prince liked her to come and desired her to give
some proof, which she had promised, regarding her real
nature.
Although in 1911 she had denied that she was a spirit,
nevertheless her claims regarding her own nature and
powers became, from that time onwards, more and more
consonant with such a belief. She maintained that when
she chose she could " go away," that is, leave the body
of Doris, and, when away, she said she was attending
to her own affairs. Towards the end her occupation
when away was said to be the preparation of the " proof
"
which she had promised regarding her own nature. This
proof, so often promised, never came ; but she asserted
that an attempt towards it had been made in the course
of some experiments in automatic writing which Dr.
Prince had conducted with Doris.
Just as she failed to give the proof, so also she failed
to give any actual demonstration of supernormal powers.
She did, however, take credit for one incident which
greatly impressed Dr. Prince. One night, in the midst
of a graphic and interesting dream, there was suddenly
interjected into it his name, " Walter," thriUing in its
distinctness, which instantly shattered the dream and
woke him. Sleeping Margaret claimed that it was she
who called him. She said she had been practising to
see if she could speak while Real Doris was asleep with-
out waking her. " I began," she explained, " by saying
'
Papa ' softly, I spoke louder and louder and she paid
no attention, then I said '
Walter,' because that is a
good round word, and finally I spoke it loudly." Dr.
Prince could not understand how she made him hear at
such a distance (25 ft.) and why it did not wake Mrs.
72 T. W. Mitchell M.D. [part
Prince, who hears much better than he does. So he
asks :
" Did she make me hear by normal utterance, or
did she speak to me '
herself,' as she some time ago
intimated that she would try to do—that is, not through
Real Doris's hps ?
"
Although at this time Sleeping Margaret does not seem
to have claimed that she made Dr. Prince hear other-
wise than " through the ordinary channels of sense,"
Dr. Prince's doubt seems to have found congenial soil
in her mind. Some months later, at a time when Dr.
Prince was pressing her for " the proof," she began to
claim that on various occasions she had tried, unsuccess-
fully, to make him hear at a distance. Then, once again,
Dr. Prince had a dream spoilt by the irruption of the
word Walter," and again he was mystified as to the
source of the sound which woke him. He canvasses the
explanations which might be proposed by an outsider.
These are, (1) Mrs. Prince was fooling him, (2) Mrs. Prince
spoke his name in her sleep, (3) the word was uttered
by the lips of the girl in her room and he heard it
where he lay. (4) the girl, in normal or abnormal state,
actually came to his side and uttered the word. All
of these he finds good grounds for rejecting, although
if the word was really uttered by anyone his third hypo-
thesis would seem to afford the most likely explanation.
Dr. Prince's slight deafness, and the 40 feet which separated
him from the sleeping Doris, are more than counter-
balanced by the rapport which existed between them..
Unfortunately, however, for the whole story, Sleeping
Margaret said she was not responsible for the voice on
this occasion.
Unfortunately, also. Sleeping Margaret did not always
speak the truth. Indeed, this failing was common to
all the secondary personalities in the case. Sick Dorig
for a long time imposed upon Dr. Prince belief in her
hysteric fabrication that she had a diseased hip, and
tried also to get him to think she was a great artist.
Margaret was often detected in child-like romancing, but
she could not help giving notice of her inventive moods by
dancing eyes and an amused manner. Sleeping Margaret
Lxxix.] The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. 73
at first made statements about herself which are at
variance with later ones and was sometimes evasive in
other matters. These departures from the truth she ex-
plained as being due to her unwillingness at first to admit
her true nature and her desire to shield Real Doris when
she thought Dr. Prince was getting too inquisitive. Dr.
Prince was apparently not a little perturbed by the men-
dacity of his secondary foster-children, and he is never
tired of reiterating that Real Doris was absolutely truthful.
Some time in August 1914 it was decided that Doris
should go to New York, for the purpose of taking part,
as sitter, in some experiments which Dr. Hyslop was
anxious to try with his medium Mrs. Chenoweth. On
August 25th, in response to a request from Dr. Prince
that before she went to New York she should make
some declaration about herself. Sleeping Margaret made a
statement in writing in which she definitely claimed that
she was a spirit, and had been sent by some one liigher to
guard Doris when she was three years old. When she
had finished her statement, Sleeping Margaret said :
" There,
you may beHeve as much of that as you like, and you
may question me about it if you want to."
With the visit to Nev/ York the story of Doris Fischer
enters upon a new phase. At this point Dr. Prince's
record comes to an end and Dr. Hyslop takes up the
tale. The atmosphere now is frankly spiritistic, and
perhaps only those who have had personal experience of
such phenomena as Dr. Hyslop records are justified in
criticising either his methods or his conclusions. These
are far removed from the methods and conclusions of
orthodox science, and also from those of many workers
in Psychical Research whose opinions are entitled to
respectful consideration.
Dr. Hyslop's contention is that the phenomena of
secondary personality are often demonstrably due to dis-
carnate spirits. He admits that " we shall have first
to prove the existence of spirits in order to apply the
hypothesis to cases of secondary personality in any form
whatever." But, needless to say, he does not prove the
existence of spirits. He assumes that this has been
74 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
already done. He says, " I take that fact as adequately
proved for all intelligent people." He appeals to the
whole cumulative mass of facts on record, and he dis-
misses telepathy from account " as not worth serious
consideration as a rival of spiritistic theories." The
adoption of such an attitude in the present state of our
knowledge can only alienate the sympathies of many who
are ready to approach, with open minds, all the problems
of Psychical Research.
LXXix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 75
IV.
THE PSYCHOLOGICAL FOUNDATIONS OF
BELIEF IN SPIRITS
By C. G. Jxjng, M.D., LL.D.
Read at a General Meeting of the Society on July 4, 1919.
If we look back into the past of mankind, we find
—
among many other religious convictions—a universally
spread belief in the existence of phantoms or ethereal
beings dwelling in the neighbourhood of men, and influenc-
ing them invisibly, yet verj^ powerfully. These beings
are frequently supposed to be the spirits, or souls, of
the dead. This belief is to be met with among most highly
civilized men, as well as among Australian negroes who
are still living at the level of the palaeolithic age. Among
Western peoples, however, belief in the influence of
spirits has been counteracted by the development of
natural science and inteUectual criticism during the last
150 years, so that among the educated of to-day it
has been almost completely suppressed together with
other ultra-scientific convictions.
But just as these latter beliefs still exist among the
masses, belief in spirits also is far from being entirely
extinguished. The " haunted house," for instance, has
not yet disappeared from the most business-like or intellec-
tual cities, nor has the peasant yet ceased to believe
in the bewitching of his cattle. On the contrary, a
recrudescence of belief in spirits occurred even in an
age of materialism, which is the inevitable consequence
of intellectual enlightenment. It was not a recrudescence
of obscure superstitions, but of an interest in its essence
76 C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part
'
scientific, an intense desire to direct the searchlight of
'
truth on to the dark chaos of facts. The illustrious
'
names of Myers, Sidgwick, Gurney, Wallace, Crookes,
^
Zoellner and many other prominent men, are associated
'
with the rebirth and the rehabilitation of the ancient i
'
belief in spirits. Even if the real nature of the observed
'
facts be disputed, even if the explorers may be accused [
of errors, and sometimes of self-deception, there still
'
belongs to them the immortal merit of having thrown
the whole of their authority on to the side of non-material
facts, regardless of public disapproval. They faced aca-
demic prejudices, and did not shrink from the cheap j
derision of their contemporaries ; even at a time when |
the intellect of the educated classes was spellbound by i
the new dogma of materialism, they dvevi public attention 'i
to phenomena of an irrational nature, contrary- to accepted
convictions.
These men typify the reaction of the human mind
against the senseless and desolating materialistic view.
Considered from the standpoint of history it is not to
be wondered at that so-called " spiritual " phenomena
should be used as an efficient weapon against the
mere testimony of the senses, because belief in spirits
has always been a defence against mere sensationalism. I
This is the case with the primitive man, whose complete
dependence upon nature makes concrete circumstance
of the greatest importance for him. One must remember
the manifold distresses and needs of his life, placed
amongst hostile neighbours and dangerous animals, and
often harrowed by a merciless nature. His keen senses,
his cupidity, his deficient self-control, all expose him to i
adverse experiences. Hence he is always in danger
of losing that mystic and supernatural something which
alone makes man a man. But his belief in spirits, or
rather in the spiritual, delivers him from the fetters
of a merely tangible and visible world again and again.
It is this irrational function that forces on him the l
certainty of spiritual reality, whose laws and demands
are to be followed as carefully and as conscientiously
as those relating to physical nature. Primitive man
1
Lxxix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 11
really lives in two worlds. This concrete world is for
him at the same time a spiritual world. The objective
world is undeniable, and for him the spiritual world has
an equally positive existence. This is not only his
opinion, but rather a naive perception of spiritual pheno-
mena, projected from his unconscious on to the concrete
object. Wherever such naivete is lost through the dis-
illusioning touch of contact with Western civilization
and its disastrous " enlightenment," then also his feelings
of awe in relation to the spiritual law disappear, and
consequently he degenerates. Even Christianity cannot
save him from degeneration, because in order to have
a beneficial effect on man, such a highly developed
religion demands a highly dilierentiated psyche.
Thus " spiritual " phenomena are for the primitive an
immediate experience of an ideal or spiritual reality.
If it be asked, what are primitive " spirit " phenomena,
we may answer that the seeing of apfaritions is the
most frequent phenomenon. It is generally assumed
that this seeing of apparitions is commoner among primi-
tives than among civilized people, and that it is due
to nothing but superstition. It is generally held that
educated people do not have such visions, unless they
are iU. It is quite certain that civilized man makes
use of the hypothesis of spirits incomparably less
frequently than the primitive. In my view, however,
and according to my experience as a physician, the
psychological phenomenon which the primitive attributes
to a spirit is quite as common among civilized men.
The only difference is that where a primitive speaks
of ghosts, the European speaks of dreams and phantasies
and neurotic symptoms, and attributes less importance
to them than the primitive does. He gives them too
little weight, and on account of this undervaluation the
European regards many things as morbid which, under
another aspect, would be highly interesting and highly
important. Therefore, owing to this rationalizing, what
are living entities for the primitive become for him
morbid symptoms. Men's perceptions are the same as
they always were, but we interpret them in a different
78 C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part
way, and the modern way enfeebles them, making an
incomprehensible illness of them. But the psychological
fact in itself is not invalidated by a modern interpretation.
If, indeed, a highly civilized and enlightened European
IS obliged to live in primitive conditions for a long time,
it often happens that he has some unusual experiences
which defy a rationalistic interpretation.
One of the essential determinants of belief in spirits
IS the dream. Persons appear in most dreams, and the
primitive believes them to be spirits or souls. The dream
has for him an incomparably higher value than for a
civiUzed man. He is usually a good deal taken up with
his dreams ;
he talks much of them and attributes an
extraordinary importance to them. When he talks of
his dreams he is frequently unable to discriminate between
them and actual facts. They are quite real to him. A
competent explorer of primitive psychology says :
" Le
reve est le vrai dieu des primitifs." To the civiKzed
man as a rule dreams appear to be valueless ;
yet there
are some individuals who attribute a high importance to
them, at least to particularly weird and impressive dreams.
Such impressive dreams make one understand why the
primitive should suppose them to be inspirations. It
IS of the essence of an inspiration that there must be
something that inspires, a spirit or a ghost, although
the modern mind would not draw such a conclusion.
The appearance of the dead in a dream seems a par-
ticularly strong argument for the primitive belief in
spirits.
Further grounds for belief in spirits are found in psycho-
genic nervous diseases, especially those of a hysterical
character, which are not rare among primitives. As
such troubles arise out of psychological conflicts, mostly
of an unconscious order, they appear to the naive mentality .1
as if caused by certain persons, living or dead, who are
in some way connected with the individual's conflict. If
the person is dead, the assumption that his spirit is
persecuting the living is easily arrived at. As the origin
of pathogenic conflicts frequently goes back to early
childhood and is connected with memories of the parents,
LXXix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 79
it naturally follows that the spirits of relatives are par-
ticularly revered or feared by primitives ; hence ancestor
worship is universally spread. Worship of the dead,
in the first place, is undertaken as a protection against
their malevolence. Experience in the psychological treat-
ment of nervous patients shows again and again how
great the influence of the parents is, even when they
have been long dead. The psychological after-effects
of the parents are so important for an individual's fate
that one can easily understand the significance of ancestor
worship.
Mental diseases have also great influence in causing
belief in spirits, particularly those which are accompanied
by hallucinations, either of a delirious or katatonic char-
acter, belonging chiefly to the Dementia Praecox class,
which is the commonest form of mental disorder. Always
and everywhere insane persons have been regarded as
possessed by evil spirits, and this belief is supported by
the patients' hallucinations. The patients are less tor-
mented by their visions than by the voices they
hear. The voices are often those of relatives or at least
of people connected with the patient's psychological
conflicts. It is also fairly common to hear the voice
of God or of the devil. It appears, of course, to the
naive mentality that such voices come from spirits.
When speaking of belief in spirits of the dead reference
must also be made to belief in souls of the living, the
latter belief being a correlate of the former. In the
primitive conviction the ghost is generally the spirit
of a dead person, hence it must before have been the
soul of a living person. This at least is held where
the belief that man has only one soul prevails. But
man is frequently supposed to have two or more souls,
one of which is more or less independent and relatively
immortal. In such a case the " spirit " of the dead
is only one of the several " souls " of the living. Hence
it is only a part of the psyche,—a psychical fragment,
as it were. Thus belief in souls is an almost necessar}''
condition of belief in spirits, at least so far as the spirits
of the dead are concerned. The primitive is convinced
80 C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part
that there are not only such spirits, but also elementary
demons, who are not believed to have ever been human
souls or psychical fragments of them. I
Before discussing the grounds for belief in souls I
wish to sum up the facts already mentioned. I have
pointed out three main sources of the belief in spirits
which are accessible to science : viz. the seeing of appari-
tions, the phenomenon of the dream, and the pathological
disorders of the psyche.
The commonest of these grounds of belief is the dream.
What does modern science know of the dream ? A
dream is a psychological product originating in the sleeping
state without conscious motivation. In a dream con-
sciousness is neither fully awake nor fully extinguished ;
there is still a small amount of consciousness. There is,
for instance, nearly always some consciousness of the ego,
but rarely of the ego as it appears to a consciousness
iully awake. It is rather a limited ego, sometimes
peculiarly transformed or distorted. The dream-ego is,
as a rule, a mere fragment of the conscious ego. The
ego is a psychic complex of a particularly solid kind.
As sleep is seldom dreamless, we may assume that the
complex of the ego rarely ceases to be active. Its
activity is but restricted by sleep. The psychic contents
of the dream appear to the ego just like those external
phenomena which appear to it in the waking state. Hence
it happens that we find ourselves in situations like those
in real life, but rarely exercise thought or reason about
them. As in our waking state things and human beings
enter our field of vision, so in the dream, psychic contents,
images of different kinds enter the field of consciousness
of the dream-ego. We do not feel as if we were pro-
ducing the dreams, but rather as if they came to us.
They do not submit to our direction, but obey their
own laws. Obviously they are autonomous complexes,
which form themselves by their own methods. Their
motivation is unconscious. We may therefore say that
they come from the unconscious. Thus, we must admit
the existence of independent psychic complexes, escaping
the control of our consciousness and appearing and dis-
Lxxix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 81
appearing according to their own laws. From our waking
experience we are convinced that we produce our thoughts
and that we can produce them when we wish. We also
think we know where our thoughts come from, and why,
and to what end we have them. If it should happen
that a thought takes possession of us against our will,
or if it unexpectedly disappears against our will, we feel
as if something exceptional or morbid had happened. It seems
as if the difference between the waking and the sleeping
states were extraordinary. In the waking state the
psyche is apparently controlled by our conscious motivation,
but in the sleeping state it seems to produce strange and
incomprehensible ideas, which force themselves on us
sometimes quite against our intention.
Similarly the vision comes like a dream, but in the
waking f.tate. It enters consciousness concurrently with
the perception of real objects, being an emergence of un-
conscious ideas into the continuity of consciousness.
The same phenomenon takes place in mental disease.
The ear does not only perceive the vibrations of sound,
but it also seems to hear thoughts, which are not the
immediate contents of the conscious mind.^ Besides
the judgments made by intellect and feeling, opinions and
convictions arise forcing themselves upon the individual,
apparently based upon perceptions, but in reality derived
from unconscious ideas. Such are delusions.
These t5rpes of phenomena,—dreams, waking visions
and mental disease,—depend on the fact that the psyche
as a whole is not an indivisible unity, but a more or
less divided totality. Although the separate parts are
connected with each other, they yet are relatively inde-
pendent of each other. Their independence extends so
far that certain of the psychic fragments are very rarely,
or perhaps never, associated with the ego. I have
called those fragments autonomous complexes, and I
founded my theory of complexes upon their empirical
existence. According to this theory the ego-complex
forms the centre of our individuality. But the ego-
^ There are also some exceptional cases where the voices loudly
repeat the conscious thoughts of the individual.
82 C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part
complex is but one among several complexes. The other
complexes are more or less associated with the ego-
complex and thus far they are conscious. But they also
can exist for some time without being associated with
the ego-complex.
A striking and well-known example thereof is the
conversion of St. Paul. Although the moment of a con-
version seems sometimes qiiite sudden and unexpected, yet
we know from repeated experience that such a fundamental
occurrence always has a long period of unconscious
incubation. It is only when the preparation is complete,
that is to say, when the individual is ready to be con-
verted, that the new view breaks forth with great emotion.
St. Paul had already been a Christian for a long time,
but unconsciously ; hence his fanatical resistance to the
Christians, because fanaticism exists chiefly in individuals
who are compensating for secret doubts. The incident of
his hearing the voice of Christ on his way to Damascus
marks the moment when the unconscious complex of
Christianity became conscious. That the auditory pheno-
menon should represent Christ is explained by the already
existing unconscious Christian complex. The complex,
being unconscious, was projected by St. Paul on to the
external world as if it did not belong to him. Unable
to conceive of himself as a Christian, and on account of
his resistance to Christ, he became blind, and could
only regain his sight through submission to a Christian,
that is to say, through his complete submission to Chris-
tianity. Psychogenic blindness is, according to my ex-
perience, always due to an unwillingness to see, i.e.
to understand and to accept, what is incompatible with
the conscious attitude. This was obviously the case with
St. Paul. His unwillingness to see corresiDonds with his
fanatical resistance to Christianity. This resistance was
never wholly extinguished, a fact of which we have proof
in the epistles. It broke forth at times in the fits he
suffered from. It is certainly a great mistake to call
his fits epileptic. There is no trace of epilepsy in them,
on the contrary, St Paul himself in his epistles gives
hints enough as to the real nature of the illness. They
Lxxix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 83
are clearly psychogenic fits, which really mean a return
of the old Saul-complex, repressed through conversion,
in the same way as there had previously been a repression
of the complex of Christianity.
Science does not allow us consistently with intellectual
honesty to explain the case of St. Paul on supernatural
grounds. We should be compelled to do the same with
many similar cases within our medical experience, which
would lead to conclusions antagonistic both to our reason
and feeling.
Autonomous complexes appear in dreams and visions,
in pathological hallucinations and delusions. Being strange
to the ego they always appear as if externalized. In
dreams, they are often represented as other persons ;
in visions, they are visibly projected into space ; the
same is the case with voices in insane people, in so far
as they are not ascribed to persons in the patients'
surroundings. Ideas of persecution are very often as-
sociated with persons to whom the patient attributes
the qualities of certain of his unconscious complexes.
The patient feels these persons to be hostile because
his ego is hostile to the unconscious complex, just as
Saul resented the complex of Christianity which he could
not acknowledge. He persecuted the Christians as repre-
sentatives of his unconscious complex.
" Spirits," viewed from this standpoint, are unconscious,
autonomous complexes which appear as projections because
they are not associated with the ego.
I mentioned before that belief in souls of the living
is a logical correlate of belief in spirits of the dead.
Whilst spirits are felt to be strange and incompatible
with the ego, souls seem to belong to it. The primitive
feels the proximity or the influence of the spirit as some-
thing disagreeable or dangerous or uncanny, and he is
much easier in his mind when the spirit is banished. It
is otherwise with the loss of a soul, which feels to him
like an iUness, and he may also attribute physical illness
to the loss of a soul. Children may not be beaten,
because their souls, if outraged, might withdraw from
them. So the soul is something that seems normally
84 C. G. Ju7ig, M.D., LL.D. [part
to belong to a man, but the spirits seem to be some-
thing that normally should not be near him. He avoids
visiting " haunted " places and touching things supposed
to be inhabited by spirits, unless he is doing so for pur-
poses of magic.
The plurality of souls is a plurality of relatively
autonomous complexes like the plurality of spirits. The
soul complexes seem to belong to the ego and the loss
of them appears morbid ; on the contrary, the spirit
complexes ought to be separate from the ego. Their
association v/ith it means illness, and their dissociation
from it means healing. Thus primitive pathology knows
two causes of illness, namely, the loss of a soul and the
possession by a spirit. According to these primitive beliefs
we may postulate the existence of certain unconscious
complexes which normally belong to the ego, and certain
others which normally do not belong to it, i.e. which ought
to remain wholly unconscious. The former are the soul
complexes, the latter the spirit complexes.
This discrimination, current among primitives, corre-
sponds exactly to my theory of the unconscious. Ac-
cording to my view, the unconscious is divided into two
spheres. One of these is what I call the personal un-
conscious. It includes all those psychic contents which
are forgotten during the course of life. Their traces
still exist in the unconscious, even if their conscious
reproduction has become impossible. Moreover, the
personal unconscious contains all those subliminal im-
pressions or perceptions which have too little energy to
reach consciousness. The unconscious combinations of
representations belong thereto, in so far as they are too
feeble and indistinct to become conscious. Finally, the
personal unconscious includes all psychic contents which
are incompatible with the conscious attitude. As a rule
this involves a whole group of psychic contents. These
contents appear to be inadmissible above all on account of
their moral, aesthetic, or intellectual deficiency. A man
cannot always feel and think in a beautiful, good and
true way, and in trying to keep up an ideal attitude
everything inconvenient is automatically repressed. If
Lxxix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 85
one function, for instance thought, is especially developed
and is dominating the conscious, then the function of
feeling is naturally repressed and falls therefore into the
unconscious.
The other part of the unconscious is the super-personal
or collective unconscious. The contents of the collective
unconscious are not personal but collective ;
i.e., they do
not appertain to one individual only, but at least to a group
of individuals and as a rule to a whole nation, and
finally to the whole of mankind. The contents of the
collective unconscious are not acquired during an
individual's life, but are congenital instincts and
primordial forms of apprehension, the so-called archetypes
or ideas. Although the child possesses no congenital
representations, it yet possesses a highly developed brain
with possibilities of functioning in a definite way. The
brain is an ancestral inheritance. It is the organic result
of the psychic and nervous function of the whole ancestry
of man. Thus the child brings into life with him an
organ read}^ to function in the same way that it has
functioned through all previous ages. There in the brain
are the pre-formed instincts and also the primordial
types or images, the foundations upon which mankind has
always formed his thought and feeling, which includes the
whole wealth of mythological motives. It is, of course,
not easy to prove the existence in a normal man of the
collective unconscious, but there are obvious traces of
mythological images, at least in his dreams. The existence
of a collective unconscious is more easily disclosed in
certain cases of mental derangement, especially in Dementia
praecox. There one sometimes meets with an astonishing-
development of mythological imagery. Certain patients
develop symbolic ideas which can never be accounted
for by the experience of their individual life, but only
by the history of the human mind. What is displayed
is a sort of primitive mythological thinking producing its
own primordial forms unlike normal thinking, which
makes use of personal experience.
The personal unconscious contains complexes belonging
to the individual which form an indispensable part of
86 C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part
bis ps3^chic life. When any complexes which ought to
be associated with the ego become unconscious, either by
repression, or by decrease of their potentiality, the indi-
vidual has a feeling of loss ; when a lost complex again
becomes conscious, for instance by psychotherapeutic meas-
ures, he experiences an increase of psychic energy. The
cure of neurosis is often effected in this way.
When, on the contrary, a complex of the collective
unconscious associates itself with the ego, the individual
is impressed by the strangeness of these contents. They
are felt to be uncanny, supernatural and often dangerous.
They may sometimes be felt as helpful interventions of
supernatural powers, but more often as injurious influences
of a morbid nature, and these result in actvial physical
illness, or psychic alienation from normal life. An
individual's consciousness is always altered by the associa-
tion of contents which ought normally to remain unconsci-
ous. If the physician succeeds in removing such a
morbid association from consciousness, the patient feels
as if relieved from a burden. The sudden intrusion of
such strange contents often takes place in the early
stages of Dementia praecox. Patients encounter queer
thoughts, the world seems changed, people appear to have
strange and distorted faces, etc.
While the contents of the personal unconscious are felt
to belong to one's own psyche, the contents of the collec-
tive unconscious appear to be strange to one's own
psyche, as if they came from outside. The reintegration
of a personal complex has the effect of relieving and often
of healing ; whereas the intrusion of a complex of the
collective unconscious is a disagreeable and even dangerous
phenomenon. It appears to have a supernatural quality ;
in other words, it is accompanied by a feeling of awe.
The parallelism of this theory with the primitive belief
in souls and spirits is clear. Souls correspond to the
complexes of the personal unconscious, and spirits to those
of the collective unconscious. The scientific standpoint
gives the prose of the matter when it calls the awful
and revered beings that inhabit the shadows of the
primaeval forests " psychological complexes." But if we
Lxxix.] Psychological Foimdations of Belief in Spirits. 87
consider the extraordinary role played by belief in souls
and spirits in the history of mankind, we cannot be
content with the mere statement of the existence of such
complexes; we must study the nature of these complexes
further.
The existence of complexes is easily demonstrated by
means of the association experiment. This experiment
consists in a very simple procedure: the experimenter
caUs out a word to the test-person and the test-person
immediately replies with the next association coming into
his mind. The reaction-time, i.e. the lapse of time be-
tween the stimulus word and the reply, is measured by
a stop-watch. One would expect all simple words to be
followed by an equally short reaction-time, and all difficult
or rare words to cause a prolonged reaction-time. But
as a matter of fact, the reaction-times differ far less on
this than on other accounts. Some very long reaction-
times are unexpectedly produced by very simple stimulus
words, and in the same case there may be no delay m
replying to quite unusual stimulus words. Through
careful examination of the test-person's individual psy-
chology, I discovered that a prolongation of the reaction-
time is usually due to interference by a feehng associated
with the stimulus word or with the reply. The feehng
itself always depends upon the fact that the stimulus
word has struck a complex. Prolongation of the reaction-
time is not the only symptom that discloses the existence
of a complex. There are many others which I cannot
now enumerate.
The complexes revealed by means of the association
experiment usually concern things which the test-person
would prefer to keep secret; often things of a painful
nature, of whose very existence he is unconscious. When
a stimulus word strikes a complex, the test-person may
have no associations at all, or a super-abundant supply
of them, so that choice is momentarily impossible. Hence
we see that disturbed reactions are indicated in many
ways other than by a prolongation of time. Moreover,
if, having completed the series of tests, we ask the test-
person to repeat the answers he gave, we find that the
88 C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part
normal reactions are remembered, while those connected
with the complex are easily forgotten.
The properties of the autonomous complex can be
summed up from these facts. The complex creates a
disturbance of mental reaction ; it delays or distorts the
reply ;
it produces an inconvenient reaction, or it sup-
^)resses the memory of the former reply. It interferes
with the conscious and interrupts our intentions ; therefore
we call it autonomous. When we try the experiment on
a neurotic or insane person, we discover that the com-
plexes disturbing the reactions belong in fact to the
main content of the psychic derangement. These com-
plexes not only disturb the experimental reactions, but
are also determinants of the morbid symptoms. I have
examined cases where the test-person replied to specific
stimulus words with incoherent and apparently meaningless
words, breaking out against his conscious intention, as
if a strange being had spoken through him. Such words
belong to the unconscious complex. Complexes when
excited by external stimuli can produce sudden confusion,
or violent emotion, depression, anxiety-states and all
sorts of mental disturbances. Complexes behave just
like independent beings, so that the primitive theory of
spirits seems an excellent formulation for them.
We may carry this parallel further. Certain complexes
arise on account of painful experiences in a person's life,
causing psychic wounds which may not heal for years.
It often happens that a painful experience suppresses
certain vital qualities in an individual. Then a personal
unconscious complex is originated. The primitive might
appropriately regard it as the loss of a soul, for indeed
certain parts of the psyche have disappeared. A great
number of complexes arise in such a way.
But there is another no less important source of com-
plexes, and while the one just described is easily com-
prehensible, since it concerns the conscious life, the other
is obscure and difficult to understand, since it has to do
with perceptions and impressions of the collective uncon-
scious. Usually the individual does not realize that such
perceptions are derived from the unconscious ;
rather.
Lxxix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 89
it seems to him as if they were due to external and
concrete facts. He thus rationahzes internal impressions
of an unknown nature. But they are really irrational
and ideal contents of his own mind, of which he was
never before conscious ;
they are not due to any of his
external experiences. Primitive language expresses such
facts not inaptly when it describes them as invisible
ghosts approaching man from the other side, namelj^ from
the world of shadows. It seems to me that impressions of
this kind arise v/hen grave external occurrences shake
the individual to his very foundations, so that his whole
previous attitude breaks down, or when certain contents
of the collective unconscious obtain such an access of
energy that they are able to influence the conscious.
This may also take place when the life of a nation or
of a large group of human society undergoes a profound
change of a political, social or religious nature. Such a
change involves a transformation of the psychological
attitude. Changes in history are generally attributed to
external causes. But I hold the view that the greatest
cha^nges in human history are to be traced back to internal
causal conditions, and that they are founded upon internal
psychological necessity. For it often seems that external
conditions serve as mere occasions on which a new attitude
long in preparation becomes manifest. The development
of the Christian era is an example of this. Political,
social, and religious conditions influence the unconscious^
since all the factors which are suppressed in the conscious
religious or philosophical attitude of human society
accumulate in the unconscious. This gradual accumulation
means a gradual increase of the energy of the unconscious
contents. Certain individuals gifted with particularly
refined intuition become aware of the change going on in
the collective unconscious and sometimes even succeed in
translating their perceptions of it into communicable
ideas. The new ideas spread more or less rapidly in
proportion to the preparedness and readiness in the
unconscious of other people. In proportion to the more
or less universal unconscious preparation people are ready
to accept new ideas, or else to show particular resistance
^
i
90 C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part i
to them. New ideas are not only the enemies of old ]
ones, but they also often appear in an extremely un- j
i
acceptable form.
Whenever any contents of the collective unconscious
become animated, the conscious feels disturbed, more often,
it appears, in a disagreeable than in an agreealjle way.
This may be due to the fact that disagreeable experiences
always make a greater impression than agreeable ones.
In any case animation of the collective unconscious
creates a certain confusion in the conscious. If this
animation is due to a complete breakdown of all conscious !
hopes and expectations, the danger arises that the un-
conscious may take the place of conscious reality. Such
a state is morbid. We actually see something of this
kind in the present Russian and German mentality. An
outbreak of violent desires and impossible phantasies
among the lower strata of the population is analogous to
an outburst from the lower strata of the unconscious in
an individual. In the case of Russia and Germany what '
we see is the visible and concrete collapse of two great
nations.
But animation of the unconscious may begin from
within, in the absence of a definite external catastrophe.
|
In such a case it is due to the gradual development of a i
new psychological attitude in the depths of a nation's
j
mentality. Thus, in an epoch of worldliness and material-
ism an idealistic attitude maj' slowly develop in the ,
unconscious. For example, the evolution of Christianity I
was not due to the collapse of the Roman empire. It
origiiiated at the time of the Pax Romana, during the
epoch of the Empire's greatest splendour and power. |
Such a new era is conditioned by developments that are
taking place practically in everybody, that is, by a
process in the collective unconscious. In everybody
at such a time, unconscious energy disturbs the conscious,
but the individual in such a case does not consider
'
himself ill, because he is not different from his fellow ,i
beings. He simply takes part in a collective trans-
formation, whose origins and aims remain unconscious.
The individual may be unhappy and distressed, and |
Lxxix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits. 91
probably has genuine reasons for his sadness, for social
and political conditions will suffer greatly from the funda-
mental changes going on. He will not, however, have
the typically morbid feeling of one whose unconscious
becomes disturbed on accovint of painful experiences of an
individual nature.
The animation of the collective unconscious does not
always create disturbances, for it may also work bene-
ficially, but it always carries with it something of a
supernatural character. Owing to this the effect of the
collective unconscious is always beyon-d the grasp of
man. At one time it helps, at another time it destroys
him. It is never to be relied upon. Therefore primitive
man is especially subject to the fetters of the unconscious.
Yet among primitive civilizations we already find attempts
to conjure the supernatural power and influences of the
unconscious. Amongst primitives there are peculiarly
intuitive individuals, sometimes of superior intelligence,
namely, sorcerers. They are supposed to know how to
handle demons. In history the primitive tribal sorcerer
is the man who originates psychological methods and
teachings which aim at domination of the supernatural.
The rites and legends he invents represent qualities of
the unconscious as he conceives of them. Thus he trans-
lates some inner experiences into human language and
creates the foundations of the history of the human mind.
Our intellect is born from mythology, and mythology is
nothing but a translation of inner experience into the
language of pictures. Thus spirits are transformed into
mind.
A weU-known instance of the spirit translated into
language and teaching is the miracle of Pentecost. To
the Gentiles the apostles seemed in a state of mental
confusion, because they were under the influence of the
spirit, viz. a phenomenon of the coflective unconscious.
But from this state they derived the words, the images
and the power to teach the world. Through the transla-
tion of unconscious contents into comprehensible language,
the power of the spirit, in other words, the energy of
the unconscious complex, becomes transformed into a
92 1^ C. G. Jung, M.D., LL.D. [part
powerful idea, which enables the human mind to free
itself from the fetters of demoniacal influences.
As souls are parts of the individual psyche, so spirits
are parts of the collective psyche. Souls are complexes
split off from and lost to the conscious ;
spirits are com-
plexes of the collective unconscious, which replace a lost
adaptation to reality, or which compensate for the
inadequacies of large groups of men.
What are regarded as spirits of the dead are psycho-
logically created in the following way : When an individual
dies, the psychological attachment of his relatives' feehngs
is cut off. The attachment represents the application of
a certain quantity of psychic energy. When the applica-
tion of this energy becomes impossible, through the death
of its object, there only remains the idea or image of
the dead. The energy is now applied to this image, and
when the attachment has been intense, the image remains
alive and forms a spirit. As the spirit takes away a
certain amount of energy from real life, he may be
injurious. Primitives, therefore, frequently say that when
a man dies he changes his character in an unfavourable
way and seeks to do as much damage as he can to the
living. Obviously this opinion originates in the fact that
a persistent attachment to a dead person makes life seem
less worth living, consequently less worthy of effort.
I have given you an outline of a conception of the
spirit problem from the viewpoint of modern psychology.
I have confined myself to the limits of science and have
purposely avoided the question whether spirits are real
or concrete objects, and whether their independent exist-
ence can be proved concretely. I avoid this question
not because I regard it as futile, but because I am not
competent to discuss it from a scientific standpoint,
having no evidence in my possession. I think you are
as conscious as I am of the fact that it is most difficult
to find reliable evidence for the independent and objective
reality of a spirit. The usual spiritistic proofs offered
are as a rule nothing but psychological products, depend-
ent upon the unconscious of the percipient. Even the
Lxxix.] Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits.
so-called physical efiects always depend upon the co-
operation of the percipient and seem to be exteriorized
effects of unconscious complexes. I am personally con-
vinced of the reality of such facts, but I cannot accept
them as evidence for the independent reality of spirits.
These phenomena form a special chapter in psychology.
Science must, I think, confine itseK to the limits of
cognition, for science is essentially intellect ;
it means
the application of one undoubted psychological function,
namely, thought. But intellect is only one among several
psychological functions, and therefore does not suffice
to give a complete picture of the world. Feeling, for
instance, which is another psychological function, some-
times arrives at different convictions from those of
intellect, and we cannot always prove that the convictions
of feeling are necessarily inferior to those of the intellect.
We have also subhminal perceptions, which are not at
the disposal of the intellect, and which, therefore, are
missing in a merely intellectual picture of the world.
So we must admit that our intellectual conceptions are
deficient so far as a complete comprehension of the world
is concerned. But when we make use of intellect, as
is the case in science, we have to adapt ourselves to the
demands of intellectual criticism, and we must limit
ourselves to the scientific hypothesis so long as there is
no reliable evidence against its validity.
94 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
SUPPLEMENT.
EEVIEW.
Papers on Psycho-Analysis. By Ernest Jones, M.D., M.R.C.P.
(Lond.). Second edition, 1918. Pp. viii, 715. (Balliere,
Tindall & Cox.)
This book, as its title-page indicates, is a revised and enlarged
edition of Dr. Ernest Jones' Papers on Psycho-Analysis, first
published in 1912. On its first appearance it consisted of
t-\\ enty chapters ; in the new edition one of these has been
omitted and twenty-one new ones have been added ; thus the
new edition is, roughly, twice the size of the old one. It is
written in exposition of the ^^•orks of Professor Freud, to whom
it is dedicated as a token of the author's gratitude.
The pajoers are grouped under five headings as follows :
General Papers, Papers on Dreams, Papers on Treatment,
Clmical Papers, Papers on Education and Child Study. In
each of these groups some papers are more technical than
others, and some readers may -with advantage study them in
a slightly different order from that in which they are arranged.
It would, for example, be helpful to those who are new to
the subject if they passed from the General Papers to the two
chapters which deal with the miconscious mental life of the
child, before going on to the more technical expositions con-
tained in other parts of the book. For nothing is more
conducive to a true appreciation of the meaning and signifi-
cance of Freudian teaching than a clear understanding, from
the beginning, of what is implied by the term '
The Uncon-
scious '
; and in no part of his work does Dr. Jones explain
this more lucidly than in these two papers. The short but
valuable paper on The Unconscious and its significance for
LXXIX. Review. 95
Psychopathology will be more fully appreciated if it is read in
conjunction with the two papers on the unconscious mind of
the child.
Dr. Jones refers to three principal current uses of the word
'
unconscious,' two of which he summarilj^ dismisses in favour
of the Freudian conception. The fii'st of these is where
'
imconseious '
is regarded as a sjoionym for '
non-mental.'
This attitude, he points out, begs the ^hole question, by
assuming that no mental processes can exist that are not
accompanied by consciousness or a\\areness. When used in
this sense the word has no place in psychological discussion,
for psychology is concerned v,ith. mental states and processes.
There is less justification for Dr. Jones' somewhat scornful
rejection of the second conception of the unconscious which
he associates with the names of Hartmann, F. W. H. Myers
and Jung. This may seem an odd assortment of names
to bring together as supi^orting any particular vie\v of the
unconscious, but Dr. Jones finds something common to the
views of these three writers which leads him to do so. Thej^
uphold Avhat, he says, may be called the '
limbo '
conception,
" for in it the unconscious is regarded as an obscure region
of the mind, the content of w^hich is largely characterized by
neglect and oblivion." We are reminded here of what Myers
said about the subliminal—that it is part lumber room and
part treasvu-e house. Dr. Jones has apparently little faith in
the existence of the lumber room and he is frankly shocked at
the possibility of the treasure house. He regards it as curious
that writers viho support the Umbo conception should believe
in the co-existence in the unconscious of two groups of ideas
which do not seem to have any genetic relation to one another.
The third conception of the unconscious is the psycho-
analjiiic one developed by Freud. This conception. Dr.
Jones says, differs sharply from the other two in that it is
" a purely inductive one, being built up step by step on the
basis of actual experience without the introduction of any a
priori speculative hypothesis." But the -writers whom Dr. Jones
associates with the '
limbo '
conception would also, no doubt,
claim that their conceptions ere arrived at in a similar \ya.y ;
and even Hartmann might have denied that his h\'pothesis
was a priori. Myers, most assuredly, regarded his conception
96 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
of the subliminal as " a purely inductive one built up step by
step on the basis of actual experience "
; and Jung declares
that he felt forced to abandon the Freudian conception off
the unconscious just because of his actual experience in psycho-
analysis. The hypotheses introduced by Myers and by Jung
are m no sense a priori, but are legitimate hjrpotheses put
forward to subsume the facts observed by them in their
respective fields of investigation ; and the true ground of
criticism of their conceptions must be sought in questioning
the actuality of their alleged facts, rather than in denying the
legitimacy of the hypotheses which, they employ.
It is noteworthy, in this connexion, that the first statement
made by Dr. Jones regardmg the Freudian unconscious,—the
one on which he lays the greatest stress and the one he con-
siders of most fundamental importance,—is not a statement
of observed fact but an hypothesis. This statement is to
the effect that the existence of the unconscious is the result of
repression. But the fact observed in the process of psycho-
analysis is not '
repression '
but '
resistance.' It was from his
experience of resistance to the emergence of pathogenic memories
that Freud got the idea of repression. He thought the
force which caused the resistance in psycho-analysis must
be the force which origmally caused the forgetting." Thus he
came to formulate his hypothesis of repression; and so well
did it serve his purpose, so fruitful did it become in account-
ing for the nature of the imconscious contents revealed by
psycho-analysis, so wide ^\ as the field of investigation in which
it seemed to be applicable, that this hypothesis has become
the corner stone of psycho-analytic theory.
The other attributes of the unconscious enumerated by
Dr. Jones are more strictly facts of observation. These are
(1) its dynamical nature, (2) its relation to the primary
instincts, (3) its infantile nature and origin, (4) its illogical
character, and (5) its predominantly sexual character. These
attributes are summarized in the statement that " the uncon-
scious is a region of the mind, the content of which is
characterized by the attributes of being repressed, conative,
instinctive, infantile, imreasoning and predominantly sexual."
The Repression Theory in its relation to memory is dealt
with at length in Chapter V. This paper was read before the
LXXIX. Review. 97
British Psychological Society in 1915, and was in a sense a
continuation of a discussion which took place at a meeting of
that Societ}^ in the previous year. Consequently a considerable
part of this paper is devoted to a criticism of the views of
those who took part in that discussion. Some of these views
were put forward so tentatively that they hardly merit Dr.
Jones' attention in a work of this kind.
Of the five chapters on Dreams only one is entirely new,
—
a short paper on dream manipulation of numbers ; but some
alterations have been made in the older papers and some new
matter has been added. The paper on Freud's Theory of
Dreams has long been recognized as one of the best short
expositions of this subject, and the value which it had in its
original form is enhanced by the additions made to it in the
present volume.
Some of these are perhaps a result of the criticisms to
which the Freudian theory of dreams has been subjected
during the past few years, especially by the Zurich School.
Although Dr. Jones remains a staunch upholder of pure
Freudian doctrine, some traces of concession to the contentions
of his critics, or, at least, some change of emphasis in the
presentation of his own views, may, here and there, be detected
Thus, for example, in speaking of the distortion of the true
dream thoughts in the dream as related by the dreamer he
says :
" The core of Freud's theory, and the most original
part of his contribution to the subject, resides in his tracing
the cause of this distortion mainly to a '
censor ' which
interposes an obstruction to the becoming conscious of un-
conscious psychical processes." In the first edition this sen-
tence did not contain the word '
mainly '
; the distortion was
ascribed to the censor without qualification.
The Freiidian '
censor ' has been a favourite theme of the
critics, and too much stress has perhaps been laid on the objec-
tion to the anthropomorphic character which this hypothesis has
assumed. For if any force ^dthin the personality does perform
the work which is attributed to the censor, it is convenient and
legitimate to refer to it by this name. If criticism is directed
against this conception it should take the form of questioning
whether there is any such force at work and whether it does
produce the effects which are claimed to be due to its action.
98 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
One of these effects, in which the activity of the censor
was given predominant if not exclusive importance, is the
'
distortion '
in dreams. In a new paragraph in his papef on
Freud's Theory of Dreams Dr. Jones refers in more detail to
what he probably had in miad when he introduced the word
'
mainly '
in the sentence quoted above. In addition to the
action of the endo-psychic dream censor in causing the trans-
formation of the latent into the manifest content of the dream,
he refers to two other factors which are also at work One
of these is the '
regression '
by which the ideational material of
the dream is presented to consciousness in the form of 'Hhe
raw material of its sensorial imagery." The other important
factor leading to distortion is the process of symbolism.
The occurrence of regression and of symbolism in the forma-
tion of dreams has, of course, been insisted on from the
beginning in Freud's theory of dreams, and that they formed
part of the mechanism of distortion was generally accepted ;
but it did not appear that they were to be regarded as factors
of distortion separate from, and irrespective of, the activity
of the censor. Regression was ascribed, partly at least, to the
resistance of the censor ; and the adoption by the dream of
the language of symbolism was regarded as a compulsion
enforced in the same way.
The relation of the dream censor to the dream symbolism
is still not quite clear. In his latest contribution to the
subject in Chapter VII. (the Theory of Symbolism) Dr. Jones
tells us that " Symbolism arises as the result of intra-psychical
conflict between the repressing tendencies and the repressed "
;
and, again, that " the symbol is a substitute for the primary
idea, compulsorUy formed as a compromise between the
tendency of the unconscious complex and the inhibiting factors."
No distinction seems to be drawn between the endo-psychic
dream censor and the '
repressing tendencies,' or the '
inhibiting
factors,' concerned in symbol formation, and in so far as the
censor and the repressing tendencies signify the same thing,
there would seem to be no reason for regarding the process
of symbolism as a factor of dream distortion distinct from
the action of the endo-psychic dream censor.
But the process of symbolism is " one that seems to be
bound up with the very nature of the unconscious mind
LXXIX.] Review. 99
itself and undoubtedly related to its ontogenetic and phylo-
genetic history." This reminds us of Jung's teaching, that
thinkmg in symbols is the only mode of thinking open to
the imconscious ; and if this be so, the emergence of uncon-
scious thoughts in dream is independent of the activity of
the di'eam censor, for they are already sufficiently distorted
to evade his vigilance. There would at least seem to be a
difference between unconscious thoughts gaining admission to
consciousness owing to the fact that they are already suffi-
ciently distorted to evade the censor, and the admission of
thoughts only after they have been compelled by the censor
to undergo distortion through condensation and displacement
or regression towards sensorial imagery.
In Chapter VII. the Theory of Symbolism is dealt with at
considerable length, and an effort is made to bring order into
a region where hitherto there has been much confusion. It is
a valuable contribution to a subject of fimdamental importance,
and may with confidence be regarded as an authoritative
exegesis of Freudian doctrine on this topic.
Dr. Jones passes in review the many ap])lications of the
words '
symbol '
and '
symbolism,' and desires to restrict
what he regards as true symbolism to that mode of indirect
representation which fulfils the demands of Freudian theory.
He maintains the thesis that true symbolism, in the strict
sense, is to be distinguished from other forms of indirect
representation. Besides certain attributes which would be
generally conceded as appertaining to ideas and acts denoted
by the words '
symbol '
or '
symbolic,' true symbolism, in the
Freudian use of the word, possesses, in addition, a number of
other attributes which distinguish it from the rest of the group.
The most important of these is the peculiarity that the
symbol always represents unconscious material. By this is
meant, not so much that the concepts symbolized are not
known to the individual, as that the effect investing the
concept is in a state of repression and, therefore, vmconscious.
Also the process of symbolization is carried out unconsciously.
The comparison between the idea symbolized and the symbol
has, as a rule, not been present to consciousness at all.
Another feature of the true symbol is its almost constant
meaning. The possible variation in meaning is exceedingly
100 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [paet I
restricted. Further, the use of a symbol is not dependent
on individual factors only, more important determining factors
being those that are common to large classes of men, or,
more often, to mankind as a whole. An individual carmot
give a regular symbol a different meaning from anyone else.
He can merely choose his symbols or make new ones.
Other characteristics of the true symbol are its evolutionary
basis and the linguistic connections that may be traced between
the \\'ord denoting the symbol and the idea symbolized. One
of the most striking features of true symbolism is the remark- \
able ubiquity of the same symbols among different races and j
at different epochs of the world's history, and in many different i
fields of thought, such as dreams, wit, insanity and poetry. i
The conception of symbolism thus formulated admits of j
certain statements being made which would not apply if the j
nature of the process of symbolism were less restricted. Thus •
it is said that " all symbols represent ideas of the self and i
the immediate blood relations, or of the phenomena of birth,
love and death." They represent the most primitive ideas |
and interests imaginable. These ideas represent the most
j
repressed part of the mind, and " only what is repressed is |
symbolized ;
only what is repressed needs to be symbolized.
This conclusion is the touchstone of the psycho-analytic j
theory of symbolism." j
It is necessary to bear in mind this precise use of the word i
'
symbol ' in Freudian writings, for there are many authors '
of repute, both in psychopathology and in other fields of j
investigation, who habitually use this term in a much wider j
sense. Dr. Jones deals with this matter at some length in |
an examination of the views of what he calls the post-psycho- |
analytic school, represented by Adier, Jung, Maeder, Silberer, |
Stekel, with then- English followers, Eder, Long, and NicoU. \
He regards Silberer as the only member of this school who |
has made a positive contribution to the theory of symbolism, |
and he gives a critical abstract of the work of this writer. I
One important point of dispute between the two schools
is the relation of the symbol, in "the mythological stage of I
knowledge," to the idea, the higher form of truth, that will \
later replace it. Is the later, more objective form of know- !
ledge already implicit in the symbol ? Has the symbol a i
LXXIX.] Review. 101
meaning for the future ? Silberer does not definitely answer
this question, but Dr. Jones thinks that Jung would unhesi-
tatingly answer it in the affirmative in all cases. Dr. Jones,
himself, expresses an opinion directly opposed to Jung's teach-
ing.
" I do not think," he says, " that the future idea is
implicit in the symbol ; on the contrary, the existence of the
symbol—to be more accurate, the symbolic use of the symbol
—
is often the very thmg that is preventing the idea from
being formulated."
Closely related to what Jung understands by the prospective
meaning of symbolism is that aspect which Silberer refers to
as its anagogic significance. By this is meant " the mystical,
hermetic, or religious doctrme that is supposed to be con-
tained in the symbol. The symbol is taken to be the expres-
sion of a strivmg for a high ethical ideal, one which fails to
reach this ideal and halts at the symbol instead ;
the ultimate
ideal, however, is supposed to be implicit in the symbol,
and to be symbolized by it." Jung claims that the recogni-
tion of the intrinsic value of a symbol leads us to constructive
truth and helps us to live.
At this point in his examination of the views of Silberer
and Jung, Dr. Jones abandons criticism. He says :
" Along
this path the post-psycho-analytic school loses itself in a
perfect maze of mysticism, occultism, and theosophy, into
which I do not propose to penetrate ; Silberer implicitly,
and Jung explicitly, abandon the methods and canons of
science, particularly the conceptions of causality and deter-
minism, so that I may consider myself absolved from the
task of attempting to unravel the assumptions that have
culminated in their latest views. As the philosophers would
say, it is impossible for us to adhere to one universe of
discourse."
But the universe of discourse may always be sufficiently
one so long as the problem to be solved is one, and the
possibility of the futm-e idea being implicit in the symbol is
part of the general problem of purposes and ends. Adherence
to a scientific dogma is no vu-tue if the dogma is not relevant
to the facts to be explained ;
and, to many, the dogma of
mechanistic determinism seems irrelevant to the facts of
man's pm'posive life. If striving for a high ethical ideal be
102 T. W. Mitchell, M.D. [part
a real factor in the determination of thought and conduct,
and if the ultimate ideal be implicit in tlie symbol, a purely
mechanistic psychology will never discover it.
Another important matter on which Dr. Jones differs from
some members of the post-psycho-analytic school is in the
explanation he gives of the miiformity and ubiquity of what
may be called anthropological symbols. These symbols recur
in folk-lore, mjrthology, and dreams, at all times and in all
places, and some writers, notably Jimg, maintain that this
can be accounted for only by supposing that these symbols
are inherited as such and form part of the innate endowment
of the mind. Dr. Jones holds the view that the individual
child re-creates such symbolism anew and that " the stereo-
typy is due to the uniformity of the human mind in regard
to the particular tendencies that furnish the source of symbol-
ism,
—
i.e. to the uniformity of the fundamental and perennial
interests of mankind."
It would be out of place here to discuss in any detail the
more purely medical papers which form the larger part of
this volume. There are two new chapters on treatment and
eight new clinical papers, all of ^hich are of great value and
interest to the psychopathologist. A useful glossary of tech-
nical terms is appended to the new edition and a good
index is supplied.
T. W. Mitchell.
Lxxix.] Note on " Observations of Phenomena of Trance."
NOTE ON " A RECORD OF OBSERVATIONS OF
CERTAIN PHENOMENA OF TRANCE."
By Sib Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
In an article published in Proceedings, 8.P.R., Vol. VI., on p. 460,
at the top of the page, reference is made to a statement made by
Phinuit during a sitting I had with Mrs. Piper in Liverpool in 1889,
from which I quote the following sentences :
Phintiit told me to take the watch out of its case (it was the old-
fashioned turnip variety) and examine it in a good light afterwards,
and I should see some nicks near the handle which Jerry said he had
cut into it with his knife.
Some faint nicks are there. I had never had the watch out of its
case before ;
being, indeed, careful neither to finger it myself nor
to let anyone else finger it.
I recall this because recently, during the British Association
Meeting at Bournemouth in September, 1919, a cousui of
mine whom I had never previously seen, and who has been
most of his life m South America, introduced himself to me
and related many reminiscences of our joint uncles, in days
partly concurrent with and partly preceding the period during
which I knew them. This cousm is Mr. Frederick L. Lodge,
who had corresponded with me about an experience of his
wife's, the uicident beuig related by me m my book. The
Survival of Man, page 74. I had no further communication
with Mr. F. L. Lodge, except those specified in the book, and
I had not realised exactly who he was. I found at Bourne-
mouth, however, for the first time that he was a son of one
of my uncles, and that he had been born in 1846, so that
his memories date back earher than my own. Among many
recollections of his father and my other senior uncles, who
were considerably older than my own father, he told me
stories of Uncle Jerry and his blindness, one of which I asked
104 Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. [part lxxix.
him to put into writing. This morning, September I6th, 1919,
accordingly, he sends me the following :
When Uncle Jerry was staying at Grafrath in Germany, consiilting
an oculist (he was then totally blind), I used to accompany him in his
daily walks, and on one occasion as we were sitting by the road-side
he had his gold repeater watch in his hand and was whittling away
at it with his penknife. I asked him what he was doing, and he replied
that he was marking it, so as to know it by the touch ; I believe it
was on the shank near the ring, whether he succeeded in making a
mark I do not remember. At the time of your seance with Mrs. Piper
the watch was in the possession of his brother Robert at Highgate,
but I believe no mark could be discovered then.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXX.
November, 1920.
I.
PRESIDENTIAL ADDRESS.
Delivered at a General Meeting of the Society on July 19,
1920.
By William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S.
I WILL Dot attempt to express my sense of the great
honour you have done me in electing me to the presi-
dency of this Society. That sense is much accentuated
by the fact that my predecessor in this chair, whose
loss we all deplore, was so great a man ; a man of science
so great that his name will remain among those few
which the English people will ever cherish with pride
and gratitude. Our Society was fortunate indeed in
being able for many years to claim him as a member,
and stiU more fortunate in that he consented to occupy
this chair before he was called away.
In looking with mingled pride and humihty at the
list of former Presidents of the Society, I cannot avoid
remarking that one only of them was primarily and
professedly a psychologist. I mean of course William
James, the man who more than all others has been for
me the shining leader, the perfect exponent of scientific
candour and courage.
106 William. McDougall, M.B., F.R.S. [part
I notice also that but few other names of professed
psychologists appear on our roll of membership.
I am moved by these facts to offer some slight apology
and explanation on behalf of my professional colleagues ;
for surely they, bej-ond all other men of science, should
have felt the call to support, if only by passive member-
ship, the work and reputation of this Society. They,
by special knowledge and training, are or should be better
equipped than any others to evaluate the work of the
Society, to criticise it, or, better still, actively to co-
operate in it. The fact that the great majority of them
stand aloof requires some consideration ; for it is capable
of being, and in some quarters has been, interpreted in
a sense detrimental to our work. It may be said
—
here is a body of men on whose judgment the public
may best rely in forming its opinion about Psychical
Research, and that judgment seems to be adverse ; for
the bulk of them do not support the work, even to the
small extent of joining the Society. This conclusion
would, I think, be false. The explanation of the fact
is in the main to be found in a different direction.
An open mind towards the phenomena which the
Society investigates is far commoner, I am sure, among
men of science, than appears to the general public. This
opinion, which I venture to express in this highly re-
sponsible position, is founded not only upon my personal
contacts with men of science, but also upon the fact
that only one scientific creed logically permits the de-
duction that these alleged phenomena do not and cannot
occur. That creed is dogmatic materialism : and although
that creed can still claim a few confident exponents, it
is distinctly out of fashion at the present time. How-
ever materialistic may be the dominant habit of thought
among men of science, there are but few of them who
will confess to a whole-hearted acceptance of materialism
as a philosophic creed. The bulk of them are sufficiently
well educated to know that as such it is untenable ;
and also to know that from it alone can they logically
deduce the impossibility of the alleged phenomena. The
grounds of the aloofness of so many men of science from
LXXX.] Presidential Address. 107
the work of our Society, in spite of their minds being
more or less open to conviction in its sphere, are many
I
and complex. It would perhaps not be altogether un-
I
profitable to attempt to describe and examine them.
I But for my present purpose I wish to point out one
j
only of them, one by no means discreditable to those
[
who are influenced by it. I mean a sense of responsi-
biUty towards .
the public. Men of science are afraid
lest, if they give an inch in this matter, the pubhc will
take an ell and more. They are afraid that the least
display of interest or acquiescence on their part may
promote a great outburst of superstition on the part of
the public, a relapse into behef in witchcraft, necromancy,
and the black arts generally, with all the moral evils
which must accompany the prevalence of such beliefs.
For they know that it is only through the faithful work
of men of science during very recent centuries that
these debasing behefs have been in large measure banished
from a small part of the world ;
they know that, through-
out the rest of the world, these superstitions continue
to flourish, ready at any moment to invade and over-
whelm those small areas of enlightenment. They know
that such overwhelming of those areas must plunge
their populations back among the grovelling fears and
the cruel and hateful practices which have been the
scourge and torment of mankind since that remote
age when the race became endowed with the two-
edged and dangerous weapon of imagination. Now
the psychologists, just because they of all men must be
regarded as best equipped to judge of these difficult
matters, feel this responsibility more acutely than any
other class of scientific men. Further—they feel a great
responsibility for the reputation of their own science
and are afraid of doing it an injury. Any physicist,
like the great physicists who have adorned and strength-
ened this Society, may display an active interest in
Psychical Research without the least risk of injury to
the reputation of his science. Physical science stands
firmly established in the esteem of all men ; for it is
clear to all that it has provided the material basis of
108 William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S. [part
our civilisation. Psychology stands in a very different
position. It is only beginning to assert its position
among the sciences ; the general public and even some of
our universities still regard its claim to be a science,
and a science of high practical value, with doubt and
suspicion. In face of this situation the academic psycho-
logist is rightly cautious. His attitude may, I think,
be succinctly and concretely expressed by saying that he
is afraid of the left wing of our Society, and that, if
the Society consisted only of its right wing, he would
come in and co-operate cheerfully and profitably. But
both wings are necessary to our Society ; we cannot
hope to fly to any good purpose on one alone. It has
been the great virtue of our Society that, in spite of
differences of opinion, sometimes acute, it has kept the
allegiance of men and women of so widely different
views in respect to its problems. My own conviction
is that the risk I have indicated must be run. I myself
belong very decidedly to the right wing ; but I recognise
the importance of the left ; I recognise also the right
of its members to their opinions, and I esteem the
driving power and the freedom of speculation which
come from the left as essential to the success of our
work.
The importance of the work of our Society seems to
me to justify the taking of some risk. But that work
does not really add to the risk of relapse into barbaric
superstition ; rather it is our best defence against it.
For Pandora's box has been opened, the lid has been
slightly hfted, and we are bound to go on and to explore
its remotest corner and cranny. It is not only or chiefly
the work of this Society that has raised the lid a little
and exposed us to this danger. The culture of Europe
has for a brief period rested upon the twin supports
of dogmatic affirmation and dogmatic denial, of orthodox
religion and scientific materialism. But both of these
supports are crumbling, both alike sapped by the tide
of free enquiry. And it is the supreme need of our
time that these two pillars of dogmatism shall be replaced
by a single solid column of knowledge on which our
LXXX.] Presidential Address. 109
culture may securely rest. It is the policy of sitting on
the lid of the box that is risky ; a danger and threat
to our civilisation.
I have said that I belong to the extreme right of our
Society, and I fear that I may shock and hurt some of
our members of the left by the following remark, which
nevertheless, I feel I am bound to make. It is conceiv-
able to me that we may ultimately find the box to have
been empty from the first, as empty as some of our
dogmatic critics assert it to be. Even then I should
maintain that the work of our Society in boldly exploring
its recesses and showing its emptiness to the world had
been of the very greatest value. But I do not anticipate
this result, though I do not dread it. As regards our
positive conclusions and their value I will say only this,
I beheve that telepathy is very nearly established for
an time among the facts recognised by Science, mainly
by the work of this Society. If and when that result
shall have been achieved, its importance for Science and
Philosophy will far outweigh the sum of the achievements
of all the psychological laboratories of the universities
of two continents.
As regards the other main hnes of enquiry of our
Society, I confidently hold that nothing hitherto estab-
lished by Science or Philosophy can be shown to imply
that these enquiries must have a purely negative result.
Our conclusions must be founded eventually upon just
such collection and critical sifting of the empirical evidence
as our Society has resolutely pursued for nearly forty
years. During these forty years a whole generation of
devoted workers has passed away. But what are forty
years in the great procession of knowledge ! Even though it
were clear that four hundred years will be needed for the
attainment of definite conclusions, we ought not to shrink
from the task, or falter by the way. The supreme importance
of the problems before which we stand would justify an in-
definitely great expenditure of time and energy upon them.
For the interests of our culture and civihsation demand
that the present chaos of conflicting opinions and pre-
judices shall be replaced by clear and definite knowledge.
110 William McDougall, M.B., F.R.8. [part
After these few remarks in the nature of a confession |
of my attitude towards our works, I propose to devote \
the remainder of my time to formulating a speculative i
suggestion, which may have value as a working hypothesis
for some branches of our work. The suggestion is not
a new one ; what I have to say is merely an attempt to
develop a little an old idea in the light of modern
knowledge.^ Some years ago I published a book, Body
and Mind, in which I maintained that, however we i
conceive the body, we are compelled to conceive our \
conscious mental life as the activity of a unitary being
endowed with the faculties of knowing, feeling and striv-
ing, the ego, soul, or self. It has been made a reproach
to me that the long argument of that book came to an
end just when it began to be really interesting. My
present purpose is to outline another step of the argu-
ment, to add one more chapter to the book. In the
years that have passed since its publication, I have been
much concerned both practically and theoretically with
cases of nervous disorder. Now these cases of functional
nervous disorder have been widely held to make untenable
that conception of the unitary ego to which the argu-
ment of my book had pointed. In such cases we often
seem to find evidences of the division of the self into two |
or more parts, each of which seems to be endowed with
the fundamental faculties of mind, conscious knowing, j
feeling and striving, a striving that expresses itself in
part in the control of bodily movements. To many
thinkers the facts of this order seem to shew that the j
stream of consciousness is, like any other stream, a
composite structure, something that is composed of separ-
able parts ;
for, they say, if it is capable of being broken
into parts, it must consist of such parts, and must be
conceived as formed by the coming together of such parts,
j
1 It is the notion of '
monads '
which came down to us from Leibnitz. !
In recent years it has been developed as the basis of a plurahstic ,
metaphysic by Prof. James Ward (in his Pluralism and Theism) and
by his disciple Mr. C. A. Richardson (in his Spiritual Pluralism). R.
H. Lotze may be claimed as its chief exponent in the nineteenth
century : and Mr. Gerald Balfour (in his presidential address) has
urged its claims upon the attention of this Society.
LXXX.] Presidential Address. Ill
Thus they arrive at the notion of consciousness as a
sort of stuff which may be variously combined, broken
up and recombined, much as a stream of water or, let
us say, of treacle, may be split into minor streams and
recombined. Some then speak of a cosmic reservoir of
this stuff, some of which is somehow filtered through a
screen in tiny trickling streams to form the conscious-
ness of you and me and each of us. Others speak of
a mind-dust, ultimate elements or atoms of conscious-
ness, which may be brought together in greater or lesser
masses or streams to form what each of us calls his con-
sciousness.
If I am asked—has my more intimate study of these
cases of divided personalities led me to accept this way
of regarding consciousness ; has this way forced itself
upon me as an inevitable conclusion from the facts ?
—
I reply—not in the least. The argument for the unity
of the ego seems to me as strong and conclusive as ever.
And that other way of regarding consciousness, as a
stuff which can be divided into smaller or united into
larger streams, seems to me just as impossible and false
as ever it did. Do I then deny the facts on which the
critics of the ego rely 1 No—I accept these facts as
estabhshed. I believe we are compelled to recognise
that sometimes, and not infrequently, a single human
organism or person is the seat of more than one stream
of conscious knowing, feeling and striving, more than
one train of mental activity ; and that these trains may
be not only distinct, but may be in acute opposition and
conflict one with another, just as really as I may be in
conflict with you, a conflict of purposes, of efforts towards
different ends.
If my former conclusion holds good, it follows that
each of such distinct streams of purposive effort is the
activity of a unitary self or ego. Are we then to fiy
to the ancient theory of possession, whenever we observe
evidence of such multiphcity of distinct mental activities
within a single organism ? By no means. The obvious
and, I believe, inevitable inference from the facts is that
I who consciously address you am only one among several
112 William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S. [part
selves or egos which my organism, my person, comprises.
I am only the dominant member of a society, an as-
sociation of similar members. There are many purposive
activities within my organism of which I am not aware,
which are not my activities but those of my associates.
I am conscious at any moment only of those processes
within the organism, and of those impressions from with-
out, which it is most .necessary that I should take cog-
nisance of. And I consciously control and adjiist only
a few of the executive processes of my organism, those
only which are of primary importance for my purposes.
But I and my associates are all members of one body
;
and, so long as the whole organism is healthy, we work
harmoniously together, for we are a well-organised society,
the members of which strive for a common good, the
good of the whole society. My subordinates serve me
faithfully in the main, provided always that I continue
to be resolute and strong. But, when I relax my control,
in states of sleep, hypnosis, relaxation and abstraction,
my subordinates, or some of then, continue to work and
then are apt to manifest their activities in the forms we
have learnt to call sensory and motor automatisms.
And if I am weak and irresolute, if I do not face the
problems of life and take the necessary decisions for
deahng with them, then conflict arises within our system,
one or more of my subordinates gets out of hand, I
lose my control, and division of the personality into
conflicting systems replaces the normal and harmonious
co-operation of all members in one system. And in
extreme cases such a revolted subordinate, escaped from
the control of the dominant member or monad, may
continue his career of insubordination indefinitely, acquir-
ing increased influence over other members of the society
and becoming a serious rival to the normal ruler or
dominant. Such a rebellious member was the famous
Sally Beauchamp, and such was, I suggest, the childish
phase of the Doris Fischer case. All such automatisms
imply literally a dis-association of the society or associa-
tion.^
1 See Appendix, p. 121.
Lxxx.] Presidential Address. 113
We may, I think, see a close analogy between the
organisation of such a society of selves and that of an
army. At headquarters sits the general or commander-
in-chief. Through a radiating system of telephone wires
he constantly receives reports which inform him of the
general condition and activities of each part ; and chiefly
his attention at any moment is given to the reports
from areas of greatest activity. But he is not made
acquainted with every detail of the life and activity of
the army ; the reports which reach him have passed
upwards through a hierarchy of officers of successively
higher rank ; at each stage they have been condensed
and epitomised ; and from those parts of the whole
organisation where everything is going on smoothly in
routine fashion no report is made. Thus his information
is always highly general ; it is the cream skimmed from
the whole mass of facts. His powers of attention and
assimilation permit him only such epitomised and highly
condensed information. In the same way, the orders
that he gives are general only. He decides and gives
orders only on the larger movements. The working of
them out in detail is effected by the descending series
of members of the hierarchy ; his orders are concerned
only with new adjustments and movements of the whole
or its parts ; and to those parts which are executing
routine actions, he issues no orders ; to do so would
diminish rather than increase their efficiency ; it would
be a needless and unwarranted interference with his
experienced subordinates, who exercise at their discretion
an authority delegated by him.
Especially if any disorder or disharmony of the parts
of the system arises, his authority is required to restore
order ; he continues to suffer pain or distress which dis-
tracts his attention from all other duties until the disorder
is rectified.
This analogy gives us, I suggest, a true picture of the
life of the human organism. One great difference obtains
between the two systems of our analogy. In the army
the general's touch with all parts of the organism is
effected through a material system of written and printed
114 William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S. [part
orders and telephone wires and dispatch riders. In the
organism on the other hand communication between the
members seems to be direct, that is to say it seems to
be of the nature of reciprocal telepathic rapport, in
large part at least. But still the dominant monad is
in direct rapport, not with every member of the system,
but only with those immediately beneath him in the hier-
archy ; and the same seems to be true of every member
of the system. Thus my consciousness is not a '
col-
lective consciousness,' it is not a fusion of the minor
consciousnesses of the subordinate members of my organ-
ism. By our fundamental postulate such fusion is
impossible. It is rather a condensed essence of all their
separate and distinct consciousnesses ; it reflects what
in them is most essential, whatever is most necessary for
me to know ; and this is presented to me in a conveniently
condensed and elaborated form. That this is really true
we see on considering any complex act of perception,
as when I perceive visually a complex field of objects.
Between the impressions on my sense organ and the
completed perception there intervenes a large amount of
synthetic activity of truly mental nature ; this is the
work of my subordinates. And only certain features
of the whole field in which I am most interested come
fully to my consciousness in elaborated detail ; much of
the rest of the field remains outside my consciousness,
but nevertheless plays a part in determining the total
reaction of my organism, subconsciously as we say, i.e.
through the work of my subordinates.
And in executing any complex bodily action, I make
the decision or choice of action and issue a general order,
but of the details of its execution I remain for the most
part unconscious, although these details are guided by
mentally elaborated impressions on my sense organs,
again the work of my subordinates.
Let us see how this conception throws Ught upon certain
forms of automatism so trequent and widespread as to
fall within the bounds of the normal. In sleep I, the
dominant member of my system, become passive and inert
;
I cease to send out controlling messages. My subordinates.
liXXX.] Presidential Address. 115
released from my controlling purposes, may continue
to be alert and to think their own thoughts ; and these
are more or less reflected in my passive self as dream-
images and dream-thoughts. Since the modes of activity
of these subordinates are more primitive, nearer to the
purely organic and instinctive, than my own (for we
must suppose that the mental functions are delegated
to them in an order corresponding to their positions in
the hierarchy, the most primitive to those lowest in the
scale, the less primitive to those nearer to myself) the
dream shews those archaic primitive and intuitive qual-
ities which have been so well pointed out by Dr. C. G.
Jung. And they come to my consciousness as some-
thing wholly foreign to myself, in the shaping of which
my purposes and my thinking have had no share.
In hypnosis also I am passive and my subordinates
work independently of my control. They may receive
and understand, retain and execute suggestions of which
I remain unconscioixs. And, if they carry out these sug-
gestions in the posthypnotic period, I may be surprised
to find myself performing actions of which I have no
intention and no prevision ;
and, if I attempt to inhibit
or prevent such actions, I may be aware of a real diffi-
culty in doing so, i.e. a difficulty in controlhng and
subduing the efforts of my subordinates.
Frequently I form an intention and initiate a train of
action for its execution and then I may turn my attention
to other topics, while my faithful subordinates continue
to work towards the end prescribed. To take a very
simple instance, I form the intention to go to a certain
place and start out ;
then, though I may be wholly
occupied with thoughts of other things, my purpose is
duly achieved by my organism, i.e. my subordinates. Or,
a more complex instance, I may set out to play a piece
of music, and, having begun, may engage in conversation
on other topics, while the execution of my purpose never-
theless continues to unroll itself through processes which
involve a great amount of mental activity, including the
appreciation at every step of the complex musical sounds
which my fingers call from the instrument.
116 William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S. [part
This view of the nature of a person thus renders in-
telHgible many facts of our normal mental hfe which
on any other view remain paradoxical ; and it solves the
difficulty of reconciling the facts of automatism and
divided personality with the fundamental principle of the
unitary ego or self as the ground of the unity of con-
sciousness. And we can apply it successfully to solve
another great difficulty, namely the apparent dependence
of memory on the integrity of tbe brain. The facts
which seem to imply this dependence have, ever since
they began to be discovered, formed a principal support
of materialism. The facts are that destruction of this
or that part of the brain seems to deprive me of certain
memories or memory functions. And the assumption of
materialism, reached by an inference from these facts,
is that destruction of the whole of my bi'ain would
deprive me of all memories.
Now the view I am putting before you assumes that
each monad of my system retains the memory of its own
activities. Hence I myself retain no memory of a multi-
tude of the mental activities by which the life of my
whole organism has been governed ;
namely of all those
that belong to my subordinates. Nevertheless these or
many of them are normally at my disposal. By suitable
direction of my attention I can secure their reflection
in my consciousness as dreamlike images of the past.
And in hypnosis there seems to be no limit to the
extetat to which this process may be carried, remote
events and details to which my attention was never
directed being reflected to my dreaming, passively re-
ceptive self.
We may fairly assume that, when a part of my brain
is destroyed, some grave disorder of my functional rela-
tions with some of my subordinates must ensue, so that
I can no longer command their memories, and these are
for all practical purposes lost to me. But in spite of
such loss of some part of the memories which normally
are at my service, I retain the memories of those ex-
periences which were most truly my own, and those
powers of thought and feeling and command which I
LXXX.] Presidential Address. 117
have developed by my own efforts in pursuit of the
ends which I have chosen of my own vohtion.
If this is true of the destruction of any one part of
my brain, we may infer that it would be true also in
the event of the destruction of all its parts. Whether
there would then remain to me any capacity for sensory
experience and sensorial imagination seems to me an
obscure question that must be left open at the present
time. I am inclined to think that sensorial perception
and imagination are essentially the expression of the
interaction of the monads. If that be true, then, unless
and until I should enter upon relations with some other
society, become a working member of some other system,
I should enjoy only imageless thought.
This way of regarding the effects of brain-injuries upon
memory seems to be compatible with all the facts. And
there is one class of facts which it seems impossible to
interpret in terms of any other hypothesis. I refer to
the effects upon sense-perception, produced by destruction
of certain parts of the sensory cortex of the brain, as
recently demonstrated by the brilliant researches of Dr.
Henry Head.^ These researches seem to have shewn
that, when certain sensory areas are destroyed, leaving
intact the basal ganglia of the brain, the patient does
not lose altogether the capacities of sensory experience
with which the destroyed areas are concerned. Rather
he retains the capacity for the corresponding qualities
of sensation ; but these sensory experiences are now of a
crude undiscriminating kind. The change may be roughly
expressed by saying that impressions on the sense organs
which normally initiate delicate intellectualised perceptions,
evoke in such patients only crude sensations. On the
view I am putting before you, we may interpret such
facts as follows. The sense impressions are normally
transmitted through a hierarchy of monads, undergoing
further elaboration at each level, until they are reflected
to the dominant in a highly elaborated form, conveying
delicate spatial, temporal, and other meanings. The
injury to the brain throws the higher members of this
^ Reported in a series of papers in recent volumes of Brain.
118 William McDougall, 31.B., F.R.S. [part
hierachy out of action. In consequence the lower mem-
bers must now report directly to the dominant ;
just
as, if, in an army, the superior officers of a division are
thrown out of action, reports to headquarters must be
sent forward by subordinate officers of the division, who,
lacking the special experience of their incapacitated
superiors, will report crudely and inadequately, so that
their reports will reach headquarters lacking the intel-
lectual elaboration and condensation which normally
characterise them. That seems to be a quite satisfactory
interpretation of the facts of this order, and I can con-
ceive of no alternative ; and I find in this strong
confirmation of the hypothesis.
You will observe that I take the spatial relations of
the parts of the brain to be significant of some real and
important relations. But I do not mean to bind myself
to the view that the material world and its spatial
relations as perceived by us is exactly what it appears
to be. Nor do I apply to the monads any metaphysical
adjectives, such as timeless or eternal or immortal or
indestructible or indivisible ; to do so would be to go
beyond the warrant of the facts, it would gratuitously
involve us in difficulties, and it is quite unnecessary.
For the purposes of science we may with advantage
leave the metaphysical questions on one side ; we need
not enquire whether what we call the body is merely
the appearance to us of the system of monads, i.e. we
need not attempt to choose between a dualistic and a
monistic, or a pluralistic metaphysic. It is for the
metaphysicians to adapt their speculations to the results
of scientific research as these are brought to light and
formulated in far-reaching hypotheses.
The hypothesis which I sketch in vaguest outline
brings before our minds a host of new questions to
which we cannot at present return any definite answers.
But this does not in any sense detract from its value
or raise any presumption against it. Any such far-
reaching hypothesis must have this result, which is indeed
evidence of its value as a guide to research. Among such
questions tliree stand out very prominently for my mind.
LXXX.] Presidential Address. 119
First, Plato described the soul as a charioteer, con-
trolling with more or less success a team of powerful
unruly creatures, the passions, which draw him along in
reckless fury. This has usually been regarded as a liter-
ary metaphor. May we, in the light of the view I am
putting before you, take this description to be literally
true ? In other words—is each of the great primary
instinctive tendencies of our nature the peculiar function
of some one subordinate monad ? It is a possibility
that deserves consideration.
Secondly, what is the relation of the dominant monad
to heredity and evolution ? Is he not only the ruler of
his society, but also the patriarch and progenitor ? I
do not see how we can avoid the assumption that the
monads are propagated by a process analogous to bud-
ding. And this process must be of two kinds. On
the one hand a throwing off of a bud which contains
all the potentialities and powers of the progenitor and is
capable of becoming the progenitor of a new society
and hence of governing the whole development of a new
individual organism. On the other hand, a process of
budding off subordinates to which only subordinate
powers are delegated. And, since the development of
the individual mirrors that of the race, we must suppose
that these functions are delegated in an order which
recapitulates that delegation of functions which must
have 'been the essential process in the specialisation and
differentiation of racial types. Such specialisation and
differentiation of functions within the organism can only
have been' combined with continued effective integration
of the organism through such extensive delegation of
functions combined with continued dominance of the
parent monad.
Lastly, there is the question of the bearing of this
view upon the great problem which for so many members
of the Society for Psychical Research is or should be
its predominating interest, the problem of life after
death. Well, adoption of our hypothesis would necessitate
a development of our view of the life after death of the
body, one directly in line with the development which
#
1
120 William McDougall, M.B., F.R.S. [part
that view has already undergone in the slow process of !
cultural evolution. Primitive man conceived the dead as
having still not only the bodily form and organs but also j
the dress and ornaments and weapons which they bore in
'
this life. Then these external adjuncts of personality were
|
given up, and men were content to conceive the dead ;
as having the naked bodily form and organs only. ;
By a further and comparatively recent step, the con-
j
ception of the dead was purged of the material embodi- I
ment, and men learned to think of them as spirits devoid !
of bodily form ; but they continue to expect that the '
departed soul should retain every mental function and \
the memory of every mental activity manifested through-
'
out the life of the organism. .
But now, I suggest, we
have to make a further step and piirge our conception !
still further. I, if I survive the dissolution of my bodily
organism, shall, by our hypothesis, retain only those
functions which I have not delegated but have developed
by active exercise and those memories which are most !
truly mine, the memories of my own activities. And
'
after all is not this truly a gain, an advance of our i
conception ? Does it not represent that purification from j
dross and from the lower elements of which so many ;
seers have spoken ?
Further, it would seem to follow that, just as in this
'
life I live effectively and fully only by actively partici- ;
pating in the life of an intimately organised society of j
like members, so hereafter can I hope to live richly and
satisfactorily only by entering into and playing an active ;
part as a member of some other society which will de-
mand my faithful co-operation and service. For we are
essentially social beings ; outside of and apart from such
intimate communion, our selves would have no meaning
and no value, and perhaps could not be said to live or ;
be conscious in any intelligible sense of those words. '
I venture to think that these considerations may
afiord some guidance, if they are kept in mind when we
confront the baffling problems, the perplexities and dis-
appointments which seem to be the lot of those bent upon
the major quest of Psychical Research. .;
•I
LXXX.] Presidential Address. 121
APPENDIX.
I WOULD draw attention to Dr. Morton Prince's discussion of his
celebrated case B. C. A. {Journal of Abnormal Psychology, October
1919). This case was closely similar in many respects to the better
known case of Miss Beauchamp. I accept almost all the inter-
pretations that Dr. Prince arrives at in his illuminating discussion
of this case ; but I would point out that all his facts and almost
all of his interpretations, in terms largely of instinctive conative
tendencies, are all perfectly compatible with the view I am advocating.
Further, Dr. Prince makes certain observations and admissions which
are difficult to reconcile with any other view. I cite one of these as
follows :
" This feeling by a secondary personality that certain conscious
experiences belong or belonged to her own personal consciousness or
ego and that others do not, or did not, belong is a common pheno-
menon in such cases and is of great significance. It is a phenomenon
which justifies the inference that the relation which one system of ideas
bears to that which we call the ego is different from that of the other
system ; it is a phenomenon, too, which must be taken into account
in solving the problem of the ego. When we study the records of
cases of multiple personality we find as a frequent observation that
the secondar3' personality distinguishes between the conscious experi-
ences which belong to itself and those which belong to the principal
personality, and to other secondary personalities, if more than one.
This differentiation is based upon the feeling of self-consciousness being
attached to the foirner and not to the latter. It is not, therefore,
simply a matter of the experiences occurring at different chronological
epochs. Indeed the two different sets of experiences may be synchron-
ous, one being conscious and the other co-conscious" (p. 241). Dr.
Prince also writes
—" The bearing of amnesia on the principle of multiple
personality, perhaps, needs a few words. From the facts as they
developed in this case, it must be obvious that the presence or absence
of amnesia in no wa3' affects the reality of altered or secondary person-
ality. It was quite as much a personality (i.e. the secondary) before
the development of amnesia as afterwards. Before this appeared the
patient as A in no way differed in characteristics (other than amnesia)
from what she was afterwards, and the same is true of B. The
amnesia simply made the contrast between the phases more ob-
trusive ; that was all. If, therefore, following the amnesia each phase
can be rightly interpreted—and of this there can be no doubt—as a
dissociated personality, the same must be true of it antecedent to loss
of memory " (p. 276). Here we see Dr. Prince rightly repudiates the
view (which, I think, may be rightly associated with the name of
Prof. Janet), that the alternating personalities are merely parts of the
memory continuum disconnected from one another. And the facts re-
ported are difficult to reconcile with any view other than the view
that the personalities or selves of the dissociated condition already
existed as distinct selves before their dissociation was effected. The
dissociation seems to have been completed or achieved in or by hyp-
nosis, as shewn in the following passage :
—" A few days after the B
I
122 William McDougall, M.B., F.R.8. [part
personality had appeared in hypnosis this phase spontaneously waked
and alternated as it had previously done with the A complex. But
now . . . there was amnesia on the part of A for B. The explanation
for this is undoubtedly to be found in the fact that a new synthesis
and more complete dissociation of the B complex {i.e. from .4) had
taken place through the experience of hypnosis. Analogous pheno-
mena I have observed in making experimental observations, but it
would take us too far away to enter into this question here " (p. 276).
The suggestion is that hypnosis impaired the rapport between A and
B ; and the facts related imply, it mil be seen, that A and B existed
as distinct selves before the dissociation. I suggest that such impair-
ment of rapport is of the essence of hypnosis, as of normal sleep also.
In the same number of the Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Prof.
C. E. Cory of the Washington University describes a well-marked case
of divided personality of a type somewhat different from Dr. Prince's
two classical cases. In some respects it is even more favourable than
those cases to the hypothesis sketched in this address, and more difficult
to reconcile witli any other. The case exhibited alternation of two
distinct personalities, A and B. " Although A has been changed in
some ways by the dissociation her memory is continuous with the
origmal self. i? is a secondary personality." Prof. Cory finds good
evidence of '
co-consciousness '
of both A and B. The following extracts
illustrate this point and also the probability that B existed as a distinct
self before her emergence in control of the bodily organism. " The
perception of the submerged self, and this is true of both A and B,
is never quite the same as those received when in the active role.
From repeated descriptions of A and B of how the world appears
when they see it subconsciously I get the impression that it is the
same only less real. B has described it as '
seeing it through a
window, then going outside.' In thi.s manner she says she saw the
world for years before she '
got out.' ... As subconscious, the content
of iJ's vision may differ from that of A. She may note many things
which escape .4. She says she has often seen things in a shop window
that A did not. Both can read a page at the same time. . . A
reports that her hand has turned the page before she was ready, B
having sBready finished it. . . . If B, as subconscious, is deeply dis-
turbed, say depressed or angry, A may also experience some distress,
possibly some shade of the same emotion, or it may be a general
feeling of uneasiness. If B is so disposed she can determine to a
large extent ^'s reactions to situations and people." Again—" B's
memory is in some respects good, even remarkable. Her memory of
A'a early life is much better than .4's. During these descriptions by
B, A sees these scenes of her childhood pass before her, reproduced
much as they might be in hypnosis. . . . Unlike many, perhaps most,
cases of dissociation each of these two selves is conscious of what the
other does, that is, when either appears she is aware of what the
other has done. There are thus no gaps in the conduct, and as far
as the actual conduct goes there is, therefore, no amnesia. But the
inner thought that lies back of an act is known only as much as the
LXXX.] Presidential Address. 123
other sees fit to reveal. In this regard they are related much like
any two friends that know each other well." B also produced evidence
in support of her claim that she could force a dream upon A, or,
remaining awake while A slept, awake her at any required time. A
modus Vivendi was established between the two personalities, an agreed
alternating dominance of A and B. " The strain on A with B sub-
conscious (i.e. before emergence of B to occasional dominance) seems
to have been greater than it is under the present modus vivendi. As
it is, her peace depends upon sharing life occasionally with B. Unless
this is done B creates disturbances both mental and physical that
are highly undesirable." These few extracts from this record of
observations (which seem to have been made with a care and knowledge
that inspire confidence) illustrate not only '
co-consciousness ' but
also reciprocal influence between the two co-conscious personalities,
and they seem quite inconsistent with any view which would regard
the alternation of the two personalities as merely the expression of dis-
continuitj' of two trains of memory.
124 Hubert Wales. [part
II.
A REPORT ON A SERIES OF CASES OF APPARENT
THOUGHT TRANSFERENCE WITHOUT CON-
SCIOUS AGENCY.
By Hubert Wales.
Introductory.
On the 3rcl of August, ''918, I received a letter from a
total stranger—not an uncommon occurrence with nie.
On this occasion, the immediate cause was the pubhcation
in a newspaper of half a dozen hues I had written on
some subject connected with psychical research. My
correspondent, it appeared, was a Miss Jane Samuels,
and I gathered from her remarks and from subsequent
communications that she was in charge of a stationery
and fancy-goods shop in London, to which printing and
photographic branches were attached.
She began the letter by asking me if I were interested
in telepathy from the dead or from the living. That
way of opening communication between us seems in
itself to call for a passing comment. The popular or
spiritualistic view, as is well known, regards communication
from the dead and supernormal communication between
the living as two separate and distinct processes, not
only without fellowship, but almost antagonistic ; and
Miss Samuels, I learnt later, though not an avowed
member of the spiritualistic body, keeps up a running
and interested association with it. To me it seems that,
if the dead survive and can communicate with us at
all, the means can only be telepathic. It would appear,
therefore, that the introductory words of Miss Samuels's
letter were fitted, with a happy intuition, to the ideas
of its addressee, who is now expressing his views
on the subject, publicly, for the first time.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. ,
125
My correspondent went on to say that, for the previous
five years, she had noticed that certain impressions of
hers (I am giving the gist, I do not profess to be quoting
the exact words, of the letter) corresponded in a marked
degree with the thoughts of her friends, particularly
with those of one friend, Mr. H. H. Fuller, at one time
the manager of her photographic department, but then
in the army and ^quartered at the Curragh Camp in
Ireland, where he was employed in teaching photography
to pilots and observers of the Air Force. I have learnt
later that these impressions are obtained, for the most
part, though not exclusively, during sleep, and take,
I imagine, primarily, though again not exclusively, a
visual form ; but Miss Samuels appears to distinguish
them in themselves, apart from their veridicality, from
ordinary dreams.^
The next time I was in London, which happened to be
in about a week, I went to see Miss Samuels. I found
her the antithesis of the type of person usually associated
with mysterious powers—active and energetic to the
point of restlessness and exceedingly talkative and full
of spirits. One could hardly conceive her getting her
mind into a state of passivity for a transitory moment.
She was frankly (indeed, proudly) Jewish, and very
much interested in her " telepathy." (The question was
quite candidly begged on her part—dreams, notes,
drawings, thoughts and feehngs, of certain kinds, were
all " my telepathy.") In the course of three short
caUs I made upon her—aU during a week's visit to
London in August, 1918—she showed me over her shop
and business premises, introduced me to her assistants,
took my photograph and talked to me in the intervals of
attending to customers. These three interviews occupied
altogether perhaps an hour or an hour and a half :
I had not seen her before, and I have not seen her since.
In the course of these talks, I arranged with her to
make notes of her impressions, which she had not
1 See Proc, Vol. XX., p. 148, for an apparently similar distinction,
by Mrs. Verrall, in her own case, between '
vivid impressions in sleep
"
and " the ordinary dream."
126 Hubert Wales. [PAET
previously been in the habit of doing, having merely related
such of them as she chanced to remember the next day.
This, let me say at once, she has heroically done, night
after night, for several months, taking a note-book to
bed with her, and making notes at all manner of un-
earthly hours, whenever she happened to wake, often
in the dark. As one who does not take at all kindly
to .exerting himself after he has got to bed, I feel
particularly that those of us who are interested in getting
to the bottom of the questions upon which this paper
touches, owe her a debt of gratitude for having put
herself to this considerable inconvenience in the interests
of scientific research. She was to post the notes to me
at once, and I undertook to forward copies of them to
Mr. Fuller for his comments.
This procedure, which was carried out from 10th August
to 4th November, 1918, produced some striking corre-
spondences, but I coiild see no way of getting them
on a sound evidential basis. Mr. Fuller was not in a
position (he was a private in the army) to obtain written
corroboration of his statements, and—though I had no
reason to doubt his bo7ia fides and have since become
perfectly satisfied of it, and though small discrepancies
were noted in his comments with apparent care—it was
impossible to prove that the stories upon which the
correspondences depended were not sheer invention and
that the noting of discrepancies was not " the perfection
of acting." Fortunately, however, I found an increasing
tendency in Miss Samuels' s notes of her impressions
'
to correspond with incidents affecting my own thoughts,
and, since I was usually in a position to obtain written
corroboration of my statements in regard to them, I
gradually concentrated upon these, and ultimately dis-
continued forwarding the notes to Mr. Fuller.
The most remarkable results obtained t-hrough him, I
think, were in respect of the apparent transference '
of
bodily sensations, particularly pains. There was such
a degree of accurate correspondence of this kind, according
to Mr. Fuller's comments, that I got tired of copying
and forwarding the notes, and at last asked Miss Samuels
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 127
not to trouble to send more, since there appeared to
be no object in further piling up coincidences. These
percepts, I gathered from Miss Samuels, do not form
part of her regular sleeping impressions, but are obtained
in the normal waking state at all hours of the day,
are sometimes so severe as to cause her to resort to
" real remedies " (though she appears never to have
any difficulty in distinguishing them from her " own
pains "), and the time coincidence is usually pretty exact.
She told me, and I think Mr. Fuller did too, that, when
she first obtained these particular impressions, she was
Liable to get the right kind of sensation, in the right
locality, but on the wrong side of the body
—
e.g. a cut
on the third finger of the right hand would emerge as
a cut on the third finger of the left hand. I cannot
say if either of them knew that a similar peculiarity
has been observed in the case of other percipients. A
list of these impressions, with Mr. Fuller's comments, is
given in the Appendix (p. 213). They have, I think,
an evident bearing on the curious power evinced by
some mediums and their controls to diagnose ailments.^
(Compare Mr. Guthrie's experiments at close quarters,
reported in Proceedings, Pt. IX.) I have observed no
correspondences in respect of bodily sensations in my
own case, at least no more than can easily be assigned
to chance.
In her first letter Miss Samuels told me that, if Mr.
Fuller deliberately tried to convey a thought to her, she
did not get it, though she sometimes got a sense of effort.
My experience has confirmed this. I feel bound to say,
however, that, finding my thoughts were apparently
communicated without trouble, I have made no persistent
or particularly strenuous attempts consciously to transmit
them. I remember, one evening, trying for some time to
concentrate my mind on the buffalo picture which has been
the subject of a successful thought transference experiment
(reproduced in Proceedings, Pt. LXIX., p. 312), to form
1 Miss Samiiels tells me she has often seat Mr. Fuller homely remedies
for ailments of which she %vas cognisant only through corresponding
symptoms in herself.
128 Hubert Wales. [part
a mental image of it and so on ; but nothing in the
least suggesting it appeared subsequently in Miss Samuels'
s
notes. On another occasion I struck the back of my left
hand repeatedly with the bristles of a hair-brush, till
I drew blood ; but since Miss Samuels remained indifferent
to my sufferings, I did not repeat the experiment.
Whether or not, with more persistence, I might ultimately
have succeeded in transmitting a thought by active
endeavour, it remains the fact, as will be seen, that
Miss Samuels "s veridical impressions have rarely corre-
sponded with anything even in the main current of
my thought, but with incidental reflections, transitory
impressions about trifles, sometimes with things I have
merely overheard and of which I have consciously retained
only an imperfect knowledge. On her side Miss Samuels
says similarly : "I seem to have little to do with the
matter, only like a telephone, just to receive all kinds
of messages." For these reasons I do not regard what
follows as a record of experiments in a strict sense of
the term—for, as Andrew Lang (I think it was) said,
you cannot experiment consciously in the unconscious
—
but of systematic observations of spontaneous phenomena.
The instances of apparent thought transference with
which I propose to deal in this report, consisting in
the main of correspondences with my own thoughts, have
occurred in a period of, roughly, eight months, from
about the middle of August, 1918, to about the middle
of April, 1919. During this time Miss Samuels has sent
me notes of her impressions, with few exceptions, daily
—
sometimes several sheets, sometimes only a few words.
It is manifestly out of the question that I should
attempt to lay before the Society the whole of this
mass of material, or even a large proportion of it.
Moreover, the difficulties in the way of making a
classification of Miss Samuels's impressions, so as to give
some idea of the ratio of success to failure, as regards
correspondence with my thoughts, are exceptionally great,
because of her apparent liability to be influenced by a
variety of agents. For this reason it seemed useless
to try to make any such classification for the period
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 129
subsequent to 4th November, 1918, when I ceased to
send copies of Miss Samuels' s notes regularly to Mr.
Fuller. The tabular statement which follows, therefore,
is limited to the period from 17th August, 1918, when
Miss Samuels first attributed impressions to my agency,
to 4th November, 1918. I have counted everything in the
notes for this period, except impressions attributed by
Miss Samuels, at the time of despatching the notes, to
some other person than myself, or in regard to which some
other person has noted a suggestive correspondence with
his or her thoughts. This, of course, takes no account of
possible agents who cannot be traced, of the difficulty
of remembering transitory thoughts about trivial things
even for a day or two, or of occasional possible unwilling-
ness on the part of a person suggested as the agent to
acknowledge correspondence. (For an instance of denial
see Case XLVIII. below.) But any error introduced from
these causes is error on the safe side, so the amount
of success shown may be taken as a minimum.
Another difiiculty has been to decide what constitutes
a single impression. Usually the line dividing one from
another is pretty clear, and Miss Samuels not uncommonly
has indicated it in her notes ; but occasionally it is
blurred, and occasionally a topic recurs, other matters
intervening between the references. In the latter cases
I have counted as one impression all references to the
same subject, whether scattered or compact.
The following are illustrations of the standard I have
set up and tried to maintain in assigning impressions
to particular categories. " Some poor people are worried
about paying their rent, it's really only a small amount "
(Case XI.) I have put in Class 2, as veridical but
confused. Had the form been, " Someone is worried
about some poor people paying their rent," I should
have put it in Class 1. The note concerning trays and
clips (Case XXXI.) I have put in Class 1, in spite of
its confusion, the exact correspondence with the dimensions
of the trays and with the number—4—bringing it above
the standard. These two I regard as good examples of
border-line cases.
130 Hubert Wales. [part
In the sub-classification, the- distinction between corre-
spondences that are undistinctive and those that are
confused was often difficult to make, and little reliance
can be placed upon it. The cases placed under these
heads are of very different values, ranging from, e.g., the
note " Someone drinks and it goes down the wrong way,"
which corresponded with a very rare misfortuije of that
nature, in my case, on the evening preceding the date
of the impression, to such an indefinite and generally
applicable statement as " a railway line crossed." I
should perhaps make clear, in regard to this Class 2,
that my classification means that each correspondence
included in it, considered individually, can be attributed to
chance without strain. It is necessarily a very much
more troublesome matter so to deal with the whole two
hundred as a block.
Classification of Miss Samuels''s im'pressions from nth
August to 4th November, 1918, inclusive, with the
exceptions mentioned in the text.
Class 1. Class 2. Class 3. Total.
Veridical to a
degree diffi-
cult to attri-
bute to
chance.
Wholly or partially
veridical, but un-
distinctive, con-
fused or antecedent
in time.
No correspon-
dence with
the remem-
bered thoughts
of H. W.
16 200 159 375
Sub-classification of Class 2.
Undistinctive. Confused.
Antecedent in
time.
Total.
106 78 16 200
This means, it will be seen, that the notes have usually
presented some correspondence with my thoughts, and
LXXX.] Apparent Thouglit Transference. 131
that those containing striking veridical detail have
occurred at the rate of one or two a week.
Of the cases discussed in this paper, I have counted in
the first Class, II., III., IV., V., VI., VII., VIII., XII., XIII.,
XXX., XXXI., XXXII., XXXIII., XXXVI. and XLI.
(flats incident) ; had they come within the period I should
have counted also in this class XIV., XVIII., XIX.,
XX., XXI., XXV. (kitten incident), XXVI., XXIX.,
XXXV., XXXVII. and possibly XXIV. ;
the remainder
of those cited in which I have a part are in Class 2.
During the first five weeks of the eight months covered
by the observations IMiss Samuels was sleeping nightly
at Maidenhead, then she slept for a week at Harrow,
and since has been altogether in London, except for
odd visits, of a night or two at a time, to such places
as Margate and Bournemouth. These changes of place
have had no noticeable effect upon the results ; about
the same average of veridical impressions has been main-
tained throughout. I have been at my home at Hind-
head, forty miles from London, during the whole period,
except for two visits of a night at a time to London,
without the knowledge of Miss Samuels.^ It is worth remark-
ing, for its bearing on the momentous question whether
telepathy (assuming its occurrence) be a psychical or a
physical phenomenon, that Miss Samuels has many times
told me that the impressions which appear to her to
come from Mr. Fuller (and which usually have had an
apparent correspondence with his thoughts) are far clearer
and easier to remember than those which appear to
her to come from me ;
indeed, as will be seen later, she
has repeatedly attributed to my agency impressions,
which have proved to be veridical as regards me, because
of their relative feebleness. Mr. Fuller, as has been
said, was stationed, at the time, at the Curragh Camp,
near Dublin, a distance, I think, of about 400 miles
from London ; while I, according to information derived
from the nearest milestone to my house, am forty miles
1 These visits both took place during the period when Miss Samuels
was sleeping in London. Nothing of interest occurred in her notes
on either occasion.
132 Hubert Wales. [part
from Hyde Park Corner. There is, I understand, a
sympathetic link between Miss Samuels and Mr. Fuller
;
between the former and me there is no link beyond
our common interest in the phenomena.
I have been careful to tell Miss Samuels nothing of
my personal circumstances or relationships, either in
my few talks with her or in my subsequent letters and
comments on her notes. It seemed to me to be necessary,
in order to maintain her interest, to tell her in general
terms when she correctly described or referred to matters
which had been in my thoughts, and I have accordingly
done so ; but I think I have contrived to word these
statements without giving her substantially more information
than the percept itself contained.
She does not, for instance, know at the time of writing
—
and probably will not know until she reads this report
—
whether I am married or single.^ In very many cases
I have told her merely that particular notes were " appro-
priate " or " relevant " or " good " or something similar.
She understands the reason for this reticence and has
fully approved it. Only one thing I can remember
having let slip—that I occasionally do some gardening.
That was in August, 1918, when I was talking to her
in her shop ; but in any case, no doubt, the fact would
have had to be regarded as an easy inference from the
circumstance that I live in the country. She has told
me that she has once, some years ago, been to Hindhead
for a day, and knows, therefore, its general features,
particularly that it is on a hill, amid trees.
Before I proceed to quote extracts from the notes
and my contemporary comments, there is some necessary
information regarding them to be given. The notes
have been written, as I have said, for the most part
in bed, and often in the dark ; for Miss Samuels, I
1 I find that in the 1918 edition of Who's Who only the titles of
my books and my address are given. I have some impression that
I furnished rather fuller particiilars for the 1919 edition, but not enough
to impair any correspondence discussed in this paper.
Who's Who, I think, is a source of leakage liable to be overlooked.
I have found, for instance, that Mrs. Verrall's address, at the time
it emerged in Mrs. Holland's script, was given in it.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 133
understand, does not sleep alone, but with a sister,
whom she has had to be careful not to disturb. In
view of these circumstances, they are, on the whole,
wonderfully clear ; but occasionally words are illegible
and occasionally short passages are written over others.
For several months she usually sent me, in addition to
these rough notes, typed copies of them which she made
herself after reaching her shop. For my transcriptions
I have used the rough notes whenever it has been possible
to do so, resorting to the typed copies only in cases where
the degree of illegibility in the originals was such that
no consecutive meaning could be extracted from them.
There have been often, indeed usually, verbal discre-
pancies between the rough notes and the typed copies.
I have ignored these where the sense is unafiected, but
in cases where there is any shade of variation in the
meaning, I have given, within square brackets, the typed
version, in addition to the original version.
Where the sense is beyond doubt, I have corrected
the spelling. Miss Samuels is frankly an atrocious speller,
though she has never, I think, reached the heights of
phoneticism attained by an automatist mentioned in aii
early volume of the Proceedings, who, asked to spell
" psychical," produced, supraliminally. " sicickle," and
subhminally [per planchette) " cicicle." Miss Samuels
is the last person in the world who would pretend that
she can spell " psychical," but I think she knows it
begins with a "p." I have also added, very guardedly,
again where the meaning is not in doubt, a little punctua-
tion.
Part I.
Cases nsr which the Aggregate seems to Exclude
Chance-Coincidence.
I give first a series of extracts from the notes, with
comments, chosen primarily with a view to showing that
we are not dealing with chance coincidence. It will be
understood, of course, from what I have already said, that
they occur in the midst of a very considerable amount
134 Htibert Wales. [part
of matter which, at best, is only partially veridical. It
is apparent, even if we are satisfied of a telepathic con-
nection, that inspirational flashes are, as Mrs. Sidgwick
has said in another context, " much adulterated by the
automatist's own mind." Afterwards I propose to give
some extracts from the notes which appear to present
points of interest for examination on other grounds.
It will be noticed that, in several instances, my con-
temporary notes are not followed by any corroborative
statements. This is because, in the case of slight or
uncertain correspondences, I have not felt justified in
bothering my friends to write statements ;
because, in
some cases, the subject of the correspondence is a docu-
ment which is in itself corroborative ; and because, in a
considerable number of cases, the correspondence is based
on some thought or trivial incident known to me alone.
In the quotations that follow, omitted words or passages,
which are shown by dots, always relate, or apparently so,
to matters unconnected with the impression discussed.
I.
Extract from Miss Sammls's notes {received August 22, 1918).
August 21, 1918. 6.30 a.m.
I am tying or doing something with rope in a garden.
These mixed thoughts are so faint and indistinct that
I think they came from or comaected with Mr. Wales.
The garden or round the garden needs the ground to
be loosened, not only the lawn grass cut. There seems
to be 2 gardens.
By a later post I received the following additional
note from Miss Samuels, not having communicated with
her in the meantime :
Be garden notes of 21.8.18—the lawn had been cut-
but edges or borders where [sic] found fault with.
Lxxx.] Ajp'parent Thought Transference. 135
Note written by H. W. on August 22, 1918, after receiving
the first note above, but before receiving the second.
The first thing I did in the garden, after my return
home on the 15th August, was to tie down some rose
shoots with string. The soil of the flower beds certainly
needed loosening and the lawns mowing ; in fact the
place struck me generally as looking rather lost and
overgrown. I mowed the tennis lawn on Monday (the
19th), having been thinking of doing so for several days
before. I have done no gardening smce I returned besides
cutting the grass and tying the rose shoots. The flower
and kitchen gardens here are quite distinctly separated :
they are, in fact, two gardens.^
II.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received September 2,
1918).
September 1, 1918. 7.20 a.m.
A lost train by a second. Remark '
Alone in London.'
I should thmk these few things came from Mr. Wales
they seem so faint and difficult to remember.
Note written by H. W. on September 2, 1918.
A niece who has been staying with us, when she
returned home on Saturday (August 31, 1918) lost the
train by which she intended to travel, but it was by
considerably more than a second. In consequence of
this train being missed, there was some doubt as to
whether the father of the child (she is 16 or 17) would
be at Waterloo to meet her, as arranged. We could not
^ I obtained the following corroborative statement,
23rd August 1918. When I brought the letters to the Long
Hovise on the afternoon of Tuesday last, the 20th August, Mr.
Hubert Wales was cutting the grass borders of his lawn.
Habey Hills, Postman,
but, on re-reading Miss Samuel's notes, I incline to think that by
" edges or borders " in the second note (which, apparently, is explana-
tory of the first) is meant, not the grass edges, but the flower borders.
136 Hubert Wales. [part
get in touch with him on the telephone, and my wife
became exceedingly anxious on account of the possibility
of the child having to cross London alone.
III.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received September 6,
1918).
September 5, 1918. 6.5 a.m.
A young man in uniform (naval I think) or very like
it [typed copy, '
a young man in a uniform like a naval
one '] unexpectedly arrives. He is rather thin and dark.
Someone is led [word doubtful, looks like '
bled,' in
accompanying tjrped copy it is transcribed '
told '] to
take their mind back a good many years to when he was
a little boy . . . When the young man arrived most
of the other people seemed upstairs. I see him sitting
down waiting . . .
What slight telepathy there is seems to be from Mr.
Wales as it's fauat . . .
I omit my contemporary note, which is rather long,
since the facts are given in the following corroborative
statement by my wife :
September 6, 1918.
A nephew of my sister-in-law, who is my near neighbour,
arrived at her house on Wednesday morning [September 4,
1918], at an unexpectedly early hour, and could find
neither his host or hostess. He is a cadet at Osborne
and was wearing his uniform. My husband, in speaking
of his arrival later in the day or next day, said that
whenever he heard of or saw the youth he was always
reminded of a rather touching incident in the boy's earlj^
life, which he related to us.
I need only add that the young man is thin and dark,
and that I heard my daughter call out to someone on
the Wednesday (September 4, 1918) that he had arrived
and had found no one at home to receive him. I
assumed at the time that he would wait, but I learnt
later, after receiving Miss Samuels's notes, that, in fact.
1
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 137
he had gone to the house of another relative and had a
meal. This is of some interest, I think, as indicating
that any supernormal power in operation is telepathy,
not clairvoyance (if there be such a power independent
of telepathy).
IV.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received September 30,
1918).
September 29, 1918. 8.30 a.m.
Rather a thin tall black horse being led in, someone
remarks on [typed copy '
its '] thin-ness, and someone
else retorts, '
Well, he's Irish, you know.'
I again omit my contemporary note and quote my
wife's corroborative statement :
October 1, 1918.
I have more than once lately talked in my husband's
presence of a young officer I know, an Irishman, whom
I met riding his black race-horse on the road. This
seemed rather to surprise my husband, though I think
he was only taking it home after exercise. The second
time I met him he was leading the horse by a halter,
it had a saddle on but no bridle.
Again there is some indication that it is my impressions,
rather than the facts, that correspond with Miss Samuels's
notes. When I heard my wife tell this story, I assumed
(it appears wrongly—I fear I was not paying very close
attention, she was speaking rather to my daughter than
to me) that the young man was using this light race-horse
as a road hack, and I certainly expressed surprise and
expostulation. Neither my wife nor I could remember
whether, in reply, she referred to his nationality, but it
is not improbable. She says that she considered him
somewhat eccentric. Another feature of some interest,
as pointing to the telepathic emergence of latent thoughts,
lies in the fact that, when I received Miss Samuels's
note, I had forgotten the colour of the horse and that
K
138 Hvhert Wales. [part
my wife had spoken of seeing it being led, and I had
only a vague impression that the owner was Irish.
V.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received October 3, 1918).
October 2, 1918. 4 a.m.
Earl's Court Road
• •
. . . the first items seem to come from Mr. Wales,
at least the Earl's Court Road does . . .
There is no outlying street in London, or probably in
any large town, so familiar to me as the Earl's Court
Road ; for I lived, for three years before I was married,
twenty-three years ago, in a small street just off it,
Earl's Court Gardens, and my future wife lived in a
street off the other side of it. My contemporary note
states that I had been thinking at this time of my
early life, and had been telling a story about it, but
that I had no conscious recollection of having been
thinking of this particular period.
VI.
Extract from Miss SamueWs notes {received October 14, 1918).
October 13, 1918. 6.30 a.m., in bed.
Dear Mr. Wales, I write my personal letters to you
for you, not to be showaa to people who laugh at them,
I feel that one was shown to someone, and they loudly
laughed. I've just got this, 6.30 a.m.
I have to ask for indulgence in this case. Circum-
stances (the nature of which may be inferred) debar me
from printing my contemporary note, and adding a
corroborative statement, as I should have liked to do.
I can only say that Miss Samuels's complaint was quite
justified. There had been loud laughter (on the evening
of either the 11th or 12th Oct.) on the part of a young
niece of mine, and, though I felt somewhat ashamed
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 139
and changed the subject, I also felt in some degree to
blame, for having provided the opportunity.^ One detail,
however, in Miss Samuels's note is incorrect.
This case is one of several (another will be quoted
later—Case XLVIII.) which suggest that a percipient may
obtain telepathically information 'which the agent does
not wish to send.
VII.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes [received October 17, 1918).
October 16. 1918. 3.40 a.m.
A memory of Paris, a man crying in a curious voice
La Matin [typed copy, '
Le or La Matin, a newspaper.']
A slope walked up some zig-zag steps in centre to save
—
a few steps can be used instead of going round all the
way [typed copy, '
a long slope, but half way some
twisted steps are there so that one need not go all the
way round.']
[From accompanying letter] I think the memory of
Paris must be yours.
Note written by H. W., October 17, 1918.
My thoughts have turned repeatedly lately to a visit
I made to Paris some years ago. I have a distinct
recollection of hearing, on that occasion, a newsvendor
in the street calling '
Le Matin, Le Journal.' There
was nothing, I think, markedly peculiar in his voice,
but it is an odd little thing I have always remembered,
^ An analogous incident is the following :
Extract from Letter from Miss Samuels to H. W., dated iSeptember 4,
1918, received September 5, 1918 (the only note of an impression
received from Miss Samuels on this day) :
7.15. p.m. I feel you are thinking deeply of me.
Note written by H. W. September 5, 1918.
This certainly was a fact ; for the post came in about that
time bringing two letters from Miss Samuels (nothing else except
a book) which I read immediately. I had not told Miss Samuels
the times of the postal deliveries ; indeed, until the last few days,
the evening post has arrived about four. When reading the
letter quoted above, in which she refers to this, I looked at the
clock: it was exactly 7.15. No doubt yesterday I got my letters
about the same time.
140 Hubert Wales. [part
and often since I have repeated the words to myself,
trymg to imitate his accent. During that visit 1 went
almost daily to see a friend who lived on Montmartre.
I have a dim impression that a flight or flights of steps
near his road saved a walk round ...
I wrote to the French friend I visited in Paris, enquiring
about steps. In his reply, received December 30, 1918,
he said there were no steps near his particular road,
but that there were two flights leading to the top of
Montmartre. " Both steps are not zig-zagging, but cut
at every 10 or twelve degrees by a kind of platform to
make them easier to ascend." He enclosed a plan
showing the position of the steps.
No doubt everyone who goes to Paris hears '
Le Matin '
called, but in my case the incident undoubtedly has a
special significance. I can remember the corner where
the man stood, and the quiet, unemotional voice in which,
at regular intervals, he said the words. Scores and
hundreds of times since have I repeated them to myself.
It has become, in fact, one of those foolish, private
little habits which we are all liable to contract. To me
personally this reference is almost the most impressive
thing in the series.
It was probably a letter I received about the middle
of September from the friend I had visited at Montrnartre
(a letter referred to in my notes regarding possible tele-
pathic precognition, see below, p. 201) which revived in
my mind this memory of Paris. It began :
" Where is
the time we met in Paris and I took you to different
places ? It will never come again."
VIII.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received October 21, 1918).
October 20, 1918. 6.30 [a.m.].
Someone wishes to dye their hair, in fact the feeling
is so strong I feel I have had my own hair cut and
dyed. [Typed copy, '
Someone wishes to dye their hair
red, also to have it bobbed.']
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 141
Note written hy H. W., October 21, 1918.
A few days ago I received a letter from a friend in
India [a woman] which contained the following :
'
My
hair is going very grey which gives me horrid twinges
of remembrance ... I'd dye it, but I don't Imow of
anything good.' I thought she would be very unwise
to do so and intend to say so when I reply. A niece of
mine, who lives here, has recently had her hair '
bobbed.'
[This is the niece referred to in Case VI.]
IX.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received October 25, 1918).
October 24, 1918. 2.15 a.m.
A large empty untidy stable.
Key tied to string.
Someone packing an oblong wicker basket like a motor
picnic basket, it is over-filled and difficult to shut down.
Extract from accompanying letter to H. W.
I think most of to-day's comes from you.
Notes ivritten by H. W., October 25, 1918.
We have a large four- stall disused stable ... It is
certainly very untidy. I go into it almost daily.
I use every day, with scarcely an exception, a key with
a piece of string fastened to it, attachmg a label. It
opens the door of an outhouse, where we keep the logs
of wood we are now using in the sitting-rooms in place
of coal.
I pack an oblong basket such as Miss Samuels describes
with wood for the drawing-room fire daily. The word
142 Hubert Wales. [part
'
packing '
is quite descriptive, for I lay the blocks care-
fully upon one another to economise space. The basket
is often filled beyond the top, but it has no lid.
[These three items] are quite typical of the routine
of my life just now, when both labour and fuel are
scarce.
I quote the above as instances of the small, isolated,
undeveloped references (no one of which, manifestly, has
by itself any evidential value) which form the bulk of
Miss Samuels's veridical notes.
X.
Further extract from Miss Samuels's notes of October 24, 1918.
Some talk or thinking about the Mecroupohs [sic] Coy
(a firm who cremate and bury people) [typed copy '
some
talk about a firm that conducts funerals and cremations
who run a. railway line of their own.'].
From accompanying letter to H. W.
I think most of to-day's comes from you.
A few years ago, needing some information about
cremation for the purjDoses of a work of fiction, and being
familiar with the name of the London Necropolis Company
from seeing their private railway station outside Waterloo,
I walked down to and looked at their premises, without
going in, but to take a note of their address. Subse-
quently I entered into correspondence with them. They
were most kind, supplying me with literature and all
the information in their possession and putting me in
touch with the Cremation Society, to whom I ought
to have applied in the first instance, since the London
Necropolis were not, as I had supposed, solely concerned
with cremation, but undertook also, and on a much
larger scale, burials. My contemporary note states that,
for a reason there given, I had been thinking about
undertakers at the date of Miss Samuels's note.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 143
XI.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received October 27, 1918).
October 26, 1918. 4.20 a.m.
Some poor people are worried about paying their rent,
it's really only a small amount.
From accompanying letter to H. W.
I think most of to-day's is from you.
I epitomise my contemporary note. When the gardener
who lives in my cottage was called up for the army,
I decided, as a matter of principle, to charge his wife a
very small rent—3s. 6d. a week. I knew she could
afford to pay it, yet she ultimately fell more and more
into arrears, and about the date of Miss Samuels's note
the matter was somewhat worrying me—whether to take
the easy course and let things slide or to press for the
amount due.
XII.
Further extract from Miss Samuels's notes of October 26, 1918.
7.30 a.m.
I am in a forest or at the edge of one, elephants near
me—I am told to lie still, I am hiding in a round tent,
an animal smells all round the edge [tj^ed copy '
of
where I am hiding, I am laying {sic) flat on my face ']
... I see two pictures one of a background of taU trees
and creeping men and women and animals at the foot,
they seem frightened and running away. ... I had
to he still [typed copy '
re forest picture '] as the elephants
treaded [sic] nearly on my hair (I seem to be a woman) . . .
From accompanying letter to H. W. :
1 think most of to-day's is from you.
144 Hubert Wales. [part
Extract from a letter to H. W. from a friend {a woman)
in India, received about the middle of October, but
re-read on the 2\st of that month and probably also
later, for it is the letter which contains a reference to
dyeing hair.
In one place—in fact for several marches, we were
haunted by man-eating tigers, the coolies were very
frightened and will only go several together through the
thick jungle, and it certainly was eerie thinking one
might suddenly come on Mr. Stripes, and be pounced
on ; the worst of these brutes is they always take a
woman in preference to a man . . . one of them has
already killed over 100 people.
It may be said, in regard to the reference to elephants,
which suggests India, that there have been other allusions
in Miss Samuels's notes which have struck me as possibly
symbolic.^ The reference to hair is noticeable, for Miss
Samuels, of course, had no normal means of connecting
the present impression with the previous one about
dyeing hair. The phrase " I seem to be a woman " is,
I think, of some interest, too, since, in spite of this,
she attributed the percept to my agency.
XIII.
Extract from, Miss Samuels's notes {received in typed copy
only, Noimnber 4, 1918).
November 3, 1918. 3 a.m.
A flat parcel being carefully packed in a shiny drab
colour paper, the size about the size of these sheets
^ An alternative, or perliaps complementary, explanation of the ele-
phants is offered by the following annotation on Miss Samuels's note
by Miss Howard (one of Miss Samuels's assistants) sent to me before
either knew of the correspondence with my thoughts :
I have been reading a book called Travellers' Tales, and in one
chapter a man writes about some elephants in a forest. One of
the travellers that was in quest of some elephants' tusks was
trampled upon by some ele25hants, but I don't think they went
near his head.
This note, it will be seen, just fills the gaps in the correspondence
witli my thoughts.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 145
[llin. x8|m.] or a little larger but not much, depth
about the space between these Lines [about -J- in.].
From accompanying letter to H. W.
:
I think to-day's comes from you.
Note written by H. W., November. 4, 1918.
I sent, a little while ago, some valuable prints by
post. I packed them exceedingly carefully (with sheets
of cardboard) in three layers of covers, each separately
pasted down and addressed. The process took me a
considerable time, about an hour. The outer wrapping
was rather a light coloured glazed brown paper. The
package when completed was practically identically of the
shape and size described by IVIiss Samuels. On referring
to my notes I find that I packed this parcel on October
9, 1918, and despatched it by registered ^Dost on October
22, 1918. I received an acknowledgment of it on
October 27, 1918.
Corroborative statement by the recipient of the package
{received November 12, 1918).
The package of engravings measuring 12 x 9 and J in.
deep were very carefully packed in shiny drab coloured
\\Tapping. I received same quite safely on October 24,
1918.
It will be noticed that, in this case, assuming a tele-
pathic connection, the transmission or emergence of the
thought was apparently considerably deferred.
XIV.
Extract from Miss Samuels's 7iotes (received November 9, 1918).
November 8, 1918. 4 a.m.
A noble looking old man led—makes a strong speech.
[The following added in accompanying letter.] The old
man, he was very ill or was going blind, was a very
striking memory of a theatre picture or of a painting,
he wore draped clothing as did some other figures in
the foreground.
146 Hubert Wales. [part
On the evening of November 7, 1918, as I noted at
j
the time of receiving Miss Samuels's note, I read Mr.
j
Piddington's paper, in the newly pubhshed Part of Pro- \
ceedings, entitled " Fresh Light on the '
One-Horse Dawn '
Experiment." It is unnecessary to transcribe my con-
temporary note, epitomising this paper. It will be seen j
that the extract quoted above appears to contain nine ;
correspondences with it : for it dealt with a man i
(Oedipus) (1) who was old, (2) who was of noble birth
'
and character, (3) who was led, (4) who made a strong
speech (Mr. Piddington made a point of his impressive
speech before his death, discussing it and quoting from it),
j
(5) who was a character in a play, (6) who was ill,
(7) who was blind, (8) who wore draped clothing, and
(9) who was accompanied by others who also wore draped
clothing. Indeed, the note, so far as it goes, contains
nothing irrelevant, for the reference to a painting is an
alternative. I may add that, when reading Mr. Pidding-
ton's paper, I conceived Oedipus, for some reason, going
off the stage at the back, after making his final speech,
so that the other actors, in relation to him, would be
in the foreground.
It will be noticed that the apparent thought transference in
this case is exclusively of the part of Mr. Piddington's paper i
deaUng with Oedipus, not of the part dealing with Mrs.
Verrall's script. It is the case that, while I was interested in
Mr. Piddington's paper from a literary point of view,
his arguments seeking to identify Oedipus with Mrs. <
Verrall's " old man in a white robe turned to the east " !
did not carry conviction to my mind. .
j
I have no difficulty in accepting Miss Samuels's state- I
ment that she does not read the S.P.R. publications.
1
XV. .
I
Extract from Miss Samuels's 7iotes {received November 12, 1918). j
November 11, 1918. 2.45 a.m.
Something hidden under tree roots. [The following is
added on the back of the succeeding page, '
A young lady
helps the boy to find and hide things under tree *
roots.'] I
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference.
From accompanying letter to H. W. :
I will not say who the things are from, unless I get
very clearly, as they seem lately nearly all to come
from you.
Note written bij H. W., November 12, 1918.
Either at dinner on Saturday (November 9, 1918) or
at supper on Sunday (November 10, 1918) ray daughter
mentioned '
Monte Cristo,' and that led the conversation
to other writers besides Dumas who had used the theme
of hidden treasure m fiction. I mentioned Poe, having
in mmd his story called, I thmk, '
The Gold Bug,' wherein
a man, by suspendmg the bug by a thread from the
branch of a tree, is guided to the position of the treasure
hidden beneath its roots.
XVI.
Extract from Miss Samuels' s notes {received December 6, 1918).
December 5, 1918. 8.30 a.m. London.
Someone is shewing me some Cinema films also photo-
graphs [typed copy '
or photographs '] and puts in my
hand a glass this shape [circular sketch] which makes
the pictures seem more life-like also the right way up.
. . . The pictures at Cinema or show of some kmd seemed
in or on a funny shaped thmg above the heads of the
people, something like an old-fashioned camera obscura
that used to be on Ramsgate Pier years ago, although
that would be lower on the ground than the thing I was
shown over last night.
Note written by H. W., December 6, 1918.
During this week I have been readuig F. W. H. Myers's
paper on crystal visions in Part XXIII. of the Proceedings
S.P.R. He alludes several times to the effect produced
when the percipient looks at the picture through a
magnifying glass. ... On page 501 he says :
^
The
unintelhgible pictures, on the other hand, remind one
of a series of views thrown on the table of a camera
obscura.'
148 Hubert Wales.
I quote the above as an instance of the apparent
dramatizing of a scene by the subliminal consciousness
of the percipient in order to bring out an unusual terra
or idea. There are other, though less striking, cases in
my records suggesting the same thing.
XVII.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received December 7, 1918).
December 6, 1918. 3.15 a.m. London.
Two old [typed copy '
very old '] bound nos of the
" Strand Mag."
My daughter's corroboration of my note (which I omit, as
superfluous) :
December 7, 1918.
I have just lately been reading stories in old bound
volumes of the " Strand Magazine," which I have fetched
one or two at a time from my father's study.
The volumes are the oldest, beginning with No. 1 and
ending with No. 10.
XVIII.
Extract from Miss Samuels s letter {received January 6, 1919).
January 5th, 1919.
I now remember a quarto page of black heavy childlike
handwriting starting right at the very top of the page.
Note ivritten by H. W., January 6, 1919.
This describes precisely the handwriting of a regular
correspondent of mine [an elderly woman]. She writes
on post quarto sheets (about 9 in. by 7 in.) and always
begins at the extreme top of the page.
An addressed envelope and the top of a sheet of paper
are given as specimens on the opposite page.
150 Hubert Wales. [part
XIX.
Extract froin Miss Samuels's notes {received January 8, 1919).
,
January 7, 1919. 8.25 [a.m.].
I am dressed in a black dancing dress [tjrped copy,
'
black evening dress'] cut low, piece of black riband
at neck.
Extract from a letter to H. W. from, a niece staying at
Brightmi, dated January 2nd, 1919, received January
4:th, 1919.
Then in the evening we toddled off to the Hotel Metro
-
pole on our own, had dinner, and went to the dance
there ... I looked like a first-class adventuress with
my hair waved, so that it aU sticks upwards, and a band
round my forehead [sketch of a girl's head with a black
band round the forehead] and frightfully low new black
evening dress.
Extract from H. W.'s reply, written and posted January 5th,
1919.
Miss S. has sent nothing important of late such as
the item you mention [not quoted in this paper]
—
I anticipate, however, shortly getting comments from
her anent certain animadversions on fat Jewesses and
shocked allusions to a girl in a '
frightfully low '
black
evening gown.
There is a small point here again which bears upon
the question between telepathy and clairvoyance. In
my niece's sketch the band round the girl's head, being
filled in with ink, looked black, and I probably thought
of it as black. I learnt later that, in fact, the ribbon,
was silver.
It was this niece who nearly got me into trouble by
lier untimely laughter !
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 151
XX.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes (received January 21, 1919).
January 20, 1919.
Enquiries about the health of an elderly lady. She
is threatened with paralysis.
Note written by H. W., January 21, 1919.
The health of an aunt of mine—an elderly woman
—
has been a good deal on my mind recently. She has
had one paralytic stroke . . . and, as in all such cases,
there is fear of others. My wife is going to be m her
neighbourhood this week and hopes to call. She has
spoken of this to me two or three times.
XXI.
Further extract from Miss Samuels's notes of January 20, 1919.
A dehcious dessert yellow and pink like warm ice
cream.
Note written by H. W., January 21, 1919.
A few months ago ^, when I was dining at a restaurant,
the head waiter rather ceremoniously placed an elaborate
looking sweet on my table. It was of the shape of a
book, the groundwork of pale yellow, with the words
'
Blue Flame '
(the title of one of my novels) in pink
icing on it. Spirit was burning round it, which gave
me the impression that it was warm, and I was considerably
surprised, when I tasted it, to find that it was iced.
I may have thought of this iricident recently.
^ It was in August, 1918, during the visit to London when I made
acquaintance with Miss Samuels.
152 Hubert Wales. [part
Corroborative letter from the friend (a woman) who dined
with me on the occasion referred to in my note, dated
March 3, 1919.
Dear Mr. Wales, I often think of the '
Blue Flame
'
dinner we had together at the Florence, and what a
surprise Mons Rene [should be Rena] gave us in the
sweet he had prepared . . . When the waiter appeared
carrying something on a silver tray we saw at once it
was something special, and on further inspection we saw a
model of your book '
Blue Flame,' and to make it better
still when he put a match to it the real blue flames
danced all round it and it was just perfect. I can
see it now—a pale yellow colour with the title and your
name in pink with two marguerites made of sugar in the
opposite corners ... I remember also that at the first
taste you had rather a shock finding it was icy cold, as
you told me afterwards you were expecting to find it
quite warm—in reality the outside was composed of wafer
like biscuit while the inside was purely ice cream.
The receipt of the January Journal, announcing the
forthcoming meeting, would, for certain reasons, almost
certainly lead my thoughts to this episode. I do not
appear to have made a note of the date when I received
it, but I find that the printed slip enclosed with it,
announcing the meeting, is dated January 15th. The
relevance of the apparently paradoxical phrase " warm
ice cream " is, I think, somewhat remarkable, and suggests,
as do many other references, that there must at times
be an element other than visual in Miss Samuels' s percepts.
XXII.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received January 27, 1919).
January 26, 1919. 8.45 a.m.
Someone does not like being left alone in the house.
I give my wife's corroboration of my contemporary
note. It was written on January 30th, 1919, as follows ;
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 153
My daughter and I went away on a visit from 22nd
to 29th January, 1919, leaving my husband alone in the
house except for the servants.
I have no recollection, however, of feeling unduly
depressed on account of this quite temporary circumstance.
xxin.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received February 21, 1919).
February 20, 1919. 7.35 a.m.
A lady has broken her leg.
I quote the above as a good instance (there are many
others) of the tendency of Miss Samuels's impressions to
correspond, not with the main current of my thought
at the moment, but with reflections incidental to it.
On February 6th, 1919, my wife underwent a small surgical
operation, involving the administration of an anaesthetic,
the attendance of a nurse, and a week or two in bed,
I was naturally much preoccupied and anxious about
this for some time—more, perhaps, than most people
would have been, for I have a dread of operations
—
but Miss Samuels's notes betrayed no knowledge of the
circumstances. Two years before, however, nearly to a day,
my wife broke her leg ; and the subsequent illness almost
necessarily revived memories of this earlier trouble. We
often talked of it, recalled incidents in connection with
it, and compared the circumstances in the two cases. My
wife occupied the same bed in the same room as on the
former occasion, and each time had an attendant hospital
nurse sleeping in the adjoining dressing-room.
XXIV.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {enclosed in letter dated
and postmarked February 28th, 1919, received March 3rd,
1919 1).
False Vandyke beard (made with soap suds).
1 It was by an odd chance that, on the only occasion I can remember
when Miss Samuels neglected to date her notes, her letter was delayed
in the post.
I.
154 Hubert Wales. [part
Note written by H. W., March 3, 1919.
Several times lately, after soaping my face for shaving,
it has struck me that this gave me the appearance of
having a small Vandyke beard. Once or twice I have
thought it rather suited me, and I have wondered if I
should grow one ! To the best of my recollection it is
only lately that I have been struck by this effect. It
is definitely a small, pointed, as distinguished from a
square, beard that is suggested.
This is another of the references that can never, I
think, produce upon others the ef?ect it produces upon
me ; for no doubt many men, when they are shaving,
think that they appear to have short, white Vandyke
beards. Would such a thought, however, naturally occur
to a woman ? Miss Samuels, it will be seen, does not
refer to shaving, but merely records apparent nonsense
about a false beard made with soap-suds.
A few days after writing the above notes, in turning
back, for another purpose, over my records of Miss
Samuels's impressions, I came upon the following, which
had suggested nothing to me at the time :
January 21, 1919. 1.45 a.m.
.... I saw a dapper little man sharp features, grey
Vandyke beard and moustache (like Captain Kettle but
grey.) . . . The old gentleman seemed connected with
lots of old wood and looking glass and also a broken
table.
Noteworthy points in this, I think, are the allusions to
'
looking-glass '
and the statement that the beard and
moustache were '
grey.' For my daily connection with
'
lots of old wood ' see my notes to Case IX. above.
There is a small table among the rubbish in the outhouse
referred to, but I hardly think it is broken, though there
are many broken things in the place. In Miss Samuels's
notes for February 8, 1919, again, the single word " Van-
dyke " occurs. Was she jogging my memory or was I
jogging hers ? In either case, the efforts were apparently
ultimately successful, for the subsequent allusion to a " false
"
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 155
beard and to " soap suds " gave me the clue. I should, perhaps,
add that I am not grey naturally or old looking, and
am entirely clean shaven.
XXV.
Miss Samuels's notes {received April 5, 1919). [Complete
notes transcribed, numbers in brackets inserted by
H. W.)
AprU 4, 1919. 7 [a.m.].
(1) A pencil sketch of a woman, I draw the shadow in
the neck also full skirt and right hand, in line work.
[Rough sketch enclosed of neck shadow and skirt, with
the words added] I seemed myself to do it.
(2) A tiny black kitten chases another, but someone
pulls it by the tail and throws it back into the room.
(3) Someone trying a new song.
Notes written by H. W., April 5, 1919.
(1) On April 3, 1919, I received by post a pencU sketch
of a woman—no skirt visible, but she is shown sitting
on a draped seat, represented by perpendicular lines, as
in Miss Samuels's skirt sketch. The original of the
drawing made the sketch herself.
(2) A night or two ago, not last night, probably the
night before (AprU 3, 1919) when I went into the pantry
to lock up, the cat, who sleeps there with the kitten,
ran out, followed by the kitten. I managed to catch
the kitten by its tail as it was trotting down the hall,
but had to go much further to get the cat. I then
took them back to the pantry, and no doubt threw them
down when I got there, for they were a trouble to carry
together [both struggling]. Neither is black and neither
is tiny.
Miss Samuels must be assumed to have known that
I have cats, for there have been many references to them
in her notes, which I have usually told her were ajopro-
priate, or something to that effect ; but that would
not, of course, account for the coincidence regarding
catching by its tail a kitten that was running after
}
156 Hubert Wales. [paet
another. My recollection of that incident is quite clear
and definite—its back slipped under my hand, but I just
got it by the tail.
|
(3) On April 1, 1919, a niece came to tea. Afterwards,
when I was in my study, I heard her trying over songs,
preparatory to having a singing lesson.
Impression (2), like the "barn or house" incident
related below (p. 179), seems to indicate that some part
of Miss Samuels had a better knowledge of the truth
than ultimately reached paper ; for a kitten cannot " chase
"
another until it has passed the " tiny " stage, unless
that word be given an unduly wide meaning. My kitten
was six months old at the time of the incident. !
This case is one of those which (no doubt, largely
because of their trivial subjects) make little impression
at the first glance, but which, on closer examination, (1
reveal a striking string of coincidences. It wiU be seen
that in the following particulars it corresponded with an
actual incident : (1) there were two kittens concerned
(one really a cat) ; (2) they were outside a room ; (3) one
was running after the other ; (4) somebody caught one ;
(5) it was the hind one ; (6) it was caught by its
tail ; (7) it was put back into the room. In regard to
the incorrect statement about the caught kitten being
black, it is perhaps worth remarking that, about then, I jj.
had said several times severely to my kitten (which is
grey and white) that it was obvious to me, judging from
its deplorable condition, that it had spent some time
in the coal shed.
XXVI.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received April 11, 1919).
April 10, 1919. 4.30 [a.m.].
An argument on the telephone re 2/10. £50 also is
mentioned.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 157
Note written by H. W., April 12, 1919.
I have recently received accounts from two publishing
firms [the only two with whom I have business relations]
—the first enclosed a cheque for £50. 7 ; the second (which
I received on April 9, 1919) enclosed a cheque for 2/4.
I feel there must be some mistake about this latter
amount, which is far less than I expected, and have
entered into correspondence about it. I did not remember
the exact amounts of the cheques and have had to refer
to papers to write this note : I knew only that one
was for fifty pounds and something, the other for two
shUhngs and something.
Corroboration is provided by two documents addressed
to me, in the following terms :
(1) From Hughes Massie c& Co., Literary Agents :
Hubert Wales, Esq., London, April 1th, 1919.
Dear Sir, We have received from. Messrs. CasseU & Co.
cheque for 2/6 on account of Roys on " Thirty Days "
and have pleasure in sending herewith our cheque for 2/4
representing such amount less commission. . . . Yours
faithfully
pp Hughes Massie & Co.
[The enclosed cheque, which I still have in my possession
at the time of writing, is dated April 8th.]
(2) From John Long, Ltd., Publishers :
London, S.W. 1, 18^^ March 1919.
Dear Mr Wales,
Herewith please find statements of additional sales
of books of yours, in various editions, to the end of last
year. In terms thereof enclosed is my firm's cheque
for £50. 7. Formal receipt in course will obhge.
Yours very truly,
John Long.
I have only to add that the statement about the
telephone is wrong ; I never use a telephone if I can
avoid it ; the " argument " or discussion is proceeding
through the post. I noticed, however, during my few
short visits to Miss Samuels's shop, that her telephone
158 Hubert Wales. [part !
was prominently in use. In this respect the case is
one of several (see particularly XLIII. and LI. (2)
below) which suggest that the setting of a veridical
impression is often provided by the percipient's ownassocia- j
tions.
XXVII.
The following does not purport to be telepathic, but
;
in view of Miss Samuels's apparent ability to obtain
knowledge of my thoughts supernormally, of which I have
given instances, is, I think, worth transcribing.
Extract from letter from Miss Savmels to H. W., dated
8.30 'p.m., August 28, 1918, received August 30, 1918.
I wonder if I shall like " The Purpose," I think I
shall, anyhow most of it . . . [three or four lines omitted]
I expect my notes are not at all new but they help
to explain me and my modes of thought, if I do think ?
Or do we all read too much and father other people's
thoughts ?
Extract from the first essay in " The Purpose " hy H. W
.
{published January 1914) (pp. 16-17) :
Somebody said quite recently—I wish I could remember
who it was—that most people read too much and think
too little. I do not think you can travel very far without |
finding out that that is true. You meet people constantly
who can talk fluently about what others have thought
—
they have Maeterlinck and Nietzsche and many others at
their finger [!]-tips—but they never go on to give expression :
to any thoughts of their own that have sprung from their
reading. They become storehouses and mechanical dis-
seminators of what Milton calls " usurped opinions."
I wrote and asked Miss Samuels, without giving her
my reason for asking, if, at the time she wrote to me, she
had received the book from the library. She replied
(September 1, 1918) that she had not, and in a later :
letter spontaneously complained that she had still been
unable to obtain it.^
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference.
1
While this paper has been passing through the press, a similar coinci-
dence in connection with this same book. The Purpose, has occurred
with another correspondent, Miss F., of Watford (full name and address
known to the Society). Miss F. has had other experiences which
suggest, so far as they go, the telepathic acquisition of information
from me, emerging, for the most part, not, as in the case of Miss
Samuels, in dreams, but in waking hallucinations (apparitions of me).
The references corresponding with The Purpose, however, occurred, as
with Miss Samuels, in the course of an ordinary letter, suggesting
nothing supernormal on its face, but which reached me, again as in
the case of Miss Samuels, at a time when I had reason to think Miss F.
would shortly read that book, because I knew it to be in the hands
of a mutual friend, from whom I expected her to borrow it. The
corresponding passages are as follows :
Extract from letter fro7n Miss F. to H. W., received August 20, 1919.
I'm reading '
Wuthering Heights ' again, and although at first
it repels me, the characters are so very rough and barbarous that
one almost shudders—at least I do—I'm fascinated and it grips
me stronger each time. The people in it somehow fit in with
the rugged scenery of Yorkshire. ... I think the Bronte women
were wonderful, and although I like '
Jane Eyre '
tremendously,
I always come back to Emily's book. I know it is not nearly
so popular as Charlotte's works. I do hope you won't mind me
writing like this and I don't suppose you'll agree with me in
my views. Each time I read Emily Bronte's book I feel what
a tragedy her life was—and to be only 28 or 29, I forget which,
when she wrote it and to die at 30 !
I endorsed this on November 23, 1919 :
Compare The Purpose pp. 248-9. Miss F. informed me that
she had not read this book, though she had had it in her hands
at the house of a friend [who had borrowed it from a library].
[The following added on November 29, 1919.] I had seen Miss F.
only twice at the time of the receipt of this letter. I had not
mentioned my views of '
Wuthering Heights '
to her, and I have
no recollection of speaking on the subject of the Brontes at all.
She insists that she had not read the passage in '
The Purpose
'
or even glanced at it.
Extracts from ''The Purpose" (pp. 248-51).
One of the greatest artists who has lived, in my view, was
Emily Bronte. In her book Wuthering Heights she introduces
you, one after another, to a collection of human beings who repel
you without exception. . . . You feel it will be impossible to go
through a volume in the company of this sinister and barbarous
crew. The descriptions of the rugged scenery presently bring
you a little comfort. . . . The story grips and you continue
reading ; and, long before the end, you have realized that the
160 Hubert Wales. [part
XXVIII.
The following is an instance of apparent thought-
transference from another agent. I quote it because of the
unusual feature it contains in the indication of the verbal
transmission of a thought—because, in other words, the
agent, without consciousness of his act, appears to have
succeeded in the task of "getting a name through."
When I called on Miss Samuels on August 9, 1918, she
gave me a slip of paper containing notes roughly jotted
down. These, she said, were the notes she had made
of her impressions of the previous morning, and added
that she had sent a copy of them to Mr. Fuller in Ireland
for his comments. (I am giving the facts from my
contemporary note.) The paper was headed "8/8/18,"
and the first note was as follows (I transcribe from the
original document) :
ill
nauseaum
ele
My contemporary note proceeds :
She [Miss Samuels] told me orally, when she gave me
the notes, that the first phrase—which she pronounced
" il nauseam "
—was sounding in her ears when she woke,
that she imagined it to be Italian, but that she had
no knowledge of languages.
rough characters harmonize perfectly with the rough Yorkshire
moors and are their complement. . . .
There is a glamour resting on that book and its author which
appeals to me almost more than anything in the history of
literature. . . . She wrote Wuthering Heights when she was twenty-
eight and died at thirty. . . . Charlotte was afraid of Wuthering
Heights ; she shuddered at the nightly readings. . . . This is
to suggest nothing in disparagement of the author of Jane Eyre
and her wonderful gifts. [A passage appreciative of Jane Eyre.]
One can perceive that enthusiastically, and yet place Emily .
as far above Charlotte as Charlotte was above Anne.
Both this case and that given in the text are, of course, evidentially
weak, because of the impossibility of proving that my correspondents
had not read The Purpose or any part of it; but the independent
occurrence of these parallel incidents, each in connection mth a person
whom there is other reason to consider possessed of telepathic percep-
tivity, is, I think, at least a suggestive coincidence.
Lxxx.j Apparent Thought Transference. 161
She told me, too, I remember, that the duplication of
the first word was due to alternative attempts on her part
to reproduce the sound in 'writing.
I called again on Miss Samuels on August 14, when
she gave me a letter which she told me she had received that
morning from Mr. Fuller and also an envelope, bearing her
printed address, which she said had enclosed it. The envelope
bore the postmark :
[Undecipherable word] Camp. 12 Aug. 18.
The following is an extract from the letter :
[Mr. FuUer's fuU address] Curragh, Ireland.
Monday noon [12th August, 1918].
. . . Perhaps the strangest experience we have yet had
is that connected with the two words you have quoted,
the actual spelling as I saw it was IL NAUSEAUM ; these
words I saw written in thick blue pencil in printed letters
as I have put them, on white paper and stuck up on
a waU on the edge of the camp. I don't know whether
I have ever told you, but if I come across words I cannot
understand, I keep repeating them to myself, as you
remark you kept repeatiiag them. These words evidently
are not Latin, nor French ; at all events I have never
come across them before ; if French I should feel disposed
to translate them as "It is nauseating " or as we might
say, "It is sickening." Now what do they mean and
who could have pasted them up in the Curragh and
why. ... H. H. Fuller.
The omitted portion of the letter is mainly comment
on other items in Miss Samuels's notes. In these, though
Mr. Fuller finds correspondence with his thoughts, he
points out confusion and discrepancies. I cite one of
these matters, as relevant to the question of the good
faith of the witnesses. Among the notes on the paper
handed to me by Miss Samuels on August 9 was the
following :
bowl or bath vdth deep cover.
Mr FuUer's comment on that was as follows :
Pi
t'
'I
162 Hubert Wales. [part
The deep bowl I cannot trace, unless it is the baths
we have here ;
they are rather primitive and have wooden
covers. H
I judge from the form of this comment that, in the
copy of her notes sent to him by Miss Samuels, the
words " or bath " were omitted.
I wrote to Mr. Fuller, asking him if he felt quite clear
that he had not mentioned the words " il nauseaum " to
'
Miss Samuels at any time before August 8, and if he i
could obtain corroborative testimony to his seeing them.
The following is an extract from his reply, dated August
25, 1918 :
Now to reply to your two queries, firstly, " II nauseaum."
'
I am confident that these words were not sent to Miss |
Samuels, as a matter of fact they must have been written i
by her to me on the day following the evening on which i
I saw them ; I did not write them until I replied to i
i
that letter and corrected the spelling. The words puzzled !
me for an hour or two and were then dismissed from my t
mind, I gave them no further thought until I received
her letter, then went round to make sure of the spelling
;
but the paper had been removed either by human agency I
or the rain the latter I fancy, as the night had been
a very wet one. Unfortunately I was quite alone when f
I came across them, and, as I say, gave no further thought
to them untU the arrival of Miss Samuels' letter.
The manifest weakness of this remarkable case is that
it rests upon the bo7ia fides of Miss Samuels and Mr.
Fuller, who were practically strangers to me. The whole j
thing might have been prepared for me. I feel, however,
that—apart from the confidence in their sincerity I have i
since come to have—the subsequent correspondence of j
Miss Samuels's notes with my thoughts is strong !i
presumptive evidence in their favour.
J
That is my first instalment of extracts. I do not 1
know to what extent it may seem to Members of the i>
Society and others that a case is made out. For my i
part, I feel satisfied, after allowing for the large admixture 1
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transjermce. 163
of irrelevant matter, that all the correspondences recorded
above cannot reasonably be referred to chance. Call
it telepathy or what you will, there seems to me to have
been acquisition of knowledge by some means other
than the sensory channels of common experience. For
those who may be of the same opinion, I propose to
relate next some cases which, assuming a telepathic
connection, seem as if they might be of interest to examine
on other grounds.
Before proceeding to do so, I may perhaps make a
few general remarks.
Although she recognises that willing or concentration
by the agent are ineffective in her case. Miss Samuels
is impressed by the popular view that telepathic com-
munication is conditioned or facilitated in some way
by the agent directing his thoughts upon her ; and she
has been fruitful of suggestions as to how I might think
of things " in connection with" her. After repeated
experiments, however, I have come to the conclusion that
whether I think of things " in connection with " her or
think of her at all has practically no influence on the
results. In many of the most striking cases, I think
in the majority, the correspondences have concerned
matters which have affected my mind without the remotest
conscious thought of Miss Samuels. In other words, the
subjects of her veridical notes have nearly always been
unexpected by me.^ Even the " black evening dress
cut low,"' though I had told my niece facetiously that I
anticipated it, took me by surprise when it came ; and
the " black, heavy, childlike handwriting,'' although, as
will have been seen, correct to the smallest detail, set
^ The following is an exception, though the coincidence is not strong
enough to exclude chance. On October 22, 1918, I made the following
note :
" Thought of B. S. on bicycle being knocked over by a sheep."
Miss Samuels's notes of the next day contained :
" A large St. Bernard's
dog—a sheep." There was, in fact, in the incident I had had in mind,
though not mentioned in my note, a dog on the other side of the
sheep. I can recollect no other allusion to a sheep in Miss Samuels's
notes, but there have been many to dogs. I should add, perhaps,
that the making of the note did not, in this instance, mean that I
had concentrated on the thought—I made it merely as an aid to
memory.
164 Hubert Wales. [part
me vaguely wondering, for a time, if I knew any writing
like it. On the other hand, there have been things
which I have hoped Miss Samuels would get—to which
my thoughts have turned again and again with that
hope—which she has not got or got anything at all
resembling. I remember, among others, an incident of a
mongoose and an incident of a gramophone. After
these eight months of observation and analysis, I cannot
put my finger on any cause or condition which appears
to have an influence on the selection of one thought
rather than another for transference. It seems almost
as if some mind other than my conscious mind chose
the subjects, chose with evidential requirements steadily
in view, and chose, on the whole, from that standpoint,
remarkably well.^ I can tell no more what, from out
my stock of thoughts and memories, is likely to find a
place in Miss Samuels's notes than I can tell what is
likely to find a place in my remembered dreams. Indeed,
many of her impressions in sleep as related by her might
have been my own dreams.
During the whole period, however—in the course of
which I have received many hundreds of notes—I have
not noticed a single instance of correspondence with
one of my dreams, though I am a prolific dreamer and
often retain a very fair recollection of dream incidents
for a day or two, or longer.^ There have been one
or two correspondences with those comparatively rare
vivid visual images or auditory impressions one is liable
to get in a somnolent state, usually, in my case, just
after waking. In a few other cases of such impressions
I have apparently been the percipient, but these have
' Note, for example, in Case XLIII. below, the correspondence with
one of the, comparatively, very few stories I have not published. There
have been no correspondences with published stories.
^ Since the above was written, on the night of April 28-29, 1919, I
dreamt of a human body (apparently dead) without arms. Miss Samuels's
notes of the preceding day, received the next morning, contained the
following : "A young lady about 25 to 28 without arms." This
does not, however, affect the statement in the text, for, if the thing
were not due to chance, I was apparently the percipient, since my
impression was the later of the two.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 165
not been numerous enough for any conclusion to be based
on them.^
I have noticed some tendency to periodicity in the
occurrence of Miss Samuels's veridical impressions. Many
days have sometimes passed without anything cropping
up in the notes that was applicable to me ; at other
times, two or three striking correspondences have come
close together, even in the same set of notes. Bright
luminaries (such as are most of those I have quoted)
have been frequently surrounded by a cluster of small
stars. About the time of the receipt of the " memory
of Paris " note, (Case VII.), for example, there was quite
a number of minor, isolated references, relevant, so far
as they went, to my visit to Paris, but not specially
connected with it by Miss Samuels. This is, no doubt,
to some extent (though I think not entirely) accounted
for by the fact that the occurrence of a correspondence
necessarily turns my thoughts anew to the incident upon
which it is based.
V
I
'
Pakt II.
Some Cases which, assuming a telepathic connection,
[: seem worth EXAMINING AS THROWING LIGHT ON ITS
f NATURE.
In the extracts from my records which I now proceed
to give I have not thought it necessary to mark omissions
by dots, except in cases where it is important to show
the precise place where words are left out. In all
instances I have included every word that appears to be
connected with the particular impression discussed.
The circumstance that many of Miss Samuels's notes
have been seen by two or more possible agents inde-
pendently has provided an excellent trap for chance-
coincidences. I quote first one of these catches, for it
gives an idea of how near one may expect to get to the
detail of a thought by chance alone.
^ They all occurred in the week between the receipt of Miss Samuels's
first letter and my first visit to her shop.
1-66 Hubert Wales. [part
XXIX.
Extract from Miss SamueWs notes {received November Q,
1918).
November 5, 1919. 8.45 a.m.
Some children or young people learning to dance, one
cried about something.
On the same day that I received the above I received
also the following comment upon it by Miss Sylvia Howard,
one of Miss Samuels's assistants, a young girl of fifteen
or sixteen, but who looks older, who has on many occa-
sions sent me notes indicating some correspondence between
incidents affecting her thoughts and Miss Samuels's
impressions :
I generally go to a club on Monday evenings for dancing
and other amusements. When I went last night [Novem-
ber 4, 1918] there were not many ladies there, and those
that were there were dancing and took no notice of
me, and though I did not cry I felt very much like
doing so.
Note tvritten by H. W., November 6, 1918.
At dinner on November 4, 1918, my daughter talked most
[of] the time about some children learning to dance (she had
been seeing them) and of one making another cry or
nearly so.
My wife's corroborative statement, dated November 6, 1918.
Two evenings ago we talked at dinner, in my husband's
presence, of some children having dancing lessons, and
my daughter told of one naughty little thing who was
unkind to another and nearly made her cry.
I noticed that the words " or young people " in Miss
Samuels's original notes were not in the body of the
script, but were inserted between the lines. Upon my
asking her about this, she admitted that she had added
these words after she had reached the shop and heard
Miss Howard's story—giving (I believe quite honestly)
a turn to the fading memory of her percept in keeping
with her assistant's experience. It will be seen that there
LXXX.] Ap-parent Thought Transference. 167
is no correspondence between them, except the general
circumstance of dancing, if the words quoted are elimi-
nated.
Distortion by Automatist.
I extract next some cases suggesting the confused and
distorted emergence of information telepathically acquired.
XXX.
Extract from Miss Samuels' s notes {received August 18, 1918).
{Transcribed from copy typed by Miss Samuels.)
Copy of Telepathy notes made in bed 5.45 a.m. received
the 17th August by Miss Jane Samuels (in Maidenhead).
I feel that most of these impressions come from or
[are] connected with Mr. Wales.
I see some pictures or prints laying {sic) on a table,
a slave market picture I think [Miss Samuels's original
notes have '
kmd of thmg '
instead of '
I think ']. A nude
woman pale tone in skin, not white I mean [original
notes have '
not quite white I should say '] the woman
is being held [original notes, '
I think '] by two men
one each side. I do not pick up the picture, I look at
it in passing.
Sketch here of position of slave market picture.
[Rough sketch of raised platform or dais of two steps ;
on the top step rudimentary outline of figure, marked
'
nude golden skinned woman,' with an upright oval on
either side marked '
man,' '
man,' ; below the dais circles
marked '
people looking up.']
Note written by H. TF., August 18, 1918.
A day or two before my visit to London [on August 8,
1918—date fixed by contemporary note], after 1 had
made Miss Samuels 's acquaintance by correspondence, but
before I had met her, I looked, for a particular puri^ose,
168 Hubert Wales. [PAET
at some prints [of engravings] in my possession. The
first, which forms a sort of decorative frontispiece to
the rest, shows a nude woman seated on a throne or
ornate chair, apparently somewhat raised up, with an
embroidered footstool under her feet. There is a man's
head on either side of her, but these are not in her
environment, but are vignetted in ovals amid scroll work.
There are no other figures ui the picture, and it is not
intended to represent a slave market or similar scene, but
is, as I have said, a decorative design. I looked at it
on this occasion only casually in passing, going on to
the other prints, which I [had] spread on my desk
—
not on a ... table. The female figure in the
print alluded to is dark : she is probably Italian, as are
certainly the men. I have made no attempt to transmit
any of these thoughts to Miss Samuels, but, on account
of the particular matter in my mmd, I have thought of
these prints since the occasion mentioned.
In spite of the confusion, there are, I think, in the
note quoted above, correspondences with my thoughts
difficult to assign to chance. Miss Samuels, it will be
seen, got a correct impression of a picture with the
somewhat unusual grouping of a single nude female figure,
seated on something raised, between two men ;
^
that
this was one of a series of " pictures or prints " spread
out on a table [desk] ; and that it was looked at only
cursorily in passing.
Many of Miss Samuels's impressions suggest muddled
dreams I might have expected to have as the result
of antecedent experiences or thoughts ; but since, in these
cases, from their nature, the correspondence is rarely
closer than could, without undue strain, be referred to
chance, it would be tedious to relate them.
The following are further instances of confused corre-
spondence.
1 There is an evident implication, I think, that the men were clothed
—as they are in my print.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 169
XXXI.
Extract from letter from Miss Samuels, dated August 27,
1918 (received August 28, 1918).
Dear Mr. Wales,
No telepathy, all mixed up with thoughts from
my own relations, the only one that might be something,
and yet seems more Uke my own shop is, that I saw
4 shallow trays or box lids, the bordering edge about
as wide as the spaces on this paper, the traj-s were about
also as large as this paper [11 in. by 8f in., mth If in.
margins] filled well filled with an assortment of things
like pins or clips. ... I handle the things in the trays,
move my fingers about, as if I liked the feel of the
things.
Extract from note written by H. W., August 28, 1918.
A few days ago, finding my method of attaching together
the papers connected with these experiments with ordinary
paper fasteners rather inconvenient, when the papers were
continually being added to, I looked up " letter files " in
Harrod's fist, with the idea of ordering some. They
tm-ned out to be much heavier and more elaborate thuigs
than I expected : two or three of the illustrations repre-
sented trays of just the size and shape described by
Miss Samuels, with clip attachments. [The size given
in one case is 12 by 8f by 1|.] I thought these were
altogether too clumsy for my purpose, and ultimately
ordered four simple letter clips.^ I ordered a box of
paper fasteners at the same time. . . . My edition of
Harrod's List appears to be neither dated nor numbered,
but it is one almost certainly issued before the war. The
illustrations of letter files at which I looked are on
pp. 302-3.
Later note. Before she could have received my note
on her impression Miss Samuels sent me a letter file.
^ I still have these four clips ;
they proved to be quite useless for
my purpose.
M
170 Hubert Wales. [part
XXXII.
Extract from Miss Samuels' s notes {received Septernber 2, 1918).
7.20 a.m. September 1, 1918. Bournemouth.
I am 'Rith 2 men or I am one of 2 men (it's mixed)
been playing perhaps golf or some game. One, however,
has a thing which looks hke a patent seat that can be
carried about, when open or a part puUed out, it can
be sat upon. Leaving the rather small field where they
have been, they speak to a village boy who seems rather
simple when asked some question. The boy is fair. . . .
I should think these few things come from Mi-. Wales.
[Added in accompanj^ng letter.] The man you had
some game vdth was rather a big man, or bigger than
you.
Note written by H. W., September 2, 1918.
The friend I met and talked with the other day (August
28, 1918) [reference to a previous note] is one mth whom
I have often played goH—in fact, he is the Secretary of the
local golf club—but I have not played with him or anyone
recently. He is a massively built man, but not more
than medium height—about my height, but probably
weighs [half as much again]. I have a dim impression
that I have seen another member of the Club, a man
who is somewhat decrepit, using such a portable seat as
Miss Samuels describes, when playing golf. ... In the
days when I played golf here habitually one of the best
known of the caddies was a youth of somewhat weak
intellect, what is called " a natural."
Later 7iofe. I learn, upon enquiry, that there is, in
fact, a member of the Golf Club who uses a portable
seat while playing.
Corroborative letter from the Secretary of the Hindhead Golf Club.
Aiml 30, 1919. Golf Club, Hindhead.
Dear IVIr. Hubert Wales,
I perfectly recollect meeting you on the Ports-
mouth road and whilst you walked back with me we
spoke about telepathy. It is a fact that a member here
often takes out with him a portable stick seat—which he
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 171
sits on when tired. Yes for many years we had as a
caddie a youth of weak intellect.
On this day Miss Samuels's notes contained also the
reference to a missed train and the remark " Alone in
London." (Case II.)
XXXIII.
Extract fr07)1 Miss Samuels's notes {received October 26, 1918).
October 25, 1918. 6 a.m.
Brass, figure of a v/oman on it. [The following in
typed copy.] A brass coloured thing shaped something
like a tray -with the nude study of a woman on it half
facing the looker, she seems to be floating or swimming.
After I had told her that the above had some meaning
for me, Miss Samuels wrote, on October 28, 1918 :
The brass or copper [I had probably mentioned copper]
tray I saw very clearly—there was some remark about the
position of one leg, or a thought about it, I think the
remark was that she had long legs.
Note written by H. W., October 26, 1918.
A small bright polished tray ^^dth glasses upon it is
placed hi my study every evemng. On first reading
Miss Samuels's note I had the impression that this tray
was brass, but on closer reflection realized that it is
copper. It is always placed on the same table in a corner.
On the wall [above it] on the left and slightly in front, as one
faces the table, there hangs a small framed picture of a nude
woman. She is lying face do-wtiwards, her head raised
[half facmg the looker] resting on her arms which are
slightly extended, reading a book ; her hips are also a
Httle raised. As seen in a bad Ught, as I usually, indeed
almost invariably, see it, in this dark corner, the attitude
is distinctly suggestive of a woman smmming. Every
night, before gomg to bed, when often the room is hghted
only by my bedroom candle, I drmk some water [at]
this table, and my eye is generally caught by this picture
of the woman " half facing " me.
I
172 Hubert Wales. [part '
i;
The friend (a Frenchman) who gave me this little i
h
photogravure gave me also a statuette, also of a nude •
f
woman. This figure has exceptionally long legs—a feature li
which my friend was careful to point out, for he considered !
ji
it a beauty. I have never agreed with him—for the 1|
proportions seem to me rather masculine than feminine w
—but when I look at this long-limbed statuette, I think tj
of him and his remark. I (1
I cannot, however, say, to the best of my present :
recollection, that the idea that the attitude of this v/oman
in the picture suggested swimming had occurred to me before
the receipt of Miss Samuels's note. Besides the above, the '
|
notes for this day contained one clear correspondence with
my thoughts ^ and another somewhat confused.
XXXIV.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes [received October 30, 1918). ;
October 29, 1918. 7 a.m. I
^
Some American or Canadian [typed copy ' sisters ']
invite me [typed copy '
someone '] to a very nice tea ...
Such as they [the notes] are they are from Mr Wales.
Note written by H. W., October 30, 1918.
There is a Canadian Camp here. My daughter and
niece have .sometimes been invited to the messes to tea,
and have come bade with Avonderful stories of the luxuries
provided in these non-rationed places—pints of cream, i\
fruit cakes, and sugar-icing galore, according to their is
accounts.
The above illustrates a point of which there are a good
many examples in the notes—namely, that the introduction
by Miss Samuels of words or phrases to her typed copies,
made some hours after the reception of the impressions
and when her memoiy of them is doubtless beginning ^
to fade, is apt to mar what would otherwise have been i
1 This was a reference to " a secret letter," the fact being that, on
the previous afternoon, according to my contemporary note, I had
received " a letter without an address heading and signed with an i
agreed sign," so that I alone coiild identify the writer. i
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 173
exact correspondence wi'tli matters affecting my thoughts.
The note quoted would have been completely veridical
but for the insertion of the word " sisters," which had
no meaning for me. I had not, of course, informed
Miss Samuels that we had a Canadian Camp here ; and
any reference to it in a newspaper would probably have
called it merely " Bramshott Camp," without indication
that it was near Hindhead, which is in another county.
XXXV.
The following suggests a " portmanteau."
Extract from Miss SamueWs notes {received February 21, 1919).
February 20, 1919. 7.35.
I saw yesterday or the day before a curious -writing
or letter, the signature looked at a certain angle, it looked
like a small cock or hen about this size [rough sketch
of hen].
Note written by H. W., February, 21, 1919.
I have a correspondent who signs her letters with the
drawing of a bee, generally at a slight angle. I received
a letter from her on February 19, 1919. I have another
correspondent who signs her letters with the word
" Chicken." I received a letter from her on February 12,
1919, or about then.^
Note, March 24, 1919. I wrote the above [i.e. transcribed it for this papei ],
to the best of my recollection, in the afternoon or evening of Friday last (March
21, 1919). The following is an extract from Miss Samuels's notes for March 22,
1919, received this morning :
Overslept myself and can only remember one silly item—a rather
large flea.
Rather large ! I append a specimen of this bee signature.
Note, March 25, 1919. Miss Samuels has come nearer the truth
this morning (at any rate, as regards size) with the following (March 24,
1919) :
I also see some funny animal—a toy perhaps—a [doubtful word,
loolcs like '
jap '] beetle or spider perhaps, mostly legs.
I told Miss Samuels yesterday that her " rather large flea " was
a bigger and more reputable insect, but this letter crossed with the
above note, as the dates indicate.
174 Hubert Wales. [part
The notes of this date also contamed the reference to'
a broken leg. (Case XXIII.)
XXXVI.
The following, though somewhat long, seems worth!
transcribing, for it provides distinct evidence pointing
to the mixing and dramatizing of information telepathically
acquired with the stock of the percipient's normal memory. |
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received October 3, 1918,
and transcribed 'partly from the rough 7iotes, partly,
from the tyjml copy, the former being in places confused
and illegible). :
4 a.m. October 2, 1918.
A reception at Mx. Wales' house. I see Mr. Wales in
a room with a good many people, more ladies than men.
I get a thought of the Haymarket also Regents Park.
I seem to be looldng for Mr. Wales. I enter a front
room [tyi:>ed copy '
smaller room '] and see a young lady
restmg, my entrance disturbs her, her hat is lined with
green silk [typed copy '
on later thoughts it may be a
green light shade.'] I find Mr. Wales at last in a small
back room [typed copy '
another room at the back ']
(the '
I '
in this case seems to be Jane Samuels) sketch
of room enclosed. [Rough plan enclosed (see reproduc-
tion).] The room is very nice and settees are draped
with light coverings [original notes, '
Indian table covers
or light rugs.'] m. Wales seems very pleased to see
me but is annoyed that I meet one lady, she seems
to be trimming her naUs, I note her hands and nails
are well shaped, she wears her nails a little too pointed
however. A smallish man [description on plan '
rather |
small elderly man '] is sitting near the window in a high
backed chak, and is looking at and handing round some
cUm looking pictures and photos, one at the bottom is a
coloured one which he keeps at the bottom of the pile. I
seem to be hurried off a party is going to the theatre—
the Haymarket. Mr. Wales is very anxious that I do not
forget my impressions of rooms and the people. The
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transfermce. 175
nicest iady is the most plain but she is charming. There
is also a man to show us out (my sister seems to appear
at the last) so we bow at the door and go. The lady
]VIr. Wales does not really hLo has been cutting the skin
round her nails. When Mr. Wales first tries to make
me see him he is alone the room is dark except for the
Ught shining straight in his face. ... I enjoyed my
visit to Mr. Wales' house very much and admired the
draped things. I shook hands with Mr. Wales on leaving
but not anyone else in the room.
The notes for this date also contain the reference to
Earl's Court Road (Case V.).
It is more convenient in this case to use my con-
temporary note as a guide to the facts, instead of quoting
it verbatim. I will deal first with the features suggesting
telepathy. On September 30, on entering a room, I
disturbed my wife, who, unknown to me, was resting
there on a sofa. The table lamp in my study has
a green shade—the only shade in the room. I spend
most of my time in this room and am usually alone.
After dark the only light I use is this small electric
table lamp on my desk. When people enter the room
I have difficulty in seeing them at first, because the
hght (which is between the door and me) shines straight
in my face. The plan enclosed by Miss Samuels shows
the position of seven objects. Of these, five
—" door,"
" sofa," " fireplace," " tall backed chair " and " window "—
correspond with such objects in my drawing-room and
are placed in the right relative positions. The " tall
backed chair " is conspicuously right. The remaining
two are a " desk," placed behind the sofa, where there
is, in fact, a cabinet, and a " settee," placed in a position
where there is an easy chair. (See plan of the room repro-
duced.) It is not a back room, but it is back in relation
to my study. The window corresponding with that in
Miss Samuels's sketch plan looks out at the back, but
the room contains another window. It is small for
a drawing-room (18 by 16 ft.), certainly small for a
" reception " such as Miss Samuels indicates. We had
176 Hubert Wales. [PAET
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transfere7ice. 177
had no reception, however, or anything of the kind ;
but Miss Samuels's description of two of the people of
her visionary reception correspond, so far as they go,
with two visitors who, about this time, had come on
separate occasions to tea. The first, who came abovit a
week before the date of Miss Samuels's impression, was a
woman who was working on the land, and who talked
a good deal about her nails and how she managed to
care for them. I can remember her holding up her
hands and looking at her nails as she spoke. They were
not pointed—on the contrary, she said that she kept
them short—but the mention of nails inevitably sends
my thoughts to a woman I used to know who cut her
nails to sharp, inelegant points. It is the case that,
for some reason, I did not much take to the woman
who talked of her nails, and I was quite conscious of
this at the time. The second visitor came on the day
preceding the date of Miss Samuels's note—that is, on
October 1, 1918. She is a plain woman, but a particvilarly
nice one. That is not, of course, an unusual combination,
but in this case it was the subject of conversation both
before and after her visit, there were references to the
superficial judgment of men (she is unmarried) and so
on. About ten days before the date of the impression
I showed a third visitor (this time one staying in the
house) photographs of Miss Samuels and Mr. Fuller,
deliberately withholding a second photograph of Miss
Samuels. It will be seen that the only unity of these
various visits and incidents (which all took place in the
drawing-room) is that provided by the retrospective
vision of my mind. I have no particular association
with the Haymarket, beyond that it forms part of the
address of a firm of publishers with whom I have had
a business connection for about fifteen years, and, except-
ing occasional walks there, none with Regents Park. The
impression of light draperies is conspicuously wrong as
regards the drawing-room ; the main articles of furniture
in that room are covered with dark purple velvet and the
curtains are of plain shades of lighter purple. There
is nothing in the least oriental about it. The " small
178 Hubert Wales. [part
elderly man " and the man-servant suggested nothing
to me.
I now come to the features of the vision which appear
to have been suggested by Miss Samuels's normal memories.
I . told her, briefly and generally, the extent to which
her impression corresponded with matters in my thoughts.
I fear she was disappointed that I could not tell her
she had described, literally and exactly, an actual occur-
rence ; but on October 13, having probably been thinking
about the matter in the meantime, she wrote :
The little old man belongs to me. As you will note,
I state " my sister now seems to be with me a man-
servant shows us out," etc. That is a memory from
her or from myself as we were together. . . He is a
very rich relation of ours, who we do not know very
well, and when war broke out [I went to see him]. He
does keep a tall man-servant or did in 1915.^
One is tempted by this case to the speculation that
Miss Samuels's subliminal consciousness, having received
a telepathic impact, produced a picture of the relative's
room, as the closest approximation, available in her
stock of memories, to the arrangements of my drawing-
room ; and hence, perhaps, the mistakes, not only about
the little old man and the man-servant, but also about
the light draperies and the misplaced articles of furniture.
I feel pretty sure, at least, from my observations, that Miss
Samuels can get an impression of nothing that is quite
new to her, quite foreign to her knowledge and thoughts.^
^ Miss Samxiels told me in later letters (April 26 and April 28, 1919)
that he lives in Hay Hill—which possibly suggested Haymarket-—and
that many years previously the family had lived in Portland Place,
which is, of course (as Miss Samuels knows) close to Regents Park.
2 This has its countei-part, I think, in svipraliminal action. I, at
least, find, when writing fiction, that I always have in mind some
room (or other place, as the case may be, but usually a room) I have
known. I cannot produce and sustain a sheerly invented mental
picture. No doubt, for purposes of description, I could deliberately
and by effort set up in my mind a kind of architect's plan of a strange
room, as a dramatist does of a stage, but that would hold only while
I was actually concentrating on description ; as soon as I proceeded
to the action of the story, a room known to me would inevitably
be presented to my mind's eye as the scene of it.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought. Transference. 179
Oedipus, for example (Case XIV.), came out as a
scene in a modem theatre or picture. JVIiss Samuels,
doubtless, has little or no knowledge of C4reek history
and literature ; but she has attended an art school,
and so it is not surprising to find that references to
" draped figures " and so on come out with facility.
XXXVII.
Another instance of this apparent inabilit}^ to obtain
impressions of anything alien to her experience is the
following.
The structure of the house I occupy is unusual : it
is built all on one floor, extending, as its name suggests,
over a long piece of ground, and the rooms have no
ceilings but are open to the rafters. Miss Samuels's
notes have never specifically referred to thsse peculiarities
—it is extremely probable that she has no knowledge
of any house of the same type—but those for March 21,
1919, contained the following significant item :
Inspect old rambling barn or house, everything to be
cleared out, except Landlord's fixtures, such as old-
fashioned fireplaces etc.
It will be seen that, although, in writing her note,
J Miss Samuels uses the word barn "'
(apparently the
nearest she could get, through her normal knowledge,
to the kind of building she wished to describe) the
reference to " old-fashioned fireplaces " indicates that
some part of her knew that it was not a barn.
The next day, March 22, 1919, produced the following :
And a very vague remembrance of being in an old
house again in a bad state of repair.
The " again " evidently comiects this with the impression
of the previous day, so she definitely commits herself
to a house and abandons the barn. The reference to
" a bad state of repair " is relevant. The house has
been much on my mind of late, as we have unexpectedly
(on March 5, 1919) received notice to leave it in September.
I have been asked to buy it ; its bad state of repair,
180 Hubert Wales. [part
particularly as regards some of the floors, is one, but
not the main, objection to doing so. The old-fashioned
fireplaces are a feature of the house,—indeed, the landlord's
fixtures generally, library shelves and cupboards, but
particularly the fireplaces.^
The only other note for March 22, 1919, is that about
" a rather large flea " (see footnote to Case XXXV.).
XXXVIII.
The following is another of the rare cases where there is
at least a confused correspondence with something in
the main current of my thought, as distinguished from
trivial and transitory impressions.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received March 28, 1919).
March 27, 1919. 7.30.
A senciable \sic\ letter received relating to spiritualism,
written of [sic'] cream or yellow thin paper, this shape
[7|x4f ins.] but larger. The letter seems addressed
to me, it also seems from my Father (who is dead)
so I am afraid it is very mixed in my mind, it also
seems to have my unusual pet name on it or a word
of three letters " pet " of course it may be " Sir " or
" Sis." The first two paragraphs of the letter aie very
stricldng [sic] (if you read the letter you liked it).
Note written by H. W., March 28, 1919.
Within the last month I have received two important
letters from ]\'Ii's. Sidgmck (the second is dated March 17)
which have much occupied my mind and led to my
preparing a paper for the S.P.R. from these notes. Neither
touched on spiritualism [though both were concerned
with psychical research] ; but Miss Samuels gives that
word a very wide significance, and I think avoids the
word " psychical," which she has difficulty in spelhng.
Both letters are witten on paper 8f x 6| ins. of a faint
'
Since the text was written everything in the house " except landlord's
fixtures such as old-fashioned fireplaces etc." has been " cleared out."
As I walked through the empty rooms in September or October, 1919,
I thought of Miss Samuels's note.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 181
buff tint ; both begin " Dear Sir," a form sufficiently
unusual in any but the business letters I receive for
me to notice it. The first two sentences of the second
letter are of particular importance, for they state Mrs.
Sidgwick's opinion of some extracts from these notes
that I had sent her ; the second sentence contains the
words " very striking." Though not, of coiu-se addressed
to Bliss Samuels, the letter is concerned v.'ith her and
mentions her name. In view of the authorship, no one
will be surprised that it is " senciable " ; and I certainly
liked it.
On March 29, 1919, I wrote to Miss Samuels asking
her what was the pet name of three letters to which
she had aUuded, and if her father had used it. I also
put the following question :
" What do you understand
by a paragraph ?
" In her reply, dated March 31, 1919,
she said that the pet name was " pet," as stated in
the note, and that her late father had always, called
her by it. The transition of ideas from this to the
relevant " Sir " is difficult to follow. Replying to the
second question, Miss Samuels said :
" My understanding
of a paragraph is part of a sentence, yet can stand alone.".
I have felt diffident of pursuing the interrogation to the
extent of asking her what she understands by a sentence,
but I suspect it is what most of us understand by a
paragraph.
It is scarcely necessary to say that I had not told Miss
Samuels that I was in correspondence with Mrs. Sidgwick
or anyone on the subject of her phenomena.
XXXIX.
The following is an apparent case of confused emergence
in which Mr. FuUer seems to have been the agent.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {handed to H. W.,
August 9, 1918). {These are the notes containing the
words " ill nauseaum," Case XXVIII.)
August 8, 1918.
182 Hubert Wales. [part
3 storey small printing office. Centre one room file
of newspaper (or like)—very narrow space to pass—about
a foot.
Extracts from contemporary yiotes by H. W.
Miss Samuels told me [in reference to " file of newspaper
or like "], when she gave me her notes, that she had
had an impression of something Uke a double printing
frame, the shape of an inverted V. She showed me a
single printing frame and explained how, in [a] double
one, another would stand with its back to it .... in
reference to " very narrow space," that she had some
impression, in connection with this, of the thick circular
posts by which ships are made fast to quays.
Neither Miss Samuels nor I could remember the name
of these posts at the time, but I now know it is
" cap-
stan." I gather, from the form of his reply, that she
embodied these oral explanations in the copy of the notes
she sent to Mr. Fuller.
Mr. Fuller's comments {for method of recei'pt see Case XXVIII.).
The typecase or newspaper file is, as a matter of fact,
a fitting connected with the new tanks that are worrying
Fritz—when I say that the fitting is very suggestive of
a double typecase, I have said all I can say without
offending D.O.R.A.
The difficulty of getting round a post or something :
—
Our planes are R.E. 8. type, the cockpit in which the
photographer sits is so small there is scarcely room to
turn round when standing up and as there is a small
revolving stool (like a piano stool) in the centre, we
experience great difficulty in fitting in our cameras, as
the long lens is put through a hole in the floor of the
'bus.i
It will be seen that, whereas Miss Samuels's impression
related wholly to one subject—the arrangements in "a
small printing office "—the correspondence noted by
Mr. Fuller concerned two separate and distinct things.
' A .slang name for an aeroplane.
Lxxx.] A-pparent Thought Transference. 183
A printing office is familiar to Miss Samuels, but " 'buses
"
and " tanks," no doubt, are not.
Possible Transference of Latent Thonghts.
I turn next to some cases suggesting the transference
of the agent's latent thoughts. Three have already
been referred to, the Irishman's black horse (IV.), The
Paris steps (VII.), and the portable seat (XXXII.). The
following are others.
XL.
Extract from Miss SamneWs notes {received September 22, 1918).
4.5 a.m. September 21, 1918. Harrow.
A hospital Red Cross train comes in on another plat-
form, so I do not see the first train gUde out. One
patient says " I am in no pain now, it will not be long
"
—he seems to ask the nurse for a leaf to hold.
The first part of this connects with a preceding note
and is possibly veridical (see below, Case LI.). There
was nothing in the remainder which conveyed anything
to me at the time of its receipt, but on October 29,
1918, I wrote the following comment :
I recently [since the receipt of Miss Samuels's note]
chanced to re-read Browning's " Evelyn Hope "—a poem
I have read often before and admire—and noticed that
the following lines occur in the last stanza :
" So, hush—I will give you a leaf to keep
—
See, I shut it inside the sweet cold hand."
Some months before the date of Miss Samuels's note
—I think about six or eight—I had carefully read
" Evelyn Hope " in connection with some remarks I
wrote for the S.P.R. Journal upon Mrs. Verrall's " Hope,
Star and Browning " script. It will be remembered
that, in Browning's poem, the leaf is put into the hand
of a dead girl : in Miss Samuel's vision it is asked for
by a patient who says " it will not be long."
184 Hubert Wales. [part
In reply to a question Miss Samuels wrote, on March 25,
1919 :
" No, I have never read any of Browning's or
anyone's poems, not my line . . . The only Evelyn
Hope I know is an actress."
This is, again, a case, like those concerned with the
man crying Le Matin (VII.) and the false Vandyke
beard made of soap-suds (XXIV.), which must, I think,
necessarily fail to make upon others so strong an impression
as it made upon me. When I read Miss Samuels's note,
I was struck by the oddness of the phrase " a leaf to
hold." Why a leaf ? It seemed such a strange thing
for a dying man to desire. Had it been a flower, I
should have thought nothing about it. And then, when,
a few weeks later, I chanced to re-read Browning's Evelyn
Hope, I remembered that, on my first reading of the
poem, I had been struck in precisely the same way by
the oddness of the idea " a leaf to keep." Why a leaf ?
It seemed such an unromantic thing to put into a dead
girl's hand. I thoiight he must mean a petal of a flower.
XLI.
Extract from Miss Samuels's 7iotes {received October 10, 1918).
3.10 a.m. October 9, 1918.
Mr. Mee.
When I received this, I had a strong impression,
almost a certainty, that I had seen the peculiar name
before, but I could not track the impression to any-
thing definite, so left the note uncommented upon. On
October 15, 1918, however, I wrote the following :
I have just chanced to notice that there is a book
on my study shelves, a " Children's Encyclopaedia," which
bears on its back the words " Edited by Arthur Mee."
When my eye was caught by the name, I was filling
a pipe from a tin standing on a ledge beneath the book-
shelves, idly glancing round as I did so. I must have
done the same thing in the same place hundreds, per-
haps thousands, of times before.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 185
The notes for this date contained, besides the above,
three or four having suggestive correspondences with my
thoughts, among others, the following, just after a refer-
ence to "an old lady " described as "an Italian or
gipsy " :
I see a high block of flats and seem to go to a small
room at the top.
Upon that I commented, October 10, 1918 :
I read, a few days ago, in the Journal S.P.R. for
October, a case concerned with a woman " who lives
alone at the top of a high block of flats."
This woman is referred to as " Mme. R.," and it is
stated that " she still takes the liveliest interest in the
outer world " ;
so, no doubt, I thought of her as foreign
and elderly.
XLII.
After receiving Miss Samuels's notes for October 26,
1918, I told her that the forest scene (Case XII.) was
appropriate to some of the contents of a letter I had
received from a friend in India. On October 29, 1918, I
received from her the following note, dated October 28.
1918 :
Another half remembered item—I think your friend in
India has dogs, I seemed to see two pressing close to
her side.
At the time I thought this was quite wrong, for my
impression was that my friend was by no means a
" doggy " woman ; but on the following day (October 30,
1918) I wrote the following note :
On looking over some " snap-shots " sent me by this
friend since she has been in India, I find that in three
or four of them she has been taken Avith a dog or dogs
with her, four or five different dogs appearing in them.
In a subsequent letter from India, replying to one in
which I told her of Miss Samuels's impressions, my
N
186 Hubert Wales. [part
friend told me she had two dogs of which she was par-
ticularly fond, " a lovely brown dachshund whom I
adore, and Tatcho, a small white fox terrier." No doubt,
she had told me the same thing before, but it had dropped
out of my conscious memory.
XLIII.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received March 27, 1919).
March 26, 1919. 7.30.
A photo of a bearded man called the Stranger.
Note written by H. W., March 27, 1919.
Many years ago, quite twenty, I wrote a story, which
was never published, about a bearded man, called " The
Stranger." I have just had to hunt up the MS., in a
parcel at the back of a cupboard, to see if the man had
a beard, though I had an impression that he had. It
is most exceptional for me to give a character a beard
;
I can think at the moment of no other instance.
References to photographs are common in Miss Samuels's
notes. No doubt the fact that she is in the photographic
business begets a tendency of dream images, whatever
their source, to take this form. There have been many
indications of the same general tendency : compare the
reference to a telephone in Case XXVI. The feeling
left on my mind is precisely that described by Mrs.
Salter in discussing Mrs. Piper's phenomena {Proceedings,
Vol. XXIV., p. 353) :
" It is as though vague, unattached
ideas were presented to the mind of the medium, and
were by her provided with an imaginary and inappropriate
setting."
XLIV.
In the following case an objective event makes it
probable that I had recently been thinking about the
subject suggested by the note, though I had no conscious
recoUection of doing so.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 187
Extract from Miss SamueWs notes {received February 28,
1919).
Thursday, 2.2.19 [should be 27.2.19].
In a shop or auction room, inspection of old vases
clocks, etc, etc,—3 special forks attract attention, offer
to exchange—pickpockets.
Gower Street.
Catching a thief and trying to make him confess and
go straight in future.
Note written by H. W., February 28, 1919.
On Tuesday or Wednesday evening (February 25 or 26,
1919) I received a letter from a friend, Mme d'A u, of
whom I had heard nothing for a very long time, asking
me to go and see her. I became acquainted with Mme
d'A u through a great friend of hers Mme A. Since
they are very much together, are both foreign and both
young and good looking, I necessarily associate them in
my mind. I don't think it would be possible for me
to think of one wdthout thinldng of the other. When
I first loiew Mme A., she lived in Gower Street, and
I several times went to see her there. [I have known
no one else who lived in, or was connected with. Grower
Street.] She once stayed with, us for two or three weeks,
and during that time had her pocket ])icked in Selfridge's
shop [losing her purse], which was a serious trouble to
her [and we had to give her some temporary help] as
her resources at that time were very limited.
This case seems to invite a comparison with com-
munications purporting to come from the dead. Had
Mme A. been dead, and had I been given " Gower St."
and " In a shop—pickpockets " as evidence of the identity -
of a purporting communicator, I should assuredly have
known who was meant and, I think, have felt that the
identifying details were well chosen. But these, as will
have been seen, are very meagre.
188 Huhert Wales. [part
Possible Transference of Associated Ideas.
Besides this, case there have been a good many which
have suggested the transference of associated ideas. One
of the most curious is the following.
XLV. I
On 9th April, 1919, I made one of my rare visits
to London, having been thinking of doing so, of course,
on the preceding day. On April 10th, after my return
home, I received Miss Samuels's notes of her impressions ^
dated the morning of April 9th. They contained the
following :
A lot of white birds come fljang past, I put out my ;
i
hand, one comes quite near to see if there is any food, I
>>
as there is not he flies away with the rest. [In accom-
panying letter] the white birds were the clearest, like ;
small gulls. ^'
Now, a few years ago, whenever I went to London, f
I bought buns at Waterloo and fed the gulls as
I crossed Hungerford Bridge. They would come flying
p
all round me, almost taking the food from my hands, i
I had not consciously been thinking of this at the d
time of Miss Samuels's note, but, as I have said, j
I had been thinking of my visit to London. I have been
there only three times in the eight months covered by the
observations.
Telepathy as against Clairvoyance.
The following case, in addition to several quoted
in other connections (notably the " reception," Case,
XXXVI.), suggests that, if information be obtained
supernormally, the means is telepathic, rather than by
any sort of direct vision.
Lxxx.] Ajrparent Thought Transference. 189
XLVI.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received January 6, 1919).
Januaiy 5, 1919. 5 a.m.
I am holding a water bottle by the neck like this
[rough sketch of bottle with fluted top and hand holding
it] [typed copy '
which is fluted with 4 divisions ']. I
wake up thinking I am holding a real bottle it is so
clear.
The notes for this day contain also the description
of the " childlike writing " (Case XVIII.) as well as some
other suggestive correspondences.
Note written by H. W., January 6, 1919.
This description exactly corresponds with our table
water-bottles, one of which I use several times dally—
the tops of the necks, instead of being circular, are divided
into four spouts as in IVIiss Samuels's sketch.
On examining one of the water-bottles afterwards,
however, I found that the mouth was divided, not into
four spouts, as I had supposed, but into three.
It is perhaps worth saying that this water-bottle,
Frank C'raig"s picture (the possible source of one of Miss
Samuels's notes not included in this report), the bright,
polished tray and the small photogravure of a nude woman
in a swimming attitude (Case XXXIII.) all occupy, in
the evening, a particular corner of my study near the
door, which catches my eye the last thing at night,
as I go to bed. I have noticed no such apparent con-
centration upon any other part of the house. There
is one other object in the corner—a small brown photo-
gravure of trees. This also has formed the subject of
a correspondence, but it belongs properly to the cases
in which there is a prima facie suggestion of precogni-
tion (see below, p. 205).
Casual Agency.
I extract next a few cases suggesting casual agency-
cases, that is, in which the apparent agent is neither
Mr. Fuller nor I.
190 Hubert Wales. [part
XLVII. <
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received September 22, 1918).
4.5 a.m. September 21, 1918. Harrow.
An old [typed copy '
elderly '] lady wants the Southamp-
ton train. They find they have to change into front
end of train. I seem to take 4 tickets. There is an
old gentleman also, tall. Lots of luggage [typed copy
'
hand luggage '] . . . Connected with buying the tickets,
more money was wanted. I remember a 10/- note and
3 extra shillings. [Typed copy, '
There is a question
of money I seem to want more than the 10/- note and
3 odd shillings that I hold in my hand.']
I found nothing in this to correspond with my thoughts,
and Mr. Fuller returned to me, without comment, on
September 30, 1918, the copy I had sent him. On
October 7, 1918, however, I received through Miss
Samuels a letter from a friend of hers. Miss C. Thorpe.
She is not, I understand, a great or intimate friend of
Miss Samuels's, but merely one of the many people with
whom she is on pleasant terms ; and she " blew into
"
her shop one day. The letter, which was dated October
5, 1918, is as follows :
Dear Mr Wales, Miss Samuels has just been showing
me some of her notes, and strangely enough about a train
bound for Southampton, on which an elderly lady and
myself were travelling. We had to get into the end
of this train because part of it was being left at Win-
chester, and two gentlemen saw us off, taking 2 platform
tickets, making 4. But somehow I lost my ticket and
only had [a] 10/- note, so we had a quarrel with the
porter. He ended by taking my address as I refused
to pay. We were also worried as my friend had a lot
of luggage, a dressing-case containing all her jewellery,
and we had to leave it in the cloak room.
I wrote to Miss Thorpe, asking her if she could re-
member the date or approximate date of the train inci-
dent. The following is an extract from her reply, dated
October 27, 1918, received October 29, 1918 :
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 191
Dear Mr Wales, Thank you so much for your letter.
Yes, I think I can give you the exact date, as I was on
leave, it was the 20th September, I was on my way to
Winchester where my people live and have to travel on a
Southampton train.
^
Since Miss Thorpe was travelling to Winchester, where
a part of the train was slipped, she would evidently
have to change into the back, not the front, end of
the train. It will be seen that, in her first letter, she
does not state which end it was ; and the presumption
is that this omission was due to the fact that she was
not able to state that it was the front end. I refer to
this point because it appears to bear on the question
of bona fides. Had the statement been a concoction,
or an exaggeration of a slight coincidence, there would
have been no apparent reason why she should not have
made the correspondence exact ; but the letters, I think,
indicate the natural desire of an honest witness, while
keeping within the bounds of fact, to make the most
of the hits and the least of the misses. It is worth
noting, too, in this connection, that though Miss Samuels
appears to have shown a number of her sets of notes,
on the 5th of October and later, to Miss Thorpe, the
latter claimed correspondence with her thoughts only
in the cases of the Southampton train and some small
undistinctive references such as "a stopped up pipe."
XLVIII.
The following case not only points to casual agency,
but suggests, like the laughter incident (Case VI.) and
some others not quoted, that thoughts may be trans-
mitted which the agent does not wish to send. In
this instance, for obvious reasons, I substitute pseu-
donyms for the real names.
1 This letter was received direct from Miss Thorpe—not through
Miss Samuels—and was headed with the Chelsea address to which
1 had written.
192 Hubert Wales. [part
Miss Samuels's yiotes [received September 2, 1918.
6.30 a.m. August 31, 1918. Bouknemouth.
I feel like a girl who has met a tall unpleasant slopioy
kind of man and is only thinking how I can get away
from him, before he annoys me by perhaps trying to
kiss me.
(There was no other note on this day.)
Miss Samuels told me, when she sent the above, that
she thought the impression came from a young friend
of hers, Miss Ray Peveril, a girl of about 16 ;
that,
upon her return to London, she had asked her if she
had had any corresponding experience ; but that Miss
Peveril had replied that she had not. A few days later,
however, on the 7th of September, I received the follow-
ing letter from Mrs. Holbrook, a friend of Miss Peveril
and also of Miss Samviels, dated 6th September, 1918 :
Miss Samuels has just asked me to write about the
man wanting to Idss a gnl, the tall man, she had the
telepathy while in Bournemouth. Miss [Peveril] told
me about the incident, but when Miss Samuels asked
her about it she would not admit it at all, as Miss Samuels
had told her not to fhrt. But I think you ought to
know when things are correct. Miss [Peveril] will often
tell me things she would not like to tell Miss Samuels.
In a letter bearing the same date as the above Miss
Samuels wrote :
You will have a httle letter from Mi-s [Holbrook] about
that tall man who frightened [Ray] while I was at Bourne-
mouth. He did try to kias her but she would not admit
it to me, but she did to Mrs [Holbrook]. So without
telling the gii'l we are telling you, to clear up the point.
There is a manifest suggestion here, as elsewhere, of
the absence of inhibitory power in the subliminal strata,^
or at least of failure always to exert it, whether we
regard the agent as impressing the percipient, or the
percipient as reading the thoughts of the agent. One
1 A case strongly suggesting such an absence of inhibitory power is
recorded in the Journal for March, 1920, pp. 174-5.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 193
or two cases, which I cannot relate privately, far less
publish, appear to indicate that even the most personal
and secret thoughts of our intimate lives are not immune
from transference telepathically.
Most people, I find, are rather startled by the sugges-
tion that there are latent powers in us, which, if they
become universal, would deprive us of the ability we
have hitherto enjoyed to keep certain things to our-
selves. It seems to me that that feeling is based on some
misconception of what such a state of general mind
reading, if in course of time it is to be developed, would
imply. It would put a premium on sincerity. Your
neighbour would know your affairs, but you would know
his, and your knowledge would be your defence. Only
hypocrites, as it appears to me, have any serious reason
to fear the approach of the day, if it is to come, " when
the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed."
On the whole, however, I feel inclined to infer from
these incidents—what most people must have inferred
from a consideration of the phenomena of professional
mediums—that the subliminal knows the supraliminal's
business. In this case my business was to obtain evi-
dence about telepathy, evidence of its u.tmost reach and
power. Had my subliminal consciousness known that,
in the interests of obtaining that evidence, I should be
willing to be placed personally in a disconcerting position,
it would have known no more than the truth. Similarly
Miss Peveril, at the bottom of her heart, might have
had some motive for desiring the disclosure of the informa-
tion contained in Miss Samuels's note.
Miss Samuels has told me repeatedly that she receives
what she regards as telepathic impressions from her
near relatives, with whom she lives and who to a large
extent share her thoughts ; but since she appreciates that
it would be almost impossible to make these evidentially
cogent, she does not send me notes of them.
Evidence of the possible agency of total strangers
is necessarily difficult to obtain. Indeed, there would
appear to be no way of obtaining it except by chance
194 Hubert Wales. [part
or the concurrence of some public event. The two
following cases seem just worth quoting in this connec-
tion, though it will be manifest that, at the most, they
only hint at the possibility of such a wide telepathic
sweep.
XLIX.
Extract from Miss Samtiels's notes {received August 27, 1918).
26th August, 1918.
I now remember that I hear people talking about the
war, that some big operation is taking place in Egjrpt.
The date is important. At the time I received the
note I thought the suggestion it contained very improb-
able : public attention was directed wholly upon France,
where the tide was just turning, nothing had been heard
of the Egyptian forces for so long that they had almost
been forgotten, and to me, at least, it seemed that
everything pointed to an intention to concentrate upon
the West and attempt nothing further in the minor
theatres.
On the 31st of August I noticed, at the foot of a
column in a newspaper, and filed, the following report :
Holy Land Activity.
The Turks report " great movement on the part of the
enemy at the mouth of the Jordan."
On the 3rd of September I came upon the following,
similarly at the foot of a column :
Items from Abroad.
The great heat in Palestine is rapidly moderating and
men and horses are in fine fighting trim.
It was on the 21st of September, 1918, nearly a month
after the date of Miss Samuels's note, that the papers
reported the opening movements of General Allenby's
operations in Palestine, which led to such important
results. It may be added that General Allenby, in his
despatches, referred to the troops under his command
as the " Egyptian Expeditionary Force."
Lxxx.] Appareiit Thought Transference. 195
It will be seen that there is no suggestion of pre-
cognition here—merely of obtaining telepathically know-
ledge of decisions and arrangements which were not
permitted to pass the Censor. That great miUtary pre-
parations were going on in Egypt at the time of Miss
Samuels's note, though few people knew it, is evidently
a fact. But manifestly the possibility cannot be ex-
cluded that small newspaper paragraphs, similar to those
quoted, may have appeared before I began to look for
them, and that Miss Samuels may have seen and sub-
consciously retained an impression of them.
L.
Extract from Miss Samuels's notes {received September 11,
1918, transcribed from Miss Samuels's typed copy).
6.45 a.m. September 10, 1918. Maidenhead.
I am in a large house in a foreign town yet with
English people. The room has two very large windows,
the house is white stone fronted, the Avlndows have stone
balconies [original notes '
in French style '] yet it is
above the street level, the windows face a wde, well
kept street. Suddenly some ladies enter, one asks if
she can hide under the sofa. I am so surprised and
stimned, stanchng unable to move, when suddenly the
streets are filled with fleeing people in a j^anic. I hear
cries, shouts, I see a shot fired near left hand window,
the other people in the room are standing too frightened
and stunned to move. I snatch up a young child and
dash out of room into passage—the awful din continues.
I am terribly frightened, full of terror and walie up still
frightened.
This suggested nothing to me at the time of its receipt.
I thought vaguely, I remember, of Brussels.
On the 12th of September, 1918, the papers published
the following telegram under prominent headings :
Washdstoton, Wednesday [September 11, 1918].
A despatch from the American Legation in Christiania
says that, according to reliable information received there.
196 Hubert Wales. [part
Petrograd is burning in twelve, j^laces and an indiscriminate
massacre is proceeding in the streets.
A telegram from Stockholm, in similar terms, also
dated " Wednesday," was printed the same day.
Several Indejmident Agents.
LI.
Though it involves some repetition, I give in full
Miss Samuels's notes for 21st September, 1918, for they
provide a good instance of the apparent access of infor-
mation telepathically from several independent agents.
The numbers in brackets are inserted by me for con-
venience of reference.
4.5 a.m. September 21, 1918. Harrow.
(1) An old [typed copy 'elderly'] lady wants the
Sontliampton train. They find they have to change into
front end of train. I seem to take 4 tickets. There is
an old gentleman also, tail. Lots of luggage [typed
copy '
hand luggage.] [ The following is added in a later
part of the notes.] Connected with buying the tickets
more money was wanted. I remember a 10/- note and
3 extra shillings.
(2) I hear the name " Whillets " [typed copy '
Willets.'].
(3) A hospital red cross train comes in on another
platform, so I do not see first train glide out. One
patient says, " I am in no pain now, it will not be long
"
he seems to ask the nurse for a leaf to hold.
(4) Mr. Wales was very happy last night, he laid {sic)
on a sofa or lounge and knew he was happy. (To be
happy and know you are happy is a double happiness !).
(5) [in typed copy orJy] I am powdering my neck.
(6) 6 oc. p.m. 20.9.18. [Miss Samuels's London address.]
Numb sensation all up left arm, ujDper part—from Ireland,
I expect.
(7) Also about 2 p.m. Pain in big toe nail.
(1) For comments on this by Miss C. Thorpe see
Case XLVII.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 197
(2) This impression appears to have been entangled
with the previous one about the Southampton train. ^
In a subsequent letter (September 23, 1918) Miss Samuels
said that she seemed to hear the word called out, and
thought it was either the name of " someone's groom
"
or of an " unknown wayside station." I refer to this
as another example of very many cases, the majority of
which I have had no space to quote, which indicate
that the form of the emergence of an idea has no neces-
sary connection whatever with its significance in the
apparent agent's mind. (Other instances of this included
in this paper are XXVI. and XLIII. above.)
My contemporary note on this name seems over long
for the occasion, so I do not quote it in full. It
states (giving instances of specific thoughts) that, for
some days just previous to the date of Miss Samuels's
note I had been thinking much about Mrs. Willett's
script, puzzling particularly over the difiiculty involved
in the confusion of the greater and lesser Ajax [Pro-
ceedings, Part LXIII., p. 168), indicating, as it does, on
the one hand, a mistake too gross to be attributed to the
purporting communicator, and, on the other, too much
classical knowledge to be attributed to Mrs. Willett herseK.
Possibly this very set of notes, pointing to the receipt of
information telepathically from a variety of sources, may
contribute something to the solution of the problem.^
1 References to trains and railways are very common in Miss Samuels's
notes, occurring considerably oftener, probably, than those to any other
subject. The next favourite topic is, perhaps, jewellery and finery
generally, particularly pearls.
2 In connection with my contemporary note to this case there occurred
a good, and rather amusing, instance of the untrustworthiness of memory
even for a week. I stated in the note, without the smallest suspicion
that I was saying anything but the exact and literal truth, that a few
days earlier I had written Miss Samuels " a long letter " upon the subject
of The Baptism of Statins " and " The Ear of Dionysius " cases, but
had not mentioned the name of the mediiun. Subsequently it
occurred to me that the best evidence of this would be the letter
itself, so I wrote and asked Miss Samuels to return it to me. She sent
me all my recent letters, and, with some difficulty, I found among them
the one I wanted. It was a postcard. The date it bore was 16 Sep.
1918, exactly a week before the date of the note. It was the case
that it did not mention the name of Mrs. Willett.
Hubert Wales. [p^^t
Miss Samuels told me upon enquiry—and I have no
difficulty in accepting her statement—that she had never
heard of Mrs. Willett.
(3) Miss .Samuels wrote to me on October 5, 1918 :
"
Miss
Thorpe is an ambulance driver, and saw the Red Cross
tram arrive." On October 29, 1918, I received a letter
from Miss Thorpe dated from an " A.I.F. Garage "
For
my comment on the second part of this note, indicating
a correspondence with a latent thought of mine, see Case
(4) Note written hy H. W., September 22, 1918.
It is a fact that I was particularly comfortable on
Friday evening (September 20, 1918), for I had allowed
myself the first fire of the season, and, after shivering
for several nights in deference to the apparent wishes of
the fuel controUer, the change was decidedly pleasant;
and, furthermore, smce I was nominaUy "keeping the
fire alight" for the feminine members of the household,
who were out, my joy was not impaired by any intrusive
remarlis by the voice of conscience. I sat first on a
sofa, afterwards in an easy chair before the fire. I was
reading mth great enjoyment WiUiam James's review
of "Human Personality" in Proceedings, SPR Vol
XVIII.
'
In her accompanying letter Miss Samuels added a
detail which increases the correspondence.
(5) Letter from Miss Sylvia Howard to H. W. {received
through Miss Satnuels, September 22, 1918).
Miss Samuels has just shown me her notes of September
21, 1918, and the last one about powdering I think
is to do with me. On Tuesday last [September 17.
1918] I distinctly remember powdering my neck as it
was very brown owing to the sun. Last night I looked
for the powder box but could not find it.
Since this item is not included in the original
notes, It must be understood that, as happened in another
iFor another incident suggesting the influence of two agents upon
one impression see Case XII., footnote.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 199
case/ it was possible for it to have been inserted after
Miss Samuels had heard Miss Howard's story. But of
course no stress is laid upon this trivial correspondence,
considered individually.
(6) (7) I much regret, in view of the special interest
of the set of notes as a whole (which of course was
not apparent to me at the time) that these two, owing to
an oversight (Miss Samuels had omitted them from her
typed copy), were not sent to IMr. Fuller. He returned
the remainder without comment. Had the full notes
been sent to him, it would have been most exceptional
had he noted no correspondence with these bodily
sensations. Attributing them to him, it will be noticed
that the impressions from the four apparent agents con-
cerned emerge in sequence, those attributed to Mr. Fuller,
though last in the notes, being first in order of time.
"Rapport" Objects.
I have tried two experiments of sending "rapport" objects
to Miss Samuels. On the whole, the results were negative.^
Mistakes Resembling Mishearing.
There have been a few incidents, in the course of the
observations, that have oddly suggested mishearing. For
instance, on one occasion, September 24, 1918, Miss
Samuels's notes contained, " Vinegar is good to clean a
long sword." Had the last word been " saw " instead of
" sword," this, absurd as it seems, would have been
quite appropriate to certain trivial circumstances affecting
my mind at the time. Again, on November 21, 1918,
the notes contained, " Winnie, William." " Winnie " was,
and is, meaningless to me. Had it been Willie," the
two names would have been highly relevant ;
more so,
perhaps, than any two that could have been given.
1 See above, Case XXIX.
- Miss Samuels had no faith whatever in the efficacy of these articles
in her own case, and so far misconstrued my object in sending them
as to attempt to forward one of them to a public medium. Fortunately
she was unable to carry out that project, since it appeared that the
" mediimi " concerned had temporarily retired from business, on the
advice of the police. •
200 Hubert Wales. [part
With agent and percipient separated by forty miles,
there can evidently be no question of involuntary whisper-
ing ;
so that, if these cases are not due to chance, they
seem to require the hypothesis that Miss Samuels's supra-
liminal consciousness can mishear, or appear to mishear,
her subliminal.
That something in the nature of mishearing between
strata of consciousness may occur, I feel pretty sure
from my own slight experience of sensory automatism.
I have a distinct recollection, upon one occasion, of
mishearing the word " hope " for " propose " and having
it corrected. I wanted the word to be " propose " and
tried to make it " propose "—it was concerned with
the producing of evidence of identity—and I still retain
a vivid impression of the firm, somewhat admonitory,
tone in which was repeated the words, " which we ho'pe
to give you."
Perhaps I may add that it never was given. And I
have since come to feel that, in withholding it (pre-
suming it could have been obtained) my providential
guardian—which in this case, at least, was clearly my
subliminal self—did me a considerable service. For, had
evidence been forthcoming which suggested the identity
of some discarnate mind, I should probably have found
it difficult afterwards to bring an unbiassed judgment
to bear upon the question of the nature of these per-
sonalities of automatic states. At present I can see
no reason to regard them, wherever they occur, however
lifelike and seemingly independent they may be—and
whether or not there be at times a telepathic agent,
incarnate or discarnate, conscious or unconscious, in the
background—as other than the creations of this same
inexhaustibly fertile underlying self.^
Apparent Premonitory Im.pressions.
I referred in the early part of this paper to certain of
Miss Samuels's veridical impressions that were antecedent
^ By this I do not suggest an indefinite number of secondary per-
sonalities, but characters built up subliminally, as a novelist builds up
characters supraliminally.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 201
in time. I give a list of some of these, with my
comments,^ briefly, in parallel columns. The numbers
in brackets are mine.
Miss Samuels's Notes of
HER Impressions.
August 15, 1918. 5.50. Written
in bed on waking.
(1) A man in green and
gold uniform twangs at
a harp.
/
August 20, 1918. 9 a.m.
(2) Someone pulUng some-
thing long out of his
mouth.
September 9, 1918. 2.45 a.m.
(3) One envelope seems larger
than the others . . .
seems from France or
from a Frenchman.
September 22, 1918. 2.45 a.m.
(4) I see all that is left of
a watch after it has been
Incidents affecting the
Thoughts of H. W.
(1) When I was returning
from London on the
afternoon of 15th August,
1918, a soldier in the
railway carriage twanged
at a guitar. He did not
appear to know the name
of the instrument, and
his comrades made wrong
suggestions.
(2) At tea on the 23rd August
I had to take surrepti-
tiously from my mouth
a long piece of string
which had got into the
war jam.
(3) On 16th September I
received a letter from
France from a French-
man, dated 8th September.
This is my only French
correspondent and he
rarely writes.
(4) In the Daily Mail of
25th September I saw
^ These, in every case, are based on contemporary notes, though the
latter from considerations of space are not always quoted verbatim.
202
in a fire or affected by
the war.
September 26, 1918. 7 a.m.
(5) Someone says " There,
ihafs an oak tree,"
pointing to some very
beautiful trees.
September 28, 1918. 6.30 a.m.
(6) [Typed copy] A gentleman
enters a room, a lady
is laying {sic] down on a
sofa or settee, but [he]
does not notice her at
first, she seems to be
asleep.
October 9, 1918. 7.15 a.m.
(7) I seem to look from a
good height down to a
railway, and see electric
and steam trains running,
and people cUmbing stairs,
etc.
[part
a reproduction of a photo-
graph of a watch wliich
had been damaged in the
war. The bullet was still
imbedded in it. .
j
(5) On 26th September at
about 5 p.m., I was
sitting talking to a friend
in the window of my
study, when he suddenly
pointed to a large oak
among the trees in the
grounds and said " Oh, if
it were mine, I should have
that oak tree down."
(6) On the morning of the
30th September I went
into the drawing-room
with some wood logs,
supposing it to be empty.
Wlien I got well into
the room I was slightly
startled to notice my
wife lying on the sofa
—
a most unusual occurrence
at that hour. She seemed
to be dozing.
(7) On 9th October about
8 p.m. my wife and
daughter, who had been
to London, told me
they had climbed the
stairs from the Tube
at Waterloo, instead of
using the lift—a most
exceptional thing to do.
Hvbert Wales.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 203
October 11, 1918. 6.25 a.m.
(8) I nearly fall off some step
ladders.
(8) On the afternoon of 12th
October I was on a
short ladder, in an
awkward position, sawing
a branch from a tree.
I rather feared I might
fall and wondered if Miss
Samuels would get an im-
pression of the feeUng. I
received her note later.
November 9, 1918. 2.45 [a.w.].
(9) [Original notes] Sudden
news of a death, quite
unexpected.
[Typed copy] News of
the sudden death of a
man.
A man in scholastic
dress [typed copy] wear-
ing a mortar board.
November 19, 1918. [No time
stated.']
(10) A piece of rose-bush held
in hand.
December 3, 1918. [No time
stated, but almost certainly
early morning.
1
(11) A cut hand.
(9) When I went in to dinner,
about 8 p.m. on 9th
November, mj^ wife start-
led me by telUng me
of the sudden death of
a neighbour—Dr. Selwyn.
Both the news and the
death were sudden.
He had been head-
master of Uppingham.
(10) On the afternoon of
20th November I re-
planted and re-trained a
rose-bush. This occurred
before Mss Samuels's letter
containing her notes arrived.
(11) About 2 p.m. on 3rd
December I heard my
wife call to my daughter
that she had cut her
finger " rather badly."
Hubert Wales. [part
204
December 15, 1918. 9 a.m.
(12) I am dressed in white
and without moving my
limbs yet am sidmming or
gliding along the ground
at a great rate.
December 22, 1918. 8.30 [a.m.].
I seem to float about
a foot from the ground.
December 29, 1918. 9.15 a.m.
I float suddenly again.
January 5, 1919. 9.30 a.m.
(13) A trolly of girls in cos-
tume like from Chu Chin
Chow.
January 9, 1919. 8.15 a.m.
(14) Someone says they would
not be frightened if they
saw one or 1,000 ghosts.
(12) On the evening of 8th
January, 1919, I read
the following in Proceed-
ings S.P.R., Vol. VI.,
p. 248: "There it was
I first saw the figure. . . .
At first I thought him of
great height, but afterwards
remarked that he was glid-
ing some distance (at least
a foot) above the ground."
I received the volume
from the S.P.R. Library
only on 8th January.
(13) On 9th January I saw
reproduced in the Daily
Mail a photograph of a
lorry load of theatrical girls
in costume, on their way to
a ball. Immediately above
was a photograph of the
Chu Chin Chow company in
costume in a motor bus.
(14) On 10th January, at
9 p.m., I read a ghost
story in Proceedings S.P.R.
,
Vol. VI., p. 256. Two
sisters, sitting alone in a
house at night, hear
mysterious sounds. One
was afraid to explore.
The other said :
" I will
go and not be afraid though
10,000 men are against me."
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 205
January 21, 1919. 1.45 a.m.
(15) An engine without a
train—a train without an
engine.
(15) On 21.st January, about
midday, I saw a traction
engine trying to get up
a short, sharp hill. It
had left its truck behind
while thus engaged, so
that I saw engine without
truck and truck without
engine.
January 26 [mistake for 27, re-
ceived 28] 1919. 7.15 [a.m.].
(16) A brown photo of trees. (16) There hangs in a corner
of my stud}', near the
door, a small brown
photogravure of trees.
("The Avenue " by Hob-
bema.) As I was going
to bed on the night of
January 27, 1919, this
caught my eye, and I
thought, " Miss Samuels
has never got that." ^
(17) On 29 April my wife told
me that, when out that
morning, she found herself
in the butcher's Avithout her
umbrella, remembered she
had left it in the clock-
man's, and had to go back
there for it in a shower of
rain.
My statements in regard to 3, 4, 5, 6, and 13 are
corroborated by other documents. Particularly, the dated
sheet of the Daily Mail referred to in the remarkable
case about a van-load of girls in costume " like from
1 She had obtained correspondent impressions with everything else
in this corner, see p. 189.
April 27, 1919. 5 a.m.
(17) A lady remembers the spot
where she lost her um-
berella [sic].
206 Hubert Wales. [part
Chu Chin Chow " (together with Miss Samuels's dated
note, endorsed by me with the date of receipt) can be
seen at the rooms of the Society ; it is too large to
reproduce here.
I ought to say, perhaps, that, when I embarked on
these observations, I did not anticipate getting such
correspondences as are set out in the above table ;
indeed,
my mind was so strongly set against anything suggestive
of precognition, that for some time I made only rough
pencil notes of these incidents. I regarded the whole
subject with suspicion, it seemed to me to owe its
being to the popular demand for fortune telling, and
I could hardly read anything about it with patience.
I felt that to obtain knowledge of the future, except
in so far as it could be inferred from the present, was
impossible, whatever supernormal powers or agencies one
was prepared to postulate ; and metaphysical arguments
about the reality of time found in my mind a most
unreceptive soil. If such a personal confession be of
any interest, I will frankly admit that I have been
shaken somewhat (though not dislodged) by the number
of missiles of the kind shown in the table with which
Miss Samuels has bombarded me.
Analysis of the cases above recorded, however, reveals
that many of them, perhaps most—even if the coincidences
appear too close to be attributed to chance—may be
explained, by one means or another, without invoking
prevision. Some of these routes of escape may seem
to us tortuous and uninviting ; but the question to be
considered is whether, even so, they do not demand less
strain upon probability than does the supposition that,
in any circumstances or by any agency, things which
other facts do not enable us to anticipate can be known
before they have taken place.
Consider, for example, the third item—the Frenchman's
letter. It wiU be seen that, at the date of Miss Samuels's
note, this letter had been written and probably posted,
though it had not then reached me. It is, therefore,
possible to suppose, if we accept telepathy at all, that
Miss Samuels had received by this means, news of its
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 207
despatch from my French friend, either direct or via
the trans-marginal regions of my mind. And we can
resort to a similar hypothesis in Case 9 : for Dr. Selwyn's
death (which, I learn upon enquiry, occurred on the
8th of November) took place a few hours before Miss
Samuels wrote her note, though I did not hear of it
until a day later. In this instance, however, since I
was not personally acquainted with Dr. Selwyn or any
of his family, it can hardly be supposed that I acted
as a connecting link, or mutual point of rapport, between
one or more of them and Miss Samuels. Furthermore,
we are left with a small unexplained residuum in the
matter of the suddenness of the news (though, no doubt,
most announcements of death are almost necessarily
sudden) and the general circumstance that the stress of
Miss Samuels's note seems to be laid, less on the death,
than on the hearing of it.
Next, consider the incidents of the step-ladder and the
rose-bush (8 and 10). In these cases, the fulfilment
of the prophecy (so to put it) rested upon action on my
part ; so again we have open to us an emergency exit
from the hypothesis of precognition. Miss Samuels^ it
may be urged, having obtained, during the coui'gj,^ of
these experiments, a close knowledge of my ge^xeral
activities and thoughts, armounced in advance actions,
which she either knew I was likely to perform or sub-
sequently (but before her notes could arrive) caused me
to perform by telepathic suggestion—the whole process
being subliminal.
Even in the case of the van-load of chorus girls (13),
a path can be found to lead us at least part of the
way out of our difficulty. This coincidence, I may perhaps
say parenthetically, was to me the most impressive of
those which suggest, prima facie, a knowledge of the
future. For the picture conjured up by Miss Samuels's
note seemed so preposterous, so fantastic, so removed,
with dreamlike inconsequence, from the world of sober
fact, that I felt incUned to laugh at it, until, a few
days later, I was startled by seeing the reproductions
of the photographs in a newspaper I had picked up.
208 Hubert Wales. [part
But even here, as I have indicated, the material of
the corresponding details was not all in the future at
the time Miss Samuels wrote and posted her note. Doubt-
less, there were numbers of people who, at that time
knew all about the proposal to transport theatrical com-
panies in costume, from the theatres to the ball, in
commercial vehicles of various kinds. It is necessary,
however, frankly to recognise that this does not quite
clear us ; since it is difficult to see how anyone can
have known before the night of 8th January, that, of
the many flashlight photographs of these proceedings
which, no doubt, were taken, the two chosen for repro-
duction and placed in contiguous positions, in, at least,
one newspaper, would represent a lorry-load of chorus
girls and the company of Chu Chin CJioiv.
I will leave this subject by reminding Members of the
Society of a passage in Lord Rayleigh's Presidential Ad-
dress :
" We live in times which are revolutionary in
science as well as in politics. Perhaps some of those
who accept extreme '
relativity ' views, reducing time to
merely one of the dimensions of a four-dimensional mani-
fold may regard the future as differing from the past
n than north differs from south " (Proc, Pt. LXXVII
p.
'
1^.
General Conclusions.
The observations as a whole, considered in relation
to other observations and to experiments in thought
transference, have suggested a hypothesis to my mind,
which I tentatively put forward. It may have something
m it or it may be quite unworthy of consideration.
It is this : that what we have been accustomed to call
telepathy may comprise two utterly distinct phenomena,
as widely divided as the poles, indeed, far more widely.
I mean, there may be a physical phenomenon—some-
thing, conceivably, in the nature of the popular " brain
waves," carried by the ether—operating over limited
distances and where there is no considerable material
obstruction between the transmitting and receiving brains ;
Lxxx.] Apparent ThougJit Transference. 209
and there may be also a psychical phenomenon—requiring
to contemplate the mind as existing .independently of
the organism and having a different relation to space from
the organism—occurring in all conditions and circumstances,
but observable mainly where there is such distance or
obstruction between agent and percipient as to exclude the
physical phenomenon.^ At any rate, one cannot help being
struck by the fact that, in the large number of experiments
in thought transference at close quarters, reported in the
Proceedings, it has again and again been found that
separation of agent and percipient, by distance or material
obstacles, has been followed by diminution or complete
cessation of the success obtained when there was no
such separation. It does not seem to me that theories
of lack of confidence on the part of experimenters and
so on can wholly and satisfactorily account for this.
It was particularly marked in the long series of experi-
ments with hypnotised subjects conducted by Mrs.
Sidgwick in 1889 and 1890. The results obtained, in
the course of those experiments, with agent and per-
cipient in the same room, were very impressive ; with
agent and percipient in adjoining rooms, success, though
much diminished, persisted to a degree considerably
beyond what chance would have given, and so (as it
seems to me) put out of court, as an explanation, the
theory of involuntary whispering or other sensory cause ;
with the experimenters more widely separated there was,
to quote Mrs. Sidgwick's report {Proc, Vol. VIII., p. 547),
"practically no success," though "nearly four hundred
^ Since writing the above, I have discovered that a similar query
was propounded by Myers :
" Is there one and only one form of
influence which is not communicated by the ordinary channels of
sense ? Or is there an influence which is felt by a percipient only
when the agent is very near him ? and another influence which the
percipient feels equally when the agent is at an indefinite distance ? . . .
Speaking for myself only, I am inclined provisionally to accept the
hypothesis that more than one form of force, or at least more than
one form of receptivity, is concerned in the phenomena" {Proc, Vol. IV.,
p. 176). And, from a reference there given, the same point appears
to be urged in Phantasms of the Living, which I had not read. Myers,
however, does not seem disposed to draw any sharp distinction between
a psychical and a physical phenomenon, or even between mind and matter.
210 Hubert Wales. [part
trials were made with Miss B. as percipient, and the
agent or agents either in a different building or divide^
from her by at least two closed doors and a passage."
Yet we find, in such cases as those above recorded, as
those obtained experimentally by Miss Miles and Miss
Ramsden, reported in Vols. XXI. and XXVII. of Pro-
ceedings, as those pointing to the inducement of hypnosis
at a distance, as those noted in numerous experiments in
hypnotic " clairvoyance," and particularly as those common
experiences called shortly "death coincidences," that the
intervention neither of distance nor of innumerable ma-
terial obstructions between agent and percipient appears
to have the smallest influence of any kind upon the
transference of thought. To me, in the light of my
own experiences and of those apparently allied to which
I have referred, the impediment to success so frequently
encountered when a single wall has divided the experi-
menters is, if we are dealing with the same phenomenon,
inexplicable.^
The observations recorded in this paper have an evi-
dent bearing upon the consideration of phenomena pur-
porting to be communications from the dead. I do
not feel competent to discuss that aspect in any detail,
since I have never had a sitting with a medium—to
use a question-begging word, but one difficult to avoid.
All I will venture to say is, that the unconscious or
subconscious telepathic agency indicated (especially if
the observations be confirmed by other observations, as
they are themselves confirmatory of certain observa-
tions of crystal vision) manifestly offers an alternative
explanation, extending far beyond the range of telepathy
from the sitter, of some at least of the phenomena which
take a spiritistic form. They appear, in particular, to
make it gratuitous to invoke the agency of discarnate
I
It shoiild be pointed out, however, that, even at the closest quarters,
if there were no sensory communication, the difficulty with regard to
a code, which Lord Rayleigh considered an objection to a physical
theory of telepathy more fundamental even than the failure to get
attenuation with distance {Proc, Pt. LXXVII., p. 288) would still apply.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 211
minds to account for knowledge of contemporary events
occurring at a distance from the automatist, and, I think,
(speaking of course from a strictly evidential point of
view) of facts in the past, emerging as the memories
of someone deceased, wheii they are all known to a single
living person.. I think, however, that the observations
suggest, equally clearly, that a percipient's power of
utihzing knowledge extracted from the living may prove
to have limits. I have found no trace of a capacity
so to group information collected as to suggest the unity
of any mind other than that of the apparent agent.
In saying that, I am thinking, of course, primarily
of the mind of a dead person ; for had there been such
grouping as to suggest the mental unity of someone
hving, one would naturally have regarded, that person
as the agent. I have referred to a tendency for various
allusions to matters relevant to a particular topic (as,
for instance, the memory of Paris) to occur for days
and weeks, when that topic has been brought to the
front of my mind ; and if such specialized allusions were
unmixed with other veridical matter, it might well be
made to appear that they emanated from a sharer of
the experiences, whether living or dead. I can recall,
however, in the voluminous records of her impressions
which Miss Samuels has sent me, no sustained isolation
of notes corresponding with my memories associated with
a particvdar person ; and it should be pointed out, in
regard to the Paris references, that, even if we extract
these from their setting and look at them by themselves,
it is still the unity of my mind, not that of my French
friend, that is suggested : for he knew nothing, for
instance, of the Le Matin incident.
I feel, too, that, in considering cross-correspondences,
due weight should be given to the indications, as I
have put it, that the subhminal knows the supraliminal's
business, and may be able and willing, when such is
the latent desire of the automatists or either of them, to
transmit messages telepathically in a form which suggests
the intervention and direction of a third mind. My
personal experiences of automatism, both motor and
212 Hubert Wales. [part
sensory, have inspired me, I confess, with a high respect
for the powers of the subliminal self ; and it seems
particularly to shine in artifices which insinuate the
action of a discarnate intelligence. I do not feel, as
do some, that there is anything " fiendish " in subliminal
activity of that kind ; I am more disposed to see in
it merely a reflection of the desire, probably latent in
most of us, whether we admit it or not, to find that
there is life after death.
Having touched upon this subject, I would like to
say, in conclusion, (though, in doing so, I feel I am only
reiterating what has been better said by others) that,
in spite of the inroad made upon the spiritistic inter-
pretation of certain mediumistic phenomena, the effect
upon my mind of the observations I have recorded has
been to make survival and communication seem more
probable than they previously seemed : because, by
reinforcing the evidence already accumulated in favour
of a psychical, as against a physical, theory of tele-
pathy, (1) they point to there being something in man
capable of intelligent action apart from the material
organism, something unconfined by conditions of space
and perhaps even by conditions of time, and (2) they
indicate the practical possibihty of mind communicating
with mind independently of matter.
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transfereyice. 213
APPENDIX.
(1) Cramp again
cold water.
from my
(2) Not my pains, I was
massaging the right arm
of a man who had sprained
it.
The following list includes all references to bodily
sensations in Miss Samuels's notes which I sent to Mr.
Fuller. The numbers in brackets are inserted by me.
Miss Samuels's Notes. Mr. Fuller's Comments.
August 10, 1918.
(1) Little bodily aches and
pains I used to get
from IVIr. Fuller during
the day when he worked
in the shop.
August 11, 1918.
(2) I feel that I am a man
and rubbing my arm
from elbow to wrist and
back, the left arm, am
very surprised and an-
noyed to find a lump as
large as a small egg
near wrist. I keep on
rubbing till it is pushed
back into the mustle [sic].
August 14, 1918.
(3) I thinli I forgot to give
you a slip re Mr. Fuller,
stating that 13th ins.,
about 5.45 to 6 p.m. and
for at least an hour
later, I felt a numbness
of the right leg from
knee to foot, I sent it
to him first ... he will
not have received it
yet, as I only posted it
this morning.1
1 I sent no copy of this note to Mr. Fuller in addition to that stated
by Miss Samuels to have been sent by her.
(3) Quite correct,
standing for
had been
s a long
stretch of hours on con-
crete, no exercise. For
once you have not trans-
posed, it reaUy was the right
leg.
214 Hubert Wales. [PABT
August 20, 1918.
(4) A bad top headache start- (4) One of my regulars,
ing from Monday dinner
time lasting all night.
(5) IVIr. Fuller wrote and (5) Pains accompanying influ-
asked for some camphor enza cold,
as he had a pain in
chest, but yesterday I
had reflected pains below
and all round body, just
where a deep body belt
would lie.
8.45 p.m. Wed. [August 21,
1918.]
(6) I feel a pain at the
end of the first finger of
the right hand (this from
Ireland).
4.30, August 23, 1918.
(7) I have had for the last
hour between 3 and 4 p.m.
and [sic\ most frightfully
fainting feeling from Ire-
land, faint from want of
food feeling, not a headache
faint feeling.
(6) Have contracted amidol
poisoning. This pain wiU
probably be experienced
daily by Miss Samuels,
possibly in all fingers,
particularly the right ones.^
(7) Miss Samuels was quite
correct as to sensation
and day, but it was in
the forenoon, the result
of going without breakfast.
1 I did not of course communicate this anticipation to Miss Samuels.
The following is an extract from a letter from her to me, dated August
28, 1918, received 30th :
" Today my finger next to the little finger
on my right hand had a pricked sensation." Later Miss Samuels
sent me, for a reason unconnected with this, a letter to her from Mr. Fuller,
dated " Wed. noon " [August 28, 1918], received by me on September 2,
1918. It contained the following words :
" Have also got developer
poisoning again." This, from its form, appears clearly to be the first
mention ot the matter to Miss Samuels.
LXXX.] Apparent Thought Transference. 215
September 2, 1918.
(8) During last night I had (8) From Ireland is quite
a pain bottom right side correct,
of spine (from Ireland
I expect).
September 3, 1918.
(9) For some days I have
noticed during the day-
time a pain in the left
ear, not all day, it comes
on now and again.
(9) [Continuation of above
comment.] Also No. 5.
[This is 9 in the present
numeration.]
September 8, 1918.
(10) Saturday evening—a pain
in right instep. [No comment.]
(11) Headache from Ireland
Sunday morning.
2.45 a.m. September 9, 1918.
(12) Burning feeling in chest
(just below chest on
stomach) caused, I think,
by ]\Ir. Fuller leaning
up against sometliing hot.
(13) IVIr. FuUer's. right hand
very painful tonight.
(12) I plead guilty, the paia
was not caused by leaning
on something hot, but
had a desire for a hot
poultice.
(13) Too true.
5 a.m. September 23, 1918.
(11) I feel someone has pain
or stiffness in the upper
thighs especially the right
one.
(15) My left toes also my
right instep still bother
me a bit, I mean the
condition I get from other
people.
(14) This I expect also refers
to me. The result of a
chill etc. when returning
from leave.
(15) [No comment.]
216 Hubert Wales. [PAET
September 28, 1918. 6.30 a.m.
(16) Sharp pain back of
neck and between shoul-
ders, the pain is shghtly
on the left side.
October 3, 1918.
(17) Pain in right foot toes.
Sat. evening 7.45 p.m. [October
5, 1918.]
(18) Still pain in right foot
toes.
6.25 a.m. October 11, 1918.
(19) A ijain is felt in the
left arm about five inches
from wrist.
3.20 a.m. October 19, 1918.
(20) The palm of my right
hand seems to have a
burning feeling, also part
of the wrist, the right
hand.
(16) How my aches and pains
must be blessed, this
also refers to me, not
caused through the effort
in picking up the (ap-
parent) 10s. note [refer-
ence to another of Miss
Samuels's notes] but
through the draughts in
the windows here.
(17) Pain in right toes is
correct.
(18) Pain in right toes is
correct. [Same comment
as above—notes returned
together.]
(19 Guilty, but only cramp
or stiffness through
cramped up in bed, which
are 7iot feather beds.
(20) [No comment.]
[Contemporary note by
H. W., after observing
absence of comment by
Mr. Fuller :
'
I have
lately been doing a lot of
sawing, which has raised
a small l)lister in the palm
of my right hand.']
Lxxx.] Apparent Thought Transference. 217
October 19, 1918.
(21) Mr. FuEer is treating me
to a headache in a new
place as sketch enclosed,
jaerhaps he also has eye
strain. Shaded part re-
presents pain. [Rough
sketch of face, part over
nose and each eye shaded.]
Pain sharp at top of
nose. I felt aU this
early in bed this morning.
Memo : October 22, 1918.
(22) A pain left [? felt] in
the left ^vrist, a pricking
pain.
(23) At the back of the
right hand also a hm-t
feeling, like a knock.
(24) Also I note the last few
days no desire to eat
the midday meal.
These bodily feelings
usually come from Ire-
land.
4 p.m. Monday, November 4,
1918.
(25) At 12.10 Mr. Fuller had
a very sharp pain in
the right temple, it didn't
last long with me but was
intense while I felt it.
(26) Late this afternoon I
felt my bead was wooUy
and heavy all day.
(27) Saturday [November 2, 1918]
I noted a pain in the
longest finger on the right
hand, the middle joint.
(21) Quite correct.
(22) [No comment.]
(23) Me agam.
(24) Ditto.
(25)
(26) 1
Gi^ilty as usual.
(27)
218 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
i
SUPPLEMENT. !
REVIEWS. f
A Technique for the Ex'perimeyital Study of Telejyathij and Other
Alleged Clairvoyant Processes. A Report on the Work
done in 1916-17 at the Harvard Psychological Laboratory, i
under the gift of Mrs. John Wallace Riddle and the
Hodgson Fund. By Leonaed Thompson Teoland, Albany,
N.Y. Pp. 26.
j
One can imagine that the '
reaction '
of an old-fashioned
psychical researcher on a fu'st reading of this paper would
be Horatian, and would take the form of (1) Parturiunt
mantes ! and (2) YanMcos odi, ^Jtier, apparatus ! but he would
be wrong if he did not thereupon continue his search for j
grains of sense amid masses of what may fauiy be caUed
academic chaff. For the S.P.R. ought certauily to have a
laboratory, and if it had one as good as that of Harvard
University, it would find that psychologists flocked to it, and
that its own reputation in the scientific world went up by
leaps and bounds. Much allowance should, moreover, be
made for the conditions under which Dr. Troland laboured.
Years ago Harvard had become the beneficiary of a '
Hodgson
Memorial Fund,' since it is a principle of the management
of every American university (as of the Catholic Church) to
take any endowment that is offered (even were it for the
purpose of communicating with Mars !), and never to reject
an endowment merely because it did not quite approve of
its object or its terms.i But nothing in the way of Psychical
Research was done with the proceeds of the Fund until Mrs.
Riddle gave a further sum in order to start research. Then
^ As Oxford University did the Squire Law .Scdiobirsliips.
LXXX.] Review. 219
something had to be done, though possibly not without an
arriere pensee (as in the Seybert case in the University of
Pennsylvania and the Stanford case in California) that a
negative issue to the investigation would be more desirable
than the opposite, and would liberate the funds for academic-
ally more convenient purposes. At any rate Dr. Troland
was the first '
researcher '
to be appointed, and as nothing
more appears to have been clone since 1916-7, the idea cannot
be entirely excluded that this Report is a huge joke ! At
the expense either of Psychical Research, or of experimental
psychology. In the absence, however, of independent evidence
that Dr. Troland is jDossessed of the sense of humour and
audacity to play such a trick, I dare not press this hyiDothesis,
and must (with a little reluctance) review his Re23ort as
intended to be serious.
Taking it thus, the first difficulty one encounters is the
amount of its irrelevance, and the enormous disproportion
between apparatus and achievement. (1) If we regard it as the
aim of his research to determine whether or not '
telepathy
'
occurs, and whether the alleged communication between
two minds unable to do so by recognized methods can
be tested by apparatus which will indisputably exclude all
vitiation by (a) fraud, (b) unconscious bias, the initial homily
on scientific method is irrelevant. If it were not, it would
be highly objectionable, as involving either the dogmatic
assumption of a materialistic metaphysic, or a '
behaviori^
'
method of psychological experimentation, of disputable applica-
tion, or both. As, however. Dr. Troland does not need the
notion of '
the reflex arc '
to read off his instruments, his
use of it is simply irrelevant.
(2) Having artificially ruled out any reference to psychic
process in his version of psychological method, Dr. Troland
proceeds to call the appeal made to it by those who do 7wf
so rule it out, a '
break '
or '
gap '
in the physical series.
On his own showing this is indefensible. His method cannot
recognize any '
interaction '
between psychical and physical,
and therefore cannot recognize such 'gaps.' It can only look
for lihysical antecedents of physical events. So if it were
experimentally proved that the thoughts I was formulating
in Oxford were being instantaneously recorded in New York
220 F. C. S. Schiller. [PABT
by Dr. Hyslop, the logical inference would be, not to 'tele-
pathy, '
but to some (unknown) physical connexion between
us.i It would be Dr. Troland's duty to search Dr. Hyslop
for '
wireless '
apparatus. Furthermore, his method gives him
no right whatever to regard the two physical series occurring
in our bodies as interrupted, and to connect them by a '
gap.'
For there would be no '
gap '
in -mij thoughts and acts, which
would go on continuously after I had '
telepathed '
to Dr.
Hyslop. Neither would there be a '
gap '
in his life, as he
recorded what Dr. Troland would subsequently discover to be
a '
telepathic '
message. It is, therefore, purely arbitrary for
Dr. Troland to assume that he is dealing with a single '
reflex
arc,' one-half of which is located in one body, and the other
in another. Prima facie, what he is dealing with is a curious
coincidence, or (conceivably) an influence of one organism on
another. But if it be true that scientific method cannot
recognize any but physical processes, it follows necessarily
that this influence imist be mediated physically. And, of
course, there is plenty of '
ether '
to close all '
gaps.' On
the other hand, if it is permissible in psychology to recognize
psychic process, it can easily be interpolated between the
'
afferent '
and the ' efferent '
neural process, and we can
attribute to it the function of choice between possible reactions.
Nor will it be more impossible in principle to conceive a
mind as reacting on another brain than on its own.
(3) The technical terminology Dr. Troland invents to lend
a cachet to his theory is amusing but irrelevant. Schizo-
kinesis has a solemn sound, and the boldest would think
tAvice before they exposed themselves to '
afferent '
or '
efferent
'
Schizoneurosis. But one would have liked to have seen Dr.
Troland hesitate, and use a little Humian criticism on himself,
before he began to talk about " the usual physical chain of
causation binding the central and motor processes with the
object "
(p. 6). For it is well to avoid the pitfaUs in the
old philosophic terminology before plunging into innovations.
(4) The elaborate description of Dr. Troland's apparatus,
good as it is, and great as is the credit it does to his in-
genuity, seems disproportionately long. The apparatus is no
doubt a great advance on any that was available before.
1 This wa-s written before Dr. Hyslop's lamented demise.
LXXX.] Review. 221
Henceforth mechanical '
timers,' '
counters,' '
stimulus-shufiflers
'
and '
totallers '
(though not perhaps essential to successful
experimentation) ought to find a place in every well-equipped
psychical laboratory. But Dr. Troland is so much taken up
with them that he quite forgets to give his readers a plain
account of how he actually experimented. We are told
indeed that the two experimenters " were seated in very
comfortable Morris chairs on opposite sides of a small table,
the distance separating their heads being about 6 feet. Both
subjects faced in the same direction. The experiments were
carried out in complete darkness, and a screen placed in the
centre of the table also served to shut off their view of each
other. The room in which the work was done was heavily
carpeted, and was rendered sound-proof by double walls and
double doors. The control mechanism was in another room
on the opposite side of the buUding," etc. (jjp. 21-2). . One
gathers, though one is not told, that the experiment consisted
in the agent's looking at a '
stimulus-field ' on which a square
was electrically lighted up either on the right or on the left
of an illumined circle, while the '
percipient '
moved a '
reaction
key '
to the right or to the left, the agreement of two '
rights
'
or lefts constituting the rightness, a disagreement the wrong-
ness, of the response. Presumably (though this is not stated)
the percipient could not possibly see the '
stimulus-field.' On
this most vital and relevant point nothmg is said, any more
than on the psychic idiosyncrasies of the experimenters.
(5) What did all this preparation lead up to ? In 605
experiments the direction of the stimulus and the reaction
movement coincided 284 times. The probable number being
haK of 605, there was actually a considerable deficiency in
right responses ! As Dr. Troland says (p. 23), " this would
appear to be indicative of '
negative telepathy,' or in other
words, it would suggest that exposure of the stimulus to the
agent prevented the percipient from making the right reaction
in a certain number of cases. This is a kind of result
which has little interest for the popular mind, because tele-
pathy is commonly supposed to increase the chances of a
correct guess, instead of decreasing them. However, from
a coldly scientific point of view, '
positive telepathy '
is no
more interesting or probable than '
negative telepathy.' There
222 F. C. S. Schiller. [part
is not the slightest reason for rejecting a depression of coinci-
dences below chance as non-significant, when an equal elevation
above chance figures would have been hailed as real evidence." He
admits that his '
depression '
lies " well within the range usually-
allowed for chance 'fluctuations of sampling,' " but calculates that
" the odds are about 14 to 1," that it is 7iot purely casual.
Unfortunately he does not note how his anomaly was pro-
duced. It was due to a heavy excess of failures (199 to
155) in half his experiments, the '
40-second ' series, in which
the agent was allowed only 15 seconds to perceive his stimulus.
The '
80-second '
series, with the stimulus exposed for 30
seconds, gave a slight excess of right reactions (129 to 120).
Also while it is true that all anomalies must be significant,
their significance need not be the same. If the experimenters
are both trying, a '
positi\^e '
anomaly would mean that they
were succeeding, a '
negative '
that their very efi^ort was causing
its own frustration. Hence (on the assumption always that
the psychic condition of the experimenters may make a differ-
ence), one might suggest that very short exposures were '
fluster-
ing,' i.e. so disturbing as to tend to generate an '
anxiety
neurosis '
and to inhibit the right reaction. On the other
hand, long exposures might yield a difl^erent result and a
distinctly supernormal number of successes ; while at some
intermediate length of exposure a series indistinguishable from
chance might be obtained. Nevertheless all three series would
really tell in favour of telepathy. This is clearly one of
many lines of experiment that should be pursued.
In any case Dr. Troland's experiments, as they stand, prove
little. He has obtained no conclusive results. That only
means that 605 experiments between himself and Mr. Murphy,
under the conditions and with the method stated, yielded no
positive evidence that either was interested in, or cognizant
of, the contents of the other's '
stimulus-field.' The reason
might only be that he had succeeded in maximizing the lack
of human interest which renders psychological laboratory ex-
periments so woefully inadequate as clues to the normal be-
haviour of so emotional a being as the human soul.
We may grant, indeed, that he has devised apparatus which
facilitates the accurate recorcUng of conditions, the elimination
of the researcher's personal equation, and the mathematical
LXXX.] Review. 223
calculation of the chances. But he does not appear to have
asked himself the important question, '
Wai my apparatus
work, with me, in the field for which it is designed ?
'
If it
doesn't, little can be inferred. It may be that it was the
wrong apparatus for the pm-pose ; or that it could be made
to work by changing some of the many conditions involved.
It might be that the wrong persons were employed, and that
both the experimenters were congenitally devoid of '
telepathic
'
sensitiveness. Or, agam, it might be that no apparatus could
cope with the subject. But of this there is no evidence.
I should demur equally to Dr. Troland's exaggerated esti-
mate of the aid of mathematics. He says (p. 25) that " if
data cannot be presented in such form that they can be dis-
cussed mathematically, they camaot furnish the basis of scientific
generalizations." But mathematical treatment is neither the
primary aim nor the first achievement of a science. It gener-
ally comes rather late in the career of a science. The primary
aim must everywhere be to obtain control. Once this is gained,
we can experiment at pleasure, and measure, if we please.
But measurement as such is no guarantee of scientific success.
Else its laborious measurements would long ago have put
experimental psychology on a par with physics. And it is
precisely because it has not obtamed practical control over the
soul that its measurements, have been so futile. Moreover, it
is this same lack of control which has been the great obstacle
in Psychical Research. He who discovers how to control the
soul, with or without machinery, wiU ipso facto fulfil the
desire of psychology to be a science, in fact as well as in
ambition. Until then, it should moderate its exultation over
its '
truly scientific '
character as compared with more back-
ward inquiries.
But I agree with Dr. Troland's conclusion (p. 26) that " the
average academic psychologist will look upon the above pro-
posals as a waste of good technique upon a hopeless situa-
tion." No doubt he -wiU, unless psychical researchers can get
their machinery to work and their '
phenomena '
to appear.
But is it too sanguine to hope that when our present President
takes over the command of the Harvard Laboratory he w\l\
provide the required '
stimulus '
and Dr. Troland's researches
will be continued ? F. C. S. Schiller.
224 J. C. Fliigel. [part
Totem mid Taboo. Resemblances between the psychic lives of
Savages and Neurotics. By Professor Sigmund Frefd,
LL.D. Authorized English Translation by A. A. Brill,
Ph.B., M.D., xii. + 268. 10s. 6d. net.
Prof. Freud seldom writes on any subject without contribut-
ing much that is novel, much that is profoundly illuminating
and suggestive, and at the same time not a little that is
startling and disconcerting in its apparent remoteness from the
lines of everyday thought. This general rule is weU exemplified
in the present small volume, which contains a collection of
four essays originally pubUshed in the psychoanalytical peri-
odical /magro. The main purpose of the book is, as the sub-
title indicates, the appUcation of knowledge gained in the
treatment of nem'otic patients to the problems connected with
the mentahty and social life of primitive peoples.
In the first chapter on the " Savage's Dread of Incest," the
phenomena of Exogamy, Avoidances and other prohibitions
of a sexual nature are passed in review, and an attempt is
made to show that these prohibitions are dii'ected against the
(usuaUy unconscious) tendency to incest—the same tendency
that is observed in the " (Edipus complex " of the neurotic
In certain of his previous works Freud had shown that the
myth of (Edipus. (who unwittingly Idlls his father and marries
his mother) gives expression to tendencies that represent the
logical outcome of a very fundamental form of reaction of
the developing human muid to the family envkonment—
tendencies which are, however, inconsistent with the ethical
standards of adult life accepted by the conscious personahty,
and which are therefore repressed into the Unconscious. Such
repression does not, however, constitute annihilation, and the
repressed tendencies continue to exercise an influence over
thought and behaviour ; the conflict between these tendencies
and the repressing tendencies opposed to them giving rise to
the neurosis. In the present chapter evidence is brought to
show that this same conflict is at work in the mind of the
savage, who by his own sterner method of taboo endeavours
to achieve mastery over the same primitive impulses as those
with which the civilised neurotic has to contend. In other
words, the sexual prohibitions of the savage are concerned
with the very same persons {e.g. mother, sister, mother-in-law,
LXXX.] Review. 225
etc., in the case of a man) as those to which the repressed
desires of the neurotic are directed. The universahty and
social character of the prohibitions in the case of savages
indicate that the conflict is in a sense more acute among
them than among civilised peoples, who have achieved a more
thorough mastery of the primitive passions concerned ; the
neurotic, however, by the severity of his conflict showing a
tendency to regress in this respect to the savage level.
In the second chapter on " Taboo and the Ambivalence of
Emotions," it is sho"mi that taboo has certain important char-
acteristics in common with " compulsion neurosis ;
" this
correspondence pointing to a fundamental similarity between
the psychic mechanisms involved in the two cases. In both
cases there is a powerful compulsion combined with the absence
of any adequate conscious motivation. In both cases, more-
over, there is a strong tendency for the characteristic mental
attitude to extend to other objects and situations than those
to which it had originally reference and for this attitude to
give rise to serious inhibitions and cumbersome ceremonial
performances ; the restriction on the freedom of action thus
brought about being again in both cases very considerable.
Applying to taboo the conceptions regarding mental conflict
and rejjression arrived at by the psychoanalytic study of the
compulsion neuroses, Freud concludes that " taboo is a very
primitive prohibition imposed from 'udthout (by an authority)
and directed against the strongest desires of man. The desire
to violate it continues in the unconscious," the taboo being,
in fact, an externally imposed proliibition directed against the
very same tendencies of human nature as those against which
are aimed the internal prohibitions of the neurotic.
If this conclusion is correct, we should expect to find evi-
dence of conflict (or ambivalence of emotions, to use a term
of Bleuler's that is now very generally adopted by j^sycho-
analytic writers) in the actual details of taboo. When we
examine these details, we find that such evidence is not
wanting. Thus, as Freud here shows, the taboo of the dead
arises as the result of a. conflict between conscious sorrow,
corresponding to an attitude of afi:ection towards the departed,
and unconscious joy resulting from repressed hatred. While the
dead were still alive and Avith us, their desires often conflicted
226 J. C. Fliigel. [part
with our own, and we (the living) were often tempted to wish
in the innermost recesses of our mind that those whose presence
thus interfered with the fulfihnent of our own wishes could be
removed safely out of our way. Now that Dearth has gratified
these secret desires, we behave as if these desires had really been
effective, and guiltily imagine that the dead -will surely take re-
venge on us for the murderous thoughts that we have harboured.
In so doing, we avail ourselves of the psychological mechanism of
projection—so common in certain forms of neurosis—by which
we endeavour to free ourselves of unwelcome thoughts and tenden-
cies by attributing them to others ; in this case our own hostile
feelings towards the dead are attributed to the dead themselves,
who are then supposed to harbour enmity against ourselves.
Hence the very widespread fear of the dead and the consequent
necessity of avoiding contact with them which manifests itself in
the taboos : as in the case of all pathological fears, a fear origin-
ally directed against our own unconscious desires has here
been converted into a fear of somethmg outside ourselves—
a
fear which in its new form is quite unreasonable, and has
no reference to reality.
Similar considerations are sho\vn to apply to two other sets
of taboos—those connected with enemies and with rulers respec-
tively, and the chapter closes with an interesting and suggestive
discussion of the relation of taboo to conscience and morality.
In the third chapter on " Magic, Animism and the Omnipo-
tence of Thought," Freud indicates the parallelism between
the systems of thought involved in Magic and Animism on
the one side and Neurosis on the other. In both there is
discoverable that " omnipotence of thought " (a phrase taken
from one of Freud's own patients), that mistaldng of thoughts
for outer realities which distinguishes the unconscious levels
of the mind. In this Freud is, of course, only carrying a
step further the conclusions of authorities such as Tylor and
Frazer, who had already pointed out that Magic resulted from
a failure to distinguish between " the order of ideas and the
order of nature," " an ideal connexion being mistaken for a
real one " (the two chief Itinds of magic, hom<jeopathic and
contagious, corresponding to the association of ideas by simi-
larity and contiguity respectively). Magic, according to Freud,
differs from Animism in that, while in the former omnipotence
LXXX.J Review. 227
of thought is manifested in a pure form, in the latter this
omnipotence is " projected " on to imaginary spiritual beings,
many of the undesirable mental tendencies being thus got rid
of in the same way as the death wishes to which we have
aheady referred. At the more advanced stage of Rehgion
Man hands over his original omnipotence to the gods, though
indirectly he still retains some remnants of it through his
power of influencing the gods by prayer, sacrifices or threats.
At the still higher level of scientific thought, this omnijjotence
is abandoned altogether, except in so far as science enables
us to control Nature by understanding her laws.
In the fourth chapter on " The Infantile Recurrence of
Totemism," after a review of the main theories regarding
Totemism and Exogamy and their relations to each other,
Freud compares the attitude of jsrimitive man towards his
totem with the attitude sometimes adopted by neurotic children
towards a certain class of animals. Psychoanalysis of animal
phobias occurring in childhood has shown that the dreaded
animal is often treated as a symbolic I'epresentative of the
father, the confhcting love and hate originally directed to the
father being displaced on to the animal. If we assume that
the totem of primitive peoples is also a father symbol (an
assumption that is justified by the very close correspondence
between the attitude of child and savage respectively towards
the animal concerned), many of the characteristics of totemism
are largely explained, e.g. the fact of the totem being regarded
as an ancestor, the identification of the present members of
the tribe with the totem, the general prohibition of IdlUng
the totem combined with the occasional solemn sacrifice of
the animal and the taboo on sexual relations between members
of the same totem, i.e. the coimexion between Totemism and
Exogamy, a connexion that had puzzled so many of the
earlier authorities. If Totemism springs from the father-
regarding aspects of the CEdipus complex, it is only natural
that it should be combined with Exogamy, which (as several
of the most eminent writers on the subject have independently
recognised) constitutes a reaction against incest tendencies.
The two closely connected institutions thus represent the
two aspects of the OEdipus complex, i.e. the deske to Idll
the father and marry the mother. The reaction against the
228 J. C. Flilgel. [part
former desire is of course responsible for the prohibition of
killing the totem animal (father representative). The occa-
sional exceptions to this rule, as when the totem is solemnly
sacrificed and eaten, are themselves of the greatest interest
as revealing the ambivalent attitude towards the father, and
Freud's analysis of the totemic feast, which is based to some
extent ujDon the previous work of Robertson Smith, con-
stitutes perhaps the most fascinating portion of the book,
reveahng as it does in a most striking way the wonderful
complexity of human motive and throwing at the same time a
flood of light upon the history and meaning of a great number
of religious observances, including the central rite of the
Christian Church.
Within the small compass of this book Prof. Freud has
compressed a very considerable mass of material that should
be of the greatest interest to the psychologist and anthro-
pologist. No doubt many of his conclusions will afford matter
for controversy, and it must be admitted that as regards
detail there are many points where difficulties suggest them-
selves, and where wider knowledge may necessitate modification
of the views here put forward.
In the opinion of the present writer, however, Prof. Freud's
m.ain conclusions as here set forth are not only in themselves
correct, but (Avhen ta.ken in conjunction with the work of
Jones, Rank, Reik and other psychoanalytic students in the
same field) will be found to have opened a new and most
important chapter of comparative psychology.
Freud's works present a task for the translator that is by
no means easy, but Dr. Brill has been much more successful
in this case than in some of his earlier translations. Certain
errors and inconsistencies in the references (a matter of some
importance in a work of this character) should be corrected
in a second edition ; the titles of English works being some-
times incorrectly given, while the titles of German works are
sometimes quoted in German and sometimes in English, even
where translations do not appear to exist or where the page
reference is to the original. There are also occasional obscuri
ties and inelegancies in the text, but on the whole the meaning
is clearly rendered, and the book in its English guise should
find many readers. J. C. Flugel.
LXXX.] Review. 229
The Road to Endor. By Lieut. E. H. Jones, I.A.R.O.
(John Lane, The Bodley Head, London, W.)
The successful attempts by certain British officers to escape
from the Turkish prison camjj at Yozgad have resulted in
the publication of two of the most exciting books relating
to the War : Four Huridred and Fifty Miles to Freedom, and
The Road to Endor. As narratives of combined daring, endurance
and ingenuity, the two books may rank equal, but the latter has
a peculiar interest for all persons interested in psychical research.
In February, 1917, Lieut. Jones, with three or four of his
companions, began experimenting with a ouija-board. The first
attempts, though made principally with the object of relieving
the tedium of prolonged imprisonment, were serious but fruit-
less, as the board would write nothing but meaningleste com-
binations of letters. Then, when they were all about to give
up in disappomtment, the " Devil of Mischief," as Lieut. Jones
puts it, prompted him to "fake" replies to his companions'
questions, purporting to come from a very communicative
spirit named " SaUy."
Lieut. Jones played the game with his fellow-prisoners
strictly. He never claimed that the phenomena which so
much intrigued them were genuine. He invited them to
apply any test they liked and form their own conclusions.
As a first precaution, however, he decided not to make the
board work except when he had as fellow-sitter, Dr. O'Farrell.
This led the rest of the camp to believe that the results were
due to some mysterious " rapport " between the two.
" SaUy " was joined by " Silas P. Warner " and several
other communicators. They predicted the course of the war,
or reported events of which news had not yet reached the
sj^ectators, and as these statements frequently turned out
to be true, their reputation steadily increased. With equal
success they referred to facts concerning the private lives
of persons who supposed these facts known only to themselves.
Careful records were kept for the benefit of the S.P.R., which,
it is to be feared, has not yet received them.
Various tests were applied, but the Spook triumphantly
surmounted them all. First Lieut. Jones and Dr. O'Farrell
were blindfolded, then the board was placed upside down
230 W. H. Salter. [part
so that the letters on it were invisible, but in each case,
after a short interval, answers were forthcoming as rapid and
as satisfactorjr as before. Finally the Spook was subjected
to a more elaborate and apparently conclusive test. The
order of the letters on the board was altered, and duplicate
and triplicate boards with the altered order were prepared.
The mediums were blindfolded and then* hands placed on
the original board, which had not been shown to them after
the order of the letters on it had been altered. The duplicate
and triplicate boards were placed in another room, and the
trijolicate, which was of small size, made to revolve within
the duplicate. The officers who made the triplicate revolve
left the room before it had stopped running. The test was
whether the Spook could write on the original board according
to a code formed by the duplicate and triplicate in conjunction.
It did, to the satisfaction of the investigators, and its reputa-
tion was thereby finally assured.
Meanwliile the Turldsh Commandant of the Camp, Kiazim
Bey, had become interested, and sent the Camp Interpreter,
an unpleasant person called Moise Eskenazi, but more generally
known in the Camp as the Pimple, to report. So deeply
impressed was the Pimple that Kiazim became anxious to
enlist . the services of the Spook in tracing a buried Armenian
treasure. The Spook was only too willing to oblige, as Lieut.
Jones conceived the idea that the treasure-hunt, if conducted
under strict psychic instructions, might be made to lead to
his removal from Yozgad to some point nearer the sea, from
which escape would be relatively an easy matter.
About this time Lieut. Jones joined forces with Lieut. Hill,
an Australian airman, whose determination to escape was as
great as his own. At a camp entertainment they gave a
highly successful exhibition of stage-telepathy. Lieut. Jones,
blindfolded, named articles handed to Lieut. Hill by members
of the audience, read the numbers of banknotes, told the
time of watches, etc. Few mistakes were made, and if the
whole camp was not convinced it was genuine telepathy,
none could explain how it was done. Lieut. Hill thus became
accepted as Lieut. Jones's fellow-medium.
Between them they fooled the Pimple and Kiazim Bey to
their hearts' content. Under the Spook's directions they were
LXXX. 1
Review. 231
confined in a separate building, ^Yhere frequent seances with
the Pimple were held. The story of the treasure-hunt, while
most entertaining and exciting, is too long and complicated
to set out here. Suffice it to say that, after the discovery
of important and mysterious clues, the Bey became nervous
as to his fate in the event of the matter becoming known
to his mihtary superiors, and decided to back out of it.
Lieuts. Jones and Hill were thus reduced to their last hope of
escape, namely to get repatriated by simulating madness. For
this purpose they had to reveal to some of their fellow-
prisoners, including Dr. O'Farrell, that the whole of the pheno-
mena of the ouija-board and the telepathy exhibition were
faked, and it was only with great difficulty that they succeeded
in convincing them that this was so. Dr. O'Farrell then
coached them carefully as to the symptoms of the different
types of madness they were respectively to simulate.
To the Pimple and Eaazim the Spook explained that the
apparent madness on the part of the mediums was produced
by psychic control, in order that they might be sent to
Constantinople, whence the treasure-hunt could be more satis-
factorily directed. The two Ueutenants were examined by
local Turkish doctors, who expressed the opinion that they
were mad. The Spook then dictated a telegram wliich Kiazim
sent to the War Office at Constantinople suggesting that the
two officers should be sent there for observation, and the
War Office concurring, off they set under the Pimple's
escort.
After a wearisome journey the three arrived at Constantin-
ople. Here Lieuts. Jones and Hill had to submit to a far
more rigorous medical examination than at Yozgad. For
several months they were kept under close observation by
mental speciaUsts, both Turkish and European. Both on their
journey to the capital and while in hospital there, the sufferings
they endured to maintain their deception, from prolonged
self-starvation and other causes, would liave broken down the
resolution of all but exceptional men. Eventually, however,
their endurance was rewarded : the speciaUsts reported them
of unsound mind, and they were sent to Smyrna for repatria-
tion. By the time they reached Alexandria the armistice
had been signed.
232 W. H. Salter. [part
Kiazim's actions came to the knowledge of his superiors
and he was conrt-martialled. This may have chilled his
ardour for psychical research. The Pimple was, however,
in June, 1919, notwithstanding rumours of fraud which had
reached him, a convinced believer, and so far as is known,
he may be so stiU. The S^oook had changed his whole moral
outlook ; it had made him a comparatively honest man,
persuaded him to restore stolen property, and to volunteer
for active service, and held out hopes to him of becoming
a central figure in the religious revolution which was shortly
to sweep over the world. It is to be feared, however, that
when peace with Turkey is restored, he wiU consider the
S.P.R. too lukewarm and unprogressive a body to apply for
membership.
Kiazim and Moise were of course easy dupes, but it may
be worth enquiring in some detail how Lieut. Jones avoided
for so long the detection of his fellow-prisoners. They might
fairly have been described as a picked company. In addition
to the technical naval and military attainments shared by
them all, many of them had knowledge of various branches
of science, or had achieved success in different kinds of busi-
ness. Almost every occupation in life was represented, except,
fortunately for Lieut. Jones, that of investigator for the S.P.R.
And yet, given a man of Lieut. Jones's powers of memory
and visualisation, and of the smartness in eliciting information
by fishing questions, developed by his experience as a magis-
trate in Burma, the deception was " as easy as falling off a
log." At every possible stage his victims delivered themselves
up bound hand and foot.
Dealing first with the mechanical tests, that is to say, those
designed to prove whether or not the mediums could produce
intelligible replies under conditions apparently excluding fraud,
we note that the tests were inadequate in conception and
carelessly executed, and that the results were still more care-
lessly observed. Thus when Lieut. Jones was blindfolded, he
could (as usually happens when the bhndfolding is done by
amateurs) see quite sufficiently for his purpose. When the
ouija-board was turned upside down, his companions failed
to observe that he had made nicks in the edge of the board,
so that by an exercise of visual memory, he could locate
LXXX.] Review. 233
any letter as clearly as if the board were lying right side up
before his open eyes. They further, on the ground of his
failure to remember his part in a pantomime, attributed to
him a bad memory for things in general, whereas, m fact,
as this test and numerous other incidents show, he had an
exceptionally good one.
The test with the duplicate and triplicate boards, although
faulty in conception, should have caught Lieut. Jones out,
if only it had been conducted with reasonable care. The
main defect in conception was the complexity of the test, the
duplicate and triplicate boards being intended to furnish a
code unloiown both to Lieut. Jones and the investigators,
and so to exclude any possibility of telepathy between them.
But this complexity in fact defeated its ends, as each factor
which was designed to act, and, given caution and discretion,
would have acted, as an additional check, merely served,
in the atmosphere of carelessness which prevailed, as an
additional loophole of escape.
The first mistake was in the preparation of the " original
"
board. Instead of selecting an entirely new order of letters,
the investigators retained the order so well known to Lieut.
Jones, merely transposing three pairs of letters, one of the
pairs consisting of the adjacent letters DV, which thus became
VD.
Then one of the investigators came into a room, where
Lieut. Jones was sitting, holding the board with the new order
of letters in his hand. This gave Lieut. Jones sufficient time
to memorise the new order, which as regards 20 out of 26
letters simply reproduced the old order ; he failed, however,
to note the transposition of the V and D. Notwithstanding
this, the investigators were positive that the mediums, when
the test was made, had had no opportunity of seeing the
new board.
Accordingly, when the test began and Lieut. Jones was
blindfolded, he knew, apart from his error of observation
as to D and V, what was the order of the letters on the
board placed before him. To succeed, however, he still required
two items of information ; (1) which way the board was
turned, i.e. which were the letters nearest to him and which
furthest, and (2) how many places to the right or left of
9.
234 W. H. Salter. [PABT
any particular letter on the duplicate board the same letter
was to be found on the triplicate board. Both these gaps
in his knowledge were speedily filled through slips on the
part of the investigators.
The blindfolding was so imperfect that he could see the
edge of the board nearest him, so that when the board was
asked whether it could write on the new arrangement of
letters, the reply came, " Yes, ask something." It was then
asked to write in code, the triplicate board having in the
meantime been made to spin, and produced a long series of
the letters BMX. This puzzled the investigators, who, not
of course knowing the code, thought it might be the code
for " Yes." One of them accordingly went to the other
room, and came back saying, " Can't make it out : it's not
code for '
Yes.' BMX is V ." Here he was interrupted,
but not before he had given Lieut. Jones sufficient information
to reconstruct the whole code, subject to the error that V
was in fact on all the three test-boards one place further to
the left than he supposed. Code messages were thereupon
freely produced.
Now the revolving triplicate had stopped in such a position
that each letter on it was twelve places to the left of the
corresponding letter on the duplicate, and this was the code
on which the messages ought to have been written. Owing,
however, to the double accident, (1) of Lieut. Jones's mistake
as to the relative positions of V and D, and (2) of V being
the letter the identity of which had been revealed, Lieut.
Jones was working to an imaginary code in which twenty-two
of the twenty-six letters were one place further to the left
than in the real code, two were two places further to the
left and two were in the right position.
When the investigators came to de-code the messages at first they
found they made nonsense, but finally they triumphantly declared
that the Spook had been " coding their code " by " writing
one letter to the left all the way through." As appears
from the last preceding paragraph, careful de-coding would
have shown that sense could only be obtained by abandoning
this principle as regards four letters of the alphabet. As
Lieut. Jones says, " The proportion of cases in which the
letter appeared one to the left of where it should be was
LXXX.] Review. 235
great enough to make the investigators believe that the Spook
was purposely writing in this way. They either did not
notice, or passed over as negligible, the four exceptions. Yet
in these exceptions lay the clue to the trick."
He was equally skilfxil and equally successful in establishing
the evidential nature of his messages. These, as already
mentioned, related both to public and private events. As
regards the first class he had to rely on information given
to him in letters from the outside world, which he disclosed
to the Camp exclusively through the Spook, and on deductions
and inteUigent anticipations based on the contents of his
fellow-prisoners' letters, and to trust to events to justify
him, as they not infrequently did. His companions appear
to have given the Spook credit for all his hits, and not to
have marked his misses. Thus, about the time America
came into the War, the Spook stated that a large expedi-
tionary force was being got ready for transport to Vladivos-
tock, full details of the number of ships, equipment, etc.,
being given. Now the details as to tonnage, etc., corresponded
to what would actually have been requked for a force of the
size mentioned, and as Lieut. Jones was supposed to be quite
ignorant as regards the overseas transport of troops, it seemed
certain that some supernormal source of knowledge had been
tapped. Lieut. Jones happened, however, to have sufficient
knowledge of the subject to frame a plausible answer, and
the fact that nothing further was heard of the expedition
did not damage either his or the Spook's reputation.
As regards the private news revealed by the board it would
be difficult to improve on Lieut. Jones's own account of the
" Louise " incident, the main part of which is here set out
verbatim.
Ovir War-news Spook had occupied the stage for the early
part of the evening, and had just announced his departme.
We asked him to send some one else.
" Who are you ? " said Alec. As he spoke the door opened
and " Antony " came in, and stood close to my side.
" I am Lomse," the board spelt out.
I felt Antony give a little start as he read the message. With-
out a pause the Spook went on :
"HeUo, Tony!"
" This is interesting," said Tony. (That was give-away n\maber 2.)
236 W. H. Salter. [part
" Go on, please ; tell us something."
I now knew that somewhere Tony must have met a Louise.
That was a French name. So far as I knew he had not served
in France ; but he had served in Egypt. One night, a month i
or so before, in talking of Egyptian scenery, he had mentioned I
a long straight road with an avenue of trees on either side that
" looked spiffing by moonlight," and ran for miles across the il
desert. It struck me at the time that there was nothing parti- |
cularly " spiffing " about the type of scenery described ;
nothing, i
at any rate, to rouse the enthusiasm he had shown, and his !
roseate memory of it might have been tinged by pleasant com-
panionship. Remembering this, I ventured to say more about
Louise. Nothing could be lost by risking it.
" You I'emember me, Tony ? " asked the Spook.
" I know two Louises," said Tony cautiously.
'
Ah ! not the old one, mon vieux," said the Spook. [
(Now this looks as if the Spook knew both, but a little refiec- i:
tion shows that, given two Louises, one was quite probably older
than the other.) I
Antony was delighted. !
" Go on," he said ;
" say something." i
" Long straight road," said the Spook ;
" trees—moonlight." i
" Where was that ?
" asked Tony. There was a sharpness
about his questioning that showed he was hooked.
" You Imow, Tony !
" !
" France ? "
j
" No, no, stupid ! Not France ! Ah, you have not forgotten, j
mon cher, riding in moonlight, trees and sand, and a straight
road—and you and me and the moon."
"This is 7nost interesting," said Antony. Then to the board:
" Yes, I know ;
Egypt—Caii'o."
" Bravo, you know me. Why did you leave me ? I am in trouble."
This was cunning of the Spook. Tony must have left her, because
he had come to Yozgad without her. But Tony did not know this.
He was too interested, and his memory carried him back to another
parting.
"You told me to go," said Tony. "I wanted to help"
—
which showed he hadn't !
" But you didn't—you didn't—you didn't !
" said the Spook.
Tony ran his hands through his hair. " This is quite right
as far as it goes," he said, " but I want to ask a few questions
to make sure. May I ?
"
" Certainly," said Doc. and I.
He turned to the board (it was always amusing to me to notice
how men had to have something rnaterial to question, and how they
never turned to the Doc. or me, but always to the board. Hence,
I suppose, the necessity for " idols " in the old days).
" Have you gone ba—•" he checked himself and rubbed his chin.
" No," he went on. " I won't ask that.—Where are you now ?
"
LXXX.] Review. 237
He had already without knowing it, answered his own question,
but he must be given time to forget it.
" Ah, Tony," said Louise, " you were a dear ! I did love so your
hair."
This was camouflage, but it pleased Tony.
" Where are you now ? " Tony repeated, thinking, no doubt, of
soft hands on his hair.
Why did you not help me ? " said Louise.
" Look here, I want to make sure who you are. Where are you
now ?
"
" Are you an unbeliever, Tony ? C'est moi, Louise, qui te parle !
" Then tell me where you are," Tony persisted.
" Oh dear, Tony. I told you I was going back. I went back !
"
" By jove !
" said Tony, " that settles it. Back *o Paris !
"
The stage " telepathy " was, of course, done in accordance
with a pre-arranged code, which is set out in full in one
of the appendices to the book, and is weU worth careful
study.
It will be seen that Lieut. Jones possesses in a very high
degree all the qualities that go to the constitution of a success-
ful fraudulent medium. Fortunately both his inclinations and
his official duties prevent his adopting this career. On the
principle, however, that the best gamekeepers are made of
converted poachers, it is to be hoped that he will see his
way to collaborating with the Society in the detection of
fraud. He would be an ideal investigator of a kind never
more needed than at the present time, especially if, by contact
with those who have for long done research work for the
Society, his experience were somewhat widened, and his present
tendency to excessive dogmatism thereby slightly corrected.
For certainly dogmatism is the great blemish on Lieut.
Jones's book. He is, of course, too logical and cautious to
assert in so many words that, because he " faked " psychical
phenomena so as to deceive his companions, therefore no
genuine psychical phenomena exist. He doubtless reflected that
he would have exposed himself to the retort, " In that case,
because you and Lieut. Hill simulated madness so as to deceive
the mental experts, do you say that there is no such thing
as real madness 1
" What he does suggest is that he produced
phenomena as remarkable and varied as those produced by
any medium, under conditions at least as rigorous as those
to which mediums are ever subjected, and that therefore
238 W. H. Salter. [part
fraud, which was certainly the cause in his own case, cannot
be eliminated as a possible explanation of the others. It
is no doubt due to the paucity of psychical literature at
Yozgad prison camp that Lieut. Jones has committed himself
to this untenable position.
If postal arrangements had permitted free communication
between Yozgad and Hanover Square, and the records of
the sittings had been forwarded, as they were made, to the
officers of the S.P.R., it would very soon have been pointed
out to Lieut. Jones's companions, that they would be wise
to attach little importance to the "mechanical" side of the
Spook's performances, e.g. the writing of coherent messages
on the " ouija " board when reversed, or when the " mediums "
were blindfolded. Their attention might have been drawn
to even more remarkable results produced under more stringent
conditions by persons who admitted they faked the results,
but successfully concealed their modus operandi, to the slate-
writing, for instance, of Mr. S. J. Davey, as recorded in Vol.
III. of the Society's Journal (1887-1888).
Mr. Davey's performances and the discussion which followed
them are of especial interest as showing that from the earliest
days of the S.P.R. it was generally recognised that the only
evidence of the supernormal origin of communications, to
which any importance could safely be attached, was that
based on the contents of the communications, and not on the
apparent impossibility of producing them except by super-
normal agency. It would appear from his book that Lieut.
Jones would claim that, even judged by this standard, he
produced results as remarkable as any obtained through pro-
fessedly genuine mediums.
But in point of fact Lieut. Jones was working under con-
ditions far more favourable to fraud than the average medium
enjoys. He was one of a small group of men shut up together
for months and even years : to relieve the tedium of captivity
they freely told each other all sorts of details of their past
lives, both before and during the War, and then forgot they
had ever told them : they shared with each other news from
the outside world : and finally, as the book clearly shows,
they none of them had the sUghtest idea of the precautions
necessary to exclude fraud.
LXXX.] Review. 239
Very different is the lot of a professional medium. Any
member of the public may obtain a sitting with him. Many
of his sitters wUl no doubt be as guileless as Lieut. Jones's
victims, allowing themselves to be "pumped," or of their
own accord giving away vital information without knowing
that they have done so. But not all will be of this class :
from time to time the medium will be confronted with sitters
he has never seen before, to whose identity and previous
history he has not the slightest clue, who say little (if any-
thing), and keep a careful note of what they say to him
and he says to them. If they have more than one sitting,
they carefully check anything said by the medium at the
later sittings, to see whether he is worldng on any statement
made or hint given at a previous sitting. Nor is the possi-
bility of the medium making enquiries between the sittings
overlooked. Private detectives have even been employed to
discover whether anything of tliis kind has been done (see
Vol. XXX., p. 342, of the S.P.R. Proceedings).
It may be admitted that, even when every conceivable
precaution has been taken, it is impossible to guarantee with
absolute certainty that the medium has not obtained by normal
methods unknown to the investigators, information purporting
to be derived from supernormal sources. The records of the
S.P.R. are, however, full of cases where mediums have dis-
played knowledge which, if not supernormal in origin, could
only have been obtained by them by collusion with third
parties, carefully elaborated and concealed with miraculous
skill. On this hypothesis, to account for some of the " book-
tests
" given through Mrs. Leonard, one must assume that
Mrs. Leonard, with the connivance of her sitter's servants,
secretly introduced into her sitter's private apartments within
a particular period of a few days, an accomplice with a good
worldng knowledge of classical Greek. Most people, when
faced with the alternative of assuming this or of accepting
some supernormal means of communication, find that the
latter course makes less demands on their credulity.
Lieut. Jones must, however, be aware that those who think
there is something more in professed supernormal communica-
tions than can be explained by chance or fraud, do not rest
their case entirely on results obtained from professional mediums,
240 W. H. Salter. [part lxxx.]
even from mediums who, as Mrs. Piper, have been kept under
close observation by trained investigators over a long period.
Much of the most interesting material which has engaged the
Society's attention has come from amateur automatists, whose
bona fides is entirely above suspicion.
Particularly is this the case with regard to telepathy, whether
spontaneous or experimental.- In the nature of things tele-
pathic experiments are not worthy of serious consideration
unless the bona fides of both agent and percipient is un-
doubted, and there is no clearer proof of the inadequacy of
Lieut. Jones's companions as investigators than their willingness
to attach importance to stage performances like those of
Lieut. Jones and Lieut. Hill. It may be hoped that by this
time they (and Lieut. Jones also) may have found an oppor-
tunity to study, e.g. Prof. Gilbert Murray's experiments (see
Vol. XXIX. of Proceedings), and thereby to learn on what
grounds the case for a serious examination of the subject
really rests.
Notwithstanding these unfortunate blemishes the book is
one which deserves the careful study of all interested in
Psychical Research. Much may be learnt from it as to the
ease with which investigators even of a high standard of general
ability can be deceived by a medium with sufficient brains
to take advantage of apparently unimportant slips and neglig-
ences, and as to the untrustworthiness of any tests which are
not carried out with the most rigorous and exacting attention
to detail.
W. H. Salter.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART LXXXI.
April, 1921.
AN EXAMINATION OF BOOK-TESTS OBTAINED IN
SITTINGS WITH MRS. LEONARD.
§ 2. A Case where the Communicator's Memory seems
THE Probable Source of Information - - - 253
§ 3. Mrs. Beadon's Book-Tests . . - - - 260
§ 4. Instances of Statements about Words or Sen-
tences IN A Book which turn out to be
Verbally Accurate - 270
§ 5. Some Miscellaneous Cases 289
§ 6. Special Experiments 300
§ 7. Question of Cross-Correspondences - - - 313
§ 8. Seemingly Genuine Mistakes, and others - - 338
§ 9. Discussion of Statements which may throw
Light on the Mode of Perception of a Page
IN A Closed Book 349
§ 10. Conclusion - - - . .. . . - 375
Appendix A : Note on Chance in Book- Tests - - 379
B : Cases of Accurate Description of
Objects in connection with Book-
By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick.
Page
1. Introductory 242
C
D
Tests
Supplementary to § 8
Supplementary to § 9
386
393
398
242 Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
§ 1-
Introductory.
The so-called book-tests we have to examine are attempts
by Mrs. Leonard's control Feda to indicate the contents
of a particular page of a particular book vt^hich Mrs.
Leonard has not seen with her bodily eyes, and which
is not, at the time of the sitting, known to the sitter.
For example, Feda might tell the sitter that the com-
municator wants him to go to the book-case between
the fireplace and the window in bis study, and in the
third shelf from the bottom to take the seventh book
from the left and open it at the 48th page, where about
one-third of the w&j down he will find a passage which
may be regarded as an appropriate message from the
communicator to him. In the most typical cases the
interior of the sitter's residence, and sometimes even
the sitter's name, is u.nknown to Mrs. Leonard. The
sitter himself is milikely consciously to remember what
book occupies the exact place indicated, and even if he
has read the book, which he often has not, it is prac-
tically certain that he does not know what is on the-
specified page.
A good book-test therefore M^ould exclude ordinary
telepathy from the sitter as an explanation, and would
make it extremely difficult to suppose that Feda derives
her information from any living human being. It would
seem that either she is capable of exercising pure clair-
voyance—that is, obtaining knowledge of physical appear-
ances which are out of the range of any one's senses ;
^
1 The term clairvoyance is sometimes used to express externalised
or semi-externalised vision of " spirits " such as Mrs. Leonard in trance
(or Feda) appears to have. I have, however, been accustomed to
use it in the above defined sense, though without any implication of
analogy to the sense of sight. It is called by Myers in Human
Personality Telaesthesia.
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 243
or else that she is in communication with some spirit,
in or out of the body, who has this power. It is as
excluding telepathy from the sitter that Feda professes
interest in the book-tests. She will say to a sitter who
has not had one before :
" He [the communicator] wants
to give you one of the book-tests . . . tests tha.t prevent
people thinking it is telepathy," or " this test is to do
away with any idea [you] may have of telepathy." It
is noticeable that the book-tests in this collection are
always given through Feda as an intermediary. Even
communicators who themselves on occasion control directly,
such as A. V. B., are represented as dictating their
book-tests to Feda. Feda, however, is not generally
represented as herself perceiving the inside of the closed
book. That is the function of the communicator.
The origin of book-tests is not exactly known to us,
and probably cannot be ascertained; for Mrs. Leonard's
waking knowledge of what passes while she is in trance
is at most very imperfect, and we are of course not in
touch with all who have sat with her. Nor do we know
when they first began. We have, however, a large collection
of book-tests given in 1917, 1918, and January 1919 ;
and I think it is probable that if they occurred before
1917 they v/ere at any rate infrequent, or we should
have heard of them more. Our collection is ?o mis-
cellaneous one. It contains first a great many—about 63
—
received by Miss Radclyffe Hall and (Una,) Lady Troubridge
(either together or one of them alone) as sitters,^ and
very carefully recorded and annotated by them. These
I shall call the A. V. B. book-tests, the communicator
being the same A. V. B. who took a leading part in
the Leonard sittings reported by Miss Radclyffe Hall
and Lady Troubridge in their paper recently published in
the Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXX.
Then we have twelve received by Mrs. Salter, purport-
ing to come from her father, Dr. A. W. Verrall, whose
name is familiar to readers of the Proceedings as a com-
municator in the " Statins " and " Ear of Dionysius
"
^ When Miss Radclyffe Hall and Lady Troubridge sat together with
Mrs. Leonard, as they usually did, one or other acted as note-taker.
244 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part |
j
cases. These I shall call the A. W. V. book-tests. And |
further we have book-tests received by about 37 other 1
sitters, one or more by each—the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas
has sent 19—and examined so far as possible by Lady
Troubridge or Mrs. Salter.
It is noticeable that throughout this collection of
book-tests each sitter has his or her special communi-
cator. Thus in book-tests received by Miss Radclyffe
Hall or Lady Troubridge (whom for short I will call
M. R. H. and U. V. T., as they call themselves in their
own paper above mentioned) the communicator is alwaj^s
A. V. B., though occasionally A. W. V. or some one
else is also said to be present and taking part. Similarly
in those received by ]\Irs. Salter, A. W. V. is always
the communicator, though sometimes accompanied by ;
Mrs. Verrall or by A. V. B. Mrs. Beadon's communicator !
is always her husband, and so on.
It will have been perceived from the general descrip-
tion I have given of a typical book-test, that the plan j
of referring the sitter to a particular page for " a message " '
gives great opportunity for vagueness. And in fact in
some cases no indication whatever is given of the nature
of the message, and in some cases the description is of
the slightest. It seldom happens that the sitter can say
beforehand from Feda's description exactly what he
expects to find. It is often almost presented to him
as a kind of puzzle, as if the communicator said :
" See
if you can guess what I mean when I say there is a
message for you on such and such a page." It would
be an error, however, to suppose that on almost any
page of any book something that may pass as a message
may be found ; and there is of course still less proba-
bility that when indications, even vague ones, of the
nature of the message are given, the message when found
will conform to them.^ The difficulty is in deciding
what we may legitimately expect in the way of accidental
coincidences ; and this difficulty will be with us in a
good many of the cases to be considered. It is obviously
^ In Appendix A will be found some experiments in random correspon-
dences.
Lxxxi.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 245
i
a matter on which people are hkely to forra different
judgments to some extent, and in which bias might come
in. For this reason I, as a person outside the experiments,
have been asked to report on the evidence collected. I
have had nothing to do with collecting it, and have
no successful book-test to contribute, so that it is perhaps
easier for me to approach all the cases from an equally
outside point of view, than it might be, e.g. for
Lady Troubridge or Mrs. Salter, who might possibly be
thought in danger of judging their own cases differently
from the book-tests received by others. These ladies
therefore asked me to undertake the Report.
Before proceeding with it I had better say that I have
taken no personal part in verifying the tests, having simply
accepted the records as furnished to me, both of what was
said at the sittings and of the subsequent verification.
This verification has, so far as I can judge, been very
carefully carried out in every instance I have made use of.
Here and there I have asked a question to make
certain points clear, but that is all. In quoting the
records of Feda's remarks I have, in order to make
easier reading, ventured to modify the childish mode of
speaking—omitting the lisping I's for r's and some of
the mispronunciations. I have also occasionally put full
stops for commas in quoting from records, but never
where the sense would be thereby altered.
It should be understood from the beginning that many
book-tests and items of book-tests are complete failures,
and that apparent precision a.nd fulness of detail in what
the communicator says, and confidence expressed by him
that the test should be a good one, are no guarantee of
success. I have endeavoured to tabulate roughly the number
of successes and failures in the cases before us. Roughly
speaking, out of about 532 items, rather over a third were
completely or approximately successfiil.^ But I do not
^ The following are further details. There were 34 sitters whose
book-tests were verified (2 others failed to send us their notes, and
3 others were unable to identify the book-case in which the book was said
to be). These sitters had among them 146 sittings at which book-tests
were given, and at these sittings about 532 separate book-test items.
246 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
tliink this really tells us very much ;
first, because
the classification is difficult and uncertain, and secondly,
because the evidential importance of successes, as unlikely
to occur by chance, varies enormously.
Assuming the success of smy book-test under examina-
tion to be beyond what ca.n be attributed to chance,
we have to ask three questions about the supernormal
knowledge displayed—meaning by supernormal knowledge
that not normally possessed by Mrs. Leonard. First was it,
or may it have been, possessed by the sitter, and therefore
possibly obtained telepathically from him 1 Correct des-
cription of the bookcase and its surroundings and of the
outside of the test-book, or books near it, is usually
of this kind, for a bookcase in the sitter's home must
as a rule be assumed known to him, and the appearance
and titles of the books in it are likely to have passed
under his eye. Some experiments were, however, tried
in which special precautions were taken to exclude know-
ledge by the sitters of what books stood in particular places.
A second question is, was the knowledge possessed
by any other human being who can be supposed in
touch with the mediiim or the sitter ? There are three
cases in our collection where the books are located in
a house unknown to the sitter, but well known to a
previous sitter. These, however, were not ver}^ successful
as book-tests.^
A third question is, was the knowledge possessed
by the communicator before his death, so that his memory
may be the source drawn on ? In the absence of the
first and second possibilities the third would of course, if
clairvoyance be excluded, give us evidence of survival.
If all these three questions are answered in the negative,
but only then, do we seem driven to assume pure clair-
occurred, not including statements about titles or other outside things.
The number of items at a sitting varied from 1 to 15. These 532 items
may be classed as 92 successful ; 100 approximately successful ; 204
complete failures ; 40 nearly complete failures ; 96 dubious. Taking
the first two classes together we may say that about 36 per cent, of
the attempts were approximately successful.
'•
They are referred to on other grounds on pp. 372-374.
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 247
voyance—a knowledge of plwsical appearances not obtained
through anybody's senses.^ Evidence for this it will be
remembered is at present very scanty,^ whether we sup-
pose the perceiving mind to be incarnate or discarnate,
so that it would be extremely interesting if it could
be established through book-tests. According to Feda, it
is generally clairvoyance exercised by the communicator
that is the source of the knowledge shown. It will be
observed that the three above-named sources of super-
normal knowledge—the sitter, other living persons, and
the memory of the communicator—may work together,
or any two of them ma)^ and when they do so mauj
perhaps fortify each other. It would be interesting to
discover, if we could, whether knowledge possessed by both
sitter and supposed communicator is more likely to reach
the control Feda, than that possessed by the sitter alone.
In order that the reader may know something of what
he is embarking upon I will conckide this introductory
section with a typical book-test which, I think it will
be admitted, is decidedly good, though not as complete
as we could wish. It is accompanied by a remarkable
display of knowledge of external things near the book,
which must apparently have had a supernormal origin.
^ I have in this hst of possible sources of information ignored one
suggested by Feda because I cannot profess to understand it. It is
that previous readers of the book have left recognisable psychic traces
on it. As she puts it on one occasion (see below, p. 357), " When
reading the book they have in a way psychometrised the book and left
a thought."' This would seem, however, to involve something analogous
to clairvoyance whatever interpretation we put upon it.
^ The most important work that has been done on the subject with
any success was a series of experiments carried out by Prof. Charles
Richet, of which the account was published in the Proceedings of the
S.P.R., Vol. v., in an article entitled, "Relation de Divers Experiences
sur la transmission mentale, la Lueidite, et autres Phenomenes non
explicables par les Donnees Scientifiques actuelles." For clairvoyance,
or as Professor Richet calls it, Lueidite, see pp. 77-116 of that article.
The experiments were done with different hypnotised subjects, who tried
to describe or reproduce drawings in closed envelopes held near them,
no one knowing the contents of the particular envelope. \Vliat may
be regarded as success was obtained in somewhat over 10 per cent, of
the experiments, which is about three times what chance produced in a
series of parallel experiments.
248 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
The book-test in question was an A. V. B. one on
September 12, 1917. M. R. H. and U. V. T. were
both present, one of them, as was their wont, recording.
Feda, who has her nicknames for most sitters and com-
municators, caJls A. V. B. Ladye—a nickname used by
A. V. B.'s friends in her hfetime (see Proc. XXX., p. 344).
F.i Now, to-day she [A. V. B.] wants to give another one [i.e.
book-test]. She's skipiomg back to [M. R. H.'s] own
books, it's the books that go from the window.
[This particular set of bookshelves had been identified in
connexion with previous book-tests, so its mention here
is not evidential ; but in view of what follows it must
be remembered that at this time M. R. H. and U. V. T.
were anonymous to IN'Irs. Leonard. It js believed that
she did not loiow their names, and it is almost im-
possible to suppose that she had ever been at M. R. H.'s
flat.]
F. {s.v. But there couldn't be nineteen books, Ladye !)
Could there be nineteen books in a row ?
S. Yes.
F. She saj^s it's the nineteenth book from the window.
S. On what shelf ?
F. There. (Here Feda indicates the height with her hand.)
S. I would like to get that height correct. I will stand up-
and you shall touch me just about where you think that
that shelf would come on my body. (Feda touches sitter's
sldrt just barely below the top of a side pocket in the skirt.).
F. She says it's the nineteenth book and the fifty-twoth page,
and it's near the top of the page, but it's not the first,
sentence.
S. What's it about ?
F. Feda can't make this out. Oh what does she mean ? This
is funny ! (Feda begins pulling at [an ornament worn
by the sitter].) She says, in a way, it has a bearing on this.
S. Do you mean this [ornament] that you are touching ?
1 In dialogues quoted in this paper F. .stands for Feda and S. for
the sitter. Feda has a way of interspersing her conversation with
asides, generally addressed to the communicator but sometimes appa-
rently to herself. These asides are enclosed in round brackets and.
preceded by the letters s.v. standing for sotto voce.
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 249
F. Yes. Well, she says, if you go back in your mind to that,
what you will find on page fifty-two, will take you back
^ to something connected with that. (Here Feda touches
the [ornament] again.) She's laughing, she says that
even though if read in one way it is connected with that
[ornament], yet in another way it will fall into line
with the other messages. It can be read in two ways.
She says, a person reading it who did not loiow the
connection of the [ornament] would read it only as
being appropriate to the other messages.
[This means as referring in some way to psychical research
which previous book-test messages to M. R. H. and
IT. V. T. had been interpreted as doing.]
F, [continuing] Now Avhat is she doing '?
Feda don't know
what this bit means, but she's showing Feda a picture.
She just flashed it up before Feda.
[Feda jjroceeds to describe a picture, quickly identified by
the sitters as a small painting called " Le Canape Bleu,"
which was hanging close to the book-case in question,
a photogravure of it is given opposite. The description,
though not quite correct, is I think, and I believe every
one would agree, unmistakable. The description is as
follows :]
F. It's somebody sitting down without many clothes on.
[This was said in rather a shocked tone suggesting
disapproval of the absence of clothes.] They're bending
down like this. (Feda assumes a pose, she bends far
forward from the waist, extends her right arm, and
drops her face on to the extended arm.)
S. What more can you see ? .
F. WeU, one leg seems to be a bit over the other, like this.
(Feda assumes a position with her legs as well as she
can do under a skirt ; she elevates the right thigh till
it almost touches her body, dropping at the same time
the left leg till the knee nearly touches the ground.)
You can only see one leg plainly, the other one seems
to be underneath it. [This is, of course, not an accurate
bit of description.] Feda thinks it is something that
you've got.
S. Which of us ?
250 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
F. Feda thought it was Mrs. Una [U. V. T.] but Feda isn't
sure because Ladye can often give things through you
[one for the other] so Feda won't say which. Fe|ia
won't jump her on to that just yet.
S. Ca,n you see what the figure is lying or sitting on ?
F. It's not lying, it's sitting, because Ladye can make Feda
do it on this chair. There's something that looks to
Feda rather round.
S. She gives this picture after mentioning the books ?
F. Yes, while giving the test about the books, suddenly that
picture came quick up. Feda sees that she hasn't got
much clothes on, the woman hasn't. Ladye says you
must put it in more artistic language than Feda's. Do
you know, she's showing it to Feda in a funny kind of
way like black and Avhity looking, the figure seems to
show up light against dark ; but Feda can't see any
colour. [The actual colouring of the picture is very
sombre and neutral, the white figure standing out against
a dark background ; the jet black hair of the woman
enhancing the black and white effect which seems to
have been caught by Feda.] She says something about
something with four lines going down. Feda thinks it's
something to do with v/hat the figure is sitting on. She's
laughing.
S. There's no mistaldng now where the books are.
F. She says, no, she thinks now that she loiows them by
heart. It's a funny position in that picture. It's silly
Feda thinks, because you can't see the face. Oh ! Feda
sees that the fingers aren't quite straight, Feda sees that
three of them are curved in rather, but the forefinger
sticks out straighter, it's like this ;
(Feda takes a pose
with her right hand, showing the second, third, and
fourth fingers curved in, but the forefinger sticldng out
almost straight) Ladye 's showing Feda that the wrist
and hand make rather a smooth outline, not showing the
bones or knuckles much, like you see sometimes.
This ends all the portion of the sitting connected with the
book-test. The picture so minutely and so nearly accurately
described belongs, of course, to the external class of
I.XXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 251
things—those known to the sitters and possibly tele-
patheticaily learnt from them. But it should be noted
that the description is not entirely in accordance with
their conscious recollection of the picture. They thought
&t the time that the description of the position and
appearance of the right hand, which was really accurate,
was wrong. We cannot, however, assume that they had
not retained a correct impression subliminally.
Another important point to note is that the picture
had been well known to the communicator in her life-
time, so that her memory may have been the source
of information. She may have " flashed it up before
Feda " from her own mind. It had been bought after
being seen at an exhibition by A. V. B. and M. R. H.
together, and it had afterwards hung in their house.
The room in which the picture hung at the time of the
sitting was not known to A. V. B. in her lifetime,^ nor
therefore the proximity of the picture to the bookcase.
Articles of furniture and other objects which had belonged
to or were familiar to A. V. B. were in the room, and
some of these were on later occasions well described by
Feda (see Appendix B).
I now turn to the verification of the part constituting
the book-test proper. The shelf whose height had been
indicated proved to be one from which the books of two
previous book-tests had been selected. These two volumes
had been temporarily removed for purposes of verification
and annotation,^ and this introduced a difficulty. For
owing to the fact that the trance personalities affirmed that
book-tests were, generally speaking, prepared at an in-
definite time beforehand—not selected and read at the
time of communication—Feda had been previously assured
that the books at the flat would not be moved. It was
hoped by this means to avoid doubt as to what the
order of the books had been at the time of selection.
1 Strictly speaking, A. V. B. Imew M. R. H.'s fiat in an unfurnished
condition, but she died before it was furnished and occupied.
2 Miss Radclyffe Hall and Lady Troubridge made a practice of includ-
ing in their records a full copy of the whole of any page on which
a message was stated to be.
252 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Unfortunately it produced in this instance another ambi-
guity. Were the conspicuous and carefully marked empty
spaces belonging to the temporarily absent books to be
counted as books in arriving at the nineteenth, or were
they not 1 Without looking inside the books, it was
decided that the nineteenth volume from the window,
in the sheH as it should be, not in the shelf as it was
at the moment, must be taken as the one meant. This
proved to be Orval, or the Fool of Time, by Owen Meredith.
It had belonged to the communicator, and had indeed
been presented to her by the avithor in 1878. It had
not, to the best of their belief, ever been read or even
opened by M. R. H. or U. V. T. The poem is in
dramatic form, and the line indicated—namely, one near
the top of page 52, but not the first sentence—in fact
the line following the first full stop is :
To-day—to-morrow—yesterday—for ever !
This line must, I think, be regarded as conforming in
some degree to both of the two things affirmed by Feda
about the passage near the top of page 52. Feda said it
would be found appropriate to the ornament which she
touched, and also in some way to psychical research. Now
the ornament had a history causing it to be regarded in a
marked degree with a sentiment v/hich might be summarised
in the words of the line ; and as to psychical research, it
was the hope of proving the continuation of individual
life beyond the grave, or, as we sometimes express it,
life "for ever," that led M. R. H. and U. V. T. to
devote much time and energy to psychical research.
I think then that it must be admitted that without
any straining we find up to a certain point the double
appropriateness required. Is it sufficient to exclude
accidental coincidence ? Our decision must depend, partly
at least, on an accumulation of similar evidence in other
cases. But we may be allowed to express a natural
wish that the description here and elsewhere had been
a little more definite—that we had, for instance, a
correspondence as unmistakable and complete as that
of the picture with Feda's description of it. It would
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 253
have been more satisfactory if the hne could have been
quoted, or if \fe had been told that the words " yesterday
"
and " for ever " occurred in it, or that the line implies
continuation through life and after death.
As regards the question of the communicator's memory
here as a source of knowledge, we may no doubt assume
that she had read the poem, and read it in this particular
volume. But it is, I think, very improbable that, if
she remembered the line, she associated it, in this life at
any rate, with the number on the page on which it occurs.
That is an association that we do not make in reading,
unless there is some special reason for it.
§ 2.
A Case where the Memory of the Communicator seems
THE MOST LIKELY SoURCE OF INFORMATION.
I will next quote a case in which the memory of the
communicator seems almost certainly to be the source
of information—so much so that if accurately described
it serves as evidence of the communicator's identity in
the same kind of way as would the reading of a sealed
letter after the writer's death. The test was received
by Mrs. Hugh Talbot, and is one of the earhest book-
tests of which we have a record.^ It was given on
March 19, 1917, but most unfortunately was not recorded
in writing till the end of December of the same year.
This, of course, greatly diminishes the value of the record,
though happily we have the testimony of two witnesses,
besides the sitter, who were aware of what Feda had
said before verification.
Mrs. Talbot's report, written out and sent to Lady
Troubridge on December 29, 1917, is as follows :
Two sittings \\ith ]Mrs. Leonard were arranged for me
through Mrs. Beadon last March, one for Saturday 17th at
5 p.m. and the other at the same hour on Monday the
1 We have pne earlier—namely one received by Mr. Kenneth Richmond
on Feb. 13, 1917. It conforms to the ordinary tj-pe, and is distinctly
interesting though somewhat confused. I do not quote it in this paper.
254 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
19th. Mrs. Leonard at this time knew neither my name
nor address, nor had I ever been to her or any other
medium, before, in my life.
On Monday the first part of the time was taken up by
what one might call a medley of descriptions, all more or
less recognisable, of different people, together with a
number of messages, some of which were intelligible and
some not. Then Feda (as I am told the control is called)
ga\'e a very correct description of my husband's personal
ajipearance, and from then on he alone seemed to speak
(through her of course) and a most extraordinary con-
versation folloAved. Evidently he was trying by every
means in his power to j)rove to me his identity and to
show me it really was himself, and as time went on I was
forced to believe this was indeed so.
All he said, or rather Feda for him, was clear and lucid.
Incidents of the past, known only to him and. to me were
spoken of, belongings trivial in themselves but possessing
for him a particular personal interest of which T was
aware, were minutely and correctly described, and I was
asked if I still had them. Also I was asked repeatedly if
I believed it was himself speaking, and assured that death,
was really not death at all, that life continued not so
very unlike this life and that he did not feel changed at
all. Feda kept on saying : '"Do you believe, he does
want you to Imow it is really himself." I said I could
not be sure but I thought it must be true. All this was
very interesting to me, and very strange, more strange
because it all seemed so natural. Suddenly Feda began a
tiresome description of a book, she said it was leather and
dark, and tried to show me the size. Mrs. Leonard showed
a length of eight to ten inches long with her hands, and
four or five Avide. She (Feda) said "It is not exactly a
book, it is not printed, Feda wouldn't call it a book, it
has writing in." It was long before I could connect this
description with anything at all, but at last I remembered
a red leather note book of my husband's, which I think
he called a log book, and I asked :
" Is it a log book ?
"
Feda seemed puzzled at this and not to know' what a log
book was, and repeated the word once or twice then said
LXXXI.] An Examination of Booh-Tests. 255
''
Yes, yes, he says it might be a log book." I then said
" Is it a red book ?
" On this point there was hesitation,
they thought possibly it was, though he thought it was
darker. The answer was undecided, and Feda began a
wearisome description all over again, adding that I was to
look on page twelve, for something witten (I am not sure
of this word) there, that it would be so interesting after
this conversation. Then she said " He is not sure it is
page twelve, it might be thirteen, it is so long, but he
does want you to look and to try and find it. It would
interest him to Imow if this extract is there."' I was
rather half hearted in responding to all this, there Avas so
much of it, and it sounded purposeless and also I
remembered the book so well, having often looked through
it wondering if it was any good keej)ing it, although
besides things to do with ships and my husband's work
there were, I remembered, a few notes and verses in it.
But the chief reason I was anxious to get off the subject
was that I felt sure the book would not be forthcoming ;
either I had thro^vn it awaj^, or it had gone with a lot
of other things to a luggage room in the opposite block
of flats where it would hardly be possible to get at it.
However, I did not quite like to say this, and not attach-
ing any importance to it, replied rather indefinitely that
I would see if I could find it. But this did not satisfy
Feda. She started all over again becoming more and more
insistent and went on to say " He is not sure of the
colour, he does not know. There are two books, you will
know the one he means by a diagram of languages in the
front." And here foUoAved a string of words, in what
order I forget " Indo-European, Aryan, Semitic languages,"
and others, repeating it several times, and she said " There
are lines, but not straight, going like this "—drawing with
her finger lines going out sideways from one centre. Then
again the words, " A table of Arabian languages, Semitic
languages." I have tried to put it as she said it, but of
course I cannot be sure she put the names in that
order. What I am quite sure of is the actual words
she used at one time or another. She said all the names
and sometimes " table," sometimes " diagram " and some-
6 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [paet
times "drawing,-' and all insistenthj. It sounded absolute
rubbish to me. I had never heard of a diagram of
languages and all these Eastern names jumbled together
sounded like nothing at all, and she kept on repeating
them and saying this is how I was to know the book, and
kept on and on '•
Will you look at page twelve or thirteen.
If it is there, it would interest him so much after this
conversation. He does want you to, he wants you to
promise." By this time I had come to the conclusion
that what I had heard of happening at these sittings had
come to pass, viz. that the medium was tired and talkmg
nonsense, so I hastened to pacify her by promising to look
for the book, and was glad when the sitting almost at
once came to an end.
I went home thinking very little of all this last part ;
still, after telUng my sister and niece all that I con-
sidered the interesting things said in the beginning, I did
mention that in the end the medium began talking a lot
of rubbish about a book, and asldng me to look on page
twelve or thirteen to find something interesting. I was to
know the book by a diagram of languages. After dinner,
the same evening, my niece, who had taken more notice
of all this than either my sister or myself, begged me to
look for the book at once. I wanted to wait till the next
day, saying I knew it was all nonsense. However, in the
end I went to the book-shelf, and after some time, right
at the back of the top shelf I found one or tAvo old
notebooks belonging to my husband, which I had never
felt I cared to open. One, a shabby black leather, corre-
sponded in size to the description given, and I absent-
mindedly opened it, wondering in my mind whether the
one I was looking for had been destroyed or only sent
away. To my utter astonishment, my eyes fell on the
words, Table of Semitic or Syro-Arabian Languages," and
pulling out the leaf, which was a long folded jjiece of
paper pasted in, I saw on the other side " General table
of the Aryan and Indo-European languages." It was the
diagram of which Feda had spoken. I v/as so taken aback
I forgot for some minutes to look for the extract. When I
did I found it on page thirteen. I have copied it out exactly.
IXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 257
I cannot account now for my stuiDidity in not attaching
more importance to what Feda was trying to say about
the book, but I was so convinced, if any book was meant,
it was the red book. This one I had never opened, and
as I say there was Httle hope of getting the other, nor
did I feel there could be anything in it my husband would
want me to see. Also it was only my second sitting.
I knew nothing of mediums and the descriptions seemed so
endless and tedious. I can't see why now.
(Signed) Lily Talbot.
1 Oakwood Court.
^
Page 13 of Notebook.
" I discovered by certain whispers which it was supposed
1 was unable to hear and from certain glances of curiosity
or commiseration which it was supposed I was unable to
see, that I was near death. . . .
Presently my mind began to dwell not only on happiness
which was to come, but u23on happiness that I was actually
enjoying. I saw long forgotten forms, playmates, school-
fellows, companions of my youth and of my old age, who
one and all, smiled upon me. They did not smile with
any compassion, that I no longer felt that I needed, but
with that sort of kindness which is exchanged by people
who are equally happy. I satv my mother, father, and
sisters, all of whom I had survived. They did not speak,
3^et they communicated to me their unaltered and unalter-
arble affection. At about the time when they appeared,
I made an effort to realise my bodily situation . . . that
is, I endeavoured to connect my soul with the body which
lay on the bed in my house . . . the endeavom: failed.
I was dead. ..."
Extract from Post Mortem. Author anon. (Blackwood
& Sons, 1881.)
I do not attempt to reproduce the diagram of lan-
guages, which is complicated, but Feda's description of
it as having lines going out from a centre is correct
;
this branching out from points and from lines happens
repeatedly.
258 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
Mrs. Talbot wrote, at Lady Troubridge's request, to
her iiiece and her sister, askmg them to write down what
they remembered. Their account follows :
Miss Bowyer Smyth's Account.
On March 19, 1917, niy aunt, Mrs. Hugh Talbot, had a
sitting with Mrs. Leonard. When she came home, her
sister, Mrs. Fitzmaurice, and I, asked her about it. Among
other things she said she had been told to look for " a
book, but not exactl}^ a book, a sort of note book." She
would know the book by a '"
drawing about languages " in
the beginning of it and on page 12 or 13 she would find
something interesting.
My Aunt did not seem at all impressed or interested, in
fact she thought the whole thing sounded such nonsense
that she was sure it was no use looking for the book ;
the size of which had also been indicated by the medium
with her hands, namely about eight or ten inches long.
It was not till after dinner that night that Mi's. Fitz-
maurice and I persuaded her to look for the book, she
was so firmly convinced it would be no use. She finally
got out some old and dusty note books of her late
husband's, and in one found, first a table of languages,
and on page twelve or thirteen the sensations of a man
passing through death. I remember the whole incident
quite clearly, as it seemed to me so unusual and interest-
ing, especially as my Aunt had evidently never opened or
read these n^ote books before, in fact it took her a con-
siderable time to find them and she at first thought she
had not kept them.
(Signed) Doris Bowyer Smyth.
Charmouth, 18.12.17.
Mrs. Fitzmaurice s Account.
On Monday, March 19, 1917, my sister. Mis. Talbot, had
her second sitting with Mrs. Leonard. She had already
had one very interesting one, so that my niece. Miss
Bowyer Smyth, and myself were very anxious to hear about
it. My sister repeated as far as she could everything the
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 259
medium had said and mentioned particularly that she had
been asked to look for a certain book. She asked the
medium what kind of book, and she was told it was a
book with a diagram or table of languages in the front.
My sister said, is it what they call a " log " book, and the
medium immediately said " Yes, yes a log book," and that
she was to find page twelve or thirteen. My sister in
telling us spoke as if this were nonsense and I personally
did not pay much attention about the book. I was so
much more interested in certain remarks jDurjoorting to
come from my brother-in-law, for to me who knew him so
well they seemed so exactly Uke what I could imagine
his saying ;
they seemed to bear his personality.
Later on, at the end of dinner, my sister went to a
book case in the dining room to look for the book (I do
not remember asking her to do so, though my niece says
we both asked her to), but she suddenly gave an exclama-
tion of surprise and handed me across the table a leather
note book open at page twelve and thirteen and there we
found an extract which was plainly what she had been
told to look for. It described the sensations of a man who
had died, or nearly died. I have forgotten it exactly, but
I know it described a man whose spirit was passing away,
and what he felt when he saw the faces of his jjeople
round his bed. And on turning to the front pages of the
book we found the diagram of languages which had been
mentioned in his effort to describe through the medium
which book the extract was in, for it appears there were
two books somewhat similar.
To us my sister's interview seemed intensely interesting
and I have written it down as far as I can exactly how
I remember it.
(Signed) Mabel Fitzmatjrice.
December 20, 1917.
It is evident that even the discovery of the diagram
of languages revived no recollection in Mrs. Talbot of
ever having seen it before, and this makes it difficult
to suppose that the knowledge shown by the communi-
cator was derived telepathically from her. At the same
260 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
time it will be generally agreed I think that the coin-
cidence is quite beyond what can reasonably be attributed
to chance. Further, the quotation on page 13 of the
notebook seems quite appropriate ; and we may even
regard it as probable that had contemporary notes been
taken of what was said at the sitting, the truth of the
statement attributed to the communicator that the quota-
tion " would be so interesting after this conversation
"
would have been still more apparent. The incident
must, 1 think, rank among the best single pieces of
definite evidence we have for memory of their earth life
in communicators, and therefore of personal identity. But
it is scarcely, strictly speaking, a book-test.
§ 3.
•
Mrs. Beados's Book-Tests and Comments thereon.
The interesting incident just described is not a book-test
proper because it does not furnish evidence of know-
ledge by the communicator of present facts not within
his memory, nor within the knowledge of living human
beings. Of this there are no specimens among the book-
tests so striking as either the vision of the picture described
in § 1, which may have been derived either from telepathy
or from memory, or as Mrs. Talbot's test described in § 2,
which looks like a case of memory. Still there are some
striking cases, and to some of these we may proceed.
I will begin with the' book-test received on September 29,
1917, by Mrs. Beadon, the lady who, as mentioned above,
introduced Mrs. Talbot to Mrs. Leonard. The communi-
cator was her husband, Colonel Beadon. Mrs. Beadon
reports Feda as saying :
In a squarish room some books in the corner, not quite
in the corner but running by the wall to the corner from
the window a row of books. (Feda indicated by a gesture
of her hand a shelf across a corner and said '
it is not
that.') Counting from right to left the fifth book, p. 71.
Feda is not sure if it is 17 or 71. (After repeating both
LXXXI.J An Examination of Book-Tests. 261
numbers several times Feda says she is sure it is page 71
—
second paragraph or about middle of the page.) On page 71
will be found a message from him to you. The message
will not be as beautiful as he would like to make it, but
you will understand he wants to make the test as good
as he can. On the same shelf is a book in dirtyish
brown cover and a reddish book and an old fashioned
book.
(1) It refers to a past condition
(2) But has also an ajiplication to the present.
(3) It is an answer to a thought which was much more
in your mind at one time than it is now,—a question
which was once much in your mind, but is not now,
especially since you have known Feda.
(4) On the opposite page is a reference to fire.
(5) On the opposite side is a reference to light.
(6) On the opposite side is a reference to olden times.
—
These have nothing to do with the message but are just
tests that you have the right page.
(7) On the same page or Opposite page or perhaps over
the leaf a very important word begimiing with S.
(I asked if it was the top shelf, and Feda said " yes."
It turned out that there was only one shelf.)
Verification
.
Six out of the seven indications of the message are
found to be clear.
The room proved to be the dining room of [address
given] my mother's house where I was staying temporarily.
Mrs. Leonard had never been inside the house at all.
There was a book shelf across the corner as well as the
one on which the test book was to be found. The room
was not square ; one end was squared, the other end
octagonal. There was an old volume of Dryden's poems
and the others as described on the same shelf. The fifth
book from right to left was a volume of poems by Oliver
Wendell Holmes (Routledge pocket library edition). I had
never read 0. W. Holmes' poems—Page 71 and 17 had
the same thought expressed on both.
262 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Page 71, second paragraph, has the following:
" The weary pilgrim slumbers,
His resting place unknown,
His hands were crossed, his lids were closed,
The dust was o'er him strown ;
The drifting soil, the mouldering leaf
Along the sod were blown.
His mound has melted into Earth
His memory lives alone."
[The commmiicator] was killed in action in Mesopotamia.
He was buried by chaplain and officers the same night
near where he fell. The officer in charge wrote that all
traces of the grave had been carefully obliterated to avoid
desecration by the Arabs.
(1) The poem (" The Pilgrim's Vision ") refers to early
settlers in America—" refers to a past condition."
(2) It has an apjalication in this verse to the com-
municator's own case. He received reverent burial, his
resting place unknown
(3) It was a question in my mind constantly at one
time whether it would be possible to identify the spot
with the help of the officers present, and when the war is
over to mark it with a cross. I have thought very little
of that lately and have not felt concerned as I did at
first that his grave was unmarked and unknown.
On the opposite page is the following verse ;
(4) Still shall the fiery pillar's ray
Along the pathway shine,
(5) To fight the chosen tribe that sought
(6) This Western Palestine.
The reference to fire, light and the journey of the
Israelites fulfils (4), (5) and (6).
(7) The important word beginning with S I cannot place
definitely. This is the only point that is micertain. Out
of seven indications six are fulfilled. [Mrs. Beadon has
since informed us that there is a poem caUed " The
Steamboat " on the next page, that this title headed the
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 263
page in capital letters, and the page was all about steam-
boats. This was her first book-test and. she was very
critical, otherwise she does not think she would have said
she could not trace the im]Dortant word beginning with
" S " on the next page. At the time she thought it far-
fetched to take it as more than a comcidence, but now
she thinks it is what was intended. And certainly it
corresponds to the statement made about it. It is an
important word on the page, if not connected with the
message.]
Mrs. Beadon goes on to point out that on page 17, the
other page mentioned by Feda, the subject of an un-
marked grave also occurs, but near the bottom of the
page ; and on the opposite page appear the words fire
and sunset glow. Between these two pages, 17 and 71,
she could not find any page which fulfilled the conditions
of the message at all.
The appropriate verse on p. 17 is ;
The Indian's shaft, the Briton's ball,
The sabre's thirstmg edge.
The hot shell shattering in its fall.
The bayonet's rending wedge,
Here scattered death ;
yet seek the spot,
No trace thine eye can see.
No altar,—and they need it not
Who leave their children free.
]\'Irs. Beadon tells us that this seems to her more
appropriate in some w^ays than the verse on p. 71 ; and
though agreeing with what is said below about Feda's
frequent uncertainty as to which way to place the numerals
forming the page number—of which she has herself had
experience—she w-rites :
In this case I got the impression from [Feda] that
" they " on the other side had chosen both [pages] and
were uncertam which to proceed mth. ... It seems to
me that page 17 gave the main message far the best.
But on p. 71 they were able to give more of the secondary
tests that strengthen it. Taking both 17 and 71 leaves
264 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part i
no room for doubt as to the message, or for coincidence.
'
My reasons for preferring page 17 are
[I.] that it is essentially a soldier's message about a i
battlefield. Page 17 gives the conditions of a battlefield i
and hot fighting. , i
II. It mentions " the Indian's shaft, the Briton's ball."
It was a feature of the war in Mesopotamia that mixed |
troops were employed
—
Indian and British brigaded to- •
gether. My husband was commanding Indian troops.
|
III. Above all I was told the main message was about i
a question that had occupied my mind a good deal and \
troubled me at one time. This question was whether it
would be possible to erect a memorial. This is answered I
on p. 17. " No altars—and they need them not who leave i
their children free." I felt this was what they wanted
to say—that their achievement would be their best
memorial.
On p. 71 there is no reference to its being a soldier's i
message, no reference to a battlefield. Nor is there any j
reference to the main Cjuestion— altars " or memorials |
to- their fame. I felt the expression ''weary pilgrim"
very inapplicable to the state of mind expressed in his
letters, written uj) to the very day before he was killed.
So altogether I feel page 17 gave the message and p. 71
strengthened and supplemented it. ,1
That both these pages should be as appropriate as they
are is in any case very remarkable, and Mrs. Beadon's 1
reasons for believing both to have been intentionally re-
j
ferred to seem to me strong. If she is right, this double
j
reference is very interesting and important. It must,
however, be borne in mind that the kind of hesitation
that Feda showed here in deciding between two pages |
with numbers of which the component numerals are in )
reversed order, is often shown by her in other cases when j
it is in no way justified by the content of the pages.
For instance, on September 25, 1918, in an A. V. B. j
test, Feda says : I
" What she wants you to look for is the 4th book from |
the left, on the floor. Wait a minute, Ladye, two ? Can't
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 265
see it Ladye ! Three eight, three eight, eight three ? Yes,
eight three, half \\'ay down, she says not only halfway
down, but all that part just there seems to speak not
only of a place, but also of an environment that you and
Ladye had been in on the earth plane. Now Mrs. Twonnie
[Feda's name for M. R. H.] that's right, and she hopes it
will be interesting ; 'cos she says it is evidential, 'cos it
does speak about a place, and it's personally evidential,
'cos it speaks of a place that's connected with her. [Feda
adds that on the opposite page at the top] she certainly
thought she'd got a word that conveyed stockings to her.
This test, in spite of apparent definiteness, was a com-
plete failure. Nothing relevant was found on either
page 83 or 38, nor on pages opposite. Feda seems on
other occasions to recognise a difficulty about the order
of the figures as one generally affecting her. Thus she
says in an A. V. B. sitting on September 11, 1918 :
" Page two 0, twenty ; that's a nice number, 'cos
it couldn't be 0 two, you see." ^ Whether the difficulty
is genuine is of course another question. It may be
part of Fela's affectation of childishness. On the other
hand, as I have suggested further on (p. 365), it may
perhaps be explained by the fact that the numerals
constituting the number are sometimes perceived by Feda
as built up separately by the communicator.
To go back to Mrs. Beadon, there seems, so far as we
can judge from eight sittings, to have been a propor-
tion of success considerably above the average in the
book-tests received by her. 2 One very successful one
occurred in the course of a communication too private
to be reported to us, though Lady Troubridge was
1 Other cases of doubt on Feda's part as to the order of the numerals
will be found below.
- The fact mentioned above (p. 244) that each sitter has his or her
special communicator and that for book-test purposes they form an
inseparable pair, prevents our being able to judge whether a higher
average of success, such as Mrs. Beadon's, is due to quaUties in the
communicator, or the sitter, or the combination of the two. It is true
that M. R. H. and U. V. T. had at their sittings a communicator
common to both, but they were almost always both present—one as
sitter and one as note-taker.
266 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
informed in confidence of the evidence concerning the
book-test. Here is another " message " received on March
16, 1918. Mrs. Beadon reports :
Feda. " A single row of books over a window " (aside Feda
said " You mean beside a window of course—people do
not put books over windows—no ? ") "He will have it
that tlie books are over a ^vindow. The window is not
set hke ordmary windows with the glass put in plain—
this is set differently—the glass put m strongly with thick
kind of ridge. Is there a smik in look about this window ?
Mr. Will does not know how else to describe it but you
v/iU know what he means by sunk in."
About this description Mrs. Beadon says :
In the library at [Mrs. Beadon's house] there is a single row
of books over each of two small windows. The window panes
are a fancy shape heavily set m lead which makes a ridge
round each pane. The windows are on each side of the
fire place hi a recess sunk back from the rest of the room.
After statements—one right and one wrong—about a
picture and a date in another book " a little further
to the right," the report continues :
Feda. " The books are on the left and you must count 3rd
book from the left, p. 92. It is a message about the Uttle girl
whose foot was being treated.^ It is what he is wishing and
desirmg for her. He is very much interested in this test-
it is that which he hopes she will attain while she is in
the physical body. He wants her to, and he thinks she will."
Taking the books over the left-hand window and count-
ing the 3rd book from the left is a volume of a set of
Cowper's poems. Page 92 has this verse :
Farewell—endued with all that could engage
All hearts to love thee, both in youth and age,
In prime of life, for sprighthness enroU'd
Among the gay, yet virtuous as the old.^
1 This child, aged seven, and the remedial treatment, had been referred
to by the communicator at a previous sitting.
2 These are "Lines composed for a memorial of Ashley Cowper, Esq.,"
and they occur on the 92nd page of Vol. III. of Cowper's poems
published in London by Baldwin Cradock & Joy in 1817.
LXXXI.] A)i Examination of Book-Tests. 267
This corresponds quite appropriately to the description
of the " message." But unfortunately Feda went on to
speak of
" Page 73 (about half way down he thinks) is almost
hke an allusion to her foot —read it quite literally. It
is almost as if it gave a clue to the identity of the child."
and at this place Mrs. Beadon found nothing appropriate.
A failure like this accompanying closely a success cannot
but weaken our estimate of the latter, and this sort of
mixture is common in the book-tests we are- examining,
though I think it occurs less in Mrs. Beadon's than in
those received by other sitters. It is impossible to say
in a case like this whether some passage in a book was
really perceived by the communicator but its whereabouts
wrongly described, or whether the whole thing was
imagination. It may have been pure invention or guess-
ing on Feda's part, but if we accept as not accidental
the success in the same sitting, it seems probable that
the erroneous impression also seemed to Feda to reach
her from a source outside herself. If it did we may
suppose that she misunderstood and repeated wrongly
what she was told. There are obviously several oppor-
tunities for error, besides misapprehension of the passage
alluded to ; for the room, or the shelf, or the place
of the book in the shelf, or the number of the page,
or the part of the page on which the message occurs
may be wrongly described.
A rather curious instance of persistent failure to
describe, or at least to bring to the minds of the sitters,
the place where the book in question was to be found,
occurred to M. R. H. and U. V. T. in September 1917.
A book-test was given and elaborated on September 5 and
at two subsequent sittings, it being stated that the
book was at a flat which the two ladies had visited.
But they have been quite unable to identify the flat.
In this instance and others^ it is possible perhaps that
^ Mrs. Stuart Wilson was given a book-test on .January 31, 1918,
but she was quite unable to find the book-ease, thougli its supposed
surroundings were elaborately described and she tried several houses.
268 Mrs. Henry Siclgwick. [part
the failure was in the memory of the sitters. In the
following instance, however—and in some others—it is
clear that the description was in fault. Mr. G. H. S.,
on June 2, 1917, was told by Feda :
She wants you when you get home to go to the room
where the books are. She is showing Feda a dark room
with books all round it and she is pointing to the third
book on the second shelf from the floor, quite close to the
door ;
and she says on page 19 you will find a message
from her. ,
Mr. G. H. S., who, in the course of the sitting, had
had some communications from the same communicator
which seem to have been remarkably veridical, says
about this : "I felt that this was padding, as there is
no such room or bookcase ..." And in reply to further
enquiries he says :
I have carefully examined the book indicated in every
book-case in the house, and there is no possibility of
result. I think the whole section wrong because the tone
of the voice was quite lifeless and different during this
section,! and the detailed description of the room where
the books were supposed to be (much more detailed than
I have rej)roduced it) was quite obviously wrong, so far as
concerns every house in which I have lived.
This failure in a rather good sitting is more interest-
ing than similar failures experienced by sitters who have
received no communications, or hardly any, affording
evidence of supernormal knowledge. I may remark here
that, as far as I can learn, the bad book-tests in the
collection before us usually occur at sittings otherwise
poor. The most successful sitters may of course at
times have very poor sittings, and they may at times
receive elaborate book-tests consisting of a considerable
number of items, which give no good results at all.
There are sometimes indications pointing to genuine
mistakes or confusion as distinct from random state-
1 Sitters who have sat often witli Mrs. Leonard tell me that this
lifeless kind of voice does not always mean failure in commimication.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 269
ments. For instance, as regards this point of the book-
shelves meant, Mrs. Beadon had the following experience.
On November 24, 1917, which was apparently her next
sitting to that of September 29, at which the book-
test described above (page 260) was given, the communi-
cator made a remark abont that test being all right
except one point. A little discussion about it followed
till Feda said :
" He is afraid he is getting the conditions of the test
mixed with the one he wants to give you to-day. He is
afraid it will spoil it."
(I said we had better leave it alone and get the new
test.) Feda was afraid they had got it mixed with the
conditions of the former test. She said " Anyway it is the
same shelf—the same place as last time."
Particulars follow about other books on the shelf, and
then " Left to right second book page 39 is a message.*'
Of this some description is given, and Feda proceeds :
" He thinks . . . about page 3 is a reference to some place
where you were together long ago—before you were
married." Mrs. Beadon went at once to her mother's
house, where was the shelf on Avhich was the book of the
previous test, but there was nothing at all on that
shelf to correspond with the test." In her room at her
own house " there is a book-shelf in the corner running
towards the window " which she believes to be the one
that should have been given. All the particulars given
about the titles, etc., of other books besides the test-
book were appropriate ; and if we may regard the
second and tliird books from the left as amalgamated, the
messages were right too—the third page of the second
book having on it the name of an appropriate place,
and page 39 of the thix'd book an appropriate mes-
sage. There is too much error here for us to use the
case as evidential, but there is a method in the errors
which certainly suggests mistakes or confusion rather
than reckless statements aided by chance.
Later in this paper I discuss some similar methodical
errors as regards volumes and pages.
270 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
§ 4.
Instances of Statements about Words or Sentences
IN A Closed Book which turn out to be Verbally
Accurate.
I propose now to give some cases—there are not very many
and they are of different values evidentially-—where a
statement that a particular word or sentence is to be
found in a particular part of a particular book is found
to be correct—cases where there is no vagueness as to
the message.
But before doing so I may remark that it not in-
frequently happens that what Feda says about one page
turns out to be true not of that page but of the pre-
ceding or following page. For this she and the com-
municators have their explanations, which we shall have
to consider later when dealing with their theories as to the
mode of perception. In the meanwhile it must be
remembered that by allowing the two pages adjacent
to the one named to count, we multiply the chances
of accidental success by three.
The first case in chronological order which I shall
quote occurred in a sitting the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas
had on November 8, 1917. He reports :
" Another book test ; the same bookshelf as the last and
the fifth book on the shelf. Page 65 will have a reference
to contrast in shades of colour. Take literally."
[On reaching home and examining the shelf Mr. Thomas]
" noticed that there remained the empty space whence . .
the previous week's test book had been taken. The fifth
book on the shelf, neglecting of course the vacant space.
^
was No Friend like a Sister by R. N. Carey. Macmillan.
1908." [A book Mr. Thomas had not read. On p. 64
facing page 65 was found the sentence :]
" Don't we all
Ivnow the woman who is fond of pink, who adores pink
roses and chiffons, and wears them blandly with pre-
posterous shades of green and blue."
^ The mode of counting adopted here was it will be observed the
reverse of that adopted by M. R. H. and U. V. T. on Sept. 12, 1917 ;
see above, p. 232.
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 271
In this case we cannot at any rate complain of want
of definiteness, though we must admit doubt as to the
book intended.
The next I will take occurred at an A. V. B. sitting
on November 21, 1917. It was a failure in spite of the
striking coincidence, for the word was not found in the
right book, but it may possibly be instructive. Feda
said that in the fitst book in the right-hand corner at
about a height indicated, in a certain book-case, on
page 12 figures one and two that makes twelve ")
near the top of the page would be found " Charleroi,^
a name like that. It sounds like Charleroi . . . lower
down nearer the middle is where the message is."" Some-
thing is then said about the message, and two other
statements made about things to be found on that page
or possibly the next. Nothing whatever that could, be
considered applicable was found in the book and page
indicated. But in describing the shelf Feda had said
that Ladye " shows books in a row, and it seems as if
there's another book pushed behind it."' Now this
was not true in the case of the shelf indicated by its
height from the ground, but it was true of the shelf
above this, and of no other shelf in the bookcase. The
book behind the others was towards the left-hand end
of the shelf, and this led to the first book at the left-
hand end of this sheK being examined. There was
nothing relevant on page 12, but on page 13 facing it
and at the top of the page was the word Charolois." ^
The coincidence was certainly remarkable, and it is curious
that the indications given .should have led, though in a
round about way, to the word. On the other hand,
there was nothing else on the pages in question corres-
ponding to what Feda had said, and this of course
weighs on the side of the coincidence being accidental.
The next case I will take—following chronological
order—occurred in an A. V. B. sitting on January 2,
This was the notetaker's contemporary rendering of Feda's pro-
nunciation of a name evidently foreign.
- The book was a volume of Carlyle's French Bevolution.
272 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
1918. The items of the book-test were fairly successful
all through. After giving " messages " from two books
Feda contimies :
%
On p. 57 of the first book there is something rather
more personal than the rest that she's given to-day. It's
near the bottom of the page, and she says there's a
distinct httle message there, which she would like you to
hold like a little light in front of j^ou as coming from her,
a little light to show you the Avay through the difficulties
which have been, and are encompassing you. She says
that sometimes she thinks of herself as, or rather it is
that she tries to be, a little light so as to attract your
eyes, so that while your feet are stumbling over obstacles,
your eyes are fixed on a light that you foUoAV.
The book was Chronique du Regne de Charles IX.,
by P. Merimee, and in the three last lines of p. 57
are the words :
" Quelques figures s'y montraient un
instant avec des lumieres et clisparaissaient aussitot."
What I have taken as definite in the description of the
" message " is the word light. It is, however, not stated
that this word will be found in the " message," and I
should hardly have taken this as a specimen of a word
being definitely indicated and found, had it not been
for another message about lights on August 24, 1918,
which I will quote presently. First, I must quote from
the report of the sitters on the book-test of January 2,
1918—the one now under discussion—what they say about
the topic of the " little light," as it shows that there
was an appropriateness which would not otherwise be
obvious. They say :
We will turn to a recurrence of this topic of the " little
light" wliich is to be ' found during the A. V. B. control
which followed the Feda Control during the sitting. . . .
These are the words upon which we must rivet our
attention. A. V. B. is speaking to M. R. H. and says :
" Have you seen a little light again ? because I've tried to
show you a little light several times, and once I thought
you saw it, it was quite lately." M. R. H. replied " Yes,
I told Una about it." A. V. B. said :
" I think you were
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 273
writing at the time." ... It was correct to say that
M. R. H. was writing at the time when she observed the
light, and apropos of this, M. R. H. remarked : ''I must
be getting clairvoyant." Towards the end of the control
A. V. B. returned to the subject of the light, saying that
when M. R. H. saAv it it was because she, A. V. B., was
showing it ;
apropos of the light A. V. B. remarked " that's
me." She said further that she could not always hold the
light that she showed very long. Or rather," she added,
addressing M. R. H., " You cannot hold it in the ether."
We have in these two references to a little light given,
first during the Feda control [in the book-test] and then
during the A. V. B. control, a mixture of the literal and
metaphorical.
The A. V. B book-test given nearly eight months
later—on August 24, 1918—was very like the one just
described, but the " message " about lights was more
definite and successful, though some other statements
made were not true. As on Jatiuary 2, reference apart
from the book-test was made in the course of the sitting
to lights seen. Almo.st at the beginning of the sitting
Feda said :
She says did you know she'd been trying to show
you lights while you was away ? She tried three
times.
M. R. H. What does she think she produced ?
Feda. She thinks she did produce something, but not quite
a usual one. She says she Avanted to produce
a usual one, but she didn't l-aiow why but it
seemed in a way to alter when she manifested it.
To start Avith, she says it wasn't blue, sh-e seemed
to get from you that it wasn't.
M. R. H. That's quite right.
U. V. T. From which of us did you get that impression ?
Feda. From you Mrs. Twonnie. She showed it three times,
but she thought IMrs. Una (U. V. T.) saw it as
well, in fact she says there was an occasion when
Mrs. Una saw it a.nd you didn't.
M. R. H. That's quite correct.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
She says isn't it funny, she thought she was making ,
a blue one, and didn't know it wasn't blue till
|
she got it from you afterwards ; she says she was f
speaking of it to some one afterwards, and they i
said that that was how materialised spirits often
^
didn't look the same as they thought they did.
^
She's quite right, I saw them on one or two occa-
sions and Una did too.
'
r
Commenting on this, M. R. H. and U. V. T. state i
that both
are in the habit from time to time of seeing hallucina- ^
tory lights . . . which usually take the form of sudden 1
small blue sparks [and] are purported to come according j
to the Leonard phenomena from A. V. B. . . . During j
their holiday prior to this present sitting M. R. H. and i
U. V. T. had both seen these lights, though unfortunately '
never at the same time. . . . After having given the book- i
(
test, which she did towards the end of the Feda control, j
A. V. B. again returned to the subject of her " spirit t
lights " during her personal control at the end of the !
sitting, when she said that U. V. T. had been excited i
when she saw one of the lights, and impUed that she had \
been a little startled. That statement was correct, for
j
U. V. T. had seen a light over the foot of M. R. H.'s bed
j
that had not in the least resembled anything that she had |
previously witnessed, it was much larger being about the \
size of a large grape fruit but oval in shape and somewhat i
yellow in colour.
^ j
To return to the book-test, Feda, after describing the 1
shelf, says :
|l I
It's the first '
book counting from left to right. ...
Page three six, thirty-six—wait a minute Ladye—halfway i
down, there's a message there . . . showing something \
about the—while you were away—wait a minute—she says
|
you'll have to put several dashes before you've finished !
|
It refers to the lights she showed—it's rather a funny one,
but it refers in quite an appropriate way to the lights she
showed. She says joerhaps it's not exactly comic, but you'll
I
274
Feda.
M. R. H.
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Bool-Tests. 275
think it's a quaint way for her to have put it. Above it on
the same page, quite close to it is a funny word which
seemed to her like Daemonee or Demonees. . . .
On p. 36 of the book indicated ^ beginning on the
fifteenth line from the top in a page of twenty-seven
lines occur the following words :
" Over it from time to time swift flashes of light would
rise and tremble in the gloom like will-o'-the-wisps over a
church yard."
No word like " demonees " appears on the page, and
this statement must be reckoned as definitely wrong.
If, however, " demons " was the idea, there is something
suggestive of such beings in the scene described. The
following is the description in a shortened form :
"... ghostly poplars . . . night was gloomy and chilly,
a low weird wind . . . night-bird shrieked painfully . .
Far out in front the carnage was in full swing, the red
fury of war . . . and darts of flame, ghastly red . . .
Round Fitzgerald was the flat dead country, black and
limitless, and over it from time to time swift flashes of
light," etc.
Assuming real perception of the pages of a closed book
to be possible, can we suppose such perception to be a
mixture of the vague and the definite such as may
enable the operating intelligence to select deliberately a
sentence about flashes of light, and at the same time
to get an impression from the general sense of the page
that a word like demon occurs in it ?
Continuing the consideration of book-tests in which
verbal exactness is shown, and returning to chronological
order disturbed by the obvious advantage of taking the
two cases about " lights " together, I will take next
one that occurred at an A. V. B. sitting on March 6,
^ The book was The Brown Brethren by Patrick MacGill, London,
1917, and had not been opened or read by either of the sitters. It
was one of a lot of second-hand books bought to fill this particular
book-case with unread books with a view to book-test experiments.
I
276 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
1918. Perhaps we can hardly say that exact verbal
correspondence is shown between the description given
and the passage indicated, but it is at any rate some-
thing very near it. The sitters are told to look in the
book-case in M. R. H.'s study—second shelf up, the
third book from left to right.
the page called two eight, twenty eight, near the top, is
a message, what she thinks you and Mrs. Twonnie think
about the new feeding rules, and the dire consequences
thereof. That's a silly message ! You'll recognise it as it's
something what she heard you saying, she says it describes
it exactly.
The book proved to be the second volume of Carlyle's
Frederick the Great (London : Chapman and Hall). There
was nothing relevant on p. 28, but on p. 27, which is at
the back of p. 28 on the same leaf, in lines 3 to 5,
occur the words :
" What pleasure there can be in having
your household arrangements tumbled into disorder every
New Year, by a new-contrived scale of expenses for
you I never could ascertam." M. R. H. and U. V. T.
tell us that they had constantly said lately that the
food problem was becoming past a joke, as one never
knew where one was with regard to finances.
The next example occurred, again in an A. V. B.
sitting, on April 3, 1918, when the word " music " was
indicated, and found in the passage referred to. The
book as described was the sixth from left to right on a
certain shelf. Feda continues :
The page what is called twenty eight, the lower part of
the page (s.v. something that will remind you of her
music). She doesn't mean that it will be just a little
reminder, but something that will definitely refer to her
music. And page forty, same book, near top, something
she hoped people did not think of her music : she
hoped they didn't regard her music in that light. And
page 72 near the top as well, the way she hojaed they did
think of it.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 277
Verification.
Upon p. 28, eighth line from the bottom, appear the words
" an occasional wisp of music."
Upon p. 40 nothing relevant was found, but on p. 39,
at the back of page 40, on the ninth line from the
top occur the words : "It only disgusts me !
"
Upon p. 72, seventh and eighth lines from the top,
occur the words :
" She thrashed her own heart that
through her hands it might warm his." On the face
of it these last words do not appear very relevant, but
they might perhaps be regarded as referring metaphoric-
ally to emotional playing and singing, and A. V. B.
was noted for putting heart and feeling into her singing.
Other statements made in connection with book-tests
on this occasion were some more or less right and some
wrong.
The next book-test which we may call verbally exact
that I shall quote was an A. W. V. (see p. 244) one given
on April 23, 1918. The sitter, Mrs. Salter, recorded for
herself, and the communicator A. W. Verrall professed to
be helped by A. V. B. The book-test which consisted of
several items was interesting throughout though not always
correct, and the interest is added to by the fact that
the books referred to were in M. R. H.'s flat, which up
to that time had never been visited by Mxs. Salter.
The item that concerns us now is the following. The
row of books meant having been clearly indicated, Feda
says :
The second book from the left he thinks on the first
page—he's practically sure it's the first page—he says it's
rather silly but they noticed it—all the matter on that
page has a kind of j)lay on Mrs. Twonnie's name—her
surname. Isn't that a funny one ? It actually mentions
something that is her name. He doesn't think the first
page is a full page it's part of a page. It mentions her
name in another sense.
There was nothing relevant in the second book on
the shelf ; but if we may take " the second book from
278 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
the left " as meaning the second book from the previously
mentioned one from which two tests had been given
and which was itself the fourth book from the left-
hand end of the row, the book referred to was II Salotto
della Coyitessa Maffei, by R. Barbiera (jNIilan, 1914).
This mode of counting was, there is some reason to
believe, adopted by A. W. V. on February 28, 1918,
and it is explicitly mentioned as a possible one on April
11, 1918, when Feda reports A. W. V. as saying: "The
fifth book, not the fifth from the first, but counting the
first." The ambiguity is to be regretted, but assuming
II Salotto della Contessa Maffei to be the book meant,
" Salotto " must be the word. It occurs no less than
six times on the first page, though only half of that
page is covered in print. In the Italian dictionary
consulted it is given under Sala thus :
" Sala dim.
salotto, etc., aug. salone, a hall or saloon, the principal
room of the house." This seems to justify the assertion
that " Salotto " represents M. R. H.'s (Miss Radclyffe
HaU's) name. " After all," as Mrs. Salter says, " the
communicators were not setting out to give us a scholarly
rendering of Italian. They were only making '
a kind
of play '
on the name Hall, and a certain license is
always permitted in puns.'
"
It detracts somewhat from the value of this book-test,
as a book-test in the strictest sense, that the word
" Salotto " appears in the title on the back of the book,
though rather inconspicuously. It cannot possibly have
been in the sitter's (Mrs. Salter's) mind, however, as she
had not seen the books and knew nothing about them,
except that, a good many book-tests having been taken
from books in M. R. H.'s study, the latter had recently
substituted a fresh set of books. Mrs. Salter did not
even know that some of the new books were Italian
ones. She and Mrs. Leonard were alone on this occasion.
Mrs. Leonard had never been in M. R. H.'s study.
The next instance I shall describe occurred in an
A. V. B. sitting of May 15, 1918, and concerns names.
The book-tests were said to be given jointly by A. V. B.
liXXXi.] An Examination of BooJc-Tests.
and A. W. Verrall. In the course of them A. W. V. says
that he thinks of M. R. H., U. V. T., and ^s. Salter
as the bridge builders. Feda continues :
F. He says bridges can't be builted from one side
only, he says it must be prepared from both banks,
and he says everything that is done in the way
of Psychical manifestation, always has to be
done from both banks ; it's an alternative name
for you [s.v. Bridge builders !). Feda thuiks
that's a nice name ! Now, about the middle of
that second shelf down, there's a book whose title
suggests what it is youre spamimg by buildmg
the bridge. Spanning ? Yes, what you are span-
ning over, he says, is a better way to put it, by
building the bridge. He thinks that one ought to
jump at you, it ought to be a very easy one to
find, ifs what you're bridging over, what you're
ehminating by building the bridge. Now, when
you've got that book,—Mr. Arthur's [Feda's name
for Dr. Verrall] found the book, but there is a bit
more in it than that. Ladye says, take the book
out and open it, and inside the book, at the
very beginning {s.v. Ar-lett-er-sia). It doesn't
start with R, it starts A^dth Let, as near as Feda
can get it, ifs hke Leticier, it's a word that the
book is about, but it should be mentioned at the
beginning part ; it's a funny sounding name.
M. R. H. Of a person or a thing ?
F. A person.
M. E. H. Is she sure about that ?
F. Yes. Now wait a minute, that isn't what she reaUy
wanted you to open the book for ;
that just came
into her mind and she remembered it ;
but at the
beginning before you come to the proper reading
part, there's something that will remind you of
something that you and she did together in the
early days, it's connected with circumstances and
conditions that were round you for some months,
not just for a week or two. [S.v. Yes, wait
280 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
a minute.) It was a happy period, not ?^whappy.
But Ladye says that all the early part was happy,
even though for a while she was anxious about
you, she was anxious about you, it was a happy time.
No appropriate title was found exactly in the middle
of the shelf, but the seventh book from the exact middle
towards the left was called The Unseen World, which,
since it is between this world and the unseen world that
the metaphorical bridge extends, seems sufficiently to
fulfil the requirements. The subject-matter of the book
confirms this, for as M. R. H.
'
and U. V. T. put it :
"The whole object of the book is to point out in most
unmeasured terms the fact that an absolutely impassable
gtdf lies between those in this world and those in the
next." The author of this book is Alexius M. Lepicier,
whose name appears on the title page,i and also upon
the page prior to the preface in a paragraph consisting
of the written authority from Rome for the publication
of the book. The resemblance of Leticier and Lepicier
seems too close to be attributed to chance, and Feda's
pronunciation of the name was rendered by the
note-taker before verification.^ The syllable rendered
" Ar " in the first attempt at the name may have been
meant for the initial of the Christian name*^ pronounced
as it would be in French. The book, however, is in
English, and there is no indication of its being a trans-
lation, though the name of the author is apparently
French. Feda is, of course, wrong when she says that
" Leticier is a word that the book is about." In -this
connexion something said at the next A. V. B. sitting
(May 22, 1918) may be referred to. Feda said:
She wants to explain she's got to be very careful, 'cos
once or twice when she's been sensing what she's thought
lit also appears without initials of Christian names on the back of
the book, which fact, as in the last case, diminishes the value of the
test as a book-test in the strict sense.
2 The note-taker (U. V. T.'s) first impression was that Feda was
trying to say the English Christian name Letitia with an " s
" sound
instead of an " sh " sound to the second " t." This she corrected
to " Leticier." .
LXXXI.] A71 Exarnination of Book-Tests. 281
was only the title of a book, she's got the name of the
author. On one occasion at any rate, she got the name
of the author mixed up with it, and thought that it was
part of the title, and she would like you to be prepared
for that, in case she does it again. . . . Do you know
she's sure that on one occasion the name of the author
suggested more to her than the title, and if they happens
to be very close together she's very likely to get 'em
mixed up, 'cos she senses a little run right through. And
she says if, as sometimes happens, the author's name is
only on the inside
—
(s.v. It don't happen) she says yes it
does—she wouldn't be so likely to get it mixed.
It is thought by M. R. H. and U. V. T. that these
words probably refer to the mistake made a week before
in connection with Lepicier," but the author's name
is not very close to the title, at least not on the outside.
The same Latin paragraph preceding the preface of
this book, and authorising its publication, which contained
the name Lepicier, also contained in a conspicuous way
the word " Romae." This reminded M. R. H. of a
very happy period in 1912 when she and A. V. B.
stayed for several months in Rome. It was happy in
spite of the fact that M. R. H. caught Roman fever,
and was for a time seriously ill and A. V. B. anxious
about her. They took a keen interest in the clerical
side of Roman life during that visit, so that the clerical
wording of the paragraph is in an appropriate key.
This item of the book-test is also therefore successful.
There is a good deal that is of interest throughout the
book-test of this day, and I shall refer to it again in § 7.
The next to be referred to in the present connexion
was also more or less successful all through. It occurred
in an A. V. B. sitting on August 28, 1918. The shelf
having been clearly indicated and the fifth book from
left to right in it specified, Feda goes on :
On page what is called one four of this book, fourteen,
wait a minute, something made her feel, gave her a feeling
of heat, something hot, heat, about half way do^vn that
1
282 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
I^age. But she'd better explain, it might come from two
sources, it might come from a mention of heat, like a hot
sun, or a hot fire, or it might come from a mention of
great anger, but spoken of as heat ; in fact she'd be
obliged if you'd tell her which it is next time you come.
The book indicated proved to be Larhneadotv, by
MarmacUike Pickthall, and had not been read or opened
by the sitters. The pages have thirty-three lines. On
the sixteenth line of p. 14 occur the words " ardent
patriot," which give heat in the metaphorical sense,
and on the fifteenth line of p. 15, facing p. 14, occurs
the word " bonfire,"" which gives heat in the literal
sense. When the book is closed the words " ardent
"
and " bonfire " almost touch each other. There is a
certain interest in this in view of the alleged liability
to confusion between two pages facing each other. It
may be added that a good deal of angry feeling con-
nected with the bonfire is referred to in the chapter
in which pp. 14 and 15 occur.
The imperfect knowledge claimed by the communi-
cators of passages referred to in book-tests—and the
kind of imperfection—are well illustrated by this case.
Sometimes it is claimed that their knowledge is increased
after the tests have been verified by the sitters. For
example, on October 2, 1918, in a discussion as to
whether the beginning or the end of a sitting was the
more favourable time for book-tests, Feda says of A. V. B :
F. She says that now she's so much more in touch with
you and Mrs. Twonnie when you're away from here [i.e.
from the medium's house], she is able to know whether
the book-tests are good or bad.
The next case of exact indication I shall quote is
rather different in character. It occurred in the A. V. B.
sitting of October 2, 1918, from which I have just quoted.
On this occasion the book-test items were not as a whole
very satisfactory. There was nothing that could be
described in an unqualified manner as a failure, but the
correspondence between the indications given and the
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 283
words or passages found were, I should say, in the
case of five items either not striking or rather forced ;
and in a sixth, where the appropriateness of the message
found was clear and decided, there was not only an
ambiguity as to which of two rows of books was meant,
but also a difficulty in knowing how to count the page.
The seventh item is the one I am about to quote.
After speaking of a book whose title suggests submarines
and the harm they do, which the sitters afterwards
identified as The Still Water Tragedy, Feda said :
P. {s.v. Wait a minute, can't see it ! Some one lying
down ?) Feda don't understand what she means,
but she keeps on showing Feda a little picture as
if some one was lying down in it. This picture
seems to have something very white either round
it or very close to it, "cos she shows Feda like a
gleam of white.
U. V. T. What is this connected with ?
F. She says I want you to bear in mind at what
point in the sitting I give this " ?
U. V. T. Slie gives it after reference to submarines.
F. She says " Well, when you get to that point you
should see the pictme." (Here Feda suddenly
bends sideways in her chah.) Feda feels they're
not lying on their backs. Oh ! she says she must
remark by the way that a person lying down is
in no way reminiscent of submarines, but when
you find this person lying down, you'll find in a
very near vicinity something that, to a great
extent, is connected with submarines. She says
she knows she's correct about this, but that though
what she's giving is correct to the letter, when
you finds it it will be different to what you
expect. NoAv she says "Is it clear that I'm
giving this picture as likely to be foimd after
you've found the book to do with submarines,
and that after you've found the picture you'll
again be reminded of submarines, though the
picture has nothing whatever to do with sub-
marines."
284 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Now about three weeks before this sitting the books
in that bookcase—the large one in M. R. H.'s study, from
which a good many book-tests had been taken—had
by M. R. H.'s orders been entirely rearranged by a
housemaid, who on one or two of the shelves had put
two rows of books, with the smaller ones at the back,
and it was in the back row that The Still Water Tragedy
and a book apparently referred to just before had been
found. To get at them for purposes of verification the
books in front of them had to be moved, and among
these was a book called The Celebrity at Home, by
Violet Hunt, which stood exactly in front of The Still
Water Tragedy. On the side of the cover of this book,
invisible as the book stood in the shelf,
is [to quote the recorders] a picture representing an
interior. In the foreground is a little girl lying stretched
out sideways in a large low arm-chair with her cheek
upon her hand, and the angle at which the child is
reclining is such that she must be said to be lying down.
This picture is coloured, and in it are two very striking
splashes of white. The child to begin with is dressed
entirely in white, and her head is surrounded by the white
upholstery of the back of the chair ; then at the back,
but to the left of the child, is another large splash of
white, representing the window in the room. [White, they
continue,] is by far the most consj)icuous and striking
[element in the colouring.]
If we suppose that the communicator knew that the
book with the picture on it would have to be moved
to find the book she connected with submarines, she
would be right in thinldng that "this picture is hkely
to be found after youVe found the book to do with
submarines." In the further statements " that after
you've found the picture you'll again be reminded of
submarines," and that what would remind them would
be something in the very near vicinity of the picture,
it seems probable that the second book from The Celebrity
at Home in the same row was referred to. This book
was A Poor Mans House, by Stephen Reynolds. The
LXXXI.j An Examination of Book-Tests. 285
whole book deals with the sea and the life of fishermen,
and it had been a favourite of A. V. B/s, who had
read it aloud to M. R. H.
This incident of the picture is interesting, because,
though the description is less detailed, it is of the same
nature as that of the " Canape Bleu " painting given
on September 12, 1917 (quoted above, p. 249), and
that of the little statuette of Adeline Genee, which
followed at the sitting under discussion (see Appendix B).
But it differs in the very important particular, that
whereas the knowledge shown of the painting and the
statuette may have been derived by telepathy from
the sitters, aided perhaps by the memory of the
communicator, neither of these sources seem likely to
have been available in the same way in the present
case. For, as already said, the picture was not visible
as the book stood on the shelf ; and even if M. R. H.
and U. V. T. had any subconscious memory of the
picture on the book at all, they were not con-
scious of the presence of the book in the shelves. It
is true that M. R. H. had read the book long ago, and
must then have known of the picture on the cover,
but U. V. T. had never read it, and both are confident
that they had not seen it in referring to books in the
bookcase. There is no particular reason to suppose
that A, V. B. had read it, though she may have done so.
The perception of this picture may therefore have
been of the same nature as that of insides of books,
and it is for that reason that I have classed it with
book-tests here. At the same time it was not inside
a book, and therefore was more likely to have been noticed
than a " message " in a book-test proper. For instance,
the housemaid who re-arranged the books may have
observed it particularly. Moreover, we have no case
of the inside of a book being visualised by Feda (as
distinct from the communicator) in the way this picture
was. For a discussion of this point see below p. 370.
It is of some interest that, immediately after the
book-tests of this day, Feda went on to describe with
considerable accuracy various things in the room. Part
286 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
of what she said, and in particular the description of the
statuette of Adehne Genee referred to above is quoted in
Appendix B, p. 386. Peda was apparently in a visualising
vein that day.
I will conclude this set of cases, where the corre-
spondence between Feda's statement and the passage
indicated is verbally defiziite, with a quotation from an
A. W. V. sitting on January 4, 1919. U. V. T. was
recording for the sitter, Mrs. Salter.
F. ... books where you {i.e. Mrs. Salter] live, wait a
minute, window—window—near window—side—side—You
never can show me books plainly there ! Feda means
where you Uve ; he never can ; I get at it only by
worrying him, but he keeps on saying "Books near a
window." [Mrs. Salter was living at the time at The-
Crown House, Newport, Essex. There is only one shelf of
books there near a Avindow. These were standing in a
single row on the same wall as the window, immediately
to the right of it, in a small unused bed-room. They had
been placed there some weeks earlier by Mr. Salter with a
view to book-tests. Some of them were new books bought
by him in London and placed in the shelf without Mrs.
Salter seeing them, and some of them were taken from
other shelves in the house. Mrs. Salter loiew nothing of
the order in which these books were placed, and did not
enter the room in which they were until she went there
to verify this test. Information about these books cannot
therefore have been derived entirely from her mind.]
F. ... About the middle of this shelf, as he stepped back
and looked at it something made a contrasting—What did
you say ? A contrasting note just about the middle. . .
What he gives me the idea of is that the contrasting note
is colour, and rather striking. [Mrs. Salter comments :
There are several rather marked contrasts in the colour of
these books ; about the middle of the shelf a book in a
bright yellow paper cover was standing next to a green
book.] Go to the left of that shelf, the second book from
the left. What did you say ? An—what ? While he was
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 287
feeling for this book he got an idea of Wedgewood, china,
Wedgewood; he's not sure if it was from the book or
very close to it, but as he wented to feel that second
book the words Wedgewood china seemed to—he laughs,
and says they seemed to smite him. He says it sometimes
seems when you get em well, they seems to do that ;
(Feda smites her hands together). [The only interpretation
Mrs. Salter can suggest of this is that the three books on
the left, including the test book, are bound in shghtly
varying shades of light blue, resembling Wedgewood china
blue, with patterns stamped on them in black.]
We may take it then, that the book meant and its
place is sufficiently well indicated. The first test given
is somewhat spoilt by a muddle about the page. Feda
first says 25, and corrects this to 35, saying the 3 was
badly made by the communicator. There was nothing
appropriate on p. 35, but on p. 25 there was a more
or less appropriate sentence. It would not, however,
have been a good specimen of the kind of exact corre-
spondence wdth which we are dealing at the present
moment. Feda then continues :
F. Page 15 of the same book, half ^vay down or a little
above perhaps, it speaks—wait a minute, speaks—do you
want to give the position exactly ? He's makmg a fine
across halfway down the page, and the position is about
a quarter of an inch above that line, he's got a reason
for doing that, on that line, a quarter of an inch above
half way down that page, there's a word or words
which will form a cross-correspondence. . . . Can't you
tell Feda what it is ? He says "No I can't." That's
why he's given the position on the page, that's so as
you won't have to look about.
S. Can he say ^^•hat it corresponds with 1
F. Yes he's trying. Well he's taking me a journey to a
place by the sea ... ; some one in this place is
connected with the other half of the cross-correspondence.
[To communicator] Can't you give me a letter ? G. G. G.
is connected with it. Not C m. Arthur?)
No, G. An attempt is being made to get this through
288 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
in three different quarters. You're one of the three. I
He means through the book test. And there are two
others, that's why he's so careful about the position.
He thinks three particular words should be taken from
this line. He feels it has already come through in one
quarter. . . . One, he feels sure has been given through,
either wholly or partly, and a letter M is connected \
with it too, a person. Is it on the earth plane or in I
the spirit world ? No he doesn't seem to want to be
asked. Oh ! a long pole.
S. A long pole ?
'
F. I've got to say those Avords, and he's pretending to show
me a long, long pole in his hand. (Feda indicates by
gesture with extended arm some one grasping a long
upright pole or stick.)
S. Like a staff ?
F. It's sticking up and it looks straight. (Again indicates
holding on to a perpendicular stick.) But there's some-
thing at the top what takes off the straightness—er
—
Mr. Arthur says that's very important. While he's '
telling me that, I get a funny feeling as if the funny .
pole means something very important.
The book designated proved to be Daisy Miller, by
Henry James. In the middle of p. 15 is the following j
passage :
'i
" I should like to know where you got that pole," she \
said. i
' I bought it !
" responded Randoljih. ,
This passage, Mrs. Salter found, begins almost exactly i
a quarter of an inch above the middle of the page, :
a line drawn at the middle running along the bottom (
of the word "pole." This pole is described on p. 14 I
as an alpenstock, and on p. 12 as a long alpenstock, so ;
there is no doubt as to its length ; but there is nothing j
to suggest that it is anything but straight all the way up. j
It has been suggested to me, however, that fancy alpen- ^
stocks, such as tourists buy, often have a chamois horn i
fixed at the top, and that it would be quite natural to j
imagine Randolph's to be of this type.
^
.-
!
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 289
As regards cross-correspondences, I am not aware that
any connected with pole " has occurred. It is, however,
noteworthy that Mrs. Stuart Wilson who, as readers of
the S.P.R. Proceedings are aware, has experimented with
Mrs. Salter on cross -correspondence lines, has christened
her subconscious mind Randolph," after " Randolph
jVIiller, whose family couldn"t live up to him —i.e. the
Randolph mentioned in the passage from Daisy Miller
quoted above. This fact had been recorded before the
book-test was given, but has never been published.
I here conclude instances of book-tests in which the
passages to be found are described with verbal accuracy ;
but it will, I think, be worth the student's while to refer
to some cases given in the next section, which in some
ways or some degree approximate to the verbal exact-
ness of correspondence between the message as indicated
and as found which has characterised the cases in the
present section.
§ 5.
Some Miscellaneous Cases.
I WILL again follow chronological order, and take as
the first case in this section an A. V. B. book-test of
September 19, 1917. It is interesting, because the
" message found in the exact place indicated was quite
remarkably appropriate, though unfortunately only very
vaguely described beforehand ; and because through refer-
ence to an ornament which had been possessed by her
the communicator seems to show knowledge of the book
in which the ''
message " was, though apparently unable
to give its name directly. The case has some analogy
with the A. V. B. book-test of the previous week,
September 12, 1917, described above (p. 248). I will
now quote the record.
r. She says she does think she's getting on well with
book tests.
M. R. H. Yes she is.
290 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
F. She's got another one. She thinks you may laugh
at this one, at all events at a part of it. She's
laughing herself. She's touching something, Mrs.
Twonnie {s.v. What do you say Ladye 1 with
glass on ?) Mrs. Twonnie, she keeps on showing
Feda as if she had a ribbon hanging down with
a piece of glass on it. It's like a black ribbon.
She's put it on herself, you see. . . . It's some-
thing she wore on the earth plane, and the
ribbon hangs down to about here, to her waist.
Further attempts are made to describe something
dangling on that black ribbon, rounded, but not like a
ball, shiny, light coloured, and not very big, with a
pattern on it, in shape like a pat of butter, etc., etc.,
etc.
F. Now she thinks you will know that thing, though it's not
the thing that is important. The importance is about a
book test. She goes back to your books now, to the ones
near the window, and she is taking the sixth book from
the window. 1 Oh ! and she's showing Feda that the page
is one hundred and eight. Feda sees that it's on the
lower part of the page. Ladye says that it's about two
thirds of the way down as near as she can tell, that there
is a message that has a bearing on her feeling toward
you, but also, in a very peculiar way, perhaps in a way
that an uninitiated person would not understand unless it
was pointed out to them, the message refers to that thing
on a black ribbon, to the conditions of it. You know
pretty Avell what things she did have hanging and she
thinks that message will point to which one of them she's
meaning.
The book proved to be Dickens's The Old Curiosity
Shop, and the sentence beginning exactly two-thirds of
the way down p. 108 is " talked of their meeting in
another world as if he were dead but yesterday."
Reunion between M. R. H. and A. V. B. in another
world is a frec^uent topic at M. R. H.'s sittings with
Mrs. Leonard, so that the " message " is very appro-
^ The height, of the sheh' was clearly given later.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 291
priate, though no doubt many others might have fulfilled
the prescribed condition of bearing on A. V. B."s feelmg
towards M. R. H. The message itself does not refer
to the thing on a black ribbon, but that thing was
connected with an old curiosity shop, and therefore with
the book in which the message was. and in a way that
woidd not be obvious to the uninitiated. But it must be
achnitted that the ornament was not clearly identified.
A. V. B.. it appears, possessed a number of ornaments
worn upon a ribbon or a chain, and answering more
or less to the description given by Feda. That descrip-
tion, which I have given in a much abbreviated form,
strikes M. R. H. as being of the nature of a composite
of several of these ornaments. M. R. H. had herself
presented several of these to A. V. B., picking them up
in old curiosity shops. One particular ornament that
comes to her mind in connection with Feda"s descrip-
tion was a . very fine piece of jade, circular, carved on
both sides, and highly pohshed, and very like a circular
flat pat of butter, as Feda says. This A. V. B. always
wore upon a ribbon or a piece of black velvet, though
M. R. H. does not think the ribbon was long enough
to allow it to come as far as the waist. It was pur-
chased by M. R. H. at a big Chinese warehouse in the
city that deals in valuable Chinese curios, many of them
old.
We could not base a case for clairvoyance on this
incident alone, but in spite of its defects it seems to
me very striking. In the first place it is almost certain,
I think, that some intelligence was aware that the book
indicated was The Old Curiosity Shop, or why connect
with it an object or objects worn by A. V. B. and
obtained at old curiosity shops ? ^ But the knowledge
impUed could only have been acquired svipernormally.
M. R. H. was at this time still anonymous to Mrs.
Leonard, who had moreover never seen her flat. Most
likely M. R. H. could not have consciously described
the exact position in a large bookcase of the book ;
1 It should perhaps be stated that the words The Old Curiosity
Shop " appear as the headline of the page containing the message.
292 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
but even if consciously or subconsciously she knew it,
Feda could only have obtained it from her mind by tele-
pathy—that is, by a supernormal method. And in this
connexion it is interesting to note that M. R. H. at
first failed to observe the relation between the ornament
and the book, probably because Feda made the mistake
of connecting it with the " message " in the book. It
was only after the connexion had been suggested by I
Mr. Piddington that M. R. H. perceived it.
Then again the extreme appropriateness of the
" message " found in the exact position on the page
given—an appropriateness to M. R. H.'s feelings and
attitude of mind and also to the general tenor of the
A. V. B. communications—seems beyond chance,^ though
the description beforehand of the nature of the message
to be found was so slight and vague. Altogether we
have what looks like real knowledge of the book and its
contents, and a real memory, though perhaps a confused
one, of the ornaments worn by A. V. B. It is perhaps
instructive that all this was apparently combined •
with
a want of power somewhere to get the information
clearly out.
In the following book-test, given in an A. V. B.
sitting on September 26, 1917, we are told that at a 1
place on a page indicated will be found a summary, j
and at that place on the page facing the one named, i
there is a summary, though not so described. There i
are also there a date and a foreign word as predicted. |
After indicating accurately and clearly a certain shelf in
a certain bookcase from which no book-test had been I
previously selected (it was a house occupied by U. V. T.
into which Mrs. Leonard had not been), Feda goes on ;
P. This time you must count from right to left. (To i
A. V. B.) now Ladye, show Feda most par-
ticularly j)lease, now don't pull out a book till i
Feda can count, one, two, three, do wait a i
1 I have lately read through The Old Curiosity Shop with this incident 1
in mind, and my impression is that it would be difficult to find in it !
another equally appropriate message. -
ij
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 293
minute Ladye ! one, two, three, wait a bit. Mrs.
Una she won't be content, till Feda tells you
something else first. She says that on the back
of the book, you know what she means, the
narrow part what sticks out a little, what you
would call the back, there is an ornamental piece
in gilt. (Feda begins drawing a round on
U. V. T.'s arm.) It looks Hke gilt to Feda. The
shape is not like a star quite, it is a funny kind
of marking, but seems round in shape and it is
not unlike a star. It is the fourth book, page
one hundred and twenty seven.
U. V. T. Whereabouts on the page must we look 1
F. About halfway down. She is not quite sure, but
she thinks there is a date on that page ; it seems
like a date because there is a big number that
seems like you would have for a year. Oh ! Oh !
and there is a word on that page that is in a
foreign language.
U. V. T. What is the message about ?
F. She says it differs from the others in character.
U. V. T. How ?
F. She -says you won't think the message itself very
interesting except in a scientific way.
U. V. T. Does it follow the general trend ? [i.e. does it in any
way refer to Psychical Research]
F. Yes, but it sort of knits two or three of the other
messages together. That is to say, and this is
awfully important,—oh ! wait a moment, she
wants to get a word to explain her meaning, it
has a bearing on the other messages in a way
that might be that of an unprejudiced onlooker
giving an opinion on the other messages, almost
like a little summary. She says you will find it
will have that meaning if you take it quite
literally. The word summary is very important.
Listen, she says this should be a very important
test, out of the ordinary, not just a nice message
like she gives you sometimes, but very important
evidentially. It looks like a dull book to Feda,
i
294 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PAET
with the pages closely written all over, no nice
little paragraphs and things. The book looks like
a dull dark colour, but she shows Feda that in
the vicinity there is a book with a bluey green
cover. There is a word rather like Sim, Sim
something, wTitten on a book that is quite close
to the other one.
The book was found to be Vol. III. of The Boyal
Navy, a History, by Sir William Laird Clowes and others
(Sampson, Low, Marston & Co., 1898). It was bound
in a dark, dull-blue colour, and below the title upon
its back was an octagonal design in gilt, something
between a circle and a star in shape, about the size
of a sixpence, and rather conspicuous. This design
appears also upon its companion volumes, but upon no
other book in the bookcase. A bluey green, or greeny
blue, volume was found upon the same shelf, but the
word Sim or any word beginning with that syllable
could not be discovered on any book in the case.^ As
to the inside—pp. 126 and 127 which faced each other
were uncut. On p. 127 nothing appeared answering to
the description. But the middle part of p. 126 was
occupied by a paragraph in smaller type than the rest.
This is a cj^uotation from Captain Mahan summarising
the tactical lessons afforded by the two naval encounters
between English and French squadrons in the year 1747.
A date (viz. 1747) and a foreign word (viz. " melee,"
which is printed in italics) occur in the course of it.
Moreover, the quotation may well be called " a little
summary," though the word is not used. But by no
effort of the imagination can we regard the passage as a
summary of previous " messages " or as connected with
these.
In the A. V. B. sitting of October 10, 1917, we have
messages in two books defined by their relation to each
other. The shelf intended having been clearly defined,
Feda said :
1 Can " Sir," the title of the author, have been the syllable meant ?
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 295
She wants to say at once that it's the 12th book [left
to right], and the 28th page . . . the message is in there
but the fourteenth book on the 11th page has got also a
message which refers to the same subject.
Ladye says that in the first book that she mentioned, that
is the 12th book on the shelf, it's lower do^vn the page than
in the second book she spoke of which is the 14th on the
shelf. Wait a minute, Ladye saj='s that the message in one
contradicts the message in the other a little. She says she
is only mentioning that as part of the test.
The books proved to be Vols. II. and III. respectively
of Naval Tracts of Sir William Monson, issued by the
Navy Records Society ; and the sentences on the pages
named which seemed most appropriate as messages
were, in the first named volume, the third and fourth
line from the bottom of the p)age :
" No man can receive blame thereby ; all is to be
attributed to the want of experience ..."
In the second book, ninth to twelfth lines from the
bottom of the page :
We are young and able, and he that will not beUeve us
may try us. . . . We shall be better than those that went
before us.
The sitters suggest that these " messages " may apply
first to their want of experience, and secondly to their
zeal and energy in Psychical Research. However this
may be, the relative positions of the messages on the
pages is correctly specified, and they do a little con-
tradict each other, since the first blames want of experi-
ence for failure, and the second exalts youth and vigour,
conditions where experience is likely to be defective.
In both these books the pages were uncut.
The pages were also uncut in a book-test given by
A. V. B. a week later (October 17, 1917), when the
pages apparently indicated—there was a little ambiguity
296 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
about the shelf—contained in the position defined two
verses of the ballad " You Gentlemen of England,"
describing a storm at sea, which an incident in the
travels together of A. V. B. and M. R. H. made specially
appropriate as a message to M. R. H.
An A. V. B. book-test received on March 27, 1918,
is worth recording as an instance of fairly full indication
of what was to be found. The communicator is A. V. B.,
and A. W. Verrall is represented as co-operating. With a
little beating about the bush the shelf is at length clearly
indicated, and on it the fourth book from left to right.
This proved to be Prescott's Ferdinand and Isabella,
Vol. III. (an edition published at Philadelphia), Feda
says : ' •
1
F. {S.v. Parts of this book is written in two kinds of
print, one written in one kind, one in another and then
back again.) Not like just one word written differently.
[This is true, as there are voluminous notes through-
out.] Wait a minute now, the page nine four. Wait a
minute—Mr. Arthur [i.e. A. W. Verrall]
—
{s.v. it's more to
do with Mr. Arthur than herself, yes, it indicates where
pomts of kno\\iedge meet, she's gomg like this with her
fingers). (Feda places the points of her four fingers
together.) It refers to a ]Dart of his Earth life. He had
to make two conditions meet and it wasn't very easy to
do it. This sliould remind Mrs. Nellie [his daughter,
Mrs. Salter] of the circumstances. It's at the top of the
page but not quite at the top.
[In the correct position are the words : nor the rapidly
declining state of her own health, had power to blunt
the energies of her mind "—a sentence which, altering
the pronoun, all Dr. Verrall's friends will agree applies
with great appropriateness to him during the last years of
his life.]
Feda continues :
F. Turn back in that book to the beginning part of that
same chapter, the chapter that page 94 falls in . . .
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 297
there's an allusion to a subject that Mr. Arthur was
interested in.
[In the second line of the chapter occur the words
" phantoms of a dream," which may perhaps have been
the allusion meant—the subject being Psychical Research.]
F. Now she says at the very beginning part of the same
book, the first page of the proper reading—this is to do
with Ladye . . . there's something there connected ^ith, or
that will remind you of the ceremony she spoke of through
Feda a few sittings ago.
[On the first page of the reading matter the word
" Rome " occurs and it was at Rome that the ceremony
probably referred to took place.]
These two latter points about the book, therefore,
if not of great importance, at any rate cannot be re-
garded as failures.
M. R. H. had at one time read Prescott's Fer'dinand and
Isabella.
The following is a case where the position of the book
was unmistakeably indicated, and where the " message
"
was well described (as far as the description goes), and
knowledge shown of the context. But yet the surround-
ings of the book, or at least its relation to other books,
was apparently very imperfecta apprehended. The sitting-
was an A. W. V. one on April 11, 1918.
F. The tests are from him [Dr. Verrall] and your lady [Mrs.
Verrall]. (S.v.. show Feda where the book is. In the
sitting-room, a single book on a small table.)
S. Where is the table ?
F. Feda don't think it's a sitting room. Not a proper table,
the top of a piece of furniture. In a bedroom, yes, a
bedroom, not close to a door, across the room. This is not
a proper test. He got it in case it wasn't moved. He
thought he'd see what he could get out of it. Some
part of the book must have lines of poetry. He's
showing two little lines, not across the pages. Page 31
of that book. It's more to do with your lady. Near
298 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
the top a message from your lady, suggests places and
conditions of places that you would know she would like
to be in. Suggests beautiful places she'd like to be in.
It suggests a description of places she is in now. There's
something just before the message that disqualifies this,
spoils it. If you were to read the first part, it would be
wrong altogether for what she wants to convey. The
actual message cannot be mistaken. It suggests beautiful
places like what she's in now. You'd say :
" I know
she'd like that."' But what conies before would dis-
qualify it. That's all for that book.
[Mrs. Salter writes about this :]
There are only two bedrooms at [the house in question]
which have any books in them (I did not examine the
servants' bedrooms), my own and a spare room. In
my room there were no books lying on top of a piece
of furnitui'e. . . In the spare room, which contains no
bookcase, seven books had been placed horizontally on
the top of a small wardrobe at the opposite corner of
the room from the door. On the evening of April 11,
1918, I found these books lying in three piles, two and
two and three. It was not accurate therefore to speak
as Feda does of a single book. So far as the position of
the books goes the test might apply equally well to any
of the seven. But fortunately a further hint is given
which seems to identify the book. Feda says that
" part of the book must have lines of poetry ; he's
showing two little lines not across the pages." Of the
seven books in question six are in prose ; the seventh
is a volume of Tennyson printed in double columns, so
that the allusion to
'
' little lines
'
' is particularly apt.
Page 31 is almost entirely occupied by the poem entitled
" Mariana in the South.". . . In the upper part of the
left-hand column [appear the lines] :
Nor bird would sing, nor lamb would bleat.
Nor any cloud would cross the vault
But day increased from heat to heat,
On stony drought and steaming salt,
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 299
Till now at noon she slept again,
And seemed knee-deep in mountain grass,
And heard her native breezes pass,
And runlets babbling down the glen.
[Mrs. Salter continues :] I take it that reference is in-
tended to [the last four of these] lines. My mother was
always exceedingly fond of mountain scenery and air ;
she and my father visited Switzerland or the Italian
Alps almost every summer for many years, and if visits
to the mountains are possible " on the other side " they
would certainly be something my mother would greatly
enjoy. The lines begin almost exactly one-third of the
way down the page. It is not therefore quite exact to
say that they are " near the top of the page," but they
are entirely in the upper half. The rest of the poem, in
contrast to these lines, describes the jilace in which
Mariana actually is, —bare, hot and dusty. This seems
to give a special point to the statement that " there's
something just before the message that spoils it," etc.
The other items of the book-tests of this day are not
strikingly good or bad, but they contain tw^o indications
of possible connexion with work published by the S.P.R.,
as I have pointed out below, pp. 325, 333.
On reading in proof this account of the book-test of
April 11, 1918, Mr. Piddington was reminded of some
notes Mrs. Verrall had sent to him during her last illness,
when she knew^ she was dying. ^ He looked these up, and
found the following dated May 20 [1916] and posted May 31 :
Don't look for communications " for some time. If
I have any choice, I shall have a long and dreamless
sleep followed by a very long holiday with A. W. V. in
whatever over there is most like the upper valleys of the
Italian Alps.
The correspondence of this note (which the sitter, Mrs.
Salter, had not seen) with the " message ''
and the passage
in " Mariana in the South " seems remarkable, and is
1 Mrs. Verrall died on July 2, 1916. There are other notes written
when she was dying which testify to her love of Alpine scenery and
Alpine flowers.
300 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
strengthened by the fact that in any book-test supposed,
to be given by Mrs. Verrall her husband has been in-
variably associated with her, and I am told this is so in
other communications through Mrs. Leonard attributed to
Mrs. Verrall.
§ 6.
•
Special Experiments.
In the course of their sittings with Mrs. Leonard,.
M. R. H. and U. V. T. tried different experiments in
book-tests with a view especially to testing the possibility,
or impossibility of the knowledge shown being obtained
through telepathy from themselves.
Thus in November and December, 1917, a few books
were taken by U. V. T. blindfolded from one bookcase
and locked up in another. The books could not be seen
in their new position, and no one knew what books
had been placed there. The experiment had been ex-
plained to Feda, and at three sittings attempts to give
book-tests from these particular books were made. The
result was not brilliant, and showed nothing conspicuously
and undeniably right, but it did not markedly differ
from the average.
On another occasion—July 17, 1918—an attempt was
made to get A. V. B. to describe a book deliberately
selected by U. V. T. The experiment was almost the
converse of the last. Feda was told on July 11 that
the book would be taken from the neighbourhood of one
selected by A. V. B. for a previous book-test, and would
be placed in a specified shelf. The book chosen was a
French one called Amitie Amoureuse, and consisted of a
series of letters exchanged between a man and a woman.
It had been a favourite of A. V. B.'s, but had not been
read by M. R. H. U. V. T. had read it rather recently.
Feda failed to give its number in the shelf, but ultimately
got an unmistakable approximation to the title,^ and
1 At first she got no nearer than " it sounds a bit like Asia—Asieu."
Later on, however, she spelt it out as A.M.U.R.E.U.S.E. and then
—
using the continental pronunciation said " Amici, Amois—no not that
Amit— . . . Amiei, Amise, Amieie."
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 301
several correct and partially correct impressions about the
inside, though these were fragmentary and not very
striking.
A row of Italian books was tried in March and April,
1918. Feda was told that the message should be chosen
from books in a certain place, but not that these were
in a foreign language. U. V. T. is well acquainted with
Italian, and A. V. B. also knew it, as did two other
communicators—Dr. Verrall and one " E. A."—who also,
according to Feda, selected or assisted in selecting book-
tests from this row for their respective sitters. The
five sittings concerned with these Italian books joroduced
the average amount of success in book-tests. One of
them—an A. W. V. sitting on April 23, 1918—which
was rather unusually successful, was additionally inter-
esting because at the time the sitter, Mrs. Salter, had
never been at M. R. H.'s flat, and did not know any-
thing about the books in the row in question. Any
direct influence from the sitter's knowledge is therefore
here excluded. An item of this book-test has been
given above, p. 277.
But the most important experiment was with Greek
books—Greek being a language unknown to M. R. H.
or U. V. T., or to Mrs. Leonard, or the supposed com-
municator, A. V. B. The experiment was suggested by
the latter on September 18, 1918, as follows :
F. She [i.e. A. V. B.] says she's perfectly aware now that it
isn't the actual word she gets, but the idea of it.'^ She
says "... I'm sure it Avould not matter if the words
were written in Japanese. I think I could sense them."
She says " do you know that unless I were to find out
just by accident that there was something different about
the books, if all the books in your room in London were
written in a language I'd never seen or heard, I probably
should not kiaow the difference.". . . She'd like to try
the experiment Mrs. Twonnie. She says if you could get
hold of two or three books of any kind written in a
It is interesting that this was said just after A. V. B. had been
referring to a word beginning with V. like Vodka. See below, pp. 339
and 356.
302 Mrs. Henry Sidgwicl-. [part
language you could prove she didn't know, and that you
were sure the medium didn't know, and that you and
Mrs. Una would not know, it would be good. That's what
she wants ;
you won't know whether she's right or wrong
till you get it interpreted. She saj^s if only she's as
successful in that as she has been in many of her book-
tests, peoples wouldn't know how to explain it, would
they ? . . . She says you might borrow the books from
some Society or Library—she means she w^ould like books
if possible that somebody's read.
It was decided to use Greek books for this experiment,
and in the first instance to borrow some from Mrs. Salter.
The experiment was first tried on October 30, 1918.
But it should be noted that when M. R. H. told A. V. B.
on October 26, that she would put the books in j)osi-
tion the next day, A. V. B. made a remark which indi-
cates at least a suspicion that Greek would be the
language used—a very natural guess. Feda represented
her as saying :
F. She says " I must say something about them [the
books] now. I feel that there are two ways of
giving that language . . . there are two different
ways of expressing oneself in that language, so
different that unless one had learnt both ways
the one would seem like a foreign language to the
other."
M. R. H. Quite right.
F. She only wanted to say that so that you should
know she had an inkling ; that she knew what
you were doing.
This looks like a reference to the difference between
modern and classical Greek—and assuming A. V. B. to
know or to have guessed that the books were in Greek
and presumably concerned with ancient Greece, we have
to consider how far the things said about them at the
seven sittings during which the experiment was carried on
were beyond what might naturally be inferred or guessed.
Rather unfortunately she said so many things about these
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 303
books ^ that one feels the HkeHhood of successful chance
shots is considerable.
I will give all the items of the tests of October 30,
1918, with the corresponding verification or the reverse
after each.
I. " Starting at the left, the seqond book. This book
. . . gave her a sense of changing manners . . . taking the
book as a whole, changing times, manners, methods."
[The book was Demosthenes' Orationes, Vol. I. The
above statement might refer to speeches delivered under a
variety of circumstances, or more generally to any book
dealing with ancient Greece as compai-ed with modern times.]
II. " Page 13—Revolution. She can't tell you where on
the page it is. That isn't the message, that's only to
show that she could sense certain conditions independent
of language."
[The pages of the text are not numbered. Omitting
preface, introduction, etc., and counting pages from the
beguming of the text,^ the 13th is part of the second
Olynthiac. It contains a word which may be translated
' Revolution " in the sentence " You must show a com-
plete change and revolution in your mode of life." Also it
is said that Philip of Macedon's " own power and rule at
home will be shown to be rotten," which is suggestive of
revolution.]
III. " There is a message, half way down the page—no
not quite half way down, a third of the way down ; a
message which refers to your and IVIrs. Una's work to-
gether, and to certain elements of that work. . . . This
could not apply to any one's work ;
you will find it
applies particularly to yours and Mrs. Una's."
^ This kind of complexity in book-tests increased as time went on.
In the summer of 1917 a single book-test consisting of one item would
be given. During December, 1918, and January, 1919, the average
number of items (excluding titles) was 9. The average number of
such items in sittings concerned with Greek books was 10|.
- At a subsequent sitting on Nov. 13, A. V. B. herself prescribes this
procedure.
304 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
[Beginning just above one-third down the page is a
sentence which may be translated :
" It is our duty to
give help to the people of Olynthus, and whatever means
anybody holds to be the best and the quickest are good
enough for me." If for '
to the people of Olynthus '
we
read '
in psychical research,' this might perhaps be regarded
as an appropriate message.]
IV. " Boris—Boris— It's a name that seems to be
prominent in the book. Boris—Borisee—-Boris She goes
back to Boris every time {s.v., you doii't think it's
Borissi, Ladye ?) No, she goes back to Boris ; Feda does
not know why she is sapng that, Feda thinks it's a name
that's in the book prominently ; she doesn't think you'll
have to go far for it.
[At the beginning of the book in a list in Latin of the
MSS. of Demosthenes, the first mentioned is Parisinus
2934 (pronounced according to modern usage Pariseenus).
The Avord occurs eight times conspicuously in the list of
MSS., and six times (with different case endings) in the
preface. This word approximates in sound more or less to
'
Borisee,' and it is perhaps noteworthy that '
Borissi
'
which does not similarly approximate is rejected.]
V. " On page one eight, 18, she got a feeling of writing
being alluded to . . . that's all from this book for the
moment."
[There appears to be no allusion to writing on page 18,
but, on the opposite page (19), the words rois ypdifaa-iv—
those who wrote—occur.]
VI. " Very close to this book, she says she should feel
it must be one of those next to it . . . she got a feeUng
of . . . Lore or Fables, superstition. She got that very
strongly ; she's not sure which side of it it would be, but
it was very close to the second book while she was
sensing it."
[Next to the volume of Demosthenes on the left, the
first book in the row, was Plato's Republic, where lore,
fables and superstition are discussed at considerable length.]
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 305
[Feda liere makes a digression to say]
F. Do you know she got ... a feeling like a different
type, a different way of making letters, . . . it's
as if the letters was drawed differently."
U. V. T. I understand that.
F. It's not just only as a test that she's giving this.
She wants to convey to j'^ou that it's an important
point whether the spirit or control understands the
lettering and reads the messages by the shape of
the letters, or, as she has stated, gets the sense by
sensing the spirit or thought of a message.
VII. and VIII. F. Now she wants to take the third
book from the left end of the xo^\, the next book
to the one she's spoken of at first. On page
2 . . . there seemed to be a description of, or
an allusion ... to an Eastern j)lace, she felt that
it took her to Asia, not Eastern Europe . . .
and she got an old feeling A^ith it . . . as if this
' place .spoken of . . . was old. But from these
books she got that feeling often, of old con-
ditions . . .
M. R. H. That's quite correct.
F. ... She's sure that this third book took her back
more than 2000 years ... far more than 2000
-
. 3^ears she's laughing and she says especially on
pages 2 and 4. She says "possibly on pages 1
and 3 too, but that doesn't concern me; I felt
them on pages 2 and 4."
[The third book from the left Avas Thucydides' History,
Books I. -IV. The pages are not numbered. On the
second page from where Thucydides's own writmg begins
are allusions to Ionia and to the Trojan war—that is to
places in Asia.
The " old feehng " is appropriate. The first five or six
pages of Thucydides give a sketch of the quite early
history of Greece, which takes us back some 3000 years.
The feeling of great antiquity might, as A. V. B. suggests.
306 ,
Mrs. Henry Sidgtvick. [part
have been got as well from pages 1 and 3 as from pages
2 and 4, but there is perhaps a point in her reference
to these last. That to page 2 may be explained by the
reference on it to Troy, and page 4 may have been the
source of the statement numbered below as X.]
But before going on to this A. V. B. discusses at
some length how something might strike her on one page
and not on the next, though even more emphatically
present on the latter. And then she goes on to say :
IX. F. Wait a minute. Oh ! is it the third one ? are
you sure it's the third, Ladj^e ? Feda's not sure
that she's sure herself, {s.v. Excuse me) She
says that in the third book.
U. V. T. That's the one we've just been talking
about.
F. {s.v. Feda don't think you think so yourself !)
Feda thinks it's close to the third one. but she's
not quite sure ! {s.v. Well, I'll say the third one)
There's the picture of a man reminded her of an
old-fashioned engraving or print.- She felt he was
not in ordinary clothes, in fact certain parts
of his anatomy which are usually covered, were
not covered. But he has some kind of drapery,
folded, or in folds, she doesn't quite know how to
say it, but she thinks folds is right; and she says
she somehow got the idea of a stick, or something
shaped like a stick. (Feda extends her hand, and
makes a gesture of closing her fingers round a
stick.) Like that. And she says it's in book
three, but Feda thinks it's in a book near ; 'cos
Feda can tell when Ladye's a bit uncertain her-
self. But when she thinks she's got it right, she'a
obstinate and won't give in, and then Feda can
•
feel through her, when she's uncertain and won't
say so.
[The description given suggests several well-known Greek
statues, and notably one of Demosthenes often reproduced
in editions of his speeches, but none of the Greek books
used in the experiment contained any illustrations.] i
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 307
X. F. She's still got some more, she says she got an
idea from this third book . . . She says imita-
tion—very—seerest—form—what's that ? Imitation
is very seerest form—Oh Ladye, do talk about
something sensible !
M. R. H. She wants you to say that imitation is the
sincerest form of flattery.
F. She says she doesn't want to finish it that way,
she says she does and she doesn't, she wanted to
•
say it was an imitation, and she didn't know
how else to get it in. . . . She keeps on inter-
rupting herself and she's talking about the third
book, and giving something from it which might
also be got from the other books, she thinks it
very likely would. . . . She got head dresses, an
idea of head dresses, head dresses of some peculiar
kind, and also some rather extraordinary manner
of dressing the hair, or not dressing it she says.
[As will be noticed no page is named here. If we may
assume that the last page mentioned, namely p. 4, is
meant, this item is remarkably good, for on that page we
get in the following passage both a pecuUar head-dress and
the idea of imitation (by the lonians). Speaking of the
Athenians Thucydides says :
" The leading men in the
wealthy class through this soft manner of life until quite
recently wore linen tunics and tied up their hair in a
top-knot fastened with a golden grasshopper. From which
it came about that the leading men of Ionia, for kinship's
sake, largely adopted the same style."]
XI. Feda proceeds :
" a feeling of embroidery."
[There is no mention of embroidery on page 4 or on the
neighbouring pages, but the above allusions to luxury and
splendour in dress suggest it.]
XII. F. A feehng of a crescent (Feda draws in the
air a crescent shape . . .) Can you see it ? Oh
she's doing more than that now ; she's giving a
round, a circle. ... It made her think of the
skies and of certain large—she says I can't
308 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
. think of the word, what you call the sun and
the moon."
M. R. H. Planets.
F. (Giggles). Feda could have told her that! She
says that's right, certain large planets, but she
- ' says " I mean one large and important planet
more than any other."
[Possibly a reference to page 14 of the volume of
Thucydides where there are allusions to " Solar eclipses
"
at the time of the Persian War. Or to the lunar eclipse
which plays an important part in Thucydides' Book VII.,
contained in the fourth volume on the shelf.]
XIII. and XIV. F. Take this third book again, and
open it at the end. Turn over four leaves with
.
'
reading stuff on them.
M. R. H. Backwards ?
F. Yes, backwards, and on the fourth one when
you've turned it down, it seems to allude to con-
"
: . .. ditions which are prevalent now in the world, to
' , . do with the war. Now you understand that's on
' the back of the fourth leaf when you've turned it
'
•
.
" down, it would be on the right side of the book
wouldn't it.
' • M. E. H. Yes. :
"
'
'
F. Well, at the very bottom of the next page
'
•
backwards, going towards the beginning of the
i' ,
'
book, right at the bottom of that page, there's
:' ' just a word—she says: "I think it's only one
word, it may be two, but I think it's only one
,. word" that she so strongly wishes you, she says
you'll know she particularly wishes it just now,
'..'I :
'
just lately. That's all about those books.
[The last leaf of the volume is a blank fly-leaf. The
next leaf to this, backwards, has only thirteen lines of
I-
print on it and these on one side only, the other side
1 {
being blank. Moreover immediately below the last line of
-
the Greek text is a short note in Latin which reads : "At
;
the end of the fourth book." Assuming that this page
represents the end of the book at which we are to ojoen
LXXXI.] An Examinatio7i of Book-Tests. 309
and from which we are to count, and turning over four
leaves we come to a page on the back of the fourth leaf
on which are several possible allusions " to conditions
which are prevalent now in the world." It might with
little modification have been said of Germany that " their
affairs were controlled by a small faction which had no
intention of relinquishing its powers, but was afraid for
itself lest the true facts should be known." " Expecting a
naval descent " might have been said of Germany or
England ;
" Removed the women and children," of places
in France.
But the most striking coincidence is that at the very
bottom of the next page backwards," namely in the middle
of the last line, occurs the Greek word for an armistice
(eKexeipia)—which, remembering that the date of the sitting
was ten days before the signing of the armistice, seems
singularly appropriate.]
Of these fourteen items II., VII., VIII., XIV. seem
definitely right ;
V., VI., X., XIII. perhaps right, but
with elements of doubt ;
I., III., IV., XII. very dubious ;
XI. probably wrong ; IX. certainly wrong. Thus stated
numerically the success was far above the average ; but
how far individual successes are to be regarded as beyond
the probability of guesswork is another question.
As the books used were Mrs. Salter's, and Mrs. Salter
had before this date had a good many sittings with
Mrs. Leonard and acted as note-taker at others, the
question of telepathy from her is worth considering. It
appears, however that she had never regularly used
the copies of Thucydides and Demosthenes in question.
She may have occasionally used them to refer to, but
in reading those authors she had used other annotated
editions.
This was by far the most successful effort made by
A. V. B. in connection with the Greek books. It would
be tedious to go through all the seven sittings at which
the experiment was tried, and I will therefore only
mention important points in the remaining ones. The
sittings took place on November 13 and December 8,
310 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. [part
18 and 28, 1918, and on January 1 and 15, 1919. Of
these the first two need not detain ns. But on December
18 there was a success of some interest. Eight successive
items were complete failures, and then Feda said that
on p. 5 of the third book from the left, about half
way down there was
F. rather a good description of a place that Ladye's
fond of. . . . She says " And I want to qualify
what I said about being fond of it, and to say
interested in it, you will know that I was indeed
interested in this place, but fond of it is not
quite the right word." She says you [i.e.
M. R. H., U. V. T. was not present on this
occasion] have something in your possession con-
nected with the place, Mrs. Twonnie, she's pre-
tending to fold something. (Here Feda makes a
gesture of folding something with her hands, her
gesture would be applicable to folding a piece of
paper, to making a fold in material, or to folding
such a thing as a folding photograph frame.)
Wait a minute, you mean Mrs. Twonnie has this
thing now ? Yes, you's got the thing that's con-
nected with the place. It's only a small thing.^
—
Stamp, Stamp. (Here Feda makes a gesture of
stamping an impression with a stamp or seal.
She does this on M. R. H.'s arm, and the meaning
of her gesture is quite unmistakable.) What is it
Ladye you are trying to make me do ?
M, R. H. I understand, it s stamping.
F. Yes, but not the foot ; with the hand, and it's not
a postage stamp.
[After some more talk Feda adds]
F. Ladye doesn't say this, but I ought to tell you
what I think. The thing that she speaks about
I don't think folds up itself, but something out-
side it does. I tell you it was the way she was
holding it made me think that it folded.
All this description by word and gesture was taken
as indicating a letter received by post. The book was
LXXXI.] All Examination of Book-Tests. 311
Euripides, Vol. I. Beginning to count the pages with the
argument prefixed to the play, we find about haK way
down the fifth page " the wintry land of Thrace." Taking
the ancient Thrace as equivalent to a considerable part
of the modern Balkans, A. V. B. was interested in it
in the latter part of her life as the region in which
Admiral Troubridge was worldng on the staff of the
Crown Prince of Serbia, and M. R. H. had received
letters from him from there.
On January 1, 1919, again occurred two successful
items of some interest :
F. She says . . . she wouldn't care to be described in appear-
ance quite as some one is in this book. There is some
one described in appearance—or at any rate an indication
given of their appearance. . . . It's just an inchcation,
but one which would be quite clear and definite. She
says now that this description what she would not like
appUed to her is in the vicinity of [the last item]. She
can't tell you whether it's on the same page or not but
it's very close. [The page referred to was p. 9 of the
2nd book from the right.]
[The volume proved to be the Iliad of Homer, Books
XIII. -XXIV. The pages were unnumbered and some
pages at the beginning had been torn out.^ To arrive at
page 9 the pages Avere counted. On the lower part of
the ninth page so arrived at occur the words translated
by Lang, Leaf and Myers " Hephaistos the Lame." I am
told that the word translated " lame " might be rendered
" crooked," or -with twisted Umbs "—which meanings are
more appropriate to A. V. B.'s remark.]
^ This had been done to prevent any one suggesting that a person
who did not know Greek might have inferred from a translation on
what page of the original would occur the equivalent of something
selected in the translation. This possible flaw in the conditions of
their experiment having struck M. R. H. and U. V. T., they discarded
after December 18 the books borrowed from Mrs. Salter and substituted
eleven second-hand volumes out of which they tore and destroyed an
uncertain number of pages at the beginning and end—afterwards keeping
the -I'olumes in a locked book-case. This mutilation of the books was
not commented on by A. V. B.
312 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
[Feda goes on to page 66 of the same book and after
a partially correct statement about two buildings being
mentioned on it, says] "Just at the bottom of the
same page there's a word suggests dancing to her . .
She only throws that in she says."
[On the fourth line from the bottom of the page
counted as 66, occurs the name " Meriones " in connexion
with J]]neas throwing a spear at him. Meriones jumped
aside, and near the top of page 67 (facing page 66) is
the taunting remark of JSneas referring to this :
—
" Meriones, swiftly should my spear have stopped thy
dancing for ever, good dancer as thou art, if I had but
struck thee." If Meriones is the word, the perception of
that name at the bottom of one ]3age and of the associa-
tion of dancing with it on the next appear here to be
combined.]
After one or two more items the sitters were referred
to the third book in the row, which proved to be Thucy-
dides, V.-VIII. About this book no less than eight
statements were made referring to five different pages,
and some of them apparently very definite. But not a
single point was correct. Either the whole thing was
imagination or invention, or the position of the volume
meant was incorrectly given, or Feda had got the paging
wrong. The book, though bought at second-hand, was
uncut, and did not therefore fulfil A. V. B.'s desire that
it should have been read by some one. But though
we can imagine that its unread condition might prevent
A. V. B. " sensing (as she called it) the contents, it
is vejy difficult to suppose it would make her " sense
"
them definitely and wrong. Moreover, no hint was given
that A. V. B. perceived the book had not been read.
On one or two occasions things have been rather success-
fully said about pages which proved to be uncut. ^ And
it is of course no new thing for definite statements to
be made which proved untrue about pages that had
been read. That has constantly happened throughout
the book-tests. It is very doubtful therefore whether
^ See above, pp. 294, 295.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Bool-Tests. 313
any value can be attached to the view attributed to
A. V. B. and other communicators, that it is important
that the pages which they attempt to sense should have
been read.
The book-tests of January 15, 1919, were the last
taken from the Greek books, and they were not very
successful. M. R. H., at the end of the sitting, sug-
gested that the experiment should be discontinued for
a time, and A. V. B., who was controlling, replied :
A. V. B. I'm not sure we'll have to do any more, it was only
necessary to prove that language made no differ-
ence to me. It's the thought that matters ; that's
how I get your thoughts so clearly, never mind
what language you spoke in or thought in.
Estimating the success obtained in the experiments
with these Greek books purely numerically, it seems to
be about the same as that of the book-tests in the aggre-
gate, and slightly greater than that of the A. V. B.
tests as a whole. Moreover, some of those I have quoted
seem to me striking, though perhaps none are of the
very first quality.
Question of Cross-Correspondence.
In the book-tests of January 4, 1919, quoted and dis-
cussed above pp. 286-289, we found the communicator
talking of cross-correspondences, and a connexion was
pointed out which may have been more than accidental
between the book-tests on that clay and the automatism
of Mrs. Stuart Wilson. A good deal was said at different
times in the course of the book-tests before us about
intended cross-correspondences, and some investigation
seems called for into the question what evidence there
actually is for any connexion between these book-tests and
other automatisms, or other circumstances connected with
psychical research, which are known to us. Unfortunately
the evidence is not very decisive, and helps us less than
Mrs. Heyiry Sidgwick. [part
I could have wished in forming a judgment on book- |
tests, while at the same time it is difficult to do justice I
to it without going into considerable detail. I mention J
this as I think some readers may jjrefer to omit this !i
section.
There are various statements as to plan and system
in series of book-tests. For instance, after the first
book-test given to M. R. H. by A. V. B. on July 18
1917, Feda said ;
If this one comes right, which she thmks it ought to,
she will want to do some more, so that when they are
collected and jmt together all of them should read like a
little letter from her to you, containing advice and counsel.
. . . She says " If I can get two or three so that number
two follows pretty well on number one, and number three
foUows on number two, it will be interesting."
Similarly, after the second book-test received by the
E,ev. C. Drayton Thomas, on September 6, 1917, he
reports Feda as saying :
That these tests would be so arranged as to form a
sequence. When concluded they would reveal a con-
secutive progression of thought and thus make it im-
possible for people to say that they were the result of
coincidence. Mr. Myers was planning them, and they were
carried out by a sort of co-operation between him and my
[Mr. Drayton Thomas's] .father.
Again, on November 17, 1917, at an A. V. B. sitting,
Feda remarks :
" Ladye says it's very important to keep tests that seem
wrong, not only your own tests, because they may fit in
like a puzzle and she thinks the failures may be the most
important of all when fitted together."
I have failed to trace any evidence that these plans
were successfully carried out. Later come statements
about intended cross-correspondences. Thus, on November
21, 1917, in the course of an A. V. B. sitting, A. V. B.
said during a personal control :
—
A. V. B. I'm going to interfere with other people's sittings.
LXXXI.] A?i Examination of Book-Tests. 315
U. V. T. Have you been playing any monkey tricks Ladye ?
A. V. B. Yes, I have, they will know presently, they can't
know all at once, they may not find it out all at
once, but I am going to try to do cross-corre-
spondences.^
U. V. T. What ?
A. V. B. Yes I am and I shall do it.
•
M. R. H. and U. V. T. remark on this that " At
any rate as soon as Mrs. Salter became a Leonard sitter,
land began to receive book-tests [i.e. on November 15,
!
1917] they began to look as though intended by the
communicator, A. W. V., to have some connexion with
script."
A month later, December 22, 1917, at a sitting of
Mrs. Beadon's, Feda is reported as saying :
You know he [the communicator] told you at first about
a series of book tests. In each one there is something that
tacks on to the last one, in the principal message of the
tests ! The other bits of the test are just to show you
that you have got it.
Are you alive to the fact that there may be a curious
kind of cross-correspondence going on. Something you get
and don't quite understand may fit in to something some
one else is getting. So in the end you will get a personal
message for yourself in which you can read his mind,
but also something for other people. It will fit together
Mke in sections.
Five days later, December 27, 1917, a sort of ampli-
fication of this was given at an A. V. B. sitting. Feda
says :
F. She says that Avhat's coming through now in these
book-tests is nothing like as interesting as it wil}
1 In June, 1917, M. R. H. had arranged the experiment in cross-
•eorrespondence described below, p 330. Nothing came of this, and
1 do not know whether the word cross-correspondence had been used
in connexion with it. But in any case it is, of course, quite likely
that the word may have been used by some one in the presence of
Mrs. Leonard, in or out of trance, so that no importance attaches to
its use by the trance-personalities.
1
316 Mrs. Hennj SidgivicJc. [part
be when all the words are i)ut together and
you lind the Cross. {S.v. You mean cross-i
correspondence Ladye ?) She says to Feda " You:
say what I say, say the Cross." Ladye says she
thinks that she herself and many of the chief
movers in these book-tests will be able to tell you
when they are complete. She says, make the j
Cross this way. (Feda draws the Cross in the
shajie of an X in the air.)
U. V. T. That's a St. Peter's Cross. ' '
She says put it that way. Now, she says, that
some things she says to Feda this way that you
don't understand, will have a more important
meaning for the future than you think. She says
you will understand about the Cross ; she says
that's how it will be ; she says put it down and
draw it. She says something's being worked out,
and that all evidential tests are only leading up
to a climax. . . . She says it's very important.
It is probable, I think, that the cross described in
this passage is a fanciful interpretation by Feda, em-
broidered on a misunderstanding of the topic of cross-
correspondences. However this may be, this topic is
dwelt on at other sittings about this period. It is
noteworthy that in November and early December, 1917,
arrangements for working for the Society for Psychical
Research were being discussed with Mrs. Leonard, and an
agreement was entered into with her to work for the
Society for three months beginning January 14, 1918.
On January 16, 1918, Feda says for A. V. B :
Be very careful and put a big mark beside what she
is going to say now and put down the time exactly.
She says : "I can't feel ivhat they're doing, but I feel as
if some one is trying to get through something to me
{s.v., something to do with a ladder—a ladder)." She
says you are to put down every syllable as she says
it {s.v. They always do !)
" Some one wants me to
say something, it's coming to me in a roundabout way,
from some one on the earth plane originally, and it's being
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 317
carried to me—or transmitted to me, by some one in the
spirit world. Ladder—ladder—and the letter B. B. B " . . .
(s.v. Aster . . . Aster . . . Aster . . . Uster. Feda can't
get that Ladye, a passage or street) ... she says
"... I can't get any more than that but it feels as if it's
being telegraphed to me."
Some more is said about this supposed cross-corres-
pondence, and it is suggested that " the Society " will
be able to throw light on it, but nothing came of it
so far as is known. Then Feda goes on :
The sitters ought to pay particular attention to any
name or initial that is given through at certain points of
their sittings. She thinks it's more than likely that a
cross-correspondence may be arranged in a pecuhar way
that she's been told to explain . . . they may make use
of certain messages, or matter which is quite appropriate to
the sitters, or as messages to be transferred to the sitters.
She says " we may make use of these in a double sense ;
we shall sometimes give a letter, a second letter which
will give the ke5Tiote after, if possible we shall choose a
letter which is connected with the sitter's conditions, so as
not to make what would appear to be a muddle ;
but we
shall try to inter-weave a cross-correspondence in that
waj."
Ladye says that she thinks that it won't be the sittings
that will be interesting, it will be what will come out of
them, the chain. And the points of people's book-tests,
and she says don't forget, the wrong book-tests are not to
be discarded but placed together.
Ladye says " it strikes me we are working for the
Society to-day, but it's so much better you should know
what they are trying to do, so as if they succeed you
won't be in the dark." .
So far as we know this elaborate plan did not come
off at all, though, as I shall show, there are indications of
1
'^IS Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
attempts at cross-correspondence. Before describing these,
however, I will turn to the A. W. V. book-tests, in which
we find what looks like an attempt at connexion with
other S.P.R. work. The first two A. W. V. book-tests
were given on November 15, 1917, and January 14, 1918,
respectively, the latter at the first sitting given under
the auspices of the Society for Psychical Research. In
the first the book indicated ^ proved to be Dr. Verrall's
own copy of Jebb^s edition of the Antigone of Sophocles.
Feda said :
He's going to give two tests together. On the 8th page
there's a reference to a place you'll recognise, rather near
the top of the page. It's aijpropriate to him. On p. 57
there's a message from him to you, about half way down
the page. It's appropriate to past conditions balanced up
with the present. There's an important word beginning
with H. in the sentence. They're appropriate words from
him to you. On page 8 there's a description of a place
he had to do with."
On this Mrs. Salter comments: ij
On page 8 are the opening lines of the jjlay, and Jebb's
commentary printed just below begins :
" Scene.—The
same as in the (Edipus Tyramms, viz. an open space
before the royal palace ... at Thebes." I think it may
fau-ly be said therefore that "on the 8th page there is a
reference to a place you'll recognise, rather near the top of
the page. It's appropriate to (my father) " and again " on
p. 8 there's a description of a place he had to do with."
My father certainly had to '"do with " Thebes, not only
as a classical scholar, but also as having edited the Seven
against Thebes of iEschylus.
On p. 57 the passage which would appear to be indicated
is Jebb's translation of Antig. 255-256 :
" The dead man
was veiled from us, not shut within a tomb, but lightly
strewn with dust, as by the hand of one that shunned a
curse." (The Guard is describing the finding of Polynices'
iThe shelf was not quite clearly described, but I think there is no
real doubt as to which was meant.
LXXXI.] Examination of Book-Tests. 319
body after Antigone has covered it with earth.) When
I first read these words I did not think they were appro-
priate as a message from my father, but when I read
Jebb's comment on Hne 256 (the note begins on p. 57,
just below the translation and runs on to p. 58) I found
that he quotes as a jjarallel passage Horace, Odes, 1. 28,
. . . This particular ode of Horace has figured pro-
minently in reports on scripts, see e.g. Proceedings S.P.R.,
Vols. XXII., XXIV., XXVI. It is, moreover, associated
with my father because the origin of the " Horace Ode
Question " [so much discussed in Proceedings] was a letter
written by Mr. Myers to mj^ father expressuig disagree-
ment with something my father had said in an essay
concerning this Ode (see Proceedings S.P.R.., Vol. XXII.,
p. 406). Also, in my father's edition of --^^schylus' Seven
against Thebes, in his comments on lines 1028-1030, spoken
by Antigone, he writes :
" She explains her meaning in
line 1030. The expression is intentionally contemptuous.
To what purpose is it to forbid biirial, when the handful
of earth necessary for the rite can be carried in a maiden's
robe ? The requirement of religion was satisfied by the
mere sprinlding of dust three times upon a corpse. Cf.
Soph. Ant. 255 (see Jebb, p. 57) . . . Hor. Od. I. 28 . .
."
If the passage in Jebb, p. 57, is the one indicated by
Feda, presumably the " important word beginning with
H." is Horace.
It is the apparent reference to Horace's Odes I., 28,
that here constitutes the connexion with other S.P.R.
work. But it was published work, and there is therefore
no evidence of any supernormal knowledge apart from
the essence of the book-test—namely, the absence of any
normal knowledge of what was on the page indicated.
I have quoted more of the record than is required to
bring out the reference to the Horace Ode, because the
rest perhaps connects this book-test with the next one—that
given at Mrs. Salter's next sitting on January 14, 1918.
On this occasion U. V. T. acted as recorder : at the
November sitting Mrs. Salter had recorded for herself.
The record begins as follows :
320 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
F. {s.v. What you say ?) About a book ? when you corned
to Feda last time. (s.v. You tried to give about a
book ?)
S. ,
Yes, and it was quite a success. .,
F. He says he's got another one to-day, it's a little dis-
connected with the previous one. He tried to get
one what would fit in with and follow on the other
experiment. He couldn't do that, but he says that
so long as he tells you when a test is disconnected
it's almost as good as if it were connected. ... It's
in the same place as the other was [the height of
the shelf is then indicated] .... (s.v. One, two,
three) five, it's the fifth book counting from left
to right ... p. 73. (s.v. Near the top is a
message . . .) He wants you to take it as a per-
sonal message from him, but it has a bearing on
your attitude towards some one else. Some one on
the earth plane, not in the spirit world. He's
builded up a letter D, but he can't tell Feda whether
it's a man or a woman ; he says " Only take what
I can give." He says "D is an important word
connected with tlie imjDort of the message.". . . It's
rather a peculiar message he says, but he wants to
give them rather differently to the \^'ay other peoples
does. He wants to give them on a line of his own.
He says the last one was a bit diffwent, of a different
.
^ type to the ones what others gives. . . . He says
it's near the top of the page, not quite at the top.
Wait a minute ; you know it's difficult to tell which
\-: page they mean when the pages face each other.
: It's either on the page he spoke of or on the opposite
page, there's a number or a word in different char-
acters to the usual. If it's a number it's more than
one figure, it must be two or more characters to it,
•
because if it were not like that it wouldn't look like
a word. It's in different characters to the rest and
'
there's a word near it (he says he's only suggesting
a word) a word like Genesis is near to the word in
LXXXI.J An Examination of Book-Tests. 321
peculiar type. He thinks that he's got the fii-st two
syllables of the word right if not the rest.
S. He means that the word begins with Gen-ne ?
F. Yes, that's it. He says that this book is not the kind
of book what every one would read, it would appeal
to a particular class of people. It's not what is
called a pop-u-lar book. He supposes that everyone
would know about it, but not care to read it. It's a
good book he says, not a cheapy book, and it's a
well wi'oten book, but not very interesting all tlirough ;
many peoples woulchi't think it interesting at all.
He's interested in the things in that book. He's
smiling. You'd better put down that he's smiling,
sometimes that's rather important. . . . He says
" Since I passed over I've had opportunities of
becoming acquainted with the subject of that book,
of understanding it in a different way to what
I could when 1 was on the earth plane." And you
know the page what he's just given, page 73, well,
just close to that page, there's mention of a subject
upon which he has now changed his mind since he
passed over.
S. Does the mention come before or after page 73 ?
F. He thinks it comes after. He says he's almost sure it's
after, (s.v. Writing ? Oh ! yes, but nothing to do
with a book test ? What about then ?)
The book proved to be Jebb's edition of Sophocles's
(Edi'pus Coloneus (Camb. University Press, 1885), and again
Dr. Verrall's own copy. It has a long introduction of
eighty-two pages, but Mrs. Salter found nothing relevant
on p. 73 of the introduction. Turning to the text of the
play, the words from Jebb's translation which appear
on the upper part of p. 73 are part of a conversation
between (Edipus and his daughter Ismene relating to
the question whether GEdipus's death and burial should
take place in Thebes or Attica. Beginning at the fourth
line from the top of the page, the passage runs thus :
Oe. Will they also shroud me in Theban dust 1
Is. Nay, the guilt of a kinsman's blood debars thee, father.
Y
322 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
Oe. Then never shall they become my masters.
Is. Some day then this shall be a grief for the Cadmeans.
Oe. In what conjunction of events, my child ?
Is. By the force of thy wrath when they take their stand
at thy tomb.
Oe. And who hath told thee what thou tellest, my child ?
Is. Sacred envoys from the Delphian hearth.
Mrs. Salter notes that she can find in these words no
personal message
bearing on [her] relations "wdth some person on the earth
plane, but [adds] the choice of this passage appears to be
of some interest in connexion with [Mr. Piddington's]
j)aper on " The One Horse Dawn Experiment." I have
marked the line which I understand he takes as
having a reference to his paper [viz. By force of thy
wrath, etc.]. The Avords " take their stand " are under-
lined in pencil in the text, and in the margin in my
father's wi-iting are the words " be stoj)ped by," i.e. he
dissents from Jebb's rendering and substitutes another of
his own. The holding up of the invaders at the tomb of
Oedipus is, I beheve, the jooint of interest to [Mr. Pidding-
tonj, so that this marginal note of my father's may have
some relevance. The line I have marked is two and a
quarter inches from the top of an eight and a half-inch page.
D. is said to be an important word connected with the import
of the message, that is the first letter of it. Presumably this
M'ord is " Delphian," since the message Ismene is bringing to
Oedipus has been told by envoys from the oracle at Delphi.
The statement that either on j). 73 or the opposite
p. 7 2 there is a number or word in different characters to the
usual would seem to apply best to p. 72, the upper half
of which is occupied by the Greek text corresponding
to the translation on p. 73. But the notes occup3dng
the lower halves of both pages are pej^pered over with
words in Greek type. On p. 72, in a note concerning
" a kinsman's blood," are quoted two Greek words with
the root yeve, suggesting " Genesis," and in the same
note is a reference to the burial rite given by Antigone
to Polynices. The remarks about the book not being.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 323
a popular one but interesting to Dr. Verrall are obviously
true. But as to her father's having " had opportunities
since he died of becoming acquainted with the subject
of that book "
—
i.e. the death of (Edipus
—" of under-
standing it in a different way to what [he] could ... on
the earth plane," or to the mention on or near p. 73 of a
su-bject upon which he has changed his mind since he
passed over, Mrs. Salter had no suggestion to make unless
it were that the subject may be death.
It is worth noting that in both these book-tests the
passages indicated occur in plays of Sophocles edited by
Jebb. Both passages refer to burial, or at least to the
shrouding in dust which formed an essential part of
funeral rites, and in both cases we are led to footnotes
by Jebb dealing with this subject—the footnote in the
(Edipus Coloneus of the second book-test referring to the
Antigone of the first ; while in the rirst book-test the
footnote refers to Horace's Odes I, 28, which not only
is itself a topic connected with S.P.R. work, but again
refers to the shrouding with dust. There is therefore
a certain connexion between the two book-tests which
may have been more than accidental, notwithstanding
Feda's statement that A. W. V. had failed " to get one
that would fit in with and follow on the other experiment."
However this may be, there certainly seems to be a
connexion, as Mrs. Salter observes, between the book-test
of January 14, 1918, and a paper Mr. Piddington had been
engaged in writing between November 8 and December
22, 1917, entitled F^irther Light on the One Horse Davm
Experiment, the point of which was to show that an old
man in wliite going towards the East, spoken of a good
many times in Mrs. Verrall's script in the course of that
experiment,^ and in her script and that of other auto-
1 It will be remembered that the "One horse dawn experiment" was
one in which Dr. Verrall in his lifetime tried, without Mrs. Verrall's
knowledge, to get a certain Greek phrase from Euripides to emerge in
her automatic script. The success was only partial, but interesting.
Mrs. Verrall's account of it will be found in Proceedings, Vol. XX.,
pp. 156-167. There have been various discussions on it, the last being
the paper by Mr. Piddington in Proceedings, Vol. XXX., p. 176, re-
ferred to in the text.
324 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
matists later, was CEdipus dressed in funeral garb and
passing to Ms death. He showed that QSdipus was
connected with the One-Horse Dawn experiment by a
note in Jebb's edition of the CEdipus Tyrannus, which
quotes the phrase from Euripides which was the subject
of the experiment, and also refers to passages in the
QiJdipus Goloneus—the book selected for the book-test
—
these passages being also apparently referred to in the scripts
connected with the old man in white. Mr. Piddington's
paper was never read to the Society, and was not pub-
lished till November, 1918 (see Proceedings S.P.B., Vol.
XXX., p. 176). He had, however, mentioned the matter
vaguely to Mrs. Salter on November 14, 1917^—the day
before the first of the two book-tests.
Allowing for a great deal of confusion, I think we may
go further than Mrs. Salter does in noting a connexion
between the paper and the book-test, and may trace
a definite attempt at not only reference to, but comment
on, the subject of the paper. On this supposition the
reference to a passage in the CEdipus Goloneus referring
to his burial may fairly be taken as a personal message
from A. W. V., and as having a bearing on Mrs. Salter's
attitude to some one on the earth plane—namely Mr.
Piddington. The important word D, " connected with the
import of the message," might be Dawn ; it will be
^ The following is a memorandum written by Mr. Piddington on
Nov. 17, 1917, after seeing the record of the book-test of Novem-
ber 14 :
" On Wednesday, Nov. 14, 1917, I had a few minutes' conversation
with Mrs. Salter, in the course of which I told her that I thought
I had found the explanation of various references in the [One Horse
Dawn] M. V. scripts which had hitherto remained miexplained. . . .
I added that, if my interpretation were right, it was in my opinion
extraordinary that A. W. V. had never seen what these references
meant. I think I said that the references in question were explained
by a passage—or by a note on a passage—in a Greek play which
A. W. V. must have known and which I knew [Mrs. Verrall] had
read. I had meant, ajter speaking of other ?)iatters, to ask [Mrs. Salter]
whether she had got any editions of Sophocles' Oed. Tyr. that her
father had used, and, if so, whether she would let me see them. But
I forgot to do this. I am quite certain that I did not mention
Sophocles or any of his plays."
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 325
noticed that nothing is said by Feda about its being a
word in the selected passage. The " line of his own
"
on which A. W. V. wants to give messages might be
cross-correspondences or connexion with other S.P.R.
work. The opportunities of understanding that book in
a different way from what he could before might refer
to what he now knows about the introduction of (Edipus
and Jebb's note on o/o^wi'oi' into the One-Horse Dawn
experiment—for neither Dr. Verrall nor the automatist,
Mrs. Verrall, had perceived this at the time—and the
subject upon which he had changed his mind would be
the idea that he was the sole agent in that experiment,
or that it worked out simply as a partially successful
attempt at thought transference from himself to his
wife. Feda's aside about " Writing ? Oh yes, but
nothing to do with a book-test ? What about then ?
"
would refer to the automatic writing, especially of ]\Irs.
Verrall in the " One-Horse Dawn " experiment.
Possibly it is some confirmation of the hypothesis that
Mr. Piddington's paper was in the communicator's mind,
that when at a Leonard sitting on April 11, 1918,
A. W. V. again gives a book-test from the (Edi'piis
Coloneus. Feda says that the passage indicated " refers
to recent discoveries of a scientific nature, and very
interesting to ]\Ir. Arthur." In this case, however, if
Mr. Piddington's paper is meant by the " recent dis-
coveries," we must suppose that the reference to the
CEdijms Coloneus as a whole is all that is significant,
as nothing markedly relevant is to be found on the
page indicated (p. 65)^ of either the introduction or the
text.
It is interesting (though not a book-test) that on
January 18, 1918, when Mr. Gerald Balfour was the
sitter and ]\Ir. Piddington the note taker—both being
present at a sitting with Mrs. Leonard for the first time
—an old man in white turned towards the East was
mentioned early in the sitting as probably a " guide."
I quote the relevant part of the record in the footnote
^ Page 65, however, is occupied by part of the same conversation
as p. 73, and leads up, therefore, to Oedipus's burial place.
326 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
below.^ Mr. Balfour had recently read Mr. Piddington's
paper in manuscript, and Mr. Piddington happened to
have it with him at the sitting shut up in an attache
case, and had looked at it in the train coming up to
the sitting.
Another interesting point in this connexion is the
following, which, however, is not easy to interpret. On
February 8, 1918, a Mrs. T. had a sitting with Mrs.
Leonard—Sir Oliver Lodge taking notes. She was told
that on p. 74 (near the top) of the fourth book in the
second shelf from the bottom of a certain set of shelves
was to be found " an encouraging message about the
book ^ he was speaking of just now. He hopes that the
book ^ will fulfil the hope expressed in this message." As
it turned out, the indication of the position of the test-
book was by no means clear. The description of the
bookshelves was not very accurate, but it was decided
that a certain set was meant. It was then doubtful
which was the second shelf from the bottom. Were
the two lowest—which were made for music—to be
counted or not ? It was decided to ignore them, and
to count as the shelf meant the second of those con-
taining reading books. Then there was a doubt whether
in arriving at the fourth book a pamphlet of sixteen
pages, almost hidden, was to be counted. Counting
this, the fourth book was a volume of poems by
1 [After one or two preliminary words] " There is two spirits here
—
two elderly gentlemen. . . . Both pleased to see you. . . . They've
got another man with them—in white robes. Looks to Feda as if
he comes from the East. A tall man. Feda feels he lived on the
earth plane himdreds of years ago. Feda thinks he comes from the
East because he turned towards the East. He points in that direction
{i.e. eastwards). He lived long ago on the earth plane ; but he has
been to you before, and has been with you as your guide. He wears
long white garments, and he has often tried to shov>' himself to you.
Instead of seeing him he says you hear him. Don't know what this
means. You hear him, he says, this (Feda thinks it's not right)—he
says he makes you hear him through the ear that you can't hear
Feda by. Sounds like nonsense. [Mr. Balfour had explained to Mrs.
Leonard before the sitting that he was temporarily deaf of one ear]."
^ The book mentioned here as well as earlier in the sitting was not
any book selected for book-test purposes.
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 327
d'Aimunzio, on p. 74 of which are stanzas about an unknown
Itahan soldier's grave in the desert, which seemed irrele-
vant. The fifth volume had not seventy-four pages.
The fourth volume in the sheK below this was then
taken. It proved to be a volume of S.P.R. Journal and
Proceedings for 1903 bound together. There were two
pages numbered 74. On the page 74 belonging to the
Journal is part of the report of a discussion at a meet-
ing of the Society at which INIrs. Verrall read :
" A
Further Account oi Experiments in Automatic Writing,"
including an account of the " One-Horse Dawn " experi-
ment. The fourth line on p. 74 begins a paragraph
in a speech by Sir Oliver Lodge as follows :
Mrs. Verrall seemed to be of opinion that this was not
a case of telepathy between herself and the lady con-
cerned, but that there might be some further inteUigence
at work. This he felt himself, not only in this instance,
but Avith regard to the first experiment [i.e. the " One
Horse Dawn " experiment] that it was possibly not Dr.
VerraU's mind actmg upon Mrs. Verrall's, but some other
inteUigence, that was trying to give the sentence required.^
This does not seem to correspond very well with the
description given of the message that was to be found.
Nor was the book containing it found in what appeared
to be the place described. But it is remarkably appro-
priate to Mr. Piddington's paper, to which, as shown
above, other book-tests may refer. Was this pure coin-
cidence ? Or was it intended by the communicator at
]\'Irs. T.'s sitting with IMrs. Leonard ? Or can we suppose
in cases like this and the " Charolois " case above
(p. 271) that the investigators are perhaps supernormally
guided to the book 1 '
But then how account for the
1 That there was probably some other inteUigence concerned is of
coiirse the moral of Mr. Piddington's paper. It is therefore worth
mentioning that he had, till after the verification of Mrs. T.'s book-test,
entirely overlooked and forgotten this discussion of the " One-Horse
Dawn" experiment in 1903. It was only after being told by Sir
Oliver Lodge about the result of this book-test that he included the
reference to the meeting in Appendix D of his paper {Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. XXX., p. 229).
328 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
page being mentioned by Feda ? It should be noted
that Mrs. T. knew nothing of Mr. Piddington's paper
either at the time of the sitting or when she verified
the book-test. Nor did Sir Oliver Lodge, the note
taker, know about it till March 12, more than a month
after the sitting. It is interesting that, as he informs us,
Mrs. T. told him that on turning up p. 74 of the Journal
for 1903, she felt a certainty that it was the page meant,
though she did not understand the application
This is, I think, all that occurred connecting book-
tests with Mr. Piddington's paper. I now turn to some
other things which may be regarded as cross-correspond-
ences. One occurred on January 23, 1918, in an A. V. B.
book-test, when it was asserted that there was a link
between the book-test and something got through Mr.
Drayton Thomas. I think the book-test is worth quoting,
notwithstanding the fact that there is a doubt—due
perhaps to confusion caused by interruptions by the sitter
—as to which of two rooms and shelves Peda intended to
describe, and that the first interpretation produced no
appropriate result. And, moreover, notwithstanding the
necessity of a good deal of explanation if the points of
the book-test and of the supposed cross-correspondence
are to be made clear. After statements about the shelf,
Feda proceeds :
r. i^ine book, left to right, page 83. . . . It's rather near
the top of the page about a quarter of the way
down Ladye thinks. {s.v. Wait a minute Ladye
please, a reference to what ? to Mrs. Twonnie'&
work ?) Whai work, this work ? No. Day like
crystal cup, poetry . . . there's a reference on that
page to the poetry, and particularly to that poem
about the big Indian and Mocassins. . . . She
says " I say it has a reference particularly to that
poem, but it refers to it in a very pecuhar way.
Don't expect to see actual words from the poem
^ The contemporary note made by Sir Oliver Lodge on this point
has been mislaid, but Mr. Piddington, who saw it at the time, entirely
confirms his recollection.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 329
repeated." But she says you'll see a reason for
her picking that particular poem, wait a minute,
she says the test will answer itself. . . . Ladye
says she's got a particular reason for wanting to
get this book test through. She says the very
fact of what she tried to do, and practically
failed in, is the reason why she tried to give this
to-day. She says :
" you know what I am re-
ferring to ?
"
Yes.
She won't say any more, but she was particularly
anxious to get this through to-day. Oh and there's
a link up with this test and something she got
through the parson. It's something she got
through since he came here last time. . . . Ladye
says he can't have given it away. She says do
you think she's given that definitely enough, she
means what it refers to.
Yes.
She says that it not only refers to the words of
the poem, but to the conditions around it and
connected v,^th. it, vet outside of it.
She thinks this should be a good book test. She
says you've noticed that she's gone off the
ordinary lines, she's been trymg more and more
difficult things as she went on. She said she must
speak about the parson. She says she thinks he
thought that her last test given through him
came from some one else.
Pv. Hi I have never found anything in his script that
apphed to what she said here.
She feels sure she has got something through. She
makes a particular point to-day of saying this,
she says it's got something to do with what she
tried to get through Mxs. Salter.
The poem above referred to was an unpublished and
unprinted poem by M. R. H., called Snoiv in Virginia,
330 Mrs. Heyiry Sidgwick. [part
which had been a favourite of A. V. B.'s. The first
verse is :
The Day is Hke a crystal cup
In which the Hmpid air brims up ;
A goblet that the sun shines through
In gleams of golden shot with blue.
Around us lies the endless snow
That over all, above, below,
Like some great hunter in the night
Has stalked in mocassins of Avhite.
It had been arranged with A. V. B. in June, 1917,
that she should try to get at least a few words of this
verse written in Mrs. Salter's automatic script. ]\Irs.
Salter was at that time unacquainted with Mrs. Leonard,
and knew nothing of the experiment, but it was explained
to A. V. B. who she was, and the verse ^
was carefully
repeated to Feda, who practically knew it by heart.
On one or two occasions A. V. B. said that she thought
she had succeeded, but as it was understood from Mr.
Piddington (who saw Mrs. Salter's scripts) that she had
not done so, she was told that the experiment had
apparently failed. It is to this she refers in the words :
" what she tried to do and practically failed in."
Another cross-correspondence experiment is referred to
in the statements by Feda above given—one said to have
been initiated by A. V. B. herself, who according to
Feda had for some little time been endeavouring to
influence the semi-automatic or " inspirational " writing
of one of Mrs. Leonard's sitters, the Rev. C. Drayton
Thomas, referred to above by Feda as '
the parson."
He knew experiments were being attempted, and sent
his script to M. R. H. for comparison. She had
received a batch on January 19, four days before the
sitting under discussion, and had read it but not ex-
amined it carefully. Mr. Thomas's last sitting with
Mrs. Leonard had been on January 3, 1918.
So far in explanation of the allusions made by Feda
in the above extracts from the sitting of January 23.
But both the book indicated and Mr. Thomas's script
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 331
seem to correspond—not so much with the stanza from
M. R. H.'s poem which I have quoted and which Feda
knew, as with two later stanzas which it is very im-
probable she had ever heard or seen. The poem, as
already said, had not been printed. These stanzas describe
the snow-clad earth as a woman lying at rest :
The runners of our sleigh scarce mar
The \'irgin wliiteness stretching far
Beyond the road on every side,
In folds of silence, soft and wide.
The great earth has no heed or care
For two lone travellers, everywhere
Her spirit seems to contemplate
Some inner myster3'' of fate.
Impassive, wonderful and still.
She bows to the Creator's will,
With pale hands folded on her breast,
Resigned and happy and at rest.
Yet deep within her heart who knows
What throbbing vein of rapture flows
As like a Saint of bygone days,
She ponders the Almighty's ways.
The test-book (according to the second interpretation
of its place, made without reference to its content)
was Fair Rosamond, by Thomas Miller. On p. 83,
beginning on the ninth line, in a page of thirty-seven
lines, occur the following words :
We have seen the white woman, and I have stood
withm a lance's length of her, and she seemed asleep, with
all that look of "winning misery, which leads mankind to
pity her, when she seizes on them, and sinks into the
deep earth.
As in the poem, there is a reference here to a mystical
white woman asleep and connected with the earth.
In Mr. Thomas's script of January 17, 1918, were
found, on examination by M. R. H. (among a great
deal that appeared to her suggestive only of the sub-
332 Mrs. Henry Sidg^vick. [fart
conscious Mr. Thomas), the following words in a little
line by themselves :
" Saints everlasting rest." These
words may be the result of an attempt by A. V. B. to
get through Mr. Thomas an allusion to the last stanza
of M. R. H.'s poem, where the snowclad earth is compared
to a saint at rest. If so, we have in the poem the
" link up " with the book-test of January 23, 1918, of
which Feda speaks above, and we can understand why
a great point is made of getting this particular test
through on this particular day—the first on which M. R. H.
and U. V. T. had a sitting after Mr. Thomas' script was
produced.
It should be said that other remarks about the test-
book were not very satisfactory. A word like " swahng
or soualing " stated to be at the beginning, could not be
found, and a frontispiece said to be in that book or the
one next it was not well described, though it was true
that the test-book had a frontispiece.
In view of the failure to describe clearly the place
where the book of this book-test stood, M. R. H. and
U. V. T. had the curiosity to examine the eighty-fifth
page of the ninth book in several other shelves. Nowhere
on any of these pages was there found anything even
vaguely suggestive of M. R. H.'s poem. It is perhaps
noteworthy that in a second book-test attempted immedi-
ately afterwards at the same sitting, the description given
of the situation of the book was so vague and indefinite
that no attempt was made by the sitters to identify it.
Feda complained that A. V. B. " can't make out where
it is. She once saw it as if it were lying on top of
some things on the table, but as she saw it some time
ago she don't suppose it's there now." Yet a good
deal is said about the appearance of the book, its size,
etc., and wide margins ; and it is asserted that on p. 27
would be found something " that you certainly never
meant as a prophecy, but which has now turned out
as a prophecy, and a true one too." Feda continues :
" She can't give Feda the position on that page, but
she looked to Feda as if she was pointing half way
down, but there's not an awful lot of writing on one
I
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 333
page, and that makes it difficult because it's spreaded
out."
On January 30, 1918, at an A. V. B. sitting, it is
again distinctly stated that a cross-correspondence is
being attempted. After referring unmistakably to Mr.
Gerald Balfour, who had recently had two sittings with
Mrs. Leonard, Feda says :
It's got something to do with him. Wait a minute.
(s.v. Tliis is by way of being a little cross.) [Then very
loud] : Cross-correspondence . . . {s.v. She says it will
refer to something that Feda said to him last time ;
it's a
cross in a way with his book-test.)
[Later on Feda tries vamly to get a name perhaps
meant for Dionysius ^ and says :]
This book-test what she's given to you to-day, and the
gentleman what came to Feda [i.e. ]\Ir. G. W. Balfour]
and his test what he got, is all hnked up together with
this name.
As, however, in the attempt at a book-test for Mr.
Balfour the account of the place where the book was to
be found was too confused for anything to be made of
it, the supposed cross-correspondence naturally could not
be discovered, and the book-test of the 30th threw no
light on it.
In the course of the book-tests on April 11, 1918,
already twice referred to (p. 297, §5, and above, p. 325),
besides the reference by A. W. V. to the (Ediims Coloneus,
there was also the following passage :
F. The first book . . . from the left on the second sheK, p. 71,
halfway down ... It refers to something they've tried to
do through you. They've [i.e. Dr. and Mrs. Verrall] got it
through partly, they've succeeded partly. They hope to do
much more. One word in particular will suggest that, a
word of about six or seven letters. One particular word
apphes it.
The book designated proved to be A Cornpanion to
1 If so, Feda got among other attempts as far as Deosyn.
334 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
Latin Studies, edited by Dr. J. E. Sandys (Cambridge
University Press, 1910). On p. 71, and also on p. 70
facing it, is a list of bee-plants, wild flowers, etc.. men-
tioned in Latin poetry, with references to Virgil, Horace,
Ovid. Perhaps the word " Casia " on p. 71, just above
the middle (" Casiam " on p. 70) may be the one specially
referred to. There is a good deal about bee-plants in
the scripts of various automatists (see especially Pro-
ceedings, Vol. XXV., pp. 246-248, on Mrs. Holland's
script of March 2, 1910) ; but if the communicator means
that some attempt was being made at the time to get
Mrs. Salter to write about bee plants, it failed.
The next apparent attempt at a cross-correspondence
was in an A. V. B. book-test on May 15, 1918. This-
has already been partly quoted and discussed in another
connexion (see above p. 278). In the cross-correspondence,
if it was one, the titles only of selected books are referred
to, not the insides, so that I have hesitated about includ-
ing it here, but have decided to do so because it seems
to me sufficiently interesting and perhaps illuminating
to be well v/orth study. A. W. V. was represented as
co-operating with A. V. B., but Mrs. Salter, it must be
remembered, was not present. Feda says :
Now the shelf she's on now is the one underneath the
first test shelf, and on this shelf, to the very left, left
of this shelf underneath the first test sheK. {s.v. Mr.
Arthur has picked a book ?) It's right at the end, nearly,
a book v/hose title should be a watchword for you and
Mrs. Una and Mrs. NeUie [i.e. Mrs. Salter] ; he says it's
an excellent watchword. . . . It's something for you all to
keep in front of you and to Imow that in very truth it
will be your watchword ; he says you'll understand why ;•
it's all linked up \\dth the work that you're doing. . . .
{s.v. You know that in forming a bridge—^the bridge-
builders) No, you haven't got it quite right it's that he
thinks of you as the bridge builders. . . . Within a span
of the last-mentioned book is a book whose title suggests
what he just said about you being bridge builders,
it's a . . . alternative name for you, but he does think of
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 335
'
you as the bridge builders. He says bridges can't be
builted from one side only.
And so forth, as quoted on p. 279, leading on to the
indication of a book, the title of which, The Unseen
World, suggests what is being bridged over.
It was decided by the sitters on examination that the
first of the two books indicated in this extract must be the
third book from the left, entitled Nova Solyma—or, as
more fully described on the title page, " Nova Solyma.
The Ideal City or Jerusalem Regained." It deals with
the voyage of a man to this ideal city.^ The New
Jerusalem is not an inappropriate watchword for those
engaged in seeking for evidence of survival and a better
world, as M. R-. H. and U. V. T. were doing.
The second of the two books indicated the sitters
took to be Kiphng's Captains Courageous, which was
three volumes off from Nova Solyma, and the title of
which might, by a stretch, be taken as an alternative
to " bridge builders " for pioneers in psychical research.
From the point of view of possible cross-correspondences,
however, the main interest of the passage I have quoted
centres in " bridge builders," which is not apparently
associated by Feda T^ith any particular book but serves as
a link between the two books indicated. Later in the
sitting, after book-tests had been disposed of, Feda stated
that A. V. B. had tried to get a message through to
M. R. H. somewhere else, and Feda suggested that this
message might have got mixed up with some one else's
sitting. This is of course conceivable, and it might have
happened without any one realising it. But Feda sud-
denly introduced the name IVIrs. Nellie {i.e. Mrs. Salter),
saying, " Do you know if JVIrs. NeUie's been anywhere ?
"
and again, " Feda feels it's something to do mth Mrs.
NeUie, and that's perhaps what brought Mr. Arthur here
as well as the book-test." ^
1 It was translated from the Latin original by the Rev. Walter
Begley, and attributed by him to Milton, though the authorship is
unknown.
2 At the beginning of this sitting surprise had been expressed by
Feda at " Mr. Arthur's " coming. She continued, " He's pleased tO'
336 Mrs. Henry SidgivicJc. [part
On seeing the report of this sitting it at once struck
Mrs. Salter, who had not very recently been to any sitting
of any kind (her last was with Mrs. Leonard on April
23rd), that the intention might be to say that there had
been some recent attempt to send a message through her
own automatic script. She accordingly looked this up.
Her script of April 27th—the only piece produced by her
between Feb. 15th and May 23rd—(the day on which she
first saw the record of the Leonard sitting under discus-
sion) was very scrappy. It begins :
" Vanitas vanitatum
•
—the bridge and the river—misericordiam Domini. . .
."
Taking account of the occurrence of " bridge," both in
this script and at the Leonard sitting, and the sugges-
tion at the latter that a connexion with Mrs. Salter is to
be sought, it seems very possible that we have here an
attempt at a cross-correspondence, which has only partially
succeeded—the failure being perhaps in Mrs. Salter's script
which got as far as bridge, but not to bridge builders.
Mrs. Salter has had earlier references to a bridge in her
script, and in Mrs. Verrall's script are references to bridge
building. See, for instance, a script of Mrs. Verrall's of
February 25, 1907, quoted in a paper by Mr. Piddington
in Proceedings, Vol. XXVI., p. 236.
I stretch my hand across the vaporous space . . . the
lucid interspace of world and world. Well that is bridged
by the thought of a friend bridged before for your passage
but to-day for the passage of any that will walk it, not in
hope but in faith. The bridge has been built from our
side, it is our thought that builds it—but it rests on a
pier of your founding—not yours—of you only—of all of
yours.
This speaks of building and to some extent of building
from both ends ; but in a much later script of Mrs.
Verrall's—October 17, 1915—a script that has not been
pubhshed—is written " bridge builders are we all, and a
come, but he has a funny feejing that some one asked him to come,
or suggested his coming, he doesn't laiow quite which, but he had
a feeling he'd caught a current as if some one had asked him to come
here and wondered if he'd give a message."
LXXXI.] An Examination of Boole-Tests. 337
bridge must be built from both sides/' which is almost
exactly the expression put by Feda into the mouth of
Dr. Verrall.
The New Jerusalem or the Heavenly City, it may be
remarked, is also a topic of Mrs. Verrall's scripts, as
readers of Mr. Piddington's paper on the Horace Ode
Question in Proceedings, Vol. XXVI. (see pp. 185-211, or
in particular, p. 157), are aware. An association of ideas
taking us from a metaphorical " New Jerusalem " to the
building of a metaphorical bridge leading thereto is not
unnatural.
Another kind of association of ideas, it is worth noticing,
may be responsible for the transition from " bridge
builders " to Captains Courageous." The latter, as
already said, is the title of a volume of Kipling's works
—
and there is a story called The Bridge Builders in
another volume of his.^ Mrs. Salter tells us that Dr.
Verrall was a great admirer of some of Kipling's work,
and that The Bridge Builders was a favourite of his. In
the course of conversation with IVIrs. Leonard a fortnight
after this sitting, M. R. H. and U. V. T. endeavoured to
find out what she Imew of Kipling's books. M. R. H.,
apropos of holiday reading, remarked " that she did not
much care for novels, but was rather fond of Kipling," to
which Mrs. Leonard replied that she was afraid she did
not know Kipling, and did not think she had ever read
anything of his.
This apparent attempt at cross-correspondence on May
23, 1918, is the last I have found in the book-tests sub-
mitted to me except that of January 4, 1919, considered
above (pp. 286-289).
In one of the book-tests quoted above—January 14,
1918 (see p. 320)—Feda represents A. W. V. as saying
that " he wants to give them [i.e. messages] on a line of
his own. He says the last one was a bit different—of a
different tjrpe to the ones what others give." This is true
^ The Day's Work. This volume was actually in another part of the
book-case, but there is no indication that the communicators were
aware of this.
338 Mrs. Henry Sidgiviclc. [part i
if the connexions pointed out above between some of the
A. W. V. book-tests and S.P.R. work, pubhshed and un-
pubhshed, was intentional ; for it certainly occurs more in. 1
proportion in A. W. V. book-tests than in others. There i
'
are moreover differences in type, though not very easy to
define, in other series. The question may be asked '
whether through these differences of type in the
" messages," or through the appropriateness of some of
them to the circumstances, tastes, or character of the
supposed communicator, we can get evidence of his
identity. I do not think that, except in Mrs. Talbot's
case described in § 2, this evidence is clear and definite
enough to be of much use by itself ; and it is often of
course difficult to judge how far the selection may be
influenced by the sitter's mind, or by the library selected ;
from. But the appropriateness of some " messages " un- |
doubtedly adds to the weight of evidence for the identity |
of communicators afforded by appropriateness to them of i
communications in manner and matter—an appropriateness
manifested in communications concerning other things as i
well as book-tests. The main interest of book-tests as '
i
such, however, lies not in the evidence they may afford
]
for the identity of the communicators, but in the evidence
j
for clairvoyance. I
§8.
SEEMmoLY Genuine Mistakes, and Others. '
I PROPOSE in this section to put together some instances
where there seems evidence of a genuine mistake in
indicating the shelf, volume, or page. •
By a genuine mistake I mean that though the com-
municator was trying to convey to the sitter something
that he really knew, yet, through confusion of his own or
Feda's, the indication received was false. A genuine
mistake implies real knowledge. A mere statement that
something will be found in a place where it is not found
may, of course, be a genuine mistake, but there is gener-
ally no evidence that it is. So far as internal evidence
goes, it may just as well be a random aiid erroneous
'5
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 339
guess. If, however, two or more things are predicated of
(say) a particular page, and turn out to be true of another
page, then there is evidence as far as it goes, that the
wrong page has been named by mistake.
I called attention on p. 269 above to a case where
there seemed reason to think that a genuine mistake
occurred about the bookcase intended. In the case I will
now quote it seems possible that the row of books in a
set of shelves was given wrongly, though one could wish
that the test had been a little more definite and successful.
The sitting in question was the A. V. B. one of Sep-
tember 18, 1918 :
F. Now she wants to give a book-test. She says it's in
;
• the big lot of books in London [that is, a set of
shelves in M. R. H.'s study]. Now it's the third
row of books up. She says " I'm not saying-
shelves to-day, it's the third roiv.'"
M. R. H, She's counting the books on the floor I suppose.
F. Yes she's counting the books on the floor. It's the
sixth book from the left. She says " He feels like
a friend of mine." There's a funny name con-
nected with this book beginning with V. She says
" I was going to say Vodka, but I don't think
that's right, but it's a name like that." She says
you won't have to hunt for the name, you'll find
almost immediately that it has a great deal to do
with the book. Now take this book and open it
at two, four, page twenty-four, and about a third
of the way doAvn the page you'll find a message
which will take you back to conditions connected
with the last year of Ladye's earth life. She's
also giving Feda a name beginning with a G that
should either be on that jsage, or in close
proximity to it, beginning with a G, but it felt to
her like Gwendoline.
The phrase " He feels like a friend of mine " is inter-
preted by the sitter as meaning that the book selected
was one A. V. B. had known well in her lifetime.^ This
1 Feda is liable to use "he" and "him" for "it."
340 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. '. [part
cannot be affirmed of the sixth book in the third row up,
nor in this book can any other things said about the
test-book be discovered. On the other hand, the sixth
book in the shelf below, which was The Life of Voltaire by
S. G. Tallentj^re, was a great favourite of A. V. B.'s. It
had been read aloud by her to M. R. H., and because
they both liked it so much was specially bound by
A. V. B. and given by her to M. R. H. It contains an
inscription to this effect in A. V. B.'s writing. If this
was the book, the name beginning with V, like " Vodka,"
and that has a great deal to do with the book, must be
" Voltaire." The name like " Gwendoline " on p. 24 or in
close proximity to it must be " Genonville," which occurs
twice on p. 25. The message about a third of the way
down p. 24, which was to take M. R. H. back to con-
llitions connected with the last year of A. V. B.'s earth
/ife, cannot, however, be found ;
unless, indeed, it consists
in the name " Oedipe." Pages 24 and 25 both deal with
this play of Voltaire's, and the name occurs twice on
p. 24, and three times in the first third of p. 25, facing
p. 24. In the last year of A. V. B.'s life she had an
alarming affection of the sight which led M. R. H. to
fear she might be going blind, and the name Oedipus of
course suggests blindness. This suggestion for the " mes-
sage " is, however, rather far fetched, and none of the
test is definitely successful enough for us to lay much
stress on it. But if we accept the genuineness of book-
tests on other grounds, this one is suggestive of a possibly
genuine mistake about the shelf.
A possibly genuine mistake about the volume intended
occurred at an A. V. B. sitting on December 8, 1918.^
Three " messages " were given from three different pages
of what was described as the fifth volume from the end
of the shelf. This proved to be a copy of the Bible, and
the failure to find anything relevant was complete. But
just before the fifth book was mentioned, a picture of a
lady- described as somewhat out of proportion, had been
^ This was a day on which tests from the experimental Greek books
were attempted, but in the earlier section of the book-tests, with which
we are here concerned, English books were referred to.
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 341
spoken of as easily to be found in one of the first few
books on the left-hand side of the shelf. Such a drawing
was found as the frontispiece of the seventh book—the
only book in the left-hand half of the shelf with any
pictures in it at all. This led the sitters to look in this
seventh book for possible messages conforming to indica-
tions given for the fifth book. The result was that on
each of the three pages named, and in the position on
the page described, what might be regarded as an appro-
priate message was found. The appropriateness is not of
the simple and obvious kind which can be seen by any
one at a glance. It requires in each instance a good deal
of explanation. This explanation M. R. H. gives, and in
my opinion makes out a reasonable case. I will not
trouble the reader with it here, but if he wishes to judge
for himself he will find the particulars in Appendix C,
p. 393. The fact that " messages " regarded as appro-
priate by a sitter who is not very easily satisfied, were
found in the assigned places in the seventh volume and
not at all in the fifth, suggests strongly that it was the
seventh volume that was intended and not the fifth—that,
in fact, a genuine mistake had occurred.
We have one or two instances of apparent confusion
between two volumes used on the same day in book-tests
—an item belonging to one being assigned to the other
and vice versa. A possible case of this occurred on July
17, 1918, at a sitting I have referred to more than once
(pp. 300, 360, 362), and will be found in Appendix C, p. 394.
But a more striking case of what looks like a genuine
mistake of this kind occurred in an A. W. V. sitting of
February 28, 1918. I had better quote the greater part
of the book-tests of that day, as there are other elements
of interest in them. The communicator. Dr. Verrall,
having with some dilficulty described the shelf, Feda says :
" The third book—wait
—
{s.v. : Wait a minute seven
three—not three seven) ... the 73rd page, near the
top . . . It's a message to you . . . from your lady [i.e.
Mrs. Verrall] as well as from Mr. Arthur [i.e. Dr. Verrall]
;
and it suggests' Unity. Unity's a word he keeps on saying,
342 Mrs. Henry Sidgivich. [part
Unity, and it describes in a few words—at least he only-
means you to take the few words that are at the place
indicated—it describes how Mr. Arthur and your lady
stands together ; stands to each other. But he means it
also as something that embraces—embraces you too."
[The book jjroved to be H. G. Wells' First and Last
Things : A Confession of Faith and Rule of Life. P. 73 is
part of a section called " Indi\aduality an Interlude."
Wells is talking of what he calls " the synthesis of the
species," " the real solidarity of humanity," and on page 72
and 73 he is dealing with the physical synthesis of the
human race due to the intermingling of ancestry from the
earliest times. It is difficult to find anything appropriate
as a message to the sitter (Mrs. Salter) from her parents,
but there seems distinctly a point in emphasizing the word
" Unity " as descriptive of what Wells is saying. At the
top of p. 73 the words " link of blood " might perhaps be
taken as the message. At the bottom of p. 72, opposite
p. 73, occurs the sentence " One Tartar chieftain in the
Steppes may have given a daughter to a Roman soldier
and sent his grandsons east and west to interlace the
branches of every family tree in the world." I quote this
for a reason that will appear presently.]
After giving another item from the same book, which to
make easier reading I have relegated to Appendix C (see
p. 396), Feda continues :
Further along on the same shelf, {s.v. Wait a minute
will you please.) It's a book what is called number eight,
it's from right to left still, eighth book ... he can't
give you the page in this, but the beginning of the
book, the beginning of the proper part of it touches
on a subject he was very interested in but only tem-
porarily, but you will remember, in fact he's quite sure
: there are books or papers in existence which will prove he
was interested in it. It's not a subject he is particularly
interested in now {s.v. and yet he regarded it—what do
you say ?) as one of the foundation things that go to
; make up all he knows now, and it was certainly neces-
sary for him." . .
"
'
liXXXI.] A)i Examination of Book-Tests. 343
[There is a doubt here whether the eighth book in the
shelf, or the eighth book from the one previously referred
to is meant. Both methods of counting appear to be
used, and from an explanation attributed by Feda to Dr.
Verrall on April 11, 1918 "The fifth book, not the fifth from
the first [from which tests had just been taken] but
counting the first " looks as if counting from the book
previously referred to seemed to him the more natural plan.'-
As the eighth book from the previous one gives the best
results, I will assume that was meant. It was a school
edition of Racine's Les Plaideurs published in 1887. This
it will be remembered is a skit on law courts and litiga-
tion. Now Dr. Verrall read law for three years, and was
called to the bar, though he did not practice, before he
returned to Cambridge to take nj) the work of teaching
classics. A reference to law as a temporary but very
important interest of his, and one with which the book is
connected, is therefore appropriate. There is, no doubt,
documentary evidence to prove his interest in law ; and
there is also documentary evidence to prove his interest in
the play. For in 1907 this play and one of Moliere's were
acted at Cambridge, and Dr. Verrall, much interested in the
performance, wrote two articles on them in the Cambridge
Review. In the second of these he referred to the well-
known speech of Petit-Jean, and raised a small literary
point concerrung one line of it. This speech begins about
halfway down p. 99 of the selected book—a fact I shall
have to refer to presently.]
Feda continues :
"... It's at the proper stufi you
start {s.v. : Now wait a minute, an interesting date ?)
an interesting date, just previously mentioned too. It
mentions a date just previously on which he took an
important step in his life ; it's the same book, and just
before the reading stuff. {s.v. Wait a minute now. Yes,
before—to take) He says it's awful funny, but in order
to take this important step in his life, he went up steps.
It's to be taken literaUy, but when you thmk, you wil]
1 See also sitting of April 23, 1918 (pp. 277-278 of this paper).
J^rs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
realise he certainly did have to go up steps. It was a
pleasant thing in his life, not ?iwpleasant."
[It occurred to Mrs. Salter at once that an event in her
father's life which would fulfil these conditions well would
be taking a degree at Cambridge, not only because he
would go up steps literally to take it, i.e. the steps of the
Senate House, but because to describe " taking a degree "
as " taking a step " is almost a pun on the word degree.
The year of publication of the edition of Les Plaideurs
under discussion, 1887,i is mentioned at the beginnina of
it
;
and in 1887 Dr. Verrall took his degree as Do^ctor
of Letters at Cambridge University.]
Feda next says : " Wait a minute. Ninety-nine ? Pa<^e
99 of that same book.
Mbs. Salter. He's doing a lot of them ?
Feda. He likes those {s.v. : on p. 99 of the same
book, wait a bit, it's what?) Referring to speaking of
branches. He says to Feda that Feda's not got to try
and interpret for him, he says " sjoeaking of branches'^
.B.R.A.N.C.H. and is it E.S.? Yes, E.S. that's right, and
he smiles and says " suggesting the family tree." Well, he
says that he hkes to do as much detail as he can, not just
one thing, 'cos if it's only one thing, they says it's
coincidence. He takes such a lot of trouble! 'Tis a
awful funny test.
[Now, as remarked above, on p. 99 of Les Plaideurs
occurs the speech of Petit-Jean, and this cannot be said
to speak of branches or the family tree. But the coinci-
dence of these words with the sentence at the bottom of
p. 72 of Wells's book quoted above, about interlacing the
branches of every family tree in the world, is very remark-
able. The conclusion is almost irresistible that confusion
has occurred—that the communicator meant to refer the
sitter to Wells's book for the "family tree," and in speak-
ing of p. 99 of Les Plaideurs had in mind Petit-Jean's
^This date appears similarly at the beginning of the eighth book
on the shelf, which was a copy of Moli^re's Les Precieuses Ridicules-
in the same school edition as Les Plaideurs.
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests.
speech and the documentary evidence of his (the communi-
cator's) interest in it. But the mistake, if it was one, is
curious. Where did the confusion come in ? Was it an
error of memory in the communicator,^ or a faihn-e of
Feda's to report correctly ? Did she leave something out
which should have come between the mention of p. 99 and
the reference to branches ? Did Mrs. Salter's interrupting
remark, innocent as it seems, break the thread ?]
An instance of apparent confusion between two pages of
the same volume is reported in an A. V. B. sitting on
January 30, 1918—the message for which the sitter was
referred to p. 87 being found as she believes on p. 17,
and vice versa. The appropriateness of the messages thus
found appears, however, to be a little doubtful—at least
as regards the one on p. 87—and in any case to involve
circumstances of a private nature. I therefore do not
attempt to describe them. That we have here a possible
instance of an exchange of pages must be taken on the
authority of M. R. H.
Good evidence of a genuine mistake between two adjoin-
ing pages occurred in an A. V. B. sitting on April 24,
1918 :
F. It's the eighth book, the page is 98 . . . and it's about
halfway down . . . The top part of the pages seems like
a mass of writing all close together, with no little spaces
hke paragraphs, and not quite halfway down there's a
break in it ; then it goes on again, you see. She thinks
it's interesting if you can sense these little things. Also
p. 98 appeared to her to fall on the right-hand side of the
book. ...
Now there's a message on this ninety-eight page, and
the message would not be exactly halfway down, a little
1 The communicators are, it. will be remembered, represented as
getting up book-tests beforehand and coming to the sitting primed
with them. On one occasion, June 11, 1918, Dr. Verrall is said to
explain his comparative success in book-tests by his trained memory.
Feda says :
" Mr. Arthur had trained his memory here. He could
fix a fact in his mind and bring it up again."
346 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
bit lower. It's a message what could be applied to the
present conditions on the earth plane, this is not one of
the personal messages. She says that this quite short
sentence would contain something that would have a
bearing on the condition on the earth plane. . . . Some-
thing that she thinks could be applied to the war and its
effect upon conditions.
The book proved to be The Scarlet Pimpernel by
Baroness Orczy, translated into Spanish. No appropriate
message was found on p. 98, nor were the other state-
ments true of that page. P. 99, facing it, was on the
right-hand side. It had an unbroken paragraph occupying
the first twelve lines of a page of thirty-four lines—another
beginning with line 13—and below the middle of the
page, between half and two-thirds down, occurs the sen-
tence " the brave man who, unknown to fame, had rescued
hundreds of lives from a terrible often unmerciful fate."
It is thought that " terrible," in Spanish " horrendo," is
the " something " in a quite short sentence that could be
applied to the war. Feda immediately afterwards speaks
of " these terrible conditions " as applied to the war in
describing another book that is to be looked for. One
could, as usual, wish the " message " had been more
precisely described. Still there is one that will pass on
p. 99 though not on p. 98, and two other statements
made about p. 98 are not true of that page and are true
of p. 99.
Another instance of the same thing occurred in an
A. V. B. sitting on September 26, 1917 (see above, p. 294).
Three statements are made about p. 127 which prove true
of p. 126 facing it.
A similar case occurred to Mr. Drayton Thomas on
November 8, 1917. I quoted among verbally accurate
indications of " messages " one on that day (see above,
p. 270). Its only defect was that while described as on
p. 65 it proved to be on p. 64 facing it. Two further
messages which followed immediately were assigned to
p. 65 of the same book, but were not to be found there,
and in Mr. Thomas' opinion were adequately represented on
p. 64. A fourth indication of a message followed, this
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 347
time assigned to the page opposite p. 65 backwards
—
fourth said to be on p. 64 and also found there. This
last fact makes the mistake in the other three more diffi-
cult to understand. But, as already said (p. 270), the
mistake of a page for that next it, especially facing it, is
a common one. It is discussed with the explanations given
by the communicators in the next section.
I have tried to find evidence of what may be called the
opposite of a genuine mistake, evidence that elaborate
descriptions not only correspond to nothing in the place
indicated but have no real perception behind them at all.
Of course one suspects this when every item turns out to
be wrong in the book-tests of a particular day, which has
happened on various occasions ; and in one instance at
least there seems to be some definite reason apart from
mere failure for attributing the book-tests offered to Feda's
imagination. It is in the A. V. B. sitting of September 4,
1918. The book-tests were given at the end of a long and
rather poor sitting, in the course of which, at A. V. B.'s
request, U. V. T. had told her of the successful finding of
references to literal and metaphorical " heat " on certain
pages as predicted by Feda on August 28 (see above,
p. 281). The book-tests of September 4 began with a
similar statement about growth ; Feda says that A. V. B.
is not sure whether a mention of growth on a given page
will be of growth vegetable, floral, or mental. No mention
of growth was found. On August 28 there had been a
good description of an unpublished poem of M. R. H.'s ;
on September 4 an attempt is again made to describe a
poem of hers, but it is not successful, and at best is a
mixture of two or three published poems. Other items
appear to be reminiscent of previous book-tests. Altogether
the attempt at book-tests of September 4 appears, as
M. R. H. and U. V. T. say, "to be a kind of hotch-
potch of previous tests. It appears to consist of a
number of details carelessly slung together at the last
moment of the Feda control, details remembered perhaps
348 Mrs. Henry Sidgividc. [part
by Feda or picked from [some] stratum of the medium's
mind." At the next A. V. B. sitting (September 11),
A. V. B., herself controlling, refers to this test having
gone wrong, and adds :
" Do you know I got the scheme
wrong, somehow it's as if I start a pattern, and if I get
the first bit wrong all the other goes wrong too. Wrong f
lorong ! " This is an explanation that might perhaps apply
in some cases, but it is difficult to see how it can do so
in the case in question.
In one or two cases an item definitely suggests guessing.
For instance, in an A. V. B. sitting on November 13,
1918, when the Greek books were being dealt with, Feda
reports that A. V. B. is reminded of something Syrian
or Assj^rian,
And small, low houses, built many of them of wood, and
something which she was not sure of, . . . long broad
stretches of land, but villages dotted here and there . . .
The whole book seemed to deal Avith it, and trees with
straight trunks . . . the trees had not got nice little
branches all the way down, all at the top ! . . . And
people Avith robes or gowns ;
things wrapped round them.
Squatting.
The book specially referred to was a volume of Euri-
pides. In this case it was known by the control that the
books were in a language unknown to her, and it was
suspected that they were in ancient Greek, and this clue
may have suggested an eastern country. In an ordinary
book-test the possible range is so indefinite that we are
unaware of any clue at all, and have not therefore any
means of judging whether any one statement is more
likely to be a guess than another. The form of the com-
municator's impression in the description just quoted seems
to have been visual, and it may have been a vision of
eastern scenery called up by association of ideas. On the
other hand, we may have a purely imaginary description
of a scene supposed by the communicating intelligence to
be appropriate.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 349
§9-
Examination of the Records for Indications of the
Mode of Perception of a Page in a Closed Book.
As already mentioned there are a good many cases
where the " message " is found not on the page named
but in the corresponding position on an adjoining page,
especially on the page facing the page named when the
book is closed. As the communicator on January 19,
1918, said to the sitter, Mrs. Kennedy, " It's awfully
difficult for me to see if it's that or that page. (Here
Feda put her two hands side by side, as if each were one
side of an open book.) But I'm praptically sure it's 31,
and it's certainly one of the two, 31 or facing it." I have
in book-tests already quoted given several instances of
this. In two cases (p. 346) three things said about
one page proved true of the page facing it—affording
distinct evidence of a genuine mistake. In another—the
one in which the communicator having expressed doubt
whether heat in a literal or metaphorical sense was
alluded to 'halfway down the page named, words implying
such meanings were found respectively on that page and
the one facing it (see pp. 281-2)—suggesting that facing each
other thus they had simultaneously impressed themselves
on the communicator. A. V. B. through Feda attempted
on January 10, 1918, to explain the tendency to this
particular kind of mistake. I will give the passage.
Speaking of an item in a previous book-test which I have
not quoted, U. V. T. says :
U. V. T. There Avas one point that was actually \^Tong. . . .
She gave a message as being on a certain page,
and instead of being on the page that she gave,
the message was on the opposite page, not on the
opposite side of the page, but on the page that
lay facing the page she had given . . . it's a
mistake that she's rather fond of, she's made it
two or three times.
r. She knows she does that, she says it's most awfully
difficult. She says she is not apt to get the other
350 Mrs. Henry Siclgwick. [part
side of the leaf. It's when the power lies in
between the jDages that it's difficult, she says if
the page were open it would be all right, the
trouble is sensing it in a closed book. She says
she just had to gauge, the way you gauge the
height of a certain building, she wonders some-
times that she can find the j^age at all.
The sentence was very clear, but on the opposite
page.
Very likely and sometimes it will be in the right
position on the page.
Yes it was.
She says it is so difficult when the pages are touch-
ing each other.
I give this for what it is worth, but it does not seem
to furnish much illumination, and I doubt whether either
Peda or A. V. B. understand very much about the matter
—at least when communicating.^ As to A. V. B.'s view
that she is not apt to get the other side of the leaf—it is
true that this mistake is less common than the one we
have been discussing, but it does occur, and I have in
fact given two instances (see above, pp. 275 and 276,
A. V. B. book-tests of March 6 and A^vil 3, 1918). In |
each case the correspondence between the " message " and
what had' been said about it was fairly good, and in each
case the place on the page was correct, but the page was
the one at the back of the page named.
1 Feda on one occasion (.January 23, 1918) implies that A. V. B.
is not " all there " when communicating. She says " Feda sometimes-
thinks when Ladye is saying what that part of her that's in this room
thinks right, that some part of her mind what can't get through here
'
is saying, '
No that's not right.' " On another occasion (April 24, 1918) !|
Feda says the same sort of thing about herself. " You know Ladye says
it's so extraordinary, but she has to act upon Feda sometimes in a way j
Feda don't understand when she's in the medium, and she was afraid ii
Feda wouldn't take up the reference to Raymond [Lodge], so she had
to worry to get a word that would suggest Raymond to Feda ; [she I
had talked about dislodging some of the books]. She says she's done !
that often and she's wondered if you had guessed she was doing that, j
and how carefully she has to lead Feda to a new idea. Feda knows-
that, 'cos when Feda's in the medium she's only got like half of Feda's
own sense, she's not half so clever as when she's out of the medium !
"
U. V. T.
F.
U. V. T.
F.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 351
In the course of A. V. B.'s explanation just quoted she
says she wonders that she can find the page at all. This
wonder we shall most of us share with her, and if we
could clear the matter up we should probably have gone
a long way towards explaining successful book-tests. In
whatever way the pages may be arrived at, they are
identified by a number—usually the number printed on
them—and the number is conveyed to Feda either by a
visual or oral impression. Thus on November 22, 1917,
discussing the failure of the day before (" Charolois "—see
above, p. 271), Feda says of A. V. B. : "She showed the
numbers to Feda separately, one, two, like that. M. R.
Yes and you said 12." In some cases, e.g. the A. W. V.
sitting of January 4, 1919 (quoted from on p. 286 above),^
Feda implies that the communicator draws for her the
numerals required, or as it is sometimes described, builds
them up. Feda says :
You open this second book at—what ? Two—um—two
—
wait a minute, you've given me two and three. All riglit,,
I got it wrong, I thought he showed me two and five.
It's a three and a five. He made the three not lilce that
(Feda draws in the air a very curved and defined figure 3).
but rather short. (Feda draws in the air a hastily formed
figure 3 with very httle curve in the middle and hardly
any curve up at the lower part.) Like that, not a very
big curl round. [As a matter of fact if there was any
sense in this item of the book-test the page meant was
p. 25, not 35.]
On another occasion (A. W. V., October 19, 1918) Feda
says to the communicator : "I can't see the number, build
it up again—48." Compare also p. 353 below, " She's
building up an 8 distinctly." And again, " Oh, now
she's building up another page " [meaning its number]
(A. V. B., January 10, 1918). We also have comparisons
between the building up (or the Tvoriting) of different com-
municators. Thus Feda says of Mrs. Verrall, who on
January 4, 1919, was indicating page 4, " She makes her
fours very clear and distinct, not thick and sprawly like
with a thick pen, fine ones." Again (A. V. B., January 30,
352 Mrs. Henry Sidgwich. ^ !
[PAET
1918), "Do you know when Ladye makes what you call
a 1 [the numeral as in 17] she doesn't always make it
quite clearly. There's a little wobble to him."
It is clear that methods such as these of making Feda
apprehend the page would be consistent with any mode of
its apprehension by the communicator. But the statements
we get from communicators about this are not very con-
sistent. There cannot, one would think, be any special
difficulty in " sensing "—to use their own non-committal
expression—the number of a page if other things on the
page can be " sensed." Indeed the numbers do seem to
be sensed, at least in a general way, for on one occasion
(A. V. B., January 15, 1919) Feda says :
F. Oh wait a bit—what ? {s.v. Some pages not numbered)
she wondered if some pages were not numbered
U. V. T. Why ?
^- Not in this book but in one of the foreign books
[the Greek books] she was sensing she was sure
that the pages were not numbered ... it seems
so strange to her.
[The pages of a Homer from which some items of the
book-tests of this day were taken were not numbered. In
referring to the Greek books before, the fact of pages in some
of them being unnumbered was not alluded to by A. V. B.]
The order of proceeding for the communicator, one
would suppose, would be first to decide on a " message "
in the book ^ and then ascertain on what page it is ; and
' Sometimes the communicator offers to throw light on his method of
selecting messages. Thus, in an A. V. B. sitting of Dec. 4, 1918, we
find Feda saying, " On page 20 of the same book, almost at the top of
the page, there seemed to her to be a reference to a clock striking. She
says, '
I'll tell you how I found that, I was trying to get through an
idea to you suggesting a time for your passing over.' But she says
she was disappointed, for all she could get was about a clock striking,
and it was too vag-ue to give the message, but she thought it would
interest you to know what she was looking for and what she got,
and why she got it." As, however, nothing relevant was found either
on p. 20 or the page opposite, we are left in doubt whether the soi-
-disant A. V. B. was not simply romancing in what she said. The
book, by the way, was a new volume, straight from the shop, and so
far as the sitters knew, unread by anyone.
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 353
if his mode of perception were visual he would in general
do this most easily by reading the number printed on the
page. In most cases this seems in fact the simplest
interpretation of the phenomena presented to us. But
there are difficulties. The following item in the A. V. B.
book-tests of October 2, 1918, illustrates one of them :
F. Take the second book from the right. Eight. Only
eight Ladye ? Wait a minute you must get that
clear.
U. V. T. Only eight Ladye ?
F. Well she's building an eight up distinctly.
U. V. T. Is that all of the number, Ladye ?
F. Yes, it's page eight, and the lower part of the page,
, but not right at the bottom she doesn't think . . .
is a message about the turning of recent important
events in the war. She says recent events, do you
see.
The book proved to be A Fearful Besponsibility and
Tonellis Marriage by W. D. Howells. As is often done,
its pages are numbered counting in the title-page, preface,
etc., but no numbers are printed on any pages till the
opening page of the reading matter proper. This page in
the present case is numbered 9, so that there is no page
marked 8. The sitters decided that the eighth page from
the beginning of the reading matter proper must be
meant, namely, the page marked 16. In the lower part
of this page was found the sentence : "As Americans,
they must respond to any impulse for Freedom," etc.,
which seems to conform fairly well to what is said about
the " message "—the entry of the Americans into the war
a few months previously being a very important recent
event and an important cause of the turning of the tide
in favour of the allies. Now if this really was the sentence
intended by the communicator, how did she come to call
the page, page 8 ? She seems to have hesitated a little
about it. Perhaps she had to go through a calculation like
the sitters, and perceiving that the first page of the
reading matter was called p. 9, concluded that p. 16 being
the eighth page of reading matter would be regarded as
354 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
p. 8 by the sitters. If so the conclusion was unwise^
for there can be no doubt that the sitters would have
been better satisfied by being told to look at p. 16.
The communicators, or Feda for them, deny at times,
however, that they see the page-number at all. For |
instance, at a sitting on December 2, 1917, during a
book-test the following dialogue is reported between the
sitter (Professor B.) and Feda :
S. What is the title of the book ?
F. He doesn't know. He can't read, can't see it. •
'
^
S. Can't read ?
F. No, he can't read, but he gets a sense of the meaning.
S. Then how can he read " Page 87 " ? %
F. He does not. He makes an estimate like you would know
the height of a tower without measuring it. It's not
exact.
S. Who wrote the message ? ..
(No answer.)
S. In what language is it ?
F. Can't tell.
[The " message " was said to be one " to cheer you up. !
It draws a comparison between the past and the present."
A passage conforming to this was found in the correct 1
situation on p. 86 [that is, facing p. 87], but it was in a
volume not properly speaking in the place indicated in
the shelves, though surrounded by other books more or
less such as described by Feda.]
Again, in the book-tests of April 23, 1918, A. W. V. is !
represented by Feda as saying : i
Turning back in the same book, p. 13, he says many |
people have a difficulty in getting the second test . . . it's
'
a matter of weighing up and calculating, but he's going on
trying. |
i
This idea that page numbers are arrived at through '\
estimating by measurement, gauging, weighing up, is fre-
quently mentioned, and it is of course well adapted to |
explain how books without page numbers, or partly i
mutilated, may be dealt with. It is also consistent with I
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 355
the assertion that pages over 100 are more difificult to
" sense." Thus on April 24, 1918, Feda says for A. V. B.
:
She wanted to tell you that she finds it so much easier
to sense things near the beginning of a book. She gets a
little lost when she gets too deeply into the book. It's
i;
like a man measuring a long length ; the first yard or two
is accurate, then he loses himself.^
But though " weighing up " fits certain kinds of cases,
it does not fit others. How, for instance, when there is a
long introduction separately paged from the text, is
"weighing up" applied? Such a case is quoted on p. 321
above in the A. W. V. book-test of January 14, 1918 ;
p. 73 is named, but nothing relevant discovered on p. 73
of an introduction of eighty-two pages. What is believed
to be the " message " is found on p. 73 of the text. Are
we to suppose that A. W. V. noticed, or remembered, that
there was an introduction and was careful to omit that,
and only "weigh up" from the beginning of the text?
If, on the other hand, he observed the number printed on
the page and used that to describe it, the matter seems
comparatively simple.
An}'' difficulty about " sensing " the number printed on
a page is presumably of the same nature as that of
getting an exact impression of other things on it. And
about this there are the same apparent inconsistencies.
The communicators are concerned to explain to us that
they " get the idea, the thought, more than the written
word " (A. V. B., October 12, 1918). " I sense a senti-
ment. I don't get the exact words" (communicator on
January 19, 1918, book-test quoted from above, p. 349).
" She might tell you that two volumes of the same
subject or book is one, because, as she explained before,
she senses a line of thought or expression more than little
material things such as bindings and such things " (A. V. B.,
1 There are one or two quite good book-tests quoted above with
pages over 100, but I think it is true that pages much over this are
not used in the tests under examination. The sceptic might say that
this is because of the risk of the book indicated proving to be so
I small as not to contain a himdred pages.
356 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [paet is?
January 30, 1918). And of course any genuine " sensing
of the Greek books by a communicator ignorant of the
Greek alphabet imphes that it is the idea, the thought
more than the written word, that is apprehended—unless
the ignorance disappears on the other side, or the com-
municator is assisted by others who know.
Nevertheless, those readers who have followed so far will
know that in some cases at least it seems to be the actual
word or its appearance that is perceived—not any idea
behind it. For instance, " She thinks there is a date on
that page ; it seems like a date because there is a big
number that seems like you would have for a year
"
(A. V. B., September 26, 1917, quoted above, p. 292).
And when we are told, as often happens, that the passage
indicated is to be taken literally, which means that
verbally it will serve as a " message," but that its mean-
ing in its own context is to be ignored—awareness of the
actual words is certainly suggested.
'
There are cases, again, where the communicator calls
attention to particular letters on a page. For instance, an
attempt to give a word composed of certain letters on
certain pages was made by A. V. B. on February 20,
1918.^ It came to nothing and may well have been mere
talk, so that it cannot be used as evidence that letters as
such are perceived. But in other cases there are indica-
tions of success. Thus on September 27, 1917, Feda says
for the communicator :
" She says that the few words she
has picked just there have the initials of some of her friends
and relations." At the place in the page indicated were
found " three words beginning with capitals—namely M,
S, and E," which initials were " applicable to the com-
municator herself and to friends and relations."
Another thing of rather frequent occurrence is the
description of a name on a page by its initial and perhaps
second letter and number of syllables. There is an
example in the case given above on pp. 339-340 where
" a funny name " beginning with V like Vodka is men-
tioned—meaning apparently Voltaire. Or, again, on April
24, 1918 (in the book-test quoted above, pp. 345-346) : ,
' For particulars see Appendix D, p. 398.
{k
was
4
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 357
A word kept impressing itself on her, she couldn't sense
its meaning, but she got the impression that the letters
might form a word such as Rosalie ... Or it was
Rosalene, or Rosalende. She couldn't get it quite rightly,
but the word she sensed seemed to occupy a prominent
position in the chapter what she was sensing. She's sure
it must have been on p. 98 or very close.
The word Robespierre occurs on p. 100, and it will be
remembered that this is a case where 98 should apparently
aave been 99.
All this leaves us in great bewilderment as to what is
really apprehended as well as to how it is apprehended.
That we should not understand the " how " is no doubt
natural, for knowledge of a passage in a closed book can
bardly be obtained by means of any bodily senses such as
we are acquainted with, and it would therefore be very
difficult to explain to us what occurs even apart from any
difficulty in getting the explanation through.
It is true that communicators sometimes offer as a kind
of explanation one involving in a way perception through
the bodily senses—those of previous readers. They say it
is much more difficult for them to get information from a
copy of a book which no one has read. Thus, when Mrs.
Kennedy on January 19, 1918, asked the communicator
(her son) how he could sense what was in a book when it
was not in MS. but had become merely a matter of signs
set up at a printer's office without thought as to meaning,
the reply was :
Everyone who has read a book has left what you
might almost call a sort of aui'a. When reading the book
they have in a way psychometrized the book and left a
thought. A book straight from the printers w'ould not be
at all good, very difficult. It is something like a person
who has been in a room five hundred years ago, and has
left there an impression.
Again, at an A. W. V. sitting on March 1, 1918, Feda says :
F. Mr. Arthur's good at sensing the outside of books. He
thinks it's easier to sense outsides, because so many people
358 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. '
[part
have read outsides of books, and in a way imprinted the
thoughts back on the books, registering their thoughts on
the books in the psychic ; almost reprinting the title in
psychic letters. He's got a feeling neither he nor any
other spirit could sense a book which had come straight
from the printers and never been perused. It would make
a difference who had read the book. If he took a book
which only one person had read, according to the mental
concentration of that person he would be able to get tests
from that book. Like a psychic book. Like a medium
getting conditions through a ring or letters, but they
couldn't get the conditions unless they'd caught them from
the person. It's like haunting. There's no such thing as a
spirit haunting a jjlace. It's a thought-form imprinted on
ether.
Yet again on April 3, 1918, M. R. H. had a discussion
with A. V. B. (through Feda) on the subject. The
question of adding to the books from which book-tests
might be selected had been raised.
^
.
1 . /•<(.,( r.(;i-;
•
M. R. H. I could buy some new ones.
F. No, she says she doesn't want that, 'cos if you
bought 'em you would have to read 'em first,
M. R. H. Why ? We've had tests from books that have never
been read by either of us.
F. She says some one had read them.
M. R. H. No, in one case the book was fresh from the pub-
lisher. ..
F. , She says she wasn't aware of that. She says you
know how people have one volume of the same
,
,
book with the pages all altered—you Imow hovv^ in
- one edition page 26 would have a different thing
printed on it to what it would have in another
edition ?
M. R. H. Yes, different editions are differently paged.
F. If you'd got an edition what nobody had read at
all, it would be very difficult, if it was fresh from
the press. She says, don't forget, these are all
only theories, 'cos book-tests are comparatively a
;
.
new idea, but this is how they think they do it.
LXXXI.] A71 Examination of Book-Tests. 359
M. R. H. Then I can buy books that lots of people have read
in the edition I buy ?
¥. - • Yes, she says it wouldn't matter if you'd not read
them, as long as some one has, she says it
= ! .
' doesn't matter about you as you. She thought
you wanted to get books from the press.
M. R. H. Why is it that some one must have read the books ?
F. 'Cos they've left an impression of what they've
thought of the book on every part they've read.
M. R. H. But what would happen if we put a new volume
that no one has actually read in that volume ?
F. v I
She says it will make it difficult ; she can do it, but
it's like extracting a essence from a bulk. She
says it's difficult to explain in words what people
on the earth plane can understand. She knows
Avhy it's difficult but she can't explain.
M. R. H. I will try and buy second-hand copies from libraries.
F. Yes, she says that would do very well.
The communicator herself here tells us that this idea
—
that previous reading of a page by some one through their
ordinary senses facilitates the reading of it by the com-
municator without the use of senses at all—is only a
theory, and we cannot say that it is a theory which is
well supported by the facts. For there is no adequate
evidence that an uncut book is more difficult to " sense
"
than one which has been read. In several of the book-
tests I have quoted the page referred to was uncut (see
pp. 294-296).
It is of course conceivable that an uncut page has been
read by some one—say the binder, or even by a person
glancing through the book,^ but the probabilities are much
against this. There is, moreover, no instance I think of
the communicator calling attention to the fact that a page
referred to was uncut. And the impressions, right or
wrong, alleged to be derived from pages which prove to
be uncut are described with as much fulness and detail as
others. ' '
'In one case (A. V. B., Oct. 26, 1918) in which a fair amount of
success was obtained, the page was in a group of uncut pages, and
lso placed that it could not be read at all without cutting.
360 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
The communicator's account of what is on a closed page
is generally merely descriptive and does not give anj^ hint
of the mode of perception. There are, however, cases i
where he tries to describe his impression in terms of |
different senses—seeing, hearing, and feeling—and others j
where what is said seems to imply sensory impressions.
|
By " feeling," it is true, a general impression is often all |
that is meant. But this is not always so. We get both
j
meanings in remarks made at an A. W. V. sitting on
November 23, 1918. Feda says : i
There's something French about this book, he got a i
feeling of something French. French, yes, that's right. He \
got that feeling not about this page, but several times as j
\
he was feehng about. !
!
[As a matter of fact there was nothing French about the j
book in question, but there may have been confusion, as. |
)
the statement would have been true about a book referred i
to just before.] \
.. .
I
We have the same use of feel ("he wented to feel that \'\
second book ") in a case quoted above (p. 287). ^
The following is an example of hearing being referred to. i|
It was on July 17, 1918, in a very nearly successful '\
attempt by A. V. B. to get at the liame of the book i
Amitie Amoureuse, which was being experimented with ;
(see above, p. 300). Asked what was the first letter of the I
word, Feda repeats the question and continues, " It would \
be A. Yes, it sounded to her like A, the pronunciation i
is A. She can't always see a letter but it sounded hke i
that." Another good example of description in terms of
sound occurred in Mr. Drayton Thomas's sitting of March
28, 1918, when it was said :
" A word is on that page which i
has the sound of OSAPH ; it is not a common word."
|
Mr. Thomas thinks the word " philosophy " was referred to.
We may note that in the experiment with Greek books
referred to above (p. 304) if " Boris, Borisee " was really
an attempt at " Parisinus," the impression not quite
caught by some one—the communicator apparently—was ;
an oral one. Instances might be multiplied from cases
which turned out failures, as when Feda remarked on
i
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 361
September 20, 1918 :
" On this page there's a name or
word what sounded to him [A. W. V.] like Bar-ba-does.
That isn't anything he wanted to give as a message, but
as he sensed it he thought he might as well give it."
I understand that no such word was found, so we are
left in doubt whether the impression was derived from
" sensing " or imagination, and can therefore base on
it no conclusions as to the mode of " sensing."
Visual impressions seem to be implied in such references
to initials as are quoted above (p. 356), and on the same
page the sentence about what " seems hke a date because
there is a big number." See also on p. 320 above :
" a
number or a word in different characters to the usual. If
it's a number it's more than one figure, it must be two
or more characters to it, because if it were not hke that
it wouldn't look like a word." And again on the next
page : "he thinks that he's got the first two syllables
of the word right if not the rest " ;
this last, however,
might have been an auditory impression.
The following remark of Feda's about A. W. V. (on
October 19, 1918) distinctly affirms a visual impression :
When he was sensing these books he got for the time
being a peculiar clarity of vision which enabled him to see
even words on the pages, and he finds this morning he can
even reproduce them to a certain extent.
As a comment on this, however, it is interesting to note
that it is an introduction to a statement that he had seen
the word " Caelebs " (this was spelt by Feda letter by
letter) which he had certainly not seen on the page in
question, though he may have been aware that the page
was about a bachelor. If so, the visual impression would
seem to have arisen out of the idea. The whole incident
is of some interest in this connexion, and I have quoted
it in Appendix D.
It would seem that impressions of pictures which are
described critically or with detail must be visual. There
are not many such descriptions of pictures said to be in
books, but one case was given above (p. 340-1) where a
picture of a lady out of drawing is mentioned. Another
362 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
occurred on September 19, 1917, also at an A. V. B. sitting.
Feda says :
Oh ! she says there's a book near the special one that
when you open it has got a picture in it, a picture of
rather a simpering female in rather an exaggerated and
out of date dress, with the figure all squeezed into
unnatural lines.
[Eight books from the selected book, which was The Old
Curiosity Shoj) (see pp. 289-292), was one called Madame, by
Julia Cartwright, the frontispiece of which is the portrait
of Princess Henrietta of England in the exaggeratedly
tight-laced costume of the period, and having an un-
deniably simpering expression.]
A picture was described with still more detail on
December 8, 1918 (see above, p. 306), but in this case
there was no such picture in any of the books, and the
visual impression, if really arising out of the book-tests,
must have been the result of association of ideas—the
book specified suggesting the idea of (say) Demosthenes,
and this idea suggesting a picture of an ancient Greek
which had probably been seen by the medium. If this
was so, the phenomenon may be classed with the
impression just referred to of having seen the word
Caelebs upon the page. Another erroneous impression
about the Greek books seems to have assumed a more or
less visual form in the description of an Eastern Country
quoted above, p. 348, as suggesting guessing.
In the following case (A. V. B. book-tests of July 17,
1918, points in which have already been referred to on pp.
300 and 360), a visual impression in some respects analogous
to the last mentioned seems to have been experienced by
the communicator. It was not I think visualized by Feda,
though this is not certain, as the account is confused ; for
Feda begins as if she were being shown something and
goes on as if she were trying to repeat a verbal descrip-
tion :
F, {s.v. Wait a minute, what are you showing Feda ?) Feda
must give it to you just as she says, or Feda might get it
^vrong. At the beginning of the book, a street—a road—
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 363
many people passing—repassing ; a town a long way off,
crowds — many people — Solin — Sorin — Silon — Sirone —it
sounds like this. A word she felt written sounds like
T.H.Y.R.O.N.E.
Now there was no such description in the book, nor was
there any picture. But the book opens with the intro-
duction to each other of the hero and heroine at a soiree
in Paris,-^ and the scene described—omitting the words
street and road—might be suggested by the idea of a
soiree, while the words beginning with S might be attempts
at soiree or salon or both. This is of course highly con-
jectural. No word hke T.H.Y.R.O.N.E. was found.
A. V. B. affirms on December 28, 1918, that she cannot
always distinguish between pictures and verbal descrip-
tions. As neither was found in this particular instance, it
is doubtful how much importance can be attached to her
statement, which may be mere padding, but I think the
passage is worth quoting as possibly containing at least
elements of truth.
F. She thinks, too, there are illustrations or diagrams of
> some kind in it. One looked to her like the
mouth of a cave or cavern.
U. V. T. Are these pictures ?
F. And another looked like a flag—Ladye are these real
pictures, or is it a thing what seemed like that ?
'I'.' !' No, they seemed to her to be actual pictures or
diagrams.
U. V. T. Why does she say they seemed ?
F. She says :
" 111 tell you. I have to be very careful
J '
not to let a vivid description convey a picture of
the thing to me." She says :
" You see every-
thing I get from books in the way of description
appears like a picture to me, and vice versa." . . .
Wait a minute. Yes, Ladye, I know. You know
the parson man [Mr. Drayton Thomas] ? His
father kept thinking that on a page it spoke of
1 This was of course known to the sitter U. V. T. as the book was
for experimental purposes selected by her and she had recently partly
read it (see p. 300).
364 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
columns, and it was really a picture— He didn't
know it was a picture.^
U. V. T. Then if we do not find a picture we look for a
description and vice versa ?
F. Yes, exactly, but when she gives it as being on a
certain page
—
U. V. T. I understand, what she means is when she says " a
quarter of the v/ay down a certain page " then it's
a message in words.
F. It is not very likely to mean a picture unless—
suppose she'd got the word " bird " near the top
of the page, and—you do mean this, Ladye ?
Yes, she says seriously, and in the picture there
happened to be a bird near the top of the page,
then even if she knew it, she might not be able
to tell you through Feda that she knew it. She
says :
" Of course I'm exaggerating, but it's quite
possible !
" . . . She says you do understand that,
don't you ?
U. V. T. It interests me and I understand it quite well.
F. She saj's :
" You do understand too that I'm not
always able to explain even when I know it ?
"
. . . She says it's Feda that's the difficulty.
U. V. T. Very likely.
F. I don't think I am, it's this (touches Mrs. Leonard's
body).
It might perhaps be worth while trying with a sheK
full of illustrated books whether there is any indication
that pictures are more easily " sensed " than letterpress.
I think it may be instructive, in connexion with the
question of the degree or mode of perception in book-
tests, to examine how they are presented to Feda—dis-
tinguishing, that is, between Feda and the communicator.
Whatever Feda and the communicator may be, they are
1 I have not got the record of this experience of Mr. Drayton Thomas.
I quote it here because Mr. Thomas sometimes talks over with Feda
the results of his book-tests, so that it is possible that the idea of the
interehangeability of descriptions and pictures may have come from
him.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 365
dramatically and I think in their own consciousnesses
—
certainly in Feda's—quite distinct personalities throughout
the sitting. To Feda the communicator is an individual,
to a great extent visible, whose sensations and other
experiences she does not necessarily share, and who com-
municates with her in various ways. One way is by
language heard and which Feda can sometimes repeat
verbatim. (I say heard because that is how Feda ex-
presses it, not as meaning that it is heard with Mrs.
Leonard's bodily ears of course.) Another way is by
symbolic gestures. " She nods her head " (A. V. B.,
March 20, 1918). " He's smiling " (see above, p. 321).
" Ladye is going like this (Feda draws herself up and
looks stern) " (A. V. B., October 23, 1918). " It seems to
Feda to be halfway through the book, because Ladye is
showing Feda a book and putting her finger in to show
Feda the place " (A. V. B., January 9, 1918). " A book
whoso title makes him feel horribly cold. He's pretending
to shiver. ... It doesn't really Mrs. Nellie " (A. W. V.,
June 11, 1918). "What you doing, Ladye? I'll show
you what she's doing. She puts down her hand and she's
pretending to pick up the carpet " [apparently to suggest
a Persian carpet]. (A. V. B., November 5, 1918.) " He's
pretending to show me a long, long pole in his hand
"
(see above, p. 288). Similar instances might be multiplied
almost indefinitely.
Another visual method is for the communicator to write
or " build up " the objects, e.g. numbers, which he wishes
Feda to understand. Examples of this have been given
above, p. 351. Feda seems, sometimes at least, to think
this method clearer than the oral method. " If she shows
Feda the page [meaning apparently its number] it makes
it much more clear to Feda. Twenty and a five,—25
"
(A. V. B., January 16, 1918). I think, however, that this
method may possibly be responsible for the doubt Feda
is liable to express as to the order of the numerals. If
they are " built up " separately it may not be obvious
how they should be arranged. In the following case it is
perhaps doubtful whether what was shown to Feda was
symbolic action of the communicator, or a vision of a
366 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
shelf. " The books doesn't all match there. He's showing
different shapes and sizes " (Mr. Kittermaster, January 25,
1918). But that the communicator does at times convey
to Feda what he wants her to explain to the sitter by
means of visions—and often very vivid ones—of the room
and shelves in which selected books are, of the outsides of
books, and of other objects in the room, no one who has
read this paper thus far will doubt. Good instances are
found in the description of the picture " Le Canape Bleu
"
(p. 249 et seq.), of the statuette, etc., quoted in Appendix B,
and in other cases.
A very conspicuous instance of this kind of vision of
external objects being given to Feda occvirred—-not in
connexion with book-tests, which had not begun then—on
October 30, 1916, and is described in the paper by Miss
Radclyffe Hall and Lady Troubridge lately published
{Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XXX., p. 459). Feda says :
" She's showing Feda a square room, it's a sitting room,"
and a remarkable description of Lady Troubridge's drawing-
room followed, given by Feda as though seeing it.
The following is a rather quaint way of describing a
similar vision. At an A. W. V. sitting, January 14, 1918,
Feda says :
" He's picked the same shelf as he choosed
last time, and now he's trying to show Feda a glumpse—
no a glimpse of that place, like through a hole." A
description of a bookcase and part of the room at Mrs.
Salter's house follows, which appears to have been fairly
correct.
Sometimes Feda seems to be led into the room of
which she is to have a vision. The following case is
probably an example of a vision of this kind, and it also
illustrates disagreement between the communicator and
Feda as to the interpretation of what is seen. It hap-
pened on January 2, 1918, at an A. V. B. sitting. Feda
says :
Is the shelf in a part of the room nearest the window
Ladye ? Now are you sure Ladye ? because Feda thought
it was near the fireplace. Yes, it is the fire-place too.
Ladye may think it's near the window because as you
come into the room you walk towards the fire-place when
(
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 367
you want to walk to the window. Feda thinks that Ladye
is mistaldng the window for the fireplace. Oh yes ;
Ladj^e
says Feda is more right than she is, the books are near
the fire-place. It seems to Feda there is one shelf about
this high. (Indicates with her hand a certain height.) Is
that about 4 feet high ?
[The books were near the fire-place.]
The following from A. V. B., December 8, 1918, is an
example of Feda being apparentlj^ shown things from
different points of view :
F. Wait a minute Ladye. Now show me the room. Furni-
ture like a sitting-room. It's a bit more oblong Ladye
thinks, but it looks about square to Feda what she's
showing does. But she thinks that it's actually oblong
rather. Wait a minute. Coming in at the door you gets
the feeling of across the room, but she keeps taking me to
a corner, not in the middle of a wall ; and round,
something round in the corner. I don't think it's right
in the corner, but it's close to the corner, but she's
pointing to the corner and saying " books."
[The description, as far as it goes, is fairly correct.]
These visions of Feda's vary no doubt in vividness, and
it may be that it is when a portion of the vision is very
vivid that Feda speaks of it as " flashed up " before her.
This happened, it will be remembered, in the case of the
" Canape Bleu " picture (see above, p. 249). The expression
is used again at an A. V. B. sitting on July 3, 1918.
After indicating clearly from the communicator's descrip-
tion the shelves meant and the place of the book, Feda
continues :
F. IVIi's. Twonnie, do you haj)pen to know if at the
corner to the left of one of the shelves there's a
rather big book with some very much smaller
books next to it ?
M. R. H. I can't remember.
F. She's showed it to Feda in a flash, one book looked
.;- . so thin that you'd hardly call it a book at all,
and one of the books she showed Feda in a flash
368 Mrs. Henry SidgwicJc. [part
has a green cover. Feda has to be very careful
over colours, 'cos she (touches medium) don't
know blues and greens apart.
On this M. R. H. comments :
In the left-hand corner of the second shelf from the
bottom there was found to be an ordinary sized novel, of
average height* and thickness, and next to it was a very
small book, much smaller than the novel, next to this
again was a book so thin as to be scarcely more than a
pamphlet; then followed six books all considerably under
the average size of those in the case, and two of these
books have green covers. Upon all the other shelves of
the case, or, at least, at the corners of all the other
shelves, the books are more or less uniform in size."
It is to be observed that the test-book is not included in
this clearly seen group. The test-book was stated to be
in the same case but in the fourth shelf from the bottom,
the first book to the left. It proved a fairly successful
book-test, but as there was some confusion about what
page was meant, and as the " message " related to private
affairs, I have not quoted it.
The communicator apparently sometimes uses an induced
vision of an absent person to suggest him to Feda ; thus
on January 30, 1918, an A. V. B. sitting, Feda says :
What is she bringing him in for . . . the gentleman what
comes to speak to Feda ; she says you know him ; he's
been twice here. She's showing him to Feda. Feda knows
v/hat he looks like.
[What is obviously a description of Mr. Gerald Balfour
follows, and a reference to the letter G.^]
Feda sometimes has vivid visions which do not appar-
ently represent anything real. Thus, on February 16, 1918,
at a sitting of Mrs. Beadon's, Feda said :
Page 82, about halfway down, a message about your
progress together.
^ Mr. Balfoiir had had two sittings with Mrs. Leonard a few days
before this.
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 369
Feda doesn't know if this has anything to do •with the
message, but he is showing Feda a very vivid, distinct
picture of you and him with faces lifted up and light
streaming on them. You are going up hill, with feet in
the dark, hand in hand, looking to the light. Feda thinks
it may have to do with the message.
[Mrs. Beadon notes : "I can find nothing of this on p. 82."]
Yet another way in which the communicator expresses
his meaning is by imparting to Feda motor impulses
—
causing her to move in particular ways. At the A. V. B.
sitting referred to above (December 8, 1918) :
(Feda points to the top of a small oak cabinet to
the right of the medium) . . .
U. V. T. Are you trying to get the height of the shelf from
which she has selected books ?
r. I thought you were Ladye ! She shakes her head,
yet she has an object in saying that height. It's
a line to go from, she says it was rather im-
portant she thought to give that height. What
are you trying to do Ladye 1 Don't know what
A^ou wants me to do. She keeps on moving my
hand like that (Feda raises her hand to about the
top of the medium's cabinet, then makes a gesture
of patting a horizontal surface) ... I think by
m.aking me move my hand, she wants to make
me know that that's the top of the thing.
Or, again, on December 22, 1918 :
F. Look, as you goes into the room they's there. (Feda now
points in front of her as though the books vt-ould be
opposite the entrance of the room.) She's guiding my
hand.
I think it probable that when Feda draws figures or
letters in the air for sitters to interpret, as often happens,
she is sometimes acting under motor impulse, not
apprehending what is meant herself until she has made the
movement.
370 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
There is a suggestion that Feda's assumption of the
attitude of the figure in " Le Canape Bleu " picture is at
least partly an automatic movement, not pure imitation^
for when asked whether she can see what the figure is
lying or sitting on, she replies, " It's not lying, it's sitting,,
because Ladye can make Feda do it on this chair " (see
above, p. 250).
I am inclined to regard it as of some significance that
among these modes of communication between the com-
municator and Feda, the one that produces the most
vivid impression—a vision of the object to be described,
such as Feda had of " Le Canape Bleu " picture —is never
used for conveying the idea of the inside of a closed
book. Indeed, Feda hardly ever (I will deal with possible
exceptions presently) represents herself as seeing the page
or part of it. Closed books remain closed books to her^
and she only repeats to the sitter what the communicator
explains to her by word or sign. Is this because the
communicator's own impression is not of the vivid order
required to make Feda see a vision ? Certainly in a
general way it seems to be rather vague and fragmentary.
The reader will prol)ably here object that in the case of
the picture of a child lying down (see pp. 283 ei seq.),.
which I quoted among instances of book-tests described
beforehand with verbal accuracy, Feda did have a vision
of it similar in kind to the one she had of " Le Canape
Bleu," though perhaps less complete. This is true, but
then the picture was not inside a book. It was on the
cover, and though not visible without moving the books,
its position may well have been known to some one. In
fact it seems very likely that a binding so unusual
among the books in question was specially noticed by the
housemaid jvho had recently rearranged them, if not by
others. I am, in fact, disposed to think that the unusual
feature of Feda's having a vision of this picture is an
argument for its not having been " sensed " by the com-
municator in the same way as a book-test proper, and
for the knowledge of it not having been obtained purely
by clairvoyance.
LXXXI.] An Examination of Book-Tests. 371
An incident occurred, however, at an A. V. B. sitting
on December 18, 1918, which suggests a kind of vision
by Feda. The record is as follows :
F. She's not sure whether this is on page 6 or on the pre-
ceding page, but she just wants to describe something.
She's showing it to Feda. There's the page. (Here Feda
indicates the page of a book by gesture.) I could draw
it I think. (M. R. H. . . . hands the block and a pencil
to Feda. Feda proceeds to draw three long wavy lines
indicative of writing, she then makes a scratchy mark on
the paper remarking there's a star." She then draws
four short wavy lines, remarking " these is short lines."
She then draws a circle and says that A. V. B. is not
quite certain regarding the position of that circle, but that
she thinks it comes about there on the page. Feda then
draws four more long lines ;
saying, " these is long again,
that's how the page is.")
Whether Feda here conceived herself as copying from a
model of the page, or as drawing from the communicator's
directions, is not clear, but I think the latter. It is not
important, however, as the drawing " does not seem to
reproduce anything on the pages " indicated.
Feda does not take pains to distinguish between de-
scribing her own direct impressions and repeating what the
commumcator tells her, and some ambiguities occur. But
if the records of the book-tests are read carefully, it will,
I think, generally appear clearly that the latter is meant.
In a few cases, however, the expressions used may perhaps
be more naturally interpreted as meaning that Feda
herself saw the page. The most distinct instances of this
which I have noticed were two that occurred at A. V. B.
sittings on November 22 and 28, 1917, respectively. On
November 22 Feda said :
On the page which is called 75,—Feda can see more
clearly to-daj^—near the top, there is a message that refers
to tlie general state of affairs now, but in a way as
affecting j^ou, Mrs. Twonnie. Wait a minute, there is
something more, a word, something important that has to
do with this book, is a word like Roscommon, that's the
372 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
nearest Feda can get to it, and there's an important word
on the title-page beginning with a P. This is a kind of
feeler, so that she [the communicator] can get the feeling
of that [book] case more.
If the seeing more clearlj^ hj Feda refers to her seeing
the figures 75 " built up " for her, and if when she says
that Roscommon is the nearest she can get to the word,
she means it is the best approximation she can get to the
communicator's pronunciation of the word—and such inter-
pretations are not, I think, strained —we are left with
nothing here about Feda " sensing " the page herself.
Again on November 28, 1917, Feda says :
There's a funny sounding word like Adiosis, Adiosis,
that word's in the beginning of the book on the title-pages.
Then she says Assiosis, no, that's not quite it, but it
begins with an A, and it seems to Feda to suggest that
sound, and it feels to Feda like a three-syllabled word,
not a little word.
Here everything turns on whether " feels to Feda " can
apply to her apprehension of what the communicator is
saying, and it seems to apply just as well to that as to
a more direct apprehension of the page in the closed book.
Feda's exact meaning is, however, of less consequence
than it might have been, because these particular tests
were both complete failures. In the first there was no
appropriate message on p. 75, no word at all like Roscommon
could be found, nor was there a word on the title-page
beginning with P. And on November 28 no word like
Adiosis or Assiosis was found in the beginning of the book,
and the word Anco7ia in italics in the preface is the only
approach to Feda's three-sjdlabled word beginning with A,
and that certainly does not sound like Assiosis. If, there-
fore, Feda on these occasions did have any kind of direct
impressions, there is no reason to think they were impressions
of real pages.
One fact must be noticed in connexion with Feda's
share in the book-tests. There were three occasions when
LXXXI.J An Examination of Book-Tests. 373
the usual procedure was changed—or at least the dramatic
mise-en-scene—and Feda represents herself as helping to
select the book-tests. The three occasions were at A. V. B.
sittings, in each case following shortly after a sitting which
Dr. T. W. Mitchell had had with Mrs. Leonard, Lady
Troubridge being present as note-taker. In each case Feda
and A. V. B. profess to have gone together to Dr. Mit-
chell's house, where neither Mrs. Leonard nor the sitters
had been, to select a book-test for him. The first occa-
sion was on May 9, 1918. At the beginning of the
sitting Feda says :
Ladye's here . . . Mrs. Twonnie it's about a book test,
but the book test isn't for you, only as she helped to do
it. She and Feda did it, only she did the best part of
it—it's for Mrs. Una's Doctor man what corned yesterday.
She only did it last night.
The second occasion was on July 6, 1918. Feda begins :
She's going to give a book test for the doctor first.
Feda couldn't get it last time. Feda don't know if he
stopped Feda last time. Feda had a feeling as if he was
trying to think of some 'ticular books. Feda oughtn't to
have told him she was going to get one.^ Feda has been
and got one now, and Ladye was there too, so Feda'U
ask her to help to remember.
A Uttle further on Feda remarks apropos to the book-
test proper, " Ladye you help Feda to get that exactly
as it was said before." And again, " Sometimes she
[A. V. B.] notices things what Feda doesn't."
The third occasion was on October 12, 1918. Feda
says :
Now wait a minute
—
{s.v. Ladye you remind Feda, 'cos
Feda's been there too) [a description of the room, etc.,
follows]. We got the books on the third shelf up, . . .
1 All this refers to a sitting of which I have not seen the record,-
Dr. Mitchell notes, " When Feda said [at the previous sitting] she was
going to give me another test my mind reverted at once to a particular
shelf where I wanted her to make the test because the .books there
were not psycho-therai^eutic books."
374 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
on this third shelf we took the sixth book . . . The page
was a one and a nine, one nine, nineteen, and it was the
top part of the page. You know Ladj^e and Feda founded
it, but it's from the gentleman who was speaking to him
at the sitting, and it's a message from him to the doctor
man {s.v. Wait a minute. This is where you'll have to
help Feda, Ladye). Oh it's a message from that gentleman
to the doctor, about his work, not the spirit's work, but
the doctor's . . . but Ladye says it might apply not only
to his work, but to his general conditions as well.
From this point Feda drops out as a co-percipient, and
quotes and paraphrases what A. V. B. says in the usual
style. She comes in again possibly at the end in the
word " we " in a cjuoted sentence :
" She [A. V. B.]
says '
I suppose he does know that we get the idea, the
thought, more than the written word, doesn't he ?
'
"
I may remark that in these three attempts at book-
tests, though there are some things quite wrong, there are
interesting points
—
e.g. a description of a peculiar arrange-
ment of book shelves in a room quite unknown to medium
and sitters and away from London. Again a direction to
"look on the outside of a book within a span of the test
book, and you'll find something that will distinctly remind
him of the gentleman who spoke to him the other day."
The name of the purporting communicator referred to was
Grainger Stewart, and twelve inches from the test book
was a book by J. A. Stewart. But the book-tests proper
were not very satisfactory.
If it be asked what was the meaning of this peculiar
intervention of Feda's in these particular book-tests, I can
only suggest dramatic appropriateness. As they were given
at sittings of M. R. H. and U. V. T., at which A. V. B.
was the habitual communicator, she had to appear, but
she had no connexion with Dr. Mitchell and was not
supposed to know him. On the other hand, Feda had
made great friends with him, and may have been supposed
to supply the necessary connexion. This suggestion is of
course on. the sceptical side, and is moreover mere con-
jecture. Others may think of a better explanation.
jLXXXI.] A)i Examination of Book-Tests. 375
§ 10.
Conclusion.
This concludes my examination of the book-tests sub-
mitted to me, and it only remains to sum up—a thing
I find it particularly hard to do, for the evidence is so
mixed.
It is impossible to doubt, I think, that Mrs. Leonard in
trance has supernormal powers. Evidence given in this
paper alone goes far to prove telepathy, at least from
the living, and in one case (Mrs. Talbot's, see above,
§ 2) apparently from the dead. But is there sufficient
evidence to convince us of the possibility of clair-
voyance—the acquisition of knowledge of physical things
otherwise than through the bodily senses of some one.
There are cases that look remarkably like it, though
never so distinct and unmistakable and free from error
as we could wish. But they are mixed up with cases
suggesting no knowledge—normal or supernormal at all.
These apparent^ false cases are uttered with the same
kind of confidence, the same appearance of interest, the
same amount of detail as the apparently genuine ones, and
there is no means of distinguishing false from true till
verification is attempted. When we do verify we find
•every shade of success or failure, from undeniable suc-
cesses, through those which we hardly know whether to
count as exhibiting any success at all, to undeniable
failures.
This mixture of true and false need not by itself
surprise us. We know that mth automatists, and
especially those who sit to order like Mrs. Leonard, there
is much in automatic speaking or writing that we may
call mere dream stuff, even where there is evidence that
some things said have a supernormal origin. Book-tests
liaving become for the time being almost part of the
routine of communication with certain sitters, Feda may
reel them oft' more or less mechanically, and without
herself knowing whence the impulse comes and whether
"the alleged inspiration is real or imaginary. And there
376 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
will be degrees of completeness in success, whether the
success is due to clairvoyance or to chance.
A more serious obstacle perhaps to accepting clair-
voyance as the explanation of book-tests lies in the
difficulties and bewildering inconsistencies in what is said
about the mode of identifying the page, and about the
kind of thing—forms or ideas—perceived on it. On
account of its want of consistency most of such talk has
to be swept aside as very probably nonsense, and if we
accept clairvoyance as a fact v/e must admit that so far-
we know nothing at all as to what it consists in. We
chiefly know that, at least in Mrs. Leonard's case, it
generally seems indistinct and vague.
Our acceptance or not of clairvoyance as a fact must
then depend solely on our judgment whether the successes
recorded are more than we can suppose chance to have
produced in a kind of case in which the chances are very
hard to estimate, and in a matter which is at present
disconnected with all our established knowledge and there-
fore very hard to believe.
On the whole, I think the evidence before us does
constitute a reasonable prima facie case for belief, and that
in future we must reckon with clairvoyance as a possi-
bility to be taken account of in interpreting mysterious
happenings.^
^ Of course in this paper I have not by any means quoted every
incident which may be regarded as affording some evidence of clair-
voyance, but I have quoted those which seem to me to have most
weight. It may interest the reader to know which half dozen of the
cases in this collection appear to me the most convincing—those which
it is least possible to exj)lain by chance. Different people would prob-
ably judge differently, and one might oneself feel somewhat differently
at different times, but I think I should select the following six cases,
which I do not put in order of merit.
[a) The first case mentioned in the paper, where a passage in a
book is connected with an ornament worn (A. V. B., Sept. 12, 1917 ;
see above, p. 248). (b) The message to Mrs. Beadon about her husband's
burial (Sept. 29, 1917 ; see above, p. 280). (c) A. V. B.'s second message
about lights (Aug. 24, 1918 ; see above, p. 273). (d) A. W. V.'s state-
ment about a long pole (Jan. 4, 1919 ; see above, p. 286). (e) Mariana
in the South (A. W. V., April 11, 1918; see above, p. 297). (/)
A. W. V. about the family tree, etc. —the book-tests of this day as-
a whole (Feb. 28, 1918 ; see above, p. 341).
LXXXI.] All Examination of Book-Tests. 377
Granting, then, that pure clairvoyance can sometimes be
exercised, I think the present records suggest a thing
which may be worth keeping in mind in future experi-
ments, namely, that telepathy and clairvoyance are prob-
ably in some way closely connected. Telepathic clair-
voyance—perception of external things not known to any
one present but known to some one somewhere ^
—probably
merges into pure clairvoyance, while the line between more
ordinary telepathy and telepathic clairvoyance is not a
well-marked one. I think it is likely that the processes
not only merge into each other but that they may
sometimes operate simultaneously. The idea is not of
course a new one. Professor Charles Richet in the
paper describing his experiments in clairvoyance to which
I referred the reader in a footnote on p. 247 maintains
that " Cette telepathie n'est qu'un cas particulier d'un fait
bien plus general—la faculte de connaissance des somnam-
bules." And Myers in Human Personality frequently points
out that Telsesthesia [i.e. clairvoyance] merges into tele-
pathy—that the distinction between them " cannot be made
fundamental." (See e.g. Vol. I. p. 136.) But my object in
speaking of it is not theoretical but practical. By keeping in
mind the probable connexion of telepathy and clairvoyance we
may get a helpful clue in experimenting. If, for instance,
telepath}^ of some sort comes into operation in what we
may call the approaches to the book-test proper—in the
finding of the volume and its surroundings—this may
facilitate the clairvoyant perception of the inside of the
book which sometimes follows. The perception of the
surroundings may itself be partly telepathic and partly
clairvoyant.
It is perhaps doubtful whether book-tests with Mrs.
Leonard in the form dealt with in this paper should be
continued indefinitely, as their continuance might lead to
staleness, and might increase a habit of producing auto-
1 For Telepathic Clairvoyance see a collection of cases and a discussion
by myself entitled " On the Evidence for Clairvoyance " in Proceedings
S.P.R., Vol. VII., pp. 30-99 and 3.56-369. Also " Experiments in
Clairvoyance" by Dr. Alfred Backman {Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. VII.,
pp. 199-221).
378 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part lxxxi.]
matically imitation book-tests. But if any new form of
experiment to demonstrate clairvoyance is designed, it
would i
be well to keep in mind that an avenue admitting
of telepathy with the sitter may be a useful approach to
the test proper.
That further experiments should be tried with Mrs.
Leonard and others is much to be desired, for more
evidence is greatly needed. But if pure clairvoyance is a
reahty, and if we are on the verge of estabhshing this
scientifically as the experiments before us seem to show
the importance of the investigation carmot l^e overrated.
APPENDIX A.
A Note on Chance in Book-Tests.
I SAID on p. 244 that it would be an error to suppose
that on abnost any page of any book something that may
pass as a message may be found, and there is of course
still less probability that when indications, even vague
ones, of the nature of the message are given, the message
j
when found will conform to them. As a test of this
I tried the following experiment. I selected almost at
random from the book-tests before us a promise of a
" message with something quite definite and objective
in it—meaning by objective something that has nothing
specially to do with the particular sitter or the sitter's
relation to the communicator. The one selected was from
the second book-test received by M. R. H. and U. V. T.,
and was the first of their book-tests answering to the
required conditions. It occurred in their sitting of August
.5, 1917, and ran as follows :
F. There's another book, it's the seventh book on the same
shelf [as on the preceding occasion] and she's speaking of
page 19. She says that should contain a message too.
Wait a minute. {s.v. A message about what, Ladye ?)
She says that it has some bearing on what is called
death. Ladye thinks it is a little bit stupid, but she
wants you to look.
(I may remark in passing, though it is irrelevant to my
•experiment, that the test can only be regarded as a
partial success. The book in question proved to be a
volume of poems by D. G. Rossetti, and p. 19 is part of
a poem called " A Last Confession " and purports to be
a death-bed confession to a priest. Such a confession,
implying of course the idea of death, may be said to have
.379
380 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
some bearing upon death ; but there is nothing specifically
about death on p. 19.)
Returning to my experiment. In a large room lined
with books I selected twelve at random without looking
at them, defining them by their places in different shelves,
and in each case I noted the page and the part of the
page where the message was to be looked for. My list
came out as follows. In the left-hand column is the title
of the book and in the right-hand column the sentence
occurring in the position defined beforehand.
(1) Poems of Emily and Anne
Bronte, " The Teacher's
Monologue," j). 52, J down.
(2) Ivingsley's Hypatia, p. 7,
omitting preface, \ down.
(3) The Amber Witch, p. 105,
\ down.
(4) Ch. Ivingsley's Poems, p. 8,
\ down [the page on
which is the selected sen-
tence is in the introduc-
tion, which is numbered
continuously with the
text].
(5) Sir Alfred Lyall's Verses
written in India, " Raj-
poot Rebels," p. 27, §
down.
Now, as I watch that distant hill
So faint, so blue, so far removed,
Sweet dreams of home my
heart may fill.
That home where I am known
and loved.
" And obeyed he was, with
a loyal, reasonable love, and yet
with an implicit soldier-like
obedience."
" Why Katie Berow her
little pig had died ?
"
" If, however, this book
shall cause one Englishman
honestly to ask himself, '
I, as
a Protestant, have been accus-
tomed to assert the purity and
cbgnity of the offices of hus-
band, wife and parent . . .
'
" From the banks of the
Ganges holy,
From the towers of fair
Lucknow,
They have driven us surely
and slowly.
They have crushed us blow-
on blow."
xxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Ai)'pendix A. 381
(6) Burns' Poems, Vol. II.,
" The Inventory," p. 12,
•
\ down.
(7) Fronde's Short Studies on
Great Subjects, p. 14, I
down.
{8) Le Diable Boiteux or the
Devil upon Two Sticks,
Vol. I., p. 47, ^ down.
(9) Swift's Miscellanies, Vol. I.,
" Sentiments of a Church-
of-England Man," p. 79,
\ do"mi.
(lO) Mahan's Influence of Sea
Power upon the French
Revolution and Empire,
Vol. II., p. 102, \ down.
" And gin ye tax her or her
mither,
B'the Lord, ye'se get them
a' the gither."
" They have perceived that
if they would be men and not
beasts, they must control their
animal passions, prefer- truth
to falsehood, courage to
cowardice, justice to violence,
and compassion to cruelty."
But being firmly resolved
not to place any Monks in it,
in whom the virtues of Chas-
tity, Sobriety, and Humility
do not eminently shine, he
was very much puzzled in the
choice."
" They would have it that a
Crown is a Prince's Birthright,
and ought at least to be as
well secured to him and his
posterity as the inheritance of
any private man."
" Bonaparte on his side had
been no less active, although
he sought by the secrecy of
his movements to avert alarm
and postpone, if possible, the
war which for his aims was
premature. Orders were given
that reinforcements for the
colonies should go forth
rapidly, ere peace was
broken."
382 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
(11) Ambidexterity, by John
Jackson, p. 81, J do^vn.
" The general conclusions
arising from the entire course
may be stated as follows :
—
Results—(1) No preference was
shown for either hand so long
as there was no violent mus-
cular exertion demanded."
(12) CarlyWs Early Life, by " The article on Luther
J. A. Froude, p. 201, | which Carlyle had offered for
down. the '
Edinburgh '
could not get
itself accepted. Napier recog-
nised that Luther was a noble
subject, but he could not
spare space for the effective
treatment of it."
None of these passages can be said to have any bearing
on the selected message
—
i.e. any " bearing on what is
called death "—except No. 3 about " the little pig."
In No. 5, however, the following lines occur in another
part of the page :
" When the army has slain its fill.
When they bid the hangman cease " ; and in No. 8
at the top of the page, " must shortly make up his
accounts in the other world, he is grown scrupulous."
And in several cases there is something connected with,
death on the page preceding or following the selected one—
-
namely, in No. 1, " When Emma's bier was borne away " •
in No. 5, the preceding page, They have slain the
best of my kin." " But our fighting never shed English
blood," and on the page following the selected one. " There
is no more life for me " ; in No. 7, p. 13 {apro-pos
to the fall of the Tower of Siloam). " But the guilty
had perhaps long been turned to dust ''
; in No. 8, in.
the page following the selected one, is an account
of two young men killing each other in a quarrel
over cards ; in No. 9, page preceding, " upon the death
of a Prince among us, the administration goes on";
top of page following the selected one, " protects and
encourages his profession ; and therefore although he
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix A. 383
should manifestly prescribe poison to all his patients
whereof they should immediately die." If, therefore, we
allow ourselves to count the thirty-six pages obtained by
taking the selected pages and two adjacent ones, with-
out regard to position in page, we do get a refer-
ence of some sort to death on ten pages, or rather
over a quarter of the whole ; and we do get such
a reference in some part of three out of the twelve
selected pages, though in one case only in the prescribed
part of the page.
The probability of success in what I have called vague
messages is harder to judge of because it is more difficult
to eliminate the subjective element. For instance, in
descriptions so vague as : "A message straight from our
boy to us " (promised to a sitter in September, 1917) ;
or "A sort of message for you ; he says it isn't
the words he would choose, but he thinks you will know "
(received by another sitter, November 29, 1917) ; or
" These few words he wants you to take as a message "
(received by a third sitter on April 9, 1918) ; it is
clear that the passage indicated might prove to have an
appropriateness obvious to the sitter, though undiscoverable
by an outsider ignorant of the circumstances.^ As an
illustration of this, let us suppose that in Mrs. Beadon's case
(p. 261 above) what she was told about the passage
indicated had stopped after " on p. 71 will be found a
message from him to you. The message will not be as
beautiful as he would like to make it, but you will under-
stand he wants to ma.ke the test as good as he can." If
it had stopped here the test would have been considerably
less good than it is as it stands, but the appropriateness
of the passage indicated to the circumstances of the
communicator's burial would still have made the
" message " a striking one. But of these circumstances
we- should have known nothing had not the sitter informed
us. As outsiders, without knowledge of the special cir-
^ As a matter of fact in the first two of triese cases notiiing relevant
was found, and in the third the sitter (Miss Purdon) has so far failed
to send us promised annotations.
384 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
cumstances, we can only judge a book-test when some
sort of indication of the sort of message we are to find
is given.
We have such indications when a message of hope or
encouragement without further definition is promised—as
in the following three cases :
(1) "A message from C— which he wants you to
remember to cheer you up. It draws a comparison
between the past and the present." (Prof, and Mrs. B.,
December 2, 1917. See above, p. 354.)
[Verification :
" The brave little soldier is gone into the
presence of his Chief away in the Eternal City, . . . For
the boys who are Christ's faithful soldiers and servants
here shall continue that service in joyous, untiring youth
in the great land beyond." This would be an appropriate
message, but if it was the one intended the position of
the book was wrongly described.]
(2) "A message from him to you. He wants you to
remember it when you feel sad about him. It is a
message directly from him to you. He sometimes sees
depression in you. He sees it and wants to sweep it
away. The message is meant to do that." (Mrs. John,
May 1918.)
[Nothing appropriate was found in the book indicated.
Feda afterwards said she had made a mistake as to where
it was.]
(3) "A message to his mother, a kind of hope or
encouragement." (Mrs. and Miss Morris, March 2, 1918.)
[The book indicated was a Church Service, on the pre-
scribed page of which is Isaiah Ixv., verses 19 to 25.
These verses are of an encouraging nature, though not
strictly appropriate.]
In another kind of vague message the characteristic
indicated is definite and objective, but admits of very wide
interpretation. As instances we may take three cases
reported by the Rev. C. Drayton Thomas :
Lxxxi. An Examination of Book-Tests. Appe^idix A. 385
(4)
" Feda said that on page 53 is something about
striving : that it suggests endeavouring and holds out a
promise through that endeavour." (September 6, 1917.)
[Verification : On the page indicated begins St. Augus-
tine's account of his conversion, and as Mr. Thomas says,
" While neither the word '
striving '
nor '
endeavouring
'
appears on the page, the story is one about inward strife
and determined endeavouring of spirit to escape from an
evil manner of life. A strife and an endeavour which
ended in triumphant success."]
(5) At Mr. Thomas's next sitting Feda says :
" The
message ... is about endeavour again, but under different
conditions and aspects from last time." (September 29,
1917.)
[Verification : The sentence indicated was :
" Whatever
did you do to make her understand ?
" and related to the
efforts of the heroine in a story to make a very deaf old
woman tell her the way home.]
(6) The message, it is said, " refers to an enviable frame
of mind." (October 18, 1918.)
[Verification : JVIr. Thomas takes a passage about our
Lord's passion to be the one referred to. In it occur
the words " the love that sacrificed ; that gave up all
for love of all." i)
In the above six cases we have promises of messages on
three subjects, viz. : Hope and encouragement, endeavour,
an enviable frame of mind. Should we be likely to find
such messages on pages taken at random ? Could, for
instance, any of the twelve passages used in the above
experiment about death be regarded as appropriate ?
They will serve for passages selected at random as well
as any others. I think the answer must be that no7ie of
them could be regarded as messages of hope and encour-
^ Mr. Thomas arrives at this passage by counting the pages of the
preface with those of the text though not numbered continuously.
He sometimes in counting tlie pages omits the preface even when it
is numbered continuously with the text.
386 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [PARr
agement. One of them (No. 7) might perhaps be taken as.
referring to enviable frames of mind. On the other hand,,
five, namely, (7), (8), (10), (11), (12), might in different
ways be regarded as referring to endeavour—which shows
what a very wide interpretation the subject admits of.
In (7) we have the endeavour to "be men and not
beasts " ; in (8) the endeavour to choose suitable
monks ; in (10) the endeavour to prepare secretly for war ;
in (11) the reference to " violent muscular exertion
"
seems to imply endeavour ; in (12) the article on Luther
endeavours to " get itself accepted." I do not say that
we should be right in accepting these as satisfactory
messages, but they are hardly less to the point than those
mentioned above as found by Mr. Thomas by following to
the best of his ability the instructions given.
This note is not of course intended to give any standard
by which to measure the j^robabilitj^ or improbability that
something more than chance has been at work in success-
ful book-tests. I do not believe any exact calculation to
be possible in such complicated and heterogeneous material
as that with which we are dealing. And in any case
my experiments are far too few to base conclusions
upon. So far as they go, however, they tend to confirm
the view that on the one hand chance is not an easy
explanation of success in even simple messages when
definite ;
and, on the other, that success when the indica-
tions given are susceptible of wide interpretation is not of
much value evidentially.
APPENDIX B.
Cases of Accueate DESCBiPTioiir or Objects in the
Stjrrotjndings of the Books. (See p. 286.)
Statuette of Adeline Genee.
At an A. V. B. sitting on October 2, 1918, following on
book-tests described above (p. 282-6)—the book-tests having
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix B. 387
been taken from the large bookcase in M. R. H.'s study
—
Feda continues :
F. [s.v. Cross near the books ?) She thought there
was a cross either on or near the books.
U. V. T. Yes, we understand that I think.
F. It must be close though 'cos she seems to see it
when she gets to the books.
U. Y. T. Right.
[A large and conspicuous box-wood crucifix had
recently been placed on the writing table which
stood less than 4 feet from the book.]
F. [s.v. And a little figure—a small one.) Feda
don't think ifs just a head, it seems to show
'
,
the body like too. It's a very light colour, she
seemed to see that.
U. V. T. Where ?
F. Where 1 Didn't you see it near the books, Ladye ?
Wasn't it near the books 1 Feda thought you A^ as
talking about the books ! Feda don't know where
she means now. Don't you mean near the books ?
No. It's not near the books, but it's a little
figure she's very interested in.
U. V. T. Can't j^ou show it Ladye ?
F. She showed it for a moment, it was not just a head
and shoulders.
U. V. T. Well, what position is it in 1
F. Not just standing straight up hke this. (Feda lets
her arms drop loosely at each side, hanging
straight down.) What you want to do vdth. the
hands. Ladye ? What is it 1 (Feda puts one
. hand over the other and bends forward from the
waist slightly.)
U. V. T. Don't bother to try if it's too difficult.
F. Wait a minute. (Feda places one hand on her hip
\\Tith the fingers spread out straight. Then she
tries violently to bunch her coat and skirt up
under her hand, and having partially succeeded
she places the hand on the bunched material A\'ith
the fingers again extended, she then slightly turns
388 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
-
the hand so that the fingers are extended towards
the front.) The fingers is straight and spreaded
out in front, but the thumb isn't. The fingers
isn't together they're spreaded out, and the elbows
is sticking out. (Here Feda makes a pose ; she
places a hand either side of her waist with all the
fingers pointing forward. She then begins smooth-
ing down and making a gesture of pinching in the
waist with the two hands.) Mrs. Una, it's pointed
like that. (Here Feda indicates a tight waist and
a pointed bodice.) This isn't near the books.
Lady says there's something so silly about the
lower part ; she says, " I don't really think it's
silly myself, but there's something a little incon-
gruous about it here." (Feda strokes her shins.)
She says it's when you balance it with the other
part, there's something not quite right here.
(Feda touches her shins and feet.) It's not right
with the upper part.
U. V. T. She's right.
F. She says you ought to have noticed.
U. V. T. Ought I ?
F. She says yes, she says you should have noticed that
even more than Mrs. Twonnie.
U. V. T. Why ?
F. 'Cos she gets that as being something exceptional in
you. Though Mrs. Twonnie might see it, you'd
notice it more quickly than Mrs. Twonnie, she
says it might come very near to annojdng you.
Now wait a minute. (Feda draws a curved line
just above the bust, with her finger, as if indicat-
ing a decollete bodice ; she then makes a gesture
as if bringing a piece of material or something up
from the waist and under the arm to meet the
line she has already indicated.) It's some line,
she keeps drawing a line. (s.v. Is it under the
arms or over 1) She's drawing as if it's under
the arms, it seems to come from the arm-pit, but
there's also something what she does here. (Feda
draws a line from the shoulder down to the
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix B. 389
breast.) And there's something here. (Feda makes
a gesture of a circular nature across the top of
the head.) It's as if it stucked out from the head
a little. Feda don't think the head is quite
straight. (Feda drops her chin and pulls it in a
little.) "Tisn't like this, Mrs. Una (Feda pokes her
. . chin in the air), it's like this more. (Repeats
gesture of dropping chin, and begins tapping her
feet loudly.)
U. V. T. What's she doing now 1
F. This. (Feda extends her feet and places them in the
second position.) Wait a minute, it seems as if
this ought to belong to some time ago, it's not
something very new, or if it is Ladye says it's
pretending to belong to some time ago. {s.v. Also
it takes her away from London, habits and con-
ditions away from London.)
U. V. T. I don't understand that.
F. She says you ought to.
U. V. T. Oh yes I do ?
[Feda goes on to describe a basket as near the little
figure, and adds, " there's something close that
reminds her of a fish
'"
[cf. below, p. 391, 2]. She
says . . . .
" Well, the basket is close as well, but
•
^
fish she knows is right. Peoples doesn't keep fish
and books together. Well she says some do."
Some small objects then described are identified
as a paper-cutter and other things on the writing
table.]
As regards the little figure, the recorders tell us that
At the extreme other end of the room from the book-
case there stands upon a table a little white plaster
statuette of Adeline Genee by U. V. T. The statuette
measures lOf inches including the base. The dancer is
represented in full ballet skirts, short, and sticking out
upon the hips, the arms are akimbo, the fingers are spread
out and are pointing forward, whereas the thumbs are
pointing in the opposite direction, and the waist of the
figure is represented as being tiny, and the bodice is
390 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
pointed. There is every reason why A. V. B. should be
interested in this little statuette. She was very familiar
with it, as it stood in M. R. H.'s study Avhen she and
A. V. B. were living together. Also M. R. H. bought the
statuette some time before she met U. V. T., and as U. V. T.
is A. V. B.'s cousin, and a very old friend, it is natural
that A. V. B. should be interested in her artistic work. . . .
Feda says that A. V. B. says there is something silly
about the lower part, something a little incongruous. . . .
M. R. H. cannot remember that A. V. B. ever remarked
on the legs and feet of the statuette being faulty, during
her lifetime ; but U. V. T. states that they are distinctly
faulty, and that she herself knew from the first that they
did not balance properly.
We need not compare further in words the description
given by Feda with the statuette, as the photogravure
which M. R. H. and U. V. T have kindly allowed us to
append will enable the reader to do this for himself We
need only add that the statement that " it seems as if
this ought to belong to some time ago,"' or at least to
pretend to do so, is correct for the role assumed by the
dancer as represented. When the statuette was modelled
Madame Genee assumed the cost'ume worn by her in an
early Victorian ballet. The further statement that the
statuette takes A. V. B. away from London is in U. V. T.'s
opinion meant to refer to the fact that the statuette was
completed and cast at Pau. The question arises whether
the statuette can have been known to Mrs. Leonard. At
the time it was produced, eleven or twelve years before
this sitting, it had a remarkable success, and over three
hundred models in different materials were sold. Mrs.
Leonard might therefore have come across a copy. On the
other hand, it was never put upon the public market and
was therefore never on sale in shops. There has been
nothing of recent date to bring it before the public afresh,
and as it is signed (in an inconspicuous place) with
U. V. T.'s maiden name, it seems unlikely that Mrs.
Leonard would have connected it with her had she come
across it. It seems certain that Mrs. Leonard had not been
at M. R. H.'s flat.
MADA:\IE ADELINE GENEE.
This photograph represents the original bronze statuette from which the
plaster east referred to in tlie text was made. Tlie oast lias since been bmken.
[To face p. 390.
x,xxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix B. 391
The mention of the ba^sket, which follows the description
of the statuette, has a certain theoretic interest, for at the
elate of the sitting there was no basket in the room.
When M. R. H. is living in London, however, a small
basket belonging to her spaniel is frequently placed a few
feet away from the statuette and still nearer to the large
oak cupboard on which stands the cast of Verrocchio's
figure of the boy clasping a dolphin, referred to apparently
here and also on April 10, 1918.
On that day, April 10, another interesting though less
detailed description of an object in M. R. H.'s study was
given
:
Crystal Ball and Tazza.
F. There's something close to the drawers, by the
drawers, that reminds her of " The day is Uke a
crystal cup." [A line from a poem by M. R. H.
which had been repeated to Feda.] Don't alter
one word, it may only remind you of a part of
that saying ;
you may say there are tAvo parts of
it, one supplies one part of it, and one another.
. . . She says if you keep those words just as
she said them, there are two objects close to the
thing with drawers, and they both supply two
essential elements of that line.
[Now there was in the room, but not close to the
thing with drawers, a small Japanese Tazza com-
posed of a dish standing on a tripod, the centre
of the dish forming a species of cup, having an
upstanding collar of bronze over an inch in depth.
M. R. H. has always used this to stand a rock-
crystal ball in. She did this in A. V. B.'s life-
time, and has continued to do it ever since. We
have therefore the bronze Tazza standing for
" cup " and the crystal ball for " crystal " in the
line quoted. Feda continues :]
JF. ... She says the area in which the things will be
found would be in a circle drawn close round the
drawers. [s.v. Wait a minute, a fish ! peoples
392 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
don't have fishes in their rooms, they smells !)
She says there's something that suggests a fish in
that room.
M. R. H. I place that.
F. Feda don't like that, but Ladye says it's all right.
{s.v. Not in rooms ! fish in a room !)
M. R. H. I place it.
F. (s.v. Fish 1 It is a fish, and day is like a crystal
cup again.) Feda must say it like she says it.
Feda mustn't alter it, must she ? She thinks it's
pretty complete as it is.
[The tazza and crystal were not near the thing with
drawers—that was a mistake. But they were on a
shelf of a large piece of furniture on the top of
which stood a reproduction of Verrocchio's " Boy
with a Dolphin " (referred to also later on October
2, 1918). So that the reference to the fish looks
like a correction of the previous statement as tO'
the position of the things referred to.]
Another attempt of A. V. B. to describe the crystal
ball occurred on October 12, 1918, and is perhaps worth
quoting, if only because it is rather amusing. In the-
course of an attempt, more or less successful, to describe
various objects in the room, Feda said :
F. You ought to have a ball there too, a hard, cold
ball. If you put it to your face it would make
you jump it's so cold.
M. R. H. I place that.
F. It seems to Feda to have a kind of shine or polish
on it, and it gives Feda—is it light or something I
It gives Feda reflection in it. Ladye says she
always feels she wants to get into the middle of it.
M. R. H. Good.
F. She says : "It always makes me long to get right
into the centre of it. I'm not laughing or talking
nonsense. I thought you would jump at it."
She says " That's my place, i?i it, not outside it,
this ball expects me to be inside it."
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix C. 393
[Feda goes on to say that it is " near something
shaped like that," making gestures which may
have been meant to indicate the shape of the
tazza.]
APPENDIX C.
Supplementary Extracts from Book-Tests quoted in
Section 8.
" Messages " and explanations in the book-test of December 8,
1918, referred to on p. 340 ;
F. ... page eight one, eighty one page, oh, the lower part
of the page ... a message for Mrs. Twonnie from Ladye
suggesting something she would like Mrs. Twonnie to do
and to feel with regard to Ladye. Ladye says that Mrs.
Twonnie already does it to a certain extent, but that she
is to do it more.
[The words on the lower part of page 81 of the seventh
volume (which Avas Mrs. Molesworth's The Children of the
Castle) regarded as appropriate are " You see me ? " said
in the story by a s^iirit to a child, who replies " I see
you, and I see your eyes."
M. R. H. had often at sittings said how much she
wished she could see A. V. B., and A. V. B. had appar-
ently implied that she probably would some time. As has
been seen above (pp. 272-274), she had got as far as
seeing hallucinatory lights which A. V. B. claimed that she
had produced. Feda goes on :]
F. Wait a minute, um—well hold it for a minute Ladye
'cos I can't remember if you don't. Page two of the same
book about halfway down, describing by using one or two
words, Ladye's opinion of Mrs. Twonnie's father at the
sittings, she thinks that that will interest you more than it
would him.
[Li the ninth line of p. 2, or counting a space the tenth
line, in a page of twenty-five lines occur the words " wise
394 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
and clever." Now M. R. H."s deceased father had been,
so to speak, putting his oar in at A. V. B. sittings. At a
recent sitting A. V. B. had said he was alarmingly clever
as a communicator—unusually brilliant, she thought, which
she laughingly implied rather alarmed her, lest he should
take up too much of her (A. V. B.'s) time. She sug-
gested that M. R. H. should give him some sittings
entirely to himself. Feda contmues :]
IF. Page 5 of the same book at the bottom of the printing
on the page is something that suggests a measure which
has to be taken with him with regard to the sittings, she's
laughing.
[UiDon the last line but one of the page is the word
" severe." A. V. B. has, it aj^pears, always evinced a
certain severity towards M. R. H.'s father Avhen he wishes
to monopolise what she regarded as her time, and not long
before this sitting refused to let him communicate for more
than a few minutes, as he was interfering with a book-test.]
Extracts from the A. V. B. sitting of July 17, 1918,
referred to on jj. 341 ;
[Feda has been giving for A. V. B. what profess to
be particulars about a book selected by U. V. T.
(see above, p. 300 et seq.). She had spoken about
a verse or allusion to verses and U. V. T. asks at
what part of the book this occurred, and an
excliiange of remarks between M. R. H. and
U. V. T. follows ; then Feda says :]
F. You'd better let her go on, short—short—eleven,
p. 11 speaks of magic. You wouldn't think so,
but it does, it speaks of magic. Page 11, about
halfway down. Some of the pages seems to have
unusually wide margins, or not only wide margins
but a good deal of blank space, as if a space left
here and there for some purpose. But p. 11, the
words there certainly suggest magic to her, and in
a very definite way too. She says " I don't
, always get the actual word like '
magic,' but I say
that the words very definitely suggested magic."
ixxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix C. 395
[Of the above statements it is untrue that there is
anything suggestive of magic on p. 11. It is
untrue that the book has unusually wde margins ;
but it is true that there is a good deal of blank
space, for the book is witten as a series of letters,
some of which are quite short. Feda goes on to
give several other particulars—some doubtful and
'
some true—about this book, Auitie Amoureuse.]
[After finishing with this she goes on :]
F. Oh dear ! she's got another . . . It's the threeth
. shelf upwards, the third, not counting the books
on the floor, and it's the very first book . . .
from the left. On page three, three, thirty-three,
there's a little message about halfway down what
is about the work {s.v. What work ?). The
work, she says. . . . She says it's a nice en-
couraging message about the work that you and
jVIrs. Una is doing for Ladye. 'Cos she says she
always feels you are doing it for her, so you must
read the message in that light. 'Cos she says,
supposing an impossibility and that she couldn't
have had you and Mrs. Una, she would have had
to have some instrument, some one to work
through, 'cos she says it's her work given to her
on the other side, not 07ily for personal reasons ;
she had to help the earth plane, but she could
never have got through the work she has, 'cos she
could never have got the evidence through without
you and Mrs. Una, but she would have had to
worry any one what could be worried in order to
get through what she could. She says, now of
course it is considering an impossibility, but you'll
see that in the wording of the message on the
thhty-third page.
M. R. H. That she'd have had to have found somebody else ?
^ yo, it just suggests what she's just been talking
about.
[The book indicated was found to be Rudyard
Kipling's Kim. On p. 33 there was nothing even
396 Mrs. Henry Sidgwick. [part
remotely relevant. But on p. 3—and it is just
possible that the repeated " three " (see above),
may have been meant to emphasise that number
and not to signify 33—on p. 3 halfway down
(namely, on the sixteenth and seventeenth lines,
of a page of thirty-three lines) occur the words.
" it is always so when men work magic." A
great success would of course have been scored
had these words been found halfway down p. II
of Amitie Amoureuse. On the other hand, on the
latter page, beginning on the twelfth line of a
page of twenty-four lines, occur the words :
" Nous avons tant et tant cause et si intimement
que, bon gre mal gre, contre les convenances,
contre vos scrupules, notre amitie a ete definitive-
ment fondee." These words M. R. H. and U. V. T.
regard as conforming well to the conditions laid
down for the " message " to be found on p. 33 of
Kim. For there had been long and intimate talks
between Ijiem as to the advisabihty or the reverse
of their collaborating in psychical research before
they made up their minds to do so, and their
friendship was thus definitely founded.]
This case is, I think, less convincing than the one-
quoted in the text, not only because the assumption that
p. 3 of Ki7n was meant is a very doubtful one, but
because the method of the mistake if it was a genuine one
is less easy to grasp. It does not seem as if any omission
of Feda's or inexact repetition by her of what she was
told at the moment would account for it. It is more like
a mistake in repeating something that had been learnt
by rote.
Item from the A. W. V. book-test of February 28, 1918,.
omitted, from the text {see above, p. 342) :
On page 48 of the same book—oh ! he can't tell you
where on the page, wait a minute, it describes the state of
place that he's in now, the conditions he's in now, and
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix C. 397
that your lady's in now. Not their relative positions to
each other, but what they's both in. All the messages
they's giving to-day is connected together. Now he's
tr^dng to give the position of the message on p. 48. It's
lower down than the message on p. 73, he thinks it's
about haKway down, or a little lower.
[On Y>.
48 of Wells's book is the latter part of a short
section entitled " My Primary Act of Faith." The refer-
ences in it to the general scheme of the universe in which
there is " order and co-ordination as distinguished from
haphazard " and to the " ultimate rightness and significance
of things " are not inappropriate, but I agree with Mrs.
Salter that this part of the test can hardly be considered
successful.]
Now, just near that book—he's having a joke now, but
it's a test—there's a title ; it's within a span of the
test-book. (Feda makes a gesture of spanning a distance,
using the extended thumb and middle finger as a measure.)
There's a title suggesting a state or condition that he's
very glad he didn't go to. He says he might tell you
that while he was sensing the two first tests, he had no
idea of sensing the third, but then he saw it, and it
suggested the extreme opposite, so he thought he might
give it.
[There is no book answering to this description within
the distance indicated by Feda, but in the same shelf,
twenty-two inches to the right of the Wells book, is an
edition of tiie Purgatory of Dante which may fairly be
said to supply what is needed. It has the word " Purga-
tory " in large letters across the back of the book.]
398 . Mrs. Henry Sidgioick. '
.
[part
APPENDIX D.
Extracts from Book-Tests supplementary to Section 9'
(Examination of Alleged Modes of Perception).
Attempt to form a ivord by 'j^icking out letters from dijferenf
pages—A. V. B. sitting on February 20, 1918
—
referred' to-
on p. 356 ;
F. You must take the book after the test-book, iher
fourth book {s.v. On the first page, take the
first letter on the first page, the first letter of the
first Avord on tlie first page) and write him down.
Then on the tliird page, take one of the letters of
the first word {s.v. Whicli one ?). Put that
down. Wait a minute, on page 9 do tlie same, it
looks hke the third letter to Feda, of tlie first
word on page 9. Do the same with pages 2, 4,,
and 8. She says after page 9 take page 2, and
talie tlie fourth letter of the first word. Oh !
she's not sure that the first word has four letters,
if not, you must count letters not words. She's-
got a feeling it hasn't four letters, so she's pre-
paring you she says. This is an exjoeriment, and
she says she won't inflict it on you a second time-
if it is not successful. Then page 4 comes next
. . . second letter on that page . . . Now page 8-
{s.v. Oh dear ! this is awful !) just at the top-
of the loage what is called 8, it gives a word what
is the key to what the other letters spell. She-
says no spirit has ever attempted this before.
U. V. T. It's like an acrostic.
M. R. H. There was that page, page 9, where we weren't told'
what letter it was in the first word.
F. No, 'cos she's forgotten ! Feda thinks she was;
hoping she'd remember, but she didn't. ...
M. R. H. On all these pages there will appear the title of the-
book ; do you vnsh it ignored ?
I
1
Lxxxi.] An Examination of Book-Tests. Appendix D. 399
F. She says, absolutely . . . oiily the reading matter on
all the pages she's given.
The letters in question proved to be G. A. F -
(for the
IbJ
first word on p. 9 was " of " and the third letter " b ")
R. 0., which seem meaningless. The key-word on p. S
has not been identified. The test must therefore be
regarded as a failure, and so far as we can tell it may
simply have been patter of the control with no meaning
behind it. In this case it would of course throw no light
on the mode of perception since nothing would have been
perceived.
Extract from the A. W. V. Sitting on October 19, 1918,
referred to on p. 361.
The book-test began on this day with a failure. Then
some good things were said about titles of books, after which
Feda goes on :
Now he's jumping to the third row up . . . Now the
very first book on the third row on the left. {s.v. That's
him—page \^ hat ? Wait a minute then, please, IVIr. Arthur ;
I can't see the number, build it up again—forty-eight.^)
Forty-eight, four eight, not quite halfway down the page,
there is a reference to certain—certain conditions
—
{s.v.
She [Mrs. Salter] was not born then !) conditions which
hajopened in his life about twenty years ago . . . He says
it might be nineteen, it might be twenty-one, but he says :
" I'm putting it at twenty, and I think that's very near
it." Certain conditions which would apply to his life . . .
twenty years ago. When he was sensing these books he
got for the time being a peculiar clarity of ^^sion which
enabled him to see even words on the pages, and he finds
this morning he can even reproduce them to a certain
extent.2 Now on the page o^^posite to 48, almost level
with the message given, he seemed to see a very peculiar
word that suggested these letters to him : C, A, E
—
{s.v.
What? C, A, E, what comes after that? L ?) L, E, B.
•"Quoted above, p. 351. ^ Quoted above, p. 361.
400 Mrs. Henry Sidgivick. [part
(s.v. Have you missed something out, Mr. Arthur 1 He's
stopping and shaking his head.) No, he says this will do,
S. (s.v. Is that near enough to it ?) Yes he says it's near
enough. And now he says there's a reason why he showed
that, that word, think of it. He says he had reason in his
earth life to think of that word, that's why he noticed it
in that book. On the page opposite 48, it is. He wants
to say, if you find this word exactly as he gives it, will
you tell Mrs. Una, so that she can tell him.
The book proved to be The Second Woman by Norma
Lorimer. There was nothing on page 48 relevant to any-
thing that happened to Dr. Verrall twenty years ago. But
Feda is apt to be vague about time, and if she had said
about thirty-five years ago it would have agreed with the
statement that Mrs. Salter was not born then, and the
words " an appointment which permitted of his marrying,"
which occur about a quarter of the way down the page,
might have been taken as applicable. When Dr. and Mrs.
Verrall were first engaged it was not possible for fellows
of colleges to marry, and he might have had to leave
Cambridge and seek work elsewhere. But in 1882 this
restriction on marriage was removed.
Caelebs, the Latin for bachelor, does not occur on the
opposite page (p. 49), but the page deals with a bachelor
about to marry, and if we may suppose that in giving the
test from p. 48 he was thinking of the impossibility at one
time of marrying and keeping his Cambridge appointment,
the word Caelebs may be carrying on the same train of
thought. But, if so, it must have come in by association
of ideas—not by " sensing " the word itself.
END OF APPENDIX.
A SUGGESTED NEW METHOD OF RESEARCH.
By W. Whately Smith.
Some months ago I suggested, in a letter to the Journal,
that it might be possible to apply the word-association
test as a means of investigating the psychological status
of the " controls " of mediumistic trance. At that time
I contemplated relying solely on the actual words given
by the personalities under examination in answer to the
stimulus words of the test. As- a result of recent experi-
mental work, however, I have been able to devise a
method of research which appears to be far better adapted
to the end in view. This method I propose to describe
here. Its object is to determine, by purely objective
means, whether the " controls " of mediumistic trance are
the independent discarnate entities which they claim to
be or whether they should be regarded as " secondary
personalities " strictly analogous to those with which
psychopathologists are familiar. The importance of obtain-
ing a solution of this problem needs no emphasis.
For the benefit of readers who are unacquainted with
the word-association test I may briefly describe it as
follows :
The experimenter calls out to the subject, one by one,
a list of words—usually 100 in all—and the subject is
instructed to reply to each word as it is called out, as
quickly as possible, with the first word which occurs to
him, regardless of whether it " makes sense " or not.
He must not, of course, prepare his answer before the
word is called out. The words of the list are called the
" stimulus-words " and the subject's replies the " reaction
words."'
The time which elapses between the calling out of the
402 Tf. Whafely Smith. [part
stimulus word by the experimenter and the subject's
answering is commonly measured in fifths of a second
with an ordinary stop-watch and this interval is known
as the " reaction-time."
It has been found that any marked prolongation of the
reaction-time is generally a sign that the stimulus word
has awakened, by association, a group of ideas of strong
emotional significance to the subject—most usually of a
painful or disagreeable nature.
Some account of the method, illustrated by a striking
example, will be found in the Proceedings. Vol. XXIV.
pp. 676 and 677. The classical work on the subject is
Jung's Studies in Word Association and most works on the
technique of psycho-analysis deal with it in greater or less
detail.
The length of the reaction-time, coupled with the
observation of certain other signs, is a good enough guide
for most practical purposes, but it is too unreliable and
too susceptible to fortuitous interference to be of much
value for precise quantitative work. It is, among other
defects, liable to prolongation hy causes quite other than
the intensity of the emotion or " affective tone " ^ evoked
by the stimulus word and, as will appear later, it is the
affective tone which we wish to measure.
A far more delicate and precise method of doing this
is afforded by the phenomenon known as the " psycho-
galvanic reflex.*'
It has been found that if a weak electric current is
passed through the human body, between suitable points,
the amount passing, as measured by a galvanometer, is
increased i f any stimulus is applied which arouses emotion,
or causes a change of " affective tone " in the person
under examination. In other words the resistance of the
body (of the skin to be accurate) is lowered whenever
the subject experiences what may loosely be called a
" wave of emotion." Given a suitable subject under
good conditions, this test is extremely delicate and, as I
^ The term " affective tone is more strictly accurate than " emotion."
Those who are unfamiliar with psychological terminology may regard
the words as approximately synonymous.
LXXXI.] Suggested Neio Method of Research. 403
have recently showTi by experiment, is capable of dis-
criminating shades of affective tone with far greater
nicety than the reaction-time. As a result of the recent
observation and statistical analj'^is of some 12,000 reactions
in the word-association test with some seventy different
subjects, I have no hesitation in saying that as a measure
of affective tone this reflex is incomparabl}' superior to
the reaction-time for quantitative work.^
I myself have always used an ordinary D" Arsonval
galvanometer (resistance about 92 ohms) in conjunction
with a Wheatstone bridge of which the external resist-
ance was formed by two zinc -plate electrodes, covered
with wash-leather and soaked in salt-solution, which were
applied to the palm and back of the subject" s left hand.
With this arrangement excellent reactions to the word-
association test can be obtained from the great majority
of subjects and it is most striking to see how a person
who steadily gives reactions of, say, 10 to 15 scale divisions
for the majority of stimulus words will suddenly give
one of 50 or 60 or more when a word is called out which,
for some reason or other, arouses an emotionally significant
group of ideas.
^
In order to understand how these facts can be utilised
for the investigation of trance personalities it is necessary
to ask ourselves ivhy a word should arouse intense emotion
^ The chief points of superiority are :
(i) It is not under voluntary control.
(ii) It is not affected by purely " intellectual " difficulties such as
may misleadingly prolong the reaction-time.
(iii) The galvanometer deflection appears to be very approximately
proportional to the intensity of the affective tone no matter
how great it maj' be. while prolongation of reaction-time
is not.
(iv) Subject to certain teclmical reservations which would be out
of place here, the galvanometer detects both pleasant and
unpleasant tone while the reaction-time tends to indicate
only the latter.
' For the benefit of those who are ignorant of electrical matters I may
briefly paraphrase the foregoing by saying that any evocation of
emotion is accompanied by a change in the electrical properties of the
skin which can be accurately measured by the use of suitable apparatus.
This change is very closely proportional to the intensity of the emotion
evoked and can be used with confidence as a measure of it.
404 W. WJmtely Smith. [part
in one person and little or none in another. The reason
is, of course, that the word is associated in the mind of
the first person with emotional or exciting experiences,
while it has no such association in the second case. The
affective tone aroused in a given subject by a stimuhis
word is, in fact, determined by and is a function of that
subject's experience. But the experience of every indi-
vidual is unique and inasmuch as the reactions to stimulus
words are determined by experience we should conse-
quently expect these reactions to be correspondingly
unique for each individual tested. The actual degree in
which they will be so must depend, of course, on the
kind of stimulus words used. There a.re certain words
suggesting ideas of universal interest which produce strong
reactions in almost everyone and it is obvious that a list
containing a large proportion of such words would bring
out the differences between individuals much less clearly
than one consisting entirely of words which could only
excite emotion by virtue of their associations with experi-
ences peculiar to the particular individual concerned.
Subject to this condition, however, we would confidently
anticipate on general psychological grounds that a subject's
reactions to a list of words would be uniquely character-
istic of that subject.
But before we can use these considerations in the
construction of a method of research it is necessary to
test their validity by experiment and to obtain some
quantitative criterion for future use. This I have recently
been able to do.
In order to approximate as closely as possible to the
ideal of a list containing no words of universal interest,
I deleted from my original list the twenty words which
in previous experiments had been found to arouse the
most intense affective tone in subjects as a whole. I
replaced them by twenty other words which I judged
less likely to arouse intense affective tone in the average
subject.
I need not here go into other minor points of technique
and methods of computation which I adopted in order
to render the results obtained as free as possible from
LXXXI.] Suggested Neiv Method of Research. 405
the effects of accidental errors. My object was to ascer-
tain whether the extent of the agreement between the
reactions given by any two individuals was saliently less
than that between the reactions given by any one
individual on different occasions. In other words : do the
reactions of subject A taken on different occasions agree
between themselves more closely than they agree with the
reactions of subject B ? If so is the difference sufficiently
marked to enable us to determine whether two sets of
reactions, of unknown origin, emanate from the same
individual or from two different individuals ?
^
The extent to which any two series of measurements
(in this case reactions to stimuh) agree can be calculated
and expressed with mathematical precision in the form
of a Coefficient of Correlation. This is a figure which may
have any value between +rO for two series which agree
perfectly and -I'O for two which disagree perfectly.
Series which are wholly unrelated will give a coefficient
of correlation of 0. Thus the two series 1, 7, 8, 11, 56,
49, 18, 3, 14 and 3, 21, 24, 33, 168, 147, 54, 9, 42, will
give a coefficient of + TO because each increases or decreases
in precise conformity to the other. On the other hand
the series 7, 12, 9, 8, 4, 7, 6, 12, 2, 3, increases and
decreases in a manner precisely opposite to the behaviour
of the series 7, 2, 5, 6, 10, 7, 8, 2, 12, 11,—when one
increases the other proportionately decreases—and the
coefficient of correlation between these two will be - I'O.
The method whereby this figure, expressive of the
extent of agreement between two series of observations,
is calculated is familiar to statisticians but need not be
described here : the point is that if we are given two
series of measurements we can assess their agreement
in a wholly unambiguous fashion.
If, then, we are right in conjecturing that the psycho-
galvanic reactions to a suitable list of words, is uniquely
characteristic of the subject tested, the coefficient of corre-
^ In order to eliminate chance variations and to obtain representative
sets of reactions I caused each of my subjects to undergo repeated
tests from which average figures could be obtained. These tests were
spread over a period of about a month in each case. In the interests
of simplicity I omit details.
406 W. Whately Smith. [part
lation between series of reactions (or of average reactions
obtained from general tests) which are derived from the
same individual should be very appreciably higher than
that given by series taken from different individuals.
I accordingly calculated the correlations (a) of each
individual with himself and (6) of every individual with
every other. ...
The results were as follows : .' . . ^ ' -
It is obvious that these figures represent a pretty high
degree of agreement ; there are two " freaks namely.
Pi with the very high value of +'98 and P6 with the
very low value of + -42. But one would expect a distri-
bution of values of this kind.
The figures for the agreement of individiaals with each
other are :
Correlations of Individuals ivith Themselves.
Subject Pi gave a value of + -98
„ P2 „ „ +-72
„ P3 „ „ +70
P4 „ „ +-60
„ P5 „ +-68
„ P6 „ „ +42
Mean + -68
Subjects PI and P2 gave a value of + -19
P3 „ „ -02
„ P4 „ „ +12
„ P5 „ „ -01
,, P6 „ „ +-02
„ P3 „ „ +15
„ P4 „ „ +19
Po „ „ +-18
P6 „ +-01
„ P4 „ „ +-46
„ Po +-14
„ P6 „ „ --24
„ Po ,, „ +-23
P6 „ „ --04
„ P6 „ --13
Mean +.08
xxxxi.] Suggested Nev: Method of Research. 407
It will be noticed that with one exception, these values
are very markedly lower than those given by individuals
with themselves, which is in accordance with expectation.
The first class of coefficients are grouped round a* typical
value of about +"70, so to speak, while the second set
are similarly grouped round a typical value of about +-10.
It would be possible, by working out a very large
number of such coefficients, to obtain frequency distri-
butions " in each class and thence to calculate the mathe-
matical probability that any given coefficient subsequently
obtained belonged to one class or to the other. That
is to say we could calculate the precise chance that a
coefficient of correlation between two series of reactions
of unknown origin had arisen from correlating the re-
actions of the same individuals or of two different
individuals.
For practical purposes, however, such experiments are
"unnecessary and we can say with considerable assurance
that any coefficient greater than -f5 is tmlikely to have
proceeded from correlating the reactions of two different
individuals and that one of less than -i--3 is unlikely to
represent a single individual.
Now let us suppose the test to be apphed to a suitable
trance medium, first in the normal state and, second,
under control. (It will of course be advisable to apply
the test several times in each state in order to obtain
average reactions.) We shall thus obtain two series of
reactions of which one will be characteristic of the normal
personality, the other of the " control." If we then work
out the coefficient of correlation between these two series
the result should throw considerable light on the question
of whether the control personality is really identical with
the normal personality or not.
If the two series of reactions were substantially the
same, if, that is to say, the coefficient proved to be of
the same order as those obtained by correlating individuals
with themselves (about +"6 or more) we should conclude
that the " control " is really no more than a different
version, so to speak, of the normal personality and deter-
mined by the same mental content. Even this would
408 W. Whatehj Smith. [part
constitute a very considerable advance in positive know-
ledge of mediumistic states.
But if the two series were radically different, if the
coefficients were of the same order as those obtained by
correlating the reactions of different individuals (about
+ "3 or less) then even the most sceptical of orthodox
psychologists would be forced to consider very seriously
the claim of the " control to be regarded as an inde-
pendent personahty totally distinct from that of the
medium.^
The first of these alternatives would be confidently
expected by most psychologists and would occasion little
surprise to students of Psychical Research.-
But the second possibility demands somewhat closer
consideration. There are two ways in which the con-
clusion that the control is a personality distinct from that
of the medium could be evaded.
The first of these is by attribviting the result to chance.
This could, in general, be met by repeating the experiment
with other mediums. If necessary the question could be
reduced to terms of exact mathematical probability by
performing a sufficient number of tests on normal persons
to enable us to calculate the precise chance that the
apparent independence of medium and control was acci-
dental. This would be extremely laborious and would
not, in practice, prove necessary : if the coefficient of
correlation between medium and control were as low as,
say +'2 in two or three experiments, their independence
would be established with a very high degree of pro-
bability and the precise magnitude of that probability
^ It is, of course, possible that an indeterminate result might be
obtained. A coefficient of correlation of + -4, for example, would not
be helpful if the above figures are taken as a standard of comparison.
This contingency can to some extent be guarded against by using the
agreement of the medium with herself and of the control with itself
as a basis of comparison for the agreement of the medium with the-
control.
^ It must be tinderstood that I am here referring to what I may
term "general" controls, of the type to which "Rector," " Phinuit
"
and " Feda " belong, as opposed to 'personal'" controls such as
Hodgsonp, MyerSj,, or the " A.V.B." control in the case of Mrs. Leonard.
Lxxxi.] Stiggesfed New Method of Research. 409
would be of no practical interest. It is worth remember-
ing, however, that the method is of a nature amenable
to rigid mathematical treatment if required.
The other line of criticism would involve the supposition
that a secondary personality can be determined by a mass
of experience completely cut oS from that which deter-
mines the normal personahty. In my opinion this supposi-
tion is not justified by our knowledge either of psycho-
logical mechanisms in general or of the phenomena of
secondary personahty in particular. We know, to be
sure, that experiences extending over a considerable period
may be whoUy forgotten and rendered completely in-
accessible to consciousness so far as the voKtion of the
patient is concerned ; such amnesias are a common enough
feature of pathological cases. But we also know that
these dissociated tracts of experience are not dead and
inactive, not segregated into completely watertight com-
partments or separated by an impassable gulf from the
rest of the mental content.
If an emotional experience within the forgotten period
is stimulated by an appropriate word in an association
test the subject reacts, although he may remain com-
pletely amnesic to the incidents which invest the word
with its emotional significance.^ Similarly the "repressed"
material familiar to psycho-analysts gives rise to reactions
when it is stimulated, although it cannot come directly
into consciousness.
This shows that the fact of a mass of experience being
" dissociated " and inaccessible to consciousness does not
mean that it cannot be reached by stimuli or that it
cannot influence reactions. Hence, although the normal
personahty may be wholly amnesic to and unconscious
of the experiences which determine the characteristics and
behaviovir of the secondary—abnormal—personality, we
should, by analogy, expect that these dissociated experi-
^ This is well paralleled by what happens in the case of functional
anaesthesia in connection with which the term " dissociation " is also
used. A patient will not be conscious of a painful stimulus applied
to the functionally anaesthesic areas but, if connected to the galvano-
meter, he will react just as well as he does when the stimulus is applied
to the normallj- sensitive areas of his body.
410 W. Whately Smith. ^
[part
ences would none the less influence the reactions of the
normal personality, and conversely.
That this is actually so is indicated by the work of
Prince and Peterson on the " A.C.B. " case.^ These
experimenters selected words which were known to be of
emotional significance to the subject in one of her states
and then applied them to her as stimuli when in a
clifferent state. They found that larger psycho-galvanic
reflexes were evoked by these words than by indifferent
words, in spite of the fact that in the second state the
subject was amnesic to and ignorant of the incidents
which, experienced in the first state, had invested the
words with their significance.
All the available evidence suggests, therefore, that if
the " control " of mediumistic trance is no more than a
secondary personality of the medium, we ought to obtain
substantially identical series of reactions no matter whether
the stimuli are applied to the normal or to the control
personality.
It would, of course, be very desirable to confirm this
by comparative experiments on subjects whose mutations
of personality are without doubt purely pathological ; but
such cases are rare.
I may point out here that it is quite possible that
a " general "'
control might give reactions substantially
identical with those of the normal medium, while a
" personal " control might give quite difi^erent results.
If this were so we should have good reason for supposing
that the former is a secondary personality and the latter
really the separate individual which it purports to be.
I myself anticipate with some confidence that
'
' general
controls would prove to be secondary personalities, but
the issue seems more doubtful in the case of " personal
controls.
I need hardly add that to prove that either or both
varieties of control are merely secondary personalities
would still leave open the problem of the ultmiate origin
of evidential matter.
I have necessarily omitted to deal with many details
^Journal, of Abnormal Psychology, 1908.
Lxxxi.] Suggested New Method of Research. 411
of technique and. procedure which it would be necessary
to consider in the actual application of this method to a
concrete case. Nor have I discussed various incidental
ways—such as the study of the " reaction type "—-in
which the experiment might throw additional light on the
problems concerned. The object of this paper is not to
deal exhaustively with technical points, but rather to
explain the general nature of the proposed method of
experiment and of the results which may reasonably be
expected to accrue from its application.
The chief advantages which the method offers appear
to me to be as follows : .
:
(i) It is an entirely new line of attack.
(ii) The psycho-galvanic reactions observed are not
under voluntary control and fraud is, therefore,
automatically and completely excluded.
(iii) The method is strictly scientific and psychological.
It is entirely objective ; measurements are read
off a scale and subjected to purely mathematical
treatment ; no element of judgment or inter-
pretation enters into the experiment at all. The
results cannot, therefore, be influenced by any
subjective bias on the part of the experimenters,
whether conscious or unconscious.
(iv) The experiment does not depend on obtaining
" evidential material "'
of any kind. The usual
complications and uncertainties arising from the
possibility of cryptomnesia and telepathy are there-
fore absent.
(v) The experiment can be repeated as often as is
required with any number of different mediums.
Provided that the same hst of words is always
used, the results may be collated no matter from
what different sources or at what intervals of
time they are obtained.
(vi) Whatever the nature of the conclusions which
might be drawn from the experiment, critics
could be provided with complete data, in the form
of definite measurements and calculations and
invited to repeat the experiment in their own
412 W. Whately Smith. [part LXXXI.j
laboratories. This cannot be said of any other
method of psychical research,
(vii) If occasion arose it would merely be a matter of
prolonged experimentation to enable us to state
definitely the precise mathematical chance that
a " control is determined by a mass of experi-
ence completely isolated from and independent of
that which determines the normal personality of
the medium. (This is equivalent, in my opinion,
to the question of whether the " control " is
really to be regarded as an independent person-
ality. )
In view of these considerations I suggest that an early
opportunity might profitably be sought for applying the
method to the investigation of a suitable case of trance-
mediumship. • > a
APPENDIX.
1. Letter from the Right Hon. G. W. Balfour to
Mr. Whately Smith.
Fisher"s Hell, Woking,
February 17, 1921.
Dear Mr. Whately Smith,
Your interesting ' Paper on A Suggested Neiv Method
of Research has been sent to me in proof, and as you asked
me to let you have any criticisms of it which occurred to
me, you may perhaps think the following remarks worthy
of your consideration.
Your argument requires us to accept as scientifically esta-
blished that, in the case of secondary personalities recognised
as such, substantially identical series of reactions are regularly
obtained to whatever state " of the individual the stimuli
are applied. This may be true, but I venture to think that
far more experimental evidence is necessary before it can
be regarded as firmly established.
Let us, however, assume it as a working hypothesis, and
consider the further conclusions to which you think your
proposed method of investigation may legitimately lead.
As an illustration, suppose the method apiDlied to Mrs.
Leonard and to Feda, and that substantially identical reactions
are obtained from Feda and from the medium in her normal
state. This would show that, so far as the method ivent,
no distinction could be d^a^^^l between the case of Feda and
that of the undoubted secondary personalities hitherto experi-
mented upon. But it would not, and could not, prove that
Feda was not an independent conscious personality " control-
ling " the medium, unless we make the further assumption
that such an independently conscious personality would exhibit
the same kind of difference in the sizes of its reactions as
413
414 W. Whately Smith. [part
compared with those of the medium as is found to exist
between two individuals with two distinct bodies. Now this
is a very big assumption indeed ; for whatever the nature
of the contiol may be, it is of the essence of the case that
control and medium, at all events for the time being, have
a single body in common.
Next suppose that the reaction series obtained showed
differences similar to those presented by two normal individuals.
From this it would be legitimate to conclude that the nature
of the dissociation in the case of Mrs. Leonard and Feda
was different from that observed in admitted cases of double
personality. But it would not be safe to go further and infer
that Feda was an independent personality controlling Mrs.
Leonard. For it would still be possible to contend that a
difference in the nature of the dissociation was of itself
sufficient to account for the differences in the reaction series.
By far the most interesting case would arise if the reaction
series were found to be substantially the same as between
Feda and the medium, and substantially different as between
Feda and (say) A. V. B. when in full control. This would
certainly be suggestive ; but even in that event I am not
quite clear what conclusions respecting the nature of the two
controls could properly be drawn from it.
Please understand that I am far from saying that the
experiments you suggest are not well worth making, if it is
found possible to make them. Only I doubt whether they are
capable of throwing as much light on the question you particu-
larly wish to resolve as I gather from your Paper you anticipate.
Believe me. Yours very truly, G. W. Balfoctk.
2. Mr. Whately Smith's Reply.
42 Trumpington Street,
Cambridge, February 21, 1921.
Dear Mr. Balfour,
I am very much obliged to you for your valuable
criticisms of my paper. In answer to them I should like
to say, first of all, that I do not claim that experiments on
Lxxxi.] Suggested Neic Method of Research. Ajyperidix. 415
the lines suggested would be conclusive ; but I believe that
they are capable of giving fairly reliable indications which will
assist us in forming judgments about the i^roblems involved.
I quite agree that much more experimental evidence is
needed before we can regard the substantial identity of the
reactions obtained from two alternatmg personalities Ioiowti
to be pathological as an invariable feature of such states.
But, as pointed out in my paper, all the available evidence
points this way at present.
I do not think that the fact of the control using the
medium's body invalidates the assumption (I should prefer
to say the presumption) that the former, if an independent
entity, would give reactions different from those of the medium.
This, surely, A\ould only obtain if the control were also using
the medium's 7m7id. For the magnitude of the reaction to
a given word depends on that word's emotional significance
which, in turn, is determined by the associations which the
word has acquired as a result of the individual's experience.
If the experiences of medium and control are identical I cannot
see how one can call them separate personalities and. if
different, then the emotional significance of various words
and the magnitudes of the corresponding reactions should be
different also.
It is, of course, possible—though not, I think, probable
—
that the medium's mind is implicated in the process of control
as well as her body (assuming the existence of discarnate
entities) and if this is so one would expect that the stimulus
words giving large reactions with the medium in her normal
state would do so also when under control, but that one
would find, in addition, other large reactions peculiar to the
control herself. Careful comparison of the records should
make it possible to detect this, although the quantitative
indications of the correlation coefficient would be obscured.
I think the whole value of the method really turns on the
question of whether the dissociation which gives rise to
alternating personalities of the pathological order can result
in the segregation of masses of experience into water-tight
conpartments " in such a way as to render the various
complexes and constellations inaccessible, or accessible in a
markedly lessened degree, to stimulus words. To discuss this
416 W. Whately Smith. [part lxxxi.]
thoroughly would necessitate an exhaustive psychological
treatise, but so far as I can ascertain there is no reason for
supposmg it to be the case. On the contrary, all the facts
of Hypnosis, Dream, Psycho-analytic procedure. Amnesias,
Cryptomnesias, Multiple personalities, Hysteria, etc., seem to
me to indicate that although considerable tracts of experience I
may, by repression, be rendered incapable of coming into i
consciousness they are none the less readily accessible to the i
appropriate stimuli and capable of exerting their full influence
upon the reactions and behaviour of the individual. i
This view I hope shortly to justify in detail in another |
place.
With renewed thanks for your letter.—Yours very truly,
W. Whately Smith.
FORMER PRESIDENTS OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSTCHICAL RESEARCH.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1882-84.
Professor Baifour Stewart,
F.R.S., 1885-87.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - 1888-92.
The Right Hon. a. J. Balfofr,
M.P., O.M.. F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, - - 1894-95.
Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S., 1896-99.
Frederic W. H. Myers,- - - 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S. - 1901-03.
SiE William Barrett, F.R.S., - 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - 1905.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour,- 1906-07.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, -
H. Arthur Smith, -
Andrew Lang.
Rt. Rev. Bishop W. Boyd Car-
penter, D.D., - - - .
Professor Henri Bergson, -
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, -
Professor Gilbert Murray,
LL.D., Litt.D..
L. P. Jacks, LL.D.. D.D., -
The Ut. Hon. lord Rayleigh,
O M., F.R.S., - - - -
W. McDougall, F.R.S., M.Sc,
M.B., - - - - -
1908-09.
1910.
1911.
1912.
1913.
1914.
1915-10.
1917-18.
1919.
1920.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1921.
PRESIDENT.
Wm. M'Dougall, F.E.S., M.Sc, M.B.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
Et. Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M.,
F.R.S.
Kt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
George B. Dorr.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D.
Litt.D.
J. G. PiDDIXGTON.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt.,LL.D.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M. F.R.S.
COUNCIL.
W. W. Baggallt.
The Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Rev. M. a. Bayfield.
Sir George Beilby, F.R.S., LL.D.
Captain Ernest N. Bennett.
The Hon. Everard Feilding.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bakt.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
ProF.Gilbert Murray, LL.D.,Litt.D.
J. G. Piddington.
Miss M. Radcltffe-Hall
W. H. Salter.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney C. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt.,LL.D.
W. Whately Smith.
Charles Lloyd Tdckey', M.D,
V. J. Woolley, M.D.
M. B. Wright, M.D.
HON. TREASURER.
W. H. Salter, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
HON. SECRETARIES.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
V. J. Woolley-, M.D., St. Thomas's Hospital, London, S.E.
HON. EDITOR AND RESEARCH OFFICER.
Mrs. W. H. Salter, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
SECRETARY AND LIBRARIAN.
Miss I. Newton, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
AGENTS FOR AMERICA.
The F. W. Faxon Co., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
2e
MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
July, 1921.
President—Wm. M'Dougall, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B.
Vice-Pkbsidents.
The Right Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., O.M., F.R.S., 4 Carlton
Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour, Fishers Hill, Wokmg, Surrey.
Sir WiUiam F. Barrett, F.R.S., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
George B. Dorr, 18 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headmgton, Oxford.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, Nr. Salisbury.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., 82 Woodstock Road,
Oxford.
J. G. Piddington, Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D., 20 Hanover Square, London,
W. 1.
Sir J. J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Truiity Lodge, Cambridge.
Honorary Members.
Sir William F. Barrett, F.R.S., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. L
Madame Curie, Faculte des Sciences de Paris, Laboratoire de
Physique Generale, 12 rue Cuvier, Paris.
Miss Alice Johnson, Meadowside, Grantchester Meadows, Cam-
bridge.
Count Perovsky-Petrovo-Solovovo, c/o Madame Woyevodsky,
25 Dawson Place, London, W. 2.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., F.R.S., Trinity Lodge, Cambridge.
420 Members and Associates. [part
Corresponding Members.
Professor A. Alexander, Caixa 906, Rio Janeiro.
Professor H. Beaunis, Villa Printemj)s, Le Cannet (Alpes Mari-
times), France.
Professor Henri Bergson, 32 Rue Vital, Paris.
President Nicholas M. Butler, Columbia University, New York,
U.S.A.
Dr. Max Dessoir, Speyererstrasse 9, Berlin, W.
Professor Dr. Freud, ix., Berggasse 19, Vienna.
President Stanley Hall, Clark University, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
^Irs. William James, 95 Irving Street, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Professor Pierre Janet, 54 Rue de Varenne, VII'^, Paris.
Dr. C. G. Jung, Seestrasse 228, Kusnacht, E. Zurich, Switzerland.
M. Maurice Maeterlinck, 32 rue Perronet, Neuilly-s.-S., France.
Professor Wm. Romaine Newbold, Ph.D., Univ. of Pennsylvania,
Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Dr. Morton Prince, 458 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Dr. Walter F. Prince, c/o The American Society for Psychical
Research, 44 East 23rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
Professor Charles Richet, 15 Rue de I'Universite, Paris.
Dr. Freiherr von Schrenck-Notzing, 3 Max Joseph Strasse, Munich.
Honorary Associates.
Alrutz, Dr. Sydney, Upsala, Sweden.
Bx'owning, Oscar, Palazzo Simonetti, via Pietro Cavallmi, Rome.
Dallas, Miss H. A., Innisfail, Crawley, Sussex.
Falcomer, Professor M. T., Regio Institute Tecnico e Nautico,
Venice.
Fryer, Rev. A. T., 63 Newbridge Road, Bath.
Gow, David, 5 Queen Square, Southampton Row, London, W.C. 1.
Grubb, Edward, 9 SoUershott West, Letchworth, Herts.
Hill, J. Ai'thur, Claremont, Thornton, Bradford.
Muirhead, Professor J. H., The Rowans, Balsall Common, nr.
Coventry.
Sage, M., 33 Rue de Coulmiers, XIV^ Arrt., Paris.
Stawell, Miss F. Melian, 33 Ladbroke Square, Notting Hill Gate,
London, W. 11.
van Eeden, Frederik, M.D., Walden, Bussum, Holland.
lxxxl] Members and Associates. 421
Members and Associates.
A7i asterisk is prefixed io the names of Members.
Abemethy, jNIrs., Foreland, The Park, Cheltenham.
Acland-Hood, Lady Helena.
Adair, Desmond, Little Flixton, Forest Road, Worthing.
Adamson, T., 16 Dominion Buildings, Edmonton, Alberta,
Canada.
*Agar, JVIrs. J. S., c/o Messrs. Agar, Cross & Co., Carlton House,
llD Eegent Street, London, S.W. 1.
Agelasto, Michael A., Armstead Bridge Court, Apt. 206, Armstead
Bridge Road, Norfolk, Va., U.S.A.
Aglen, F.A., Inspectorate General of Customs, Peking, China.
Albree, John, Swampscott, Mass., U.S.A.
Alden, H. W., 21 Edison Avenue, Detroit, Michigan, U.S.A.
Alexander, Professor S., Victoria University, Manchester.
Allan, Miss J., Torrance, East Kilbride, Lanarkshire.
Allan, Percy, M.D., Crogdene, Croham Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
Allen, B. M., 14 Gainsborough Gardens, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Allen, Professor H. J., c/o The National Bank of India, 26 Bishops-
gate, London, E.G. 2.
Allen, WiUiam, M.B., 20 Sandyford Place, Glasgow.
Alston, iVIrs. Rowland,
*Ames, Major C. G., East India United Service Club, 16 St. James's
Square, London, S.W. 1.
^Anderson, Lady, Ballydavid, Waterford, Ireland.
Anderson, Mrs., Brackenboro', Bramhall, Cheshire.
Anderson, Brig.-General A. T., R.A., Low Hill House, Spetchley,
Worcester.
Anderson, F., 2 South Troy Avenue, Ventnor City, N.J., U.S.A.
Anderson, Mrs. Henry C, 25 Fountainhall Road, Edinburgh.
*Andersson, C. R., Koping, Sweden.
Andrews, Dr. Marion B., 73 Shrubbery Avenue, Worcester.
Anstey, Lieut. -Colonel E. C, R.A., Junior Naval and MiUtary
Club, 96 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Appleby, Joseph, Famley, Great Crosby, Liverpool.
Armstrong, Charles W., Caixa 196, S. Paulo, Brazil.
422 Members and Associates. [part
Armstrong, Miss M. M., 57 Redington Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
Arnold, Mrs. A. E., 98 Masbro' Road, London, W. 14.
=^Arnold-Forster, Mrs. H. 0., Basset Down, Swindon, Wilts.
Ashcroft, Mrs., Ladies' Athenaeum Club, 32 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
*Ashcroft, Rev. Harold, Wesley College House, Royapettah, Madras,
S. India.
*Aspland, George D., 10 Elsworthy Road, London, N.W. 3.
*Assheton-Smith, Lady, c/o Lady Montgomery, 25 Bruton Street,
London, W. L
Atwater, Horace G., Norfolk, St. LaAvrence Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Auden, Harold A., Studley, Whitehedge Road, Garston, Liverpool.
Aune, E., Raub, Pahang, Federated Malay States.
*Aiin6n, Marquis de, Palazzo di Spagna, Rome.
Austen, Harold W. C, M.D., 2 Freeland Road, Ealing, London,
W. 5.
Babcock, Mrs. Bernie, 512 Palm Street, Little Rock, Arkansas,
U.S.A.
Bacon, Mrs. Sewell, Highground, Waterford Rd., Oxton, Birken-
head, Cheshire.
*Baddeley, Colonel C. E., C.M.G., 1 Glyn Mansions, Addison Bridge,
London, W. 14.
Baddeley, Miss Florence A., Cathedral House, Gloucester.
*Baggally, Wortley W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
Baggally, Mrs. W. W., 7 Sillwood Place, Brighton.
*Baha, M., c/o Librairie Ikbal, 2 Sublime Porte, Constantinople.
Turkey.
Baikie, W. S., Southend, Stromness, Orkney Islands.
Bailey, Cyril, Balliol College, Oxford.
Bailey, Hon. Mabel, Hay Castle, Hay, by Hereford.
*Bailey, Professor T. P., University of the South, Sewanee, Tenn.,
U.S.A.
Baker, Alfred, L., 141 So La Salle Street, Chicago, lU., U.S.A.
"^Baker, Mrs. Charles, 27 Kensington Gardens Square, London,
W. 2.
*Baker, Rev. F. C, 69 Cunningham Park, Harrow, Middlesex.
Baker, Miss Mabel, 21 Landsdowne Avenue, Slough, Bucks.
*Baldwin, Mrs., 1 Gloucester Place, London, W. 1.
*Balfour, Miss, 4 Carlton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 423
*Balfour, Right Hon. A. J., M.P., O.M., F.R.S., 4 Carlton Gardens,
London, S.W. 1.
*Balfour, Right Hon. G. W., Fishers HiU, Wokmg, Surrey.
Banner, Mrs., Triven, Benson-on-Thames, WaUingford, Berks.
*Barcellos, A. M. S., 77 Fort Street, GeorgetowTi, British Guiana.
Barclay, Edwyn, 8 Egerton Terrace, London, S.W. 3.
Barclay, Mrs. Edwyn, 8 Egerton Terrace, London, S.W. 3.
Baretti, Mrs., 156 Mill Lane, West Hampstead, London, N.W. 6.
*Barker, Mrs. C. F., Gladstone Hotel, Chicago, III, U.S.A.
Barkley, Dr. M., Box 162, Carlyle, 111., U.S.A.
Barkworth, Mrs., Ladies' Imperial Club, 17 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
*Barlow, Miss Katharine, St. Valerie, Bray, Co. Wicklow, Ireland.
Barrett, Lady, M.D., 31 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Barritt, E. H., J.P., White House, Layer Breton, Kelvedon.
*Barrow, J. R., Chittagong, Bengal, India.
Baruch, Edgar, 563 I. W. Hellman Building, Los Angeles. Cal.,
U.S.A.
Basden, Miss Isabel K., 21 The Drive, Hove, Sussex.
*Batchelor, E., I.C.S.. Chhindwara, Central Provinces, IncUa.
*Bates, J. Edwin, M.B., 55 Murray Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
*Battersea, The Lady, Aston Cluiton, Trmg, Herts.
*Batty, IVIrs. V. Roy, 40 Harley House, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
*Bayley, Weston D., M.D., 1524 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Bayfield, L. Arthur. Park Grange, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*Bayfield, Rev. M. A., The Rectory, Hertingfordbury, Hertford.
Baynes, W. E. C, Assiut, Upper Egypt.
*Bazett, Miss L. Margery, The Firs, Redhill, Surrey.
*Beadon, Mrs., at 11 Cheyne Walk, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Beattie, Ivor Hamilton.
*Beckett, W. N., D.Sc, Lieut. R.N., c/o Messrs. Stilwell & Sons,
42 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Beenhouwer, J., 4 Wesperzijde, Amsterdam, Holland.
*Behrens, Captain Clive, Swinton Grange, Malton, Yorks.
Behrens, Noel Edward.
*Beilby, Sir George, F.R.S., LL.D., 11 University Gardens, Glasgow.
Belaribi, Mrs., Bartlands, Holt Heath, Worcestershire.
424 Members and Associates. [part
Bell, Miss Alison H., Exmoor, Quickley Lane, Chorley Wood, Herts.
*Bell, Dr. Mary C, 17 Gower Street, London, W.C. 1.
*Benedict, Professor H. Y.. University of Texas, Austin, Texas,
U.S.A.
Bennett, Colin N., Escot, Penzance, Cornwall.
*Bennett, Captain E. N., 12 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead.
London, N.W. 3.
*Bennett, Mrs. E. N.. 12 Prince Arthur Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Bennett, Captain John G., Aviemore, Cambridge Road, Wimbledon,
London, S.W. 20.
Benson, Miss A. M., M.D., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 65 Cornhill,
London, E.C. 3.
Benson, Arthur C, C.V.O., The Old Lodge, Magdalene College,
Cambridge.
*Benson, E. F., 25 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
Benton, Dr. J. R., Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
*Benton, W. E., 18 Emanuel Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
*Beresford, J. D.,The White House, East Claydon, Wmslow, Bucks.
Bergen, Axel von. Abbey Road, Darhngton, Durham.
Berrington, Rev. Leslie G., Churchover Rectory, Rugby.
*Berry, Mrs. F. M. Dickinson, M.D., 21 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
*Bertie, L. W. H., M.A., The Nook, 110 Woodstock Road, Oxford.
Betton, C. Steuart, c/o Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Bevan, Arthur 0., Tow-iisend House, Nantmch, Cheshire.
Bevan, Mrs. Robert, 131 Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Bevan, Hon. Mrs. R. Yorke, 9 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Bibesco, H.H. Prince Antoine, 114 Grosvenor Road, London,
S.W. 1.
Bidder, George P., Cavendish Corner, Hills Road, Cambridge.
*Bigg, Miss Louisa, 2 York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
*Binney, Lady Marjory, Pamj^isford Hall, nr. Cambridge.
*Binney, Rev. Maximilian F. B., The Vicarage, Ringwood, Hants.
Black, Mrs., 24 Abbey Buildings, Tower Bridge Road, London,
S.E. 1.
Blackburn, A. J., Aruba House, The Leazes, Burnopfield, Durham.
Blacklock, Miss C, Lewie, Ditchlmg, Hassocks, Sussex.
Blane, Miss Edith H.,16 St. Augustine's Mansions, Vincent Street,
London, S.W. 1.
lxxxl] Members and Associates. 425
Blathwayt, W., Eagle House, Batheaston, Bath.
Bligh, Stanley M., 28 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
Bloemfontein, The Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of, Bishop's Lodge,
Bloemfontein, O.R.C., S. Africa.
Bois, H. G., c/o Messrs. Robertson Bois & Co., 12 Fenchurch
Street, London, E.G. 3.
*Bolton, Edward J., Wood Bank, Oakamoor, N. Staffs.
Bond, F. Bligh, F.R.I.B.A., Cintra Lawn, St. Mark's, Cheltenham.
*Bond, Major W. C, O.B.E., Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Bond, Mrs. W. C, Shalesbrook, Forest Row, Sussex.
Bonus, A. R., Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Boothroyd, A. E., c/o Mrs. Dore, 64 Redington Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Booyalsky, Jean de, 54 Rue de la Liberte, Liege, Belgium.
Bosanquet, Miss Theodora, 38 Cheyne Walk, London, S.W. 3.
*Boustead, IVIrs., 9 Rutland House, Cheniston Gardens, Kensington,
London, W. 8.
Bouwens, B. G., Old Manor House, Littleton, Shepperton,
Middlesex.
Bowden-Smith, Mrs., Careys, Brockenhurst, Hants.
*Bowditch, C. P., Ill Devonshire Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Bow-en, Miss Anna C, 210 E. Main Street, Batavia, N.y., U.S.A.
Bower, James Garton, Junr., Earlham House, Norwich.
*Bowyer, John F., Lieut., R.N., 53 Evelyn Gardens, Kensington,
London, S.W. 7
*Bowyer, Mrs. John F., 53 EveljTi Gardens, Kensington, London,
S.W. 7.
*Bowyer, Lieut. -Colonel W. G., Weston Manor, OLney, Bucks.
*Bowyer, Mrs. W. G., Weston Manor, Olney, Bucks.
Box, Alfred Marshall, Woodlands, 14 Magrath Avenue, Cambridge.
Boxer, Miss Cecile F., Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Boxer, Major H. C, Firwood, Alum Chine, West Bournemouth.
Brabrook, Sir Edward W., C.B., Langham House, Wallington.
*Bradley, Miss A. A., Hingham, Mass., U.S.A.
Bradley, Professor A. C, 54 Scarsdale Villas, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Bradley, F. H., Merton College, Oxford.
*Brandt, Rudolph E., 4 Fenchurch Avenue, London, E.C. 3.
Bray, F. E., 17 The Boltons. London, S.W. 10.
426 Members and Associates. [part
Brewster, Bertram, 59 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Brierley, Mrs. D. F., 21 Woodville Gardens, Ealing, London,
W.5.
Bristowe, The Hon. L. S., Le Chalet, Fermain Bay, Guernsey.
*Broad, C. D., Litt.D., 159 South Street, St. Anckews.
Bromberg, Frederick G., Mobile, Alabama, U.S.A.
Brooke, Colonel C. K., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Brooke, E. G. de C, Brushford, Dulverton, Devonshire.
*Brooke, J. R., 1 Mitre Court Buildings, Tem^^le, London, E.C. 4.
*Brooks, R. Birkett, R.N., The Chantry, Hoby, Leicester.
Brown, Captain A. D. Burnett, M.C., Greenhurst, Beaconsfield,
Bucks.
*Brown, B. G., 46 Regent s Park Road, London, N.W. L
*Brown, B. H. Inness, 24 Broad Street, New York, N.Y., U.S.A.
Brown, Charles, M.B., Inglewood, Pathhead, Kirkcaldy.
Bro^vn, Mrs. Frank Clifton, Stanford Place, Faringdon, Berks.
*Brown, Haydn, L.R.C.P., Manor Lodge, Chislehurst, Kent.
*Brown, Wm., M.D., D.Sc, 14 Welbeck Street, Cavendish Square,
London, W. 1.
Browne, Professor Edward G., M.B., Pembroke College, Cam-
bridge.
*Browne, Rev. Geoffrey E., 19 Elm Park Gardens, London,
S.W. 10.
Browne, 0. H., Hyderabad, Deccan, India.
*Browne, Mrs. A. Scott, Buckland Filleigh, Highampton,
N. Devon.
Brownrigg, Lady, White Waltham, Maidenhead, Berks.
*Bryans, G., Court Royal, King's Cliffe, Brighton.
*Bubb, Henry, J.P., UUenwood, near Cheltenham.
*Buchan, Mrs. J., Elsfield Manor, Oxford.
*Buchanan, Lieut. -Colonel H. M., Medical Headquarters, 4th N.Z,
Inf. (Res.) Brigade, Sling Camjo. Bulford, Salisbury.
*Buist, Mrs., Swalcliffe Lea, Banbury, Oxon.
Bullard, Dr. W. N., 89 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Buller, Professor A. H. Reginald, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg,
Canada.
*Bulley, Mi'S. Arthur, Ness, Neston, Cheshire.
*Bullough, Edward, 6 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Burnett, Miss Ethel, Crathes Castle, Crathes, N.B.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 427
Burnham, Mrs., Staindrop Lodge, Chaiaeltovra, Sheffield.
Burns, Nesbitt, M.B., The Lodge, Highbridge, Somerset.
Burrard, JMrs. Charles, c/o Lloyds Bank, Ivnightsbridge Branch,
Brompton Road, London, S.W. 1.
Burton, Mrs. Harry, 25 via dei Bardi, Florence, Italy.
*Bury, Henry, Mayfield House. Farnham, Surrey.
Bury, Mrs. Henry, Mayfield House, Farnham, Surrey.
*Bush, E., 11 Silver Street, Wakefield, Yorks.
Bushell, Miss S. D., The Hermitage, Harrow-on-the-Hill.
*Busk, Mrs., 6 Wadliam Gardens, London, N.W. 3.
Butler, Mrs. Charles, Rock House, Chudleigh, Devon.
Butt, Lady, c/o London Joint City & Midland Bank, South Ken-
sington Branch, Gloucester Road, London, S.W. 7.
Buttemer, Robert Wm., St. Mary's, Godalming, Surrey.
Butterworth, Miss A. M., 9 Huskisson Street, Liverj^ool.
Caccia, Major A. M., 7 Norham Gardens, Oxford.
Cadell, Mrs. Lewis, Brae Lodge, Murrayfield, Edinburgh.
Caird, Mrs. Henryson, 34 Woronzow Road, St. John's Wood,
London, N.W. 8.
Cairns, Rev. David S., D.D., 62 Hamilton Place, Aberdeen.
Call, Major Felix, D.S.O., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., 16 Charing
Cross, London, S.W. 1.
*Campbell, Lady Archibald, Coombe Hill Farm, Kingston-on-
Thames, Surrey.
Campbell, j\Irs. Burnley, Ormidale, Glendaruel, Colintraive, Argyll
shire.
*CampbeU, Mrs., Arduaine, LochgiljDhead, N.B.
Campbell, Colin E., 9 Lower Belgrave Street, London, S.W. 1.
Campbell, Rev. R. J., Christ Church Vicarage, Westminster.
London, S.W. 1.
*CampbeU-Lang, Miss, c/o Professor Brunton, LL.B., 180 Hope
Street, Glasgow.
Candler, H. A. W., 37 Commercial Road East, London, E. 1.
Candler, Miss M. I., 37 Commercial Road East, London, E. 1.
*Carden, W. A., M.R.C.S., BothavUle, O.F.S., S. Africa.
*Carew, Mrs. R. T., Ballydavid, Waterford, Ireland.
*Carlton, Arthur, J.P., Colehurst, Worcester.
^Carnarvon, The Earl of, 1 Seamore Place, London, W. 1.
*Carpenter, iVIrs., 43 Teignmouth Road, Cricklewood, London,
N.W. 2.
428 Members and Associates. [part
Carrington, Hereward, Ph.D., 504 West 111th Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
Carruthers, Mrs. W., c/o Bank of Montreal, 9 Waterloo Place, Pall
MaU, London, S.W. 1.
*Carter, Mrs. H. A., Mena House, St. Erth, Hayle, Cornwall.
Case, Miss A. J., 35 Elm Bank Mansions, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
Cathels, Rev. David, The Manse, Hawick, Scotland.
Cave, Captain A. L., Sherwood, Newton St. Cyres, Devon.
*Cave, Charles J. P., Stoner Hill, Petersfield, Hants.
Cecil, Lady Francis, Alford House, Alford, Somerset.
Chadwick, Mrs. EUis, St. Moritz, Parkstone, Dorset.
*Chadwick, Miss M. W., 34 Brunswick Square, London, W.C. 1.
*Chambers, John, MokojDcka, Hastings, Hawkes Bay, New Zealand.
*Champion de Crespigny, Mrs. Philip, Artillery Mansions, West-
minster, London, S.W. 1.
*Chanee, Colonel H., Army and Navy Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W.I.
*Chapman, C. F., Susses Lodge, Kingston Hill, Surrey.
Chapman, E. G., Belsize, Friern Watch Avenue, N. Finchley,
London, N. 12.
Charles, Clifford P., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Bancroft, Hitchin,
Herts.
Charlton, Miss Frances M., 23 Kensington Square, London, W. 8.
Chatterjee, A. K., Deputy Magistrate and Collector, P.O. Birham-
pur. District Murshidabad, Bengal, India.
Chattock, Arthur P., D.Sc, Heathfield Cottage, Crowcombe, nr.
Taunton, Somerset.
Cheney, Dr. Frederick E., 64 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston,
Mass., U.S.A.
Childe-Pemberton, Miss A. H., The Wyche Cottage, Malvern.
Chitty, Hubert, M.S., M.B., 46 Pembroke Road, Clifton, Bristol.
Chubb, Mrs. C. A., Longforgan. The Ridgway, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
Clapham, Mrs. H. H., 50 South 6th Street, San .Jose, Cal., U.S.A.
Clapham, J. H., King's College, Cambridge.
Clark, Mrs. Cecil, c/o Bank of Canada, Port-of-Spain, Trinidad,
B.W.I.
Clark, Rev. F. H. H., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
*Clarke, Eno E., 5 Prince s Gardens, Ealing, London, W. 5.
Clarke, Ronald Stanley, The Ship Hotel, Crediton, Devon.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 429
Clarkson, Mrs. St. John, 8 Milner Street, Cadogan Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Clay, The Hon. Mrs., 11 Tite Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Clayton, Mrs. C. E., Holmbush Lodge, Woodmancote, nr. Henfield,
Sussex.
Clive, Hon. Henrietta Windsor, Oakly Park, Bromfield, Salop.
Closson, Miss Olivia T., Apt. 405 The Woodward, Connecticut
Avenue, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Clowes, Major C. E., Arthur's Club, 69 St. James's Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Clwyd, Lady, Brjmgwenallt, Abergele, N. Wales.
Coates, Mrs., Hazelwell, Cheltenham.
*Coates, Mrs. G., Hotel Britannique, Corso Vittorio Emmanuele,
Naples, Italy.
Cobden-Sanderson, Mrs., 15 Upper Mall, Hammersmith, London,
W. 6.
Cockle, Rev. Francis T., The Rectory, Swinford, Co. Mayo, Ireland.
Coe, Miss M. A., 195 Via Le Alessandro Villa, Florence, Italy.
*Coggin, Rev. F. E., White Lodge, Meads, Eastbourne.
Coleridge, IVIiss Christabel R., Cheyne, Torquay.
Collins, Miss M., 29 Glenluce Road, Blacklieath, London, S.E. 3.
*Collis, Miss Beatrix, 74 Walton Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Colquhoun, Daniel, M.D., 44 High Street, Dunedin, New Zealand.
Compton, Henry, 1709 Sills Street, Fort William, Ontario, Canada.
*Connor, Rev. John M., D.S.O., 10 Ormonde Avenue, Cathcart,
Glasgow.
Constable, F. C, GrenviUe, Lansdown, Bath.
Conway, Lady, 47 Romney Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Cook, A. G. H., The Villa, Washington, Co. Durham.
Cooper, Rev. F. W., Prestwich Rectory, Manchester.
Cooper, Mrs. P. H., 283 South Street, Morristown, N.J., U.S.A.
*Coote, J. F., The White House, Coltishall, Norwich.
Cornford, Rev. Bruce, 43 Havelock Road, Portsmouth.
Cornish, J. Easton, The Water Works, Alexandria, Egypt.
*Corry, Miss Lucy, 13 Argyll Road, Campden Hill, London, W. 8.
Cort van der Linden, P. W. A., Councillor of State, 59 Koning-
innegraeht. The Hague.
*Cory, Mrs., 7 Ferry End, Bray-on-Thames, Berks.
Cotesworth, Miss Lihas E., 45 Westminster Mansions, Great Smith
Street, London, S.W. 1.
430 Members and Associates. [part
*Cotterell, Miss Alice, 1g Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W. 1.
*Courage, Mrs., The Mount, Ifielcl, Crawley, Sussex.
*Cowan, Sir W. H. , M.P. . The Crow's Nest, Fairwarp, Uckfield, Sussex.
Cox, Mrs. Eowland, 310 West 7th Street, Plainfield, N.J.,
U.S.A.
Coxe, Henry R. H., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co., 54 Parliament
Street, London, S.W. L
Cozens, J. C, Brigus, Conception Bay, Newfoundland.
*Craig, Miss Helen M., Quinta da Cabeya, Cintra, Portugal.
*Cranston, Mrs., c/o Guaranty Trust Co., 50 Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
Craufurd, Commander Quentin C. A., R.N., c/o Admiralty, London,
S.W. L
*Creasy, Mrs., Glen Eyre, Bassett, Hants.
Crook, A. H., 4 Torres Buildings, Kowloon, Hong Kong.
*Crosfield, J. J., Gwernyfed Park, Three Cocks, R.S.O., Wales.
*Crosfield, Miss M. C, Undercroft, Reigate, Surrey.
Crouch, H. N., Sumrnerfield, Weston Park, Bath.
*Cunliffe, Walter R., 34, The Grove, Boltons, London, S.W. 10.
*Currie, Mrs., 7 Sunderland Terrace, Bayswater, London, W. 2.
*Curtois, Miss Margaret A., 53 Romney Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. L
Curzon of Kedleston, The Earl, Hackwood, Basingstoke, Hants.
Dale, J. Gilbert, 68 Holland Park, Kensington, London, W. IL
Damant, Mrs. H. C, Kendal Mount, Totland Bay, Isle of Wight.
Daniell, Mrs. Averell.
*Danson, F. C, 74 Bidston Road, Birkenhead.
D'Arcy, Rev. G. J. A., The Vicarage, Worksop, Notts.
*Davies, Benjamin, WiIford, Chase Green Avenue, Enfield, Middlesex.
*Davies, D. Berrington G., J. P., Parcygors, Llechryd, Cardiganshire.
Davies, Mrs. G. R., Glenlaggan, Parton, N.B.
Davies, Miss M. H. Lloyd, Lynton, Curzon Road, Hoylake, Cheshire.
Davis, A. E., F.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 71 Rodney Street, Liverpool.
*Davis, Mrs. Kennard, The School House, Woodbridge, Suffolk.
Davis, Romney R., Old Grove House, The Grove, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
Davis, Mrs., 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W.
*Davison, Miss Annie, 4 Ranelagh Grove, Pimlico Road, London,
S.W. 1.
lxxxl] Members and Associates. 431
Davison, Miss R., Milverton, Wilmslow Road, Alderley Edge,
Manchester.
Davys, Lieut. -Colonel G. I., I.M.S., c/o Messrs. Grindlay & Co.,
Hornby Road, Bombay, India.
Dawes, Mrs. Frank, 11a Portland Place, London, W. 1.
*Dawson, Captain G. de H.
Dawson, Lt. -Colonel Henry P., Hartlington HaU, Skipton.
Day, Rev. Dr. E. H., Newton House, Belmont, Hereford.
Day, Miss Mabel K., 15 Elgin Court, Elgin Avenue, London, W. 9.
Dearmer, Rev. Dr. Percy, Corner House, Radnor Place, London,
W. 2.
De Gramont, Comte A., 179 Rue de I'Universite, Paris, France.
*De Grave, Miss D. M., Pioneer Club, Park Place, St. James's,
London, S.W. 1.
Deichmann, Baroness, Abbey Lodge, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
De Jong, Dr. K. LL E., Beeklaar, 356, The Hague.
*De Koven, Mrs. Anna F., 1025 Park Avenue, New York City
U.S.A.
Deland, Mrs. Lorin F., 35 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Delap, Alfred D., Priorsland, Carrickmines, Co. Dublin, Ireland.
Denny, Rev. H. L. L., St. Mark's Vicarage, 66 Myddelton Square,
London, E.C. 1.
De Trafford, Mrs. Galfrid.
*Dewar, Lady, The Old Farm, Havant, Bants.
*Dewar, Rev. Peter, The Manse, North Bute, Rothesay. Scotland,
de Winton, Mrs. R. F., c/o Post Office, Box 591. PorterviUe. Cal.,
U.S.A.
De Wyckoff, Joseph, Arlena Towers, Ramsey, N.J., U.S.A.
Dickie, H. Elford, British Consulate, Madrid, Spain.
Dickinson, Miss, Trebrea Lodge, Tintagel, Cornwall.
Dickinson, Miss A. J., 3a Clareville Grove, London, S.W. 7. and
Poultry Court, Painswick, Gloucestershire.
Dickinson, G. Lowes, King's College, Cambridge.
Dicksee, Frank, R.A., 3 Greville Place, London, N.W. 6.
*Dimmock, Mrs. H. P., 77 MayowRoad, Sydenham, London, S.E. 26.
*Dingwall, E. J., c/o The American Society for Psychical Research,
44 East 23rd Street, New York, U.S.A.
*Diver, Mrs., 7 Leinster Square, Bayswater, London, W. 2.
*Dixon, Edward T.
432 Members and Associates. [part
Dixon, Hugh N., 17 St. Matthew's Parade, Northampton.
*Dixon, Professor W. Macneile, LL.B., Litt.D., 2 South Park
Terrace, Hillhead, GlasgOAv, W. "
'
Doane, Mrs. W. E., Stockbridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Doe, George M., Enfield, Great Torrington, N. Devon.
Donne, Mrs., c/o Messrs. Holt & Co., 3 Whitehall Place, London,
S.W. 1.
*Dougall, Miss Lily, Cutts End, Cumnor, Oxford.
Douglas, Rev. Dr. G. W., 5 East 88th Street, New York, N.Y.,
U.S.A.
*Dove, J. S., R.N., 80 Pall Mall, London, S.W. L
Dowson, Mrs., Landhurst Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
Dowson, Mrs. W. E., Felixstowe, The Park, Nottingham.
*Doyle, Sir A. Conan, M.D., Windlesham. Crowborough, Sussex.
Drew, Ringrose C, Kota Tirigzi, Johore, via Singapore, Federated
Malay States.
Drewry, Mrs. George, 4 Calverley Park, Tunbridge Wells.
Driesch, Professor Dr. Hans, Universitiit, Lindenstrasse 38, Coin.
^Dudley, James, M.Sc, 23 Albert Road, Wimbledon, London,
S.W. 19.
*Du£f, J. R. K., 100 Sunningfields, Hendon, London, N.W. 9.
*Duncan, Harold M., c/o Dr. G. W. Stewart, Oak Lane, Philadelphia,
U.S.A.
*Duncan, Mrs., Earlston, Ej)som Road, Guildford, Surrey.
Dunne, D. P., Yetholme, Liverpool Road, Birkdale, Southport.
*Dutton, Miss A., Somerdon, Sidmouth, Devon.
*Duveen, Mrs. Geoffrey, 15 Stratton Street, Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Eade, D.H.,.SpecialSurgical Hospital. Ducane Road, London, W. 12.
Eastwood, H. E., The Conservative Club, 74 St. James's Street,
London, S.W. 1.
*Eckstein, Mrs., 18 Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Edelsten, Colonel John A., 8 Beach La\TO, Waterloo, nr. Liverpool.
Edie, H. S. Ker, c/o Messrs. Thos. Cook & Son, Ludgate Circus,
London, E.C. 4.
*Edwardes, Mrs. Dyer, Prinknash Park, Patnswick,Nr. Stroud, Glos.
*Ekin, James, West Rocks, Grand Parade, Eastbourne, Sussex.
*Elder, Frederick, 57 Antrim Mansions, Haverstock Hill, London,
N.W. 3.
Eldred, Fleet-Paymaster E. H., R.N., c/o Capital and Counties
Bank, Ltd., Southsea, Hants.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 483
*Ellershaw, Major Henry, R.A.F., 124 Pembroke Road, Clifton,
Bristol.
Elliot, Miss A. I. M., Women's University Settlement, 44 Nelson
Square, Blaclvfriars Road, London, S.E. 1.
Elliot, Mrs. Gilbert, 87 Victoria Street, Westminster, London,
S.W. 1.
Elliott, Captain B. H., R.A., Oakleigh, Godstone, Surrey.
*Ellis, Herbert, The Gynsills, Groby Road, Leicester.
Emmerson, Robert, M.D.
Emmet, Rev. C. W., University College, Oxford.
Engall, John S., 62 Goldsmith Avenue, Acton, London, W. 3.
Eno, H. L., Princeton, iSIew Jersey, U.S.A.
Entee, Professor B. A., Samaldas College, Bhavnagar, India.
*Enthoven, Mrs. F. V., 33 Cambridge Square, London, W. 2.
Ersldne, Mrs. Gratney, The Buries, Bishopstrow, Warminster,
Wilts.
Evans, W. A., Inglewood, Ratcliffe Road, Leicester.
Everard, Captain H. N., R.A.M.C., 21 Denning Road, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Farrer, The Dowager Lady, Idlerocks, Stone, Staffordshire.
*Farrer, H. M., 81 Eaton Terrace, London, S.W. 1.
Farwell, Mrs.. Roanoke, Chorley Wood West, Herts.
Faulkner, W. B., 52 South Molton Street, London, W. 1.
*Faustinus, F., Sondre Fasanvej 97", Valbj^ Copenhagen, Denmark.
*Feilding, Hon. Everard, 161 St. James's Court, Buckingham Gate,
London, S.W. 1.
Felkin, Mrs., 119 Grosvenor Road, London, S.W. 1.
*FeUowes, The Hon. Lady, Honmgham, Norwich.
Fergusson, Rev. A. W., The Manse, Dundee.
*Femald, Mrs. C. B., 4 Marlborough Road, London, N.W. 8.
^Findlay, J. Arthur, Woodside, Beith, Ayrshire.
*Fisher, Mrs. C. D. Corbett, 8 Heathgate, London, N.W. 11.
Fisk, Rev. George, c/o The Kailan Mining Administration, Chin-
wangtao, Chihli, N. China.
*Fitch, Hugh B., 31 Campden Grove, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Fleetwood-Hesketh, Major C. H., Stocken Hall, Stretton, Oakham,
Rutlandshire.
^Fletcher, L. S., 3 Dr. Johnson's Buildmgs, Temple, London,
E.C. 4.
*Flude, Mrs., Glyn House, Argyle Road, Bognor.
434 Members and Associates. [part
Fliigel, J. C, 11 Albert Road, Regent "s Park, London, N.W. 1.
*Foot, Miss Katharine, c/o Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place Vendome,
Paris.
Footner, Mrs., 187 Ebury Street, London, S.W. 1.
*Ford, Mrs., 124a King's Road, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
*Forman, Josef, c/o Messrs. Agar-Hutton & Coe, 6 Princes Street,
Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Forman, Colonel R. H., A.M.S., East India United Service Club,
St. James's Square, London, S.W. 1.
Forrester, Mrs. Robert, Annfield, Stirling, N.B.
Fortescue,MissFrances,Winterbourne, Winchester Road, Worthing.
Foster, Mrs. Garland, Nelson, B.C., Canada.
Fotheringham, W. B., 17 Upper High Street, Worthing.
*Foulger, Howson R., 26 Hyde Park Square, London, W. 2.
*Fox, Mrs., Fawe Park, Keswick, Cumberland.
Fraenkel, Dr. Joseph, 101 East 94th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Francis, Mrs. Francis.
Franldin, The Hon. Mrs., 50 Porchester Terrace, London, W. 2.
Franks, Mrs., 51 Dacre Hill, Rock Ferry, Birkenhead
Freeman, Miss Adelaide C, Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
Freeman, Rev. H. B., The Vicarage, Burton-on-Trent, Staffs.
*Frith, Mrs., The Rectory, Oundle, Northants.
Frost, Lowell C, M.D., 1905 Vista Street, Hollywood, Los Angeles,
Cal., U.S.A.
Frostick, J. A., Christchurch, New Zealand.
*Fry, Miss Agnes, Failand House, Failand, near Bristol.
*Fry, Lewis George, Stonycroft, Limpsfield, Surrey.
Fryer, Mrs. F., 9 St. Peter's Grove, York.
*Fullerton, Colonel J. D., 172 Gloucester Terrace, Hyde Park,
London, W. 2.
*Fulton, Mrs. Hamilton, 35 The Close, Salisbury.
Gabb, F. B., at 70 Avondale Road, South Croydon, Surrey.
Gage, Lyman J., Point Loma, Cal., U.S.A.
Gantz, Mrs., 3 South Place, Letchworth, Herts.
Gardiner, Professor H. N., 187 Main Street, Northampton, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Gardner, Mrs., 3a White Gables, Wood Vale, Forest Hill, London,
S.E. 23.
*Gardner, Rev. A. R. L., 52 Beaufort Mansions, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 435
*Gaskell, Mrs. J. B., Roseleigh, Woolton, Liverpool.
Gates, Rev. Horatio, 355 Oakland Avenue, Milwaukee, Wis., U.S.A.
Gatliff, H. E. C, Balliol CoUege, Oxford.
*Geiger, F. J., 643 Land Title BuUding, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
GeUert, J. W., c/o Box 396, G.P.O., Adelaide, S. Australia.
*George, Mrs., 88 Prince of Wales Mansions, Prince of Wales Road,
Battersea Park, London, S.W. 11.
*George, H. Trevelyan, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P.. 33 Ampthill Square,
London, N.W. 1.
*Gibbms, Mrs. C. E., Wansbeck, 45 Norfolk Road, Brighton.
Gibson, Professor W. R. Boyce, D.Sc, Ennerdale, Tower Street,
Surrey Hills, Melbourne, Australia.
*Gill, A. Wilson, M.D., Chatterley Cottage, Hanley, Stoke-on-Trent.
Gilson, R. Gary, King Edward's School, Birmingham.
*Ginwala, F. J., 373 Hornby Road, Fort, Bombay, India.
*Girdlestone, Mrs. Frank, The Bridge House, Sible Hedingham.
Essex.
Girod, Madame, 4 Avenue Hoche, Paris.
Glasson, J. W., I.C.S., 51 St. George's Road, Harrogate.
Gledstone, Miss May, 73 Gleneldon Road, Streatham, London,
S.W. 16.
Glenconner, Lady, 34 Queen Anne's Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Glenny, George C, Old Croft, Stanwix, Carlisle.
Glenny, Mrs. G. C, Old Croft, Stanwix, Carhsle.
Glidden, Walter S., 13 Centre Street, Bath, Maine, U.S.A.
Glover, Cedric H., 35 Albert Road, Regent's Park, London, N.W. 3.
*Godowsky, Leojjold, 626 South Alexandria Avenue, Los Angeles,
Cal., U.S.A.
Goedhart, P., Koningen Maria Straat 18, The Hague.
*Goldschmidt, Mrs. Beni de, Clarefield, Pinkney's Green, Maidenhead,
Berks.
*Golledge, V. F. Hedworth, Hazlewood Lodge, Enfield.
Gooch, G. P., South ViUa, Campden Hill Road, London, W. 8.
*Goodden, Mrs. Robert, The Cheyney Court, The Close, Winchester.
*Goossens, Mrs. F. W., 14 Aynsley Court, Winnipeg, Manitoba,
Canada.
Gough, A. B., Ph.D., Sandcroft, Upper Bridge Road, Redhill,
Surrey.
Gough, Rev. E. P., The Vicarage, Chiswick, London, W. 4.
*Gould, Mrs., 8 Elsham Road, London, W. 14.
436 Members and Associates. [part
*Gover, J. M., K.C., LL.D., 5 New Square, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
*Gowan, Commander C. H. B., R.N., United Service Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
Gower, John H., Mus.Doc. (Oxon.), 23 East 18th Avenue, Denver,
Colo., U.S.A.
Graham, J. W., Dalton Hall, Victoria Park, Manchester.
Graham, Mrs. W. P. Gore, 69 Grosvenor Street, London, W. L
Grahame, Miss Helen, c/o Mrs. Taylor, 71 Edith Road, London, W.
*Grant-Suttie, Major H. F., R.A., R.A. Mess., Shorncliffe, Kent.
Green, 'Mis. Alan B., Riviere House, Phillack, Hayle, Cornwall.
Green, Mrs., Northcott, Chesham Bois, Bucks.
Green, H. W., 35 Gate Street, Sedgley, nr. Dudley.
*Greene, J. G., 34 Stiles Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey, U.S.A.
*Greenwood, L. H. G., Emmanuel College, Cambridge.
GrenfeU. Prof. B. P., D.Litt., Queen's CoUege, Oxford.
*Grenfell, Field-Marshall Lord, G.C.B., G.C.M.G., St. Rode, Bourne-
mouth.
Grew, J. C, c/o American Legation, Copenhagen, Denmark.
Grey, E. H., Windermere, Belmont Avenue, Wickford, Essex.
*Grey, R. C, Ballycogoran, Killaloe, Co. Clare, Ireland.
Grignon, IVIiss A. E., 41 Filton Avenue, Horfield, Bristol.
*Griswold, Willard S., 436 Hartwell Avenue, Waukesha, Wis.,
U.S.A.
Grosvenor, Hon. ]\'Ii-s. R. C, 13 Motcomb Street, London, S.W. 1.
Grottendieck, W. G., Charlotte de Bourbon Str. 8, The Hague.
*Grubbe, Hubert H., Southwold, Suffolk.
*Gunnell, A. Mortimer, F.R.A.I., F.R.Met.Soc, Broomfield Park
College, New Southgate, London, N. 11.
Gurbaxani, Professor H. M., D.J. Sind College, Karachi, Sind, India.
*Guttwoch, Charles, 7 Kingswood Avenue, Queen's Park, London,
N.W. 6.
*Gwyn, W. J., 8 NetherhaU Gardens, South Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Hackett, James T., Widows' Fund Building, GrenfeU Street,
Adelaide, S. Australia.
Haldar, Professor Hiralal, 39/3b Sukeas Street, Calcutta.
*Hall, Captain Basil, R.N., 7 Clarence Parade, Southsea, Hants.
Hall, R. D., c/o W. H. Hart, Esq., Sutton-on-Hull, Yorks.
Hall, Wilfred, 9 Priors Terrace, Tynemouth, Northumberland.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 437
Hambro, Lady, 4 Norfolk Street, Park Lane, London, W. L
*Hamilton and Brandon, The Duchess of, Hamilton Palace, Lanark-
shire.
Hamilton, jNIrs. C. M., Fulton Apartments, 1064 W. 7th Street, Los
Angeles, Cal, U.S.A.
Hamilton, J. J.
Hamilton, W. Bernard.
Hammond, ]VIiss Winifred B., 386 East 51st Street, Portland,
Oregon, U.S.A.
Harmes, Mrs., c/o London County and Westminster Bank, 1 Con-
naught Street, London, W. 1.
Hanson, Mrs., Pleasaunce Cottage, Dormans Park, Surrey.
Hardeman, Miss Frances E., Beulah, Green Lane, Godalming.
Harding, Miss A. K., 34 Colville Terrace, London, W. 11.
Hardwick-Terry, Mrs. E.. Urquhart, BoxAvell Road, Berldiamsted.
*Hare, Dr. A. W., 59 York Road, Birkdale, Lanes.
Hargreaves, Miss, 115 Clarence Gate Gardens, Regent's Park,
London, N.W. 1.
Harper, IMiss E. K.. The Apple Gate, Coombe Hill Farm, nr.
Kingston-on-Thames, Surrey.
Harriman, T. G., M.D., 2500 East 2nd Street, Long Beach, Calif.,
U.S.A.
^Harrington, E. J., 21 Hampstead Lane, Highgate, London,
X. 6.
Harris, Alan C, c/o Messrs. Morgan, Harjes & Co., 14 Place
Vendome, Paris.
Harris, JVIiss Agnes G., 8 Cambridge Place, Falmouth, Cornwall.
*Harris, Rev. C, D.D., Colwall Rectory, Malvern.
*Harris, Mrs. Herbert A., 22 Bina Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
*Harris, Lady, 98 Gloucester Terrace, London, W. 2.
*Harris, Hon. J.. Lyndhurst, Hampshire.
Harris, jMrs. W. F., The Willows, Westbourne Avenue, Hull.
^Harrison, Francis, Rochester Cottage, St. LawTence-in-Thanet,
Kent.
Harrison, William, 17 Tirlemont Road, Croydon, Surrey.
*Hart, IVIrs. H. Burcham, Eshott, Eastbury Road, Northwood,
Middlesex.
Hart, Mrs. H. H., H.B. " Zephyr," Srinigar, Kashmir, India.
Hart, General Sir Reginald Clare, V.C., K.C.B., K.C.V.O., 39 West
Cliff Road, Bournemouth.
438 Members and Associates. [part
*Hartness, James, Springfield, Vermont, U.S.A.
Hartshorn, Miss Cornelia, Ware Hall, Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Harvey, G. H., P.O. Box 254, Quebec, Canada.
*Haslam, Oliver H., Sand Ridge, St. Anne's-on-the-Sea, Lanes.
Hasler, Miss K. M., East Mount, Brunswick Road, Douglas, Isle
of Man.
Hassan, Princess Aziza, 139 Mahmoudia, Alexandria, Egypt.
Hastie, Miss, c/o Messrs. Street, 30 Cornhill, London, E.C. 3.
Hastings, Rev. J. H., The Manor House, Halton, Lancaster.
Hastings, Mrs. L. M., 13 Washington House, Basil Street, London,
S.W. 3.
*Hatton, G. C, 51 Harrington Gardens, London, S.W. 7.
Hauxhurst, Mrs. W., Columbus Avenue and East 6th »Street,
Mount Vernon, New York, U.S.A.
Hawarden, CaroHne Viscountess, 13 Lingfield Road, Wimbledon,
London, S.W. 19.
Hawker, Mrs. George, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Hawker, Miss Elizabeth, 55 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
Hawley, Miss Zoe, 129 Church Street, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Hayes, Rev. Joseph W., West Thurrock Vicarage, Grays.
*Hayley, Guy W., 11 Cleveland Square, London, W. 2.
*Hayley, Mrs. G. W., 11 Cleveland Square, London, W. 2.
Head, Miss Alice L., 52 Pembridge Villas, Notting Hill Gate,
London, W. 11.
*Heape, Mrs. Walter, 10 King's Bench Walk, Temple, London,
E.C. 4.
Heard, G. H., Percy Villa, Front Street, Tynemouth.
Heath, George H., 5 Roughdown, Boxmoor, Herts.
Heaton, Guy, 51 Westcliff Road, Bournemouth.
Hedley, Dr. E. P., Howick Road, Town Hill, Maritzburg, S. Africa.
*Hefford, Percy H., 387 Pershore Road, Selly Park, Birmingham.
Heller, Rabbi James G., 3634 Reading Road, Cincinnati, Ohio,
U.S.A.
Hemenway, Mrs. Augustus, Readville, Mass., U.S.A.
Henderson, J. J., 494 Fifth Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y., U.S.A.
Henderson, Miss Lilian, The Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London,
W. 1.
*Hendrix, J. A., Marion, Ala, U.S.A.
Henrici, Jacob, 201-203 Chestnut Street, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Henry, Miss Eva, 1 Argyll Villas, Cheltenham. ,
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 439
Herriot, JVIiss E. F., 2 Sunningdale Gardens, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Herschel, Colonel John, F.R.S.. Royal Engineers, Slough, Bucks.
Heseltine, JVIrs., 19 Launceston Place, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Hesketh, Thomas, 42 Castle Hill Avenue, Folkestone, Kent.
*Heyer, J. C, LL.D., 20 Sarphatistreet, Amsterdam.
Hej^mans, Prof. G., Ubbo-Emmiussingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
*Hichens, Rev. Canon A. S., The Rectory, Penicuik, Midlothian.
*Hichens, Mrs. Cyril, The Almners, LjTie, Chertsey, Surrey.
Hichens, Mrs. W. Lionel, 15 Buckingham Palace Gardens, London,
S.W. L
*Hicks, Miss Lucy, 36 Westminster Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
Higbee, Colonel George H., Burlington, Iowa, U.S.A.
ffildyard, F. W., 14 Lambridge, Bath.
*Hillard, Miss Mary R., Westover School, Middlebury, Conn.,
U.S.A.
Hillman, E. Haviland, 4 Somers Place, Hyde Park, London,
W. 2.
*Hillman, Hugh H., White Cross, Banwell, Somerset.
Hills, Miss H. D., 58 Lupus Street, St. George's Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Hoare, Fred H., 37 Fleet Street, London, E.C. 4.
Hoare, Mrs. Henry, 20 Montagu Street, Portman Square, London,
W. 1.
Hobart-Hampden, Rev. A. K., 6b Roland Houses, London, S.W. 7.
*Hobson, Walter D., Tan-y-Bryn, Bangor, N. Wales.
*Hockliffe, Mrs. Ernest, Littlebrook, Uppingham.
Hodding, Miss. 28 The Close. SaUsbury.
Hodson, L. J., LL.B., The Mill House, Robertsbridge, Sussex.
Hoernle, Professor R. F. Alfred, Armstrong College, Newcastle-
on-TjTie.
*Hogg, Henry R., 23 Hornton Street, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Hoggan, Mrs. Frances, M.D., 22 Harrington Road, London, S.W. 7.
Holder, Henry L., Monkbarns, Wheatlands Road, Harrogate.
Holding, Sam, Columbia, Tenn., U.S.A.
Holland, Miss, 1a Holland Park, London, W. 11.
Hollander, Bernard, M.D., 57 Wimpole Street, London, W. 1.
*Hollick, Captain A. J., 9 Eaton Gardens, Hove, Sussex.
*Hollick, Mrs. A. J., 9 Eaton Gardens. Hove, Sussex.
440 Members and Associates. [part
HoUins, Mrs., 24 Sussex Place, Eegent's Park, London, N.W. 1.
HoUins, ]\Ii-s. A. E., Dunsfold Rectory, Godalming, Surrey.
Holme, Strachan, Bridgewater Offices, Walkden, Manchester.
Holmes, Miss Lilian, Marnwood, West End Avenue, Pinner,
Middlesex.
*Holmyard, R., 5 Hedgerow Lane, Clifton, Cincinnati, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Holt, Henry, 19 West 44th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Holt, Miss M. D., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
Homan, C. H., 12 Sogaden, Christiania, Norway.
Home, Miss Georgina, Halcyon Club, 13/14 Cork Street, London,
W. 1.
Home, Miss Mary M., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
*Home, Mrs. Robert, b/78 Portsdo^^^l Road, Maida Vale, London,
W. 9.
Home, Walter, CLE., 34 Victoria Road, London, W. 8.
Hookham, Philip, 15 Chad Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
Hope, Lieut. -Commander R. H. K., R.N.
Hopkinson, Mrs., EUerslie, Adams Road, Cambridge.
Hopi^in, J. C, 310 Sears Building, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Horridge, Miss J. G., 43 Alexandra Road, Southjaort.
*Horwood, C. Baring, D.Sc, F.C.S., Royal Automobile Club, Pall
Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Hoseason, A. G., The Bungalow, Tanworth-in-Arden, Birmingham.
Hotblack, Frank A., Fairfield, Hambledon, Hants.
Howden, Mrs., 11 Eton Terrace, Edinburgh.
*Howell, Mjs., Ethy, Lostwithiel, Cornwall.
*Howell, Mrs. Philip, 5 Carlyle Square, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Howgrave-Graham, Captain A. H., M.C., Box 59, Randfontein,
Transvaal.
Hubbard, Mrs. Cyril, New Lodge, Coleman's Hatch, Sussex.
Hude, Mrs. Anna, Ph.D., 35 Vestre Boulevard, Copenhagen, B.
Hudson, Miss Alice, Meads Court, Eastbourne.
Hudson, Miss Katie E.. Meads Court, Eastbourne.
*Hudson, Morris, St. Cuthbert's, Bathampton, Somerset.
Hughes, Professor Alfred, Eastnor House, Malvern Link
Hume-Rothery, J. H., Mendip House, Headington Hill. Oxford.
Humphreys, E. Noel, Caerycaee, Hoole, Chester.
Humphreys, T. H. A.,
Hunkin, Rev. J. W., M.C., C.F.. 126 Huntingdon Road, Cambridge.
Hurwitz, W. A., Ph.D., Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y., U.S.A.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 441
Hutchinson, F. W. H., Grove LawTis, St. Albans, Herts.
*Hyslop, George H., M.D., 200 Cliatterton Parkway, White Plains,
New York, U.S.A.
Imamura, Prof. Shinkichi, Clinic for Psychiatry, Imperial Univer-
sity, Ivioto, Japan.
Ince, Miss Gladys, P.O. Box No. 14, Madras, S. India.
*Ingham, Charles B., Moira House, Eastbourne.
Ingram, Miss M. I., The Priory, Wimbledon Common, London,
S.W. 19.
Innes, C. E., 31 Randolph Crescent, London, W. 9.
Innes, ]\'Iiss H. K., 4 Greycoat Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
*Irving, Rev. W. S., Oxenhall Vicarage, Newent, Glos.
Isaac, Miss Edith, The Lodge, Kempsey, Worcester.
Jacks, L. P., LL.D., D.D., Shotover Edge, Headington. Oxford.
James, Brig. -General C. H. L., C.B., United Service Club, London,
S.W. 1.^
*James, Major E. A H., Newtown, Newbury, Berks.
James, Henry, 10 East 10th Street, New York, U.S.A.
James. Mrs. Joseph, Southwood, Barnt Green, Birmingham.
*James, Miss S. Boucher, High Park, Bideford, N. Devon.
*Jameson, David, New Castle, Pa., U.S.A.
*Janson, E. W., 11 Eaton Mansions, Eaton Square, London, S.W. 1.
Jaye, William R., Moray House, Ryde, I.W.
*Jeboult, F. M., 19 Edith Villas, West Kensington, London,
W. 14.
*Jekyll, Miss D., 17 Nevern Mansions, Earls Court, London. S.W. 5.
Jenkinson, W. E., Highthorn, King Cross Road, Halifax, Yorks.
Jennings-Bramly, IMrs., Hampton Court Palace, Middlesex. ,
Jennings-Bramly, Mrs., Asolo (Treviso), Italy.
*Jephson, Miss S., Sybil Hill, Raheny, Co. Dublin.
Job, H. S., 51 Hampton Road, Teddington, Middlesex.
Johnson, Charles R., 340 Main Street, Worcester, Mass., U.S.A.
Johnson, Miss F. C, 25 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
Johnson, Mrs., Abbot's Bay, nr. Keswick.
*Johnstone, Hon. Gilbert, 43 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Johnston, R.F., Chang Wang Hutung, The Old Drum Tower Road,
Peking, China.
Jones, Miss Constance, Meldon House, Weston-super-Mare.
*Jones, Miss F. E., 89 Marylebone High Street, London, W. 1.
442 Members and Associates. [part
*Jones, Mrs. Gordon, 54 Stratford Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Jones, J. Herbert, 7 Kitchener Drive, Orrell Park, Liverpool.
*Jones, Sir LawTence J., Bart., 39 Harrington Gardens, London,
S.W. 7.
*Jones, Miss Lilian I., 120 Maida Vale, London, W. 9.
*Jordan-Smith, Benjamin, Orchardlea, Grosvenor Road, Caversham,
Reading.
Joscelyne, A. F. Cecil, 65 Richmond Road, Dalston, London,
E. 8.
*Judah, Noble B., 2701 Prairie Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Judd, Mrs. Sylvestre Dwight, 163 Maple Street, Maiden, Mass.,
U.S.A.
*Karstaedt, L., 6015 Washington Avenue, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Kellett, Mrs. Kelsall, Hurst, Burwash, Sussex.
Kelly, Miss Eleanor B., Windy Harbour, Ashwell, Baldock, Herts.
*Kelso, Captain, R.N., Horkesley Park, Colchester, Essex.
Kelso, Mrs. H. J., 425 W. Church Avenue, Knoxville, Tenn., U.S.A.
Kenneth, H., Lindley. BycuUah Park, Enfield, Middlesex.
*Kennion, T. Alfred, c/o Canadian Bank of Commerce, Mexico City,
Mexico D.F.
Kenway, Mrs., Mendip View, Winscombe, Somerset.
Ker, Miss, Napier Lodge, Strathblane, Glasgow.
*Kerr, George, M.B., 6 St. Colme Street, Edinburgh.
Kerr-Clark, Lady, Moore Abbey, Monasterevan, Ireland.
*Ker-Seymer, Mrs., 12 St. Leonard's Terrace, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Kershaw, Mrs. Ronald H., Seacourt, Hayling Island, Hants.
*Kimball, Miss H. P., Psychic Research Library, 25 Marlborough
Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
King, Miss R. Estelle, 19 Highfield Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*King, H. P. Locke, J. P., Brooklands, Weybridge, Surrey.
*King, Dr. W. A. D., 1 Bishop's Place, Paignton, Devon.
*Kingscote, Mrs., 4 Southwick Crescent, London, W. 2.
*Kingsford, Miss S. M., 5 Doneraile Street, Eulham, London,
S.W. 6.
Kingsley, Mrs., Thistle Cottage, Albert Road, Hendon, London,
N.W. 4.
Kittermaster, Rev. Digby B., Dame Armstrong House, Harrow-
on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
Knight, Charles N., 7 Marlborough Buildings, Bath.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 443
Knight, Maxwell, 18 University Mansions, Putney, London,
S.W. 15.
*Knoblock, Edward, G2, The Albany, Piccadilly, London, W. L
*Konig, Mrs. F. A., 44 Rutland Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Laing, R. M., Ogilvie," Cashmere Hills, Christchurch, New
Zealand.
Lamb, Charles George, 65 Glisson Road, Cambridge.
Lambert, G. W., 86 Chester Square, London, S.W. L
*Larken, E. P., 98 Warwick Gardens, Kensington, London, W. 14.
Latshaw, Allen, Berwyn, Penn, LT.S.A.
Lauritzen, Severin, Holte, Denmark.
Leaf, Arthur H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Mrs. A. H., Woodcroft, Oxted, Surrey.
Leaf, Miss E. M., 4 Barton Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leaf, F. A., Lmcoln House, Harrow-on-the-Hill, Middlesex.
*Leaf, Walter, Litt.D., 6 Sussex Place, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
^Leaning, Mrs. S., Elmstead, Epsom Lane, Tadworth, Surrey.
*Le-Apsley, James H. M., M.D., 43 X. El. Molino Avenue, Pasadena,
Cal., U.S.A.
Ledyard, JVIrs. R. F. H., Cazenovia, N.Y., U.S.A.
Lee, Blewett, c/o Ilhnois Central Railroad Co., 32 Nassau Street,
New York, U.S.A.
*Lee, Dr. H. D. C, Technical College, Huddersfield.
*Legg, W. A., 14 Victoria Street, Westminster, London, S.W. 1.
*Leigh, Lord, Stoneleigh Abbey, Kenilworth, War\vickshire.
*Leigh-Pemberton, Mrs. Percy, 19 Eccleston Square, London,
S.W. 1.
Lenon, J. W., Wellington Club, Grosvenor Place, London,
S.W. 1.
Leon, Mrs. Philip, 4m Montagu Mansions, Portman Square,
London, W. 1.
Leonard, Thomas, 223 W. School Lane, Germantown, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
Le Patourel, Miss M. L., 26 Walpole Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
Leshe, Rev. G. Lindsay, The Manse, Eddleston, Peeblesshire.
Leshe, James, 1029 Corydon Avenue, Winnipeg, Canada.
*Lethbridge, Alan B., Stockwood House, nr. Kejmsham, Somerset.
Lewin, Rev. C. H., St. John's Parsonage, Keswick.
444 Members cmd Associates. [part
Lewis, David J., United States Tariff Commission, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Librarj' of Adelaide, Australia.
Librarian, Adelbert College of Western Reserve University, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
Librarian, Amsterdam Free Library, Amsterdam, New York,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Binghamton Public Library, Binghamton, New York,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Birmingham Public Libraries, Reference Department,
Ratcliff Place, Birmingham.
Librarian, Boston Athenaeum, lOi Beacon Street, Boston, Mass.,
U.S.A.
Librarian, Bowdoin College Library, Brunswick, Maine, U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, etc.. Church Street, Brighton.
Librarian, Public Library of the District of Columbia, Washington,
D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library of Congress, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
Librarian (Hon.) of the Constitutional Club, Northumberland
Avenue, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, The John Crerar Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Enoch Pratt Free Library of Baltimore City, Baltimore,
Md., U.S.A.
^Librarian, General Theological Seminary, Chelsea Square, New
York, U.S.A.
Librarian, The Grosvenor Library, Buffalo, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Guildhall Library, London, E.C. 2.
Librarian, Hacldey Public Library, Muskegon, Mich., U.S.A.
Librarian, Harvard College Librar}', Cambridge, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Imperial Library, Metcalfe Hall, Calcutta, India.
*Librarian, Iowa State Library, Des Moines, Iowa, U.S.A.
Librarian, Jamsetjee Nesserwanjee Petit Institute, Hornby Road,
Bombay.
Librarian, Free Public Library of Jersey City, New Jersey, U.S.A.
Librarian, Leeds Library, Commercial Street, Leeds.
Librarian, Leland Stanford Junior University, Calif., U.S.A.
Librarian, Library Association, Portland, Oregon, U.S.A.
Librarian, Meadville Theological School, Meadville, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Mercantile Library, St. Louis, Mo., U.S.A.
Librarian, Minneapolis Athenaeum, MinneapoUs, Minn., U.S.A.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 445
Librarian, Natal Society and Central Library, Pietermaritzburg,
Natal, S. Africa.
Librarian, Newberry Library, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
Librarian, Literary and Philosophical Society, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, Public Library, New Bridge Street, Newcastle-upon-
Tyne.
Librarian, New Hampshire State Library, Concord, N.H., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library of New South Wales, c/o Messrs. Truslove
& Hanson, 153 Oxford Street, London, W. 1.
Librarian, New York Public Library, c/o Messrs. Stevens & Brown,
4 Trafalgar Square, London, W.C. 2.
Librarian, Ohio State Library, Columbus. Ohio, U.S.A.
*Librarian, Omaha Public Library and Museum, 19 and Harvey
Streets, Omaha, Nebraska, U.S.A.
Librarian, Pennsylvania State Library, Harrisburg, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, Public Library, Salt Lake City^ Utah, U.S.A.
Librarian, Seattle Public Library, Seattle, Washington, U.S.A.
Librarian, Norsk Selskap for psykisk Forskning, Nordahl Bruns-
gade 22, Christiania, Norway.
Librarian, Selskabet for psykisk Forskning, Graabrodretorv 7,
Copenhagen, Denmark.
Librarian, Theological Seminary, Rochester, N.Y., U.S.A.
Librarian, Theosophical Society, 23 Bedford Square, London,
W.C. 1.
Librarian, The University, Aberdeen.
Librarian, General Library of the University of Chicago, Chicago,
111., U.S.A.
Librarian, University Library, Glasgow.
*Librarian, University of Iceland, Hellusund 3, Reykjavik, Iceland.
Librarian, University of IVIinnesota Library, Minneapohs, Minne-
sota, U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Librarian, University of Sydney, New South Wales, Austraha.
Librarian, Victoria Pubhc Library, Melbourne, Austraha.
Librarian, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass., U.S.A.
Librarian, Dr. Wilhams' Library, Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Librarian, Yale University Library, New Haven, Conn., U.S.A.
*Llewellin, ]Mrs. W., Upton House, nr. Poole, Dorset.
Lloyd, Judge Frank T., Camden, N.J., U.S.A.
446 Members and Associates. [part
Lloyd, Miss Julia, Hillside, Berkswell, nr. Coventry.
Lodge, Miss E. C, Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.
*Lodge, Sir Oliver, F.R.S., Normanton, Lake, Nr. Salisbury.
Lodge, Robert, Compton Wood, 28 Carlisle Road, Eastbourne.
Lombardi, C, 2817 Routh Street, Dallas, Texas, U.S.A.
Long, Miss Constance, M.D., 48 Gordon Square, London, W.C. 1.
Lubbock, Mrs. Geoffrey, Greenhill, Sutton-Veny, Wiltshire.
Lucy, Miss Mabel, 1 Laurence Mansions, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Ludford-Astley, Mrs. A. G., 8 Sloane Terrace Mansions, London,
S.W. 1.
Lunn, Arnold, Palace Hotel, Montana, Sur Sierre, Switzerland.
Lyall, Mrs., 16 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square, London,
W. 1.
*LyaU, Major Edward, D.S.O., 19 Victoria Road, Darlmgton.
Lyell, Major A. G., 68 Uj^per Richmond Road, London, S.W. 15.
*Lyon, Miss C. C, Ashcroft, Prestwood, Great Missenden.
Lyttelton, Hon. Mrs. Alfred, 16 Great College Street, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
*Macaulay, Miss Gertrude F., Cairnbrae, 109 The Boulevard,
Westmount, Montreal, Canada.
Macdonald, Prof. Duncan Black, Hartford Theological Seminary,
Hartford, Conn., U.S.A.
Macdonald, Miss Isabelle M., M.B., 47 Seymour Street, Portman
Square, London, W. 1.
*Macdonald, James, Post Office, Port Harcourt, West Africa.
*Macfarlane, Mrs. Scott B., c/o Lieut. -Comdr. S. B. Macfarlane,
U.S.S. Camden, c/o Postmaster, New York, U.S.A.
Mackay, N. Douglas, M.D., Dall-Avon, Aberfeldy, Perth.
^Mackenzie, Lieut.-Colonel H. G. G., D.S.O., M.D., 29 Fitzjames
Avenue, West Kensington, London, W. 14.
Mackenzie, Miss Maud R. R., 56 South Eaton Place, London,
S.W. 1.
Mackenzie, Lady Muir, 22 Draycott Place, London, S.W. 3.
*Mackie, Dr. John, Ockbrook, nr. Derby.
Mackintosh, Robert, 3 Frognal Lane, London, N.W. 3.
Macldin, Miss Helen E., 141 Inverness Terrace, London, W. 2.
*MacLellan, Mrs., 5 Langham Street, London, W. 1.
Madders, Mrs. H. F., 87 Hampstead Way, London, N.W. 4.
*Maddison, Mrs., 5 Langham Street, London, W. 1.
*Magrane, Mrs. Victor, Woodsford Rectory, Nr. Dorchester, Dorset.
Lxxxr.] Members and Associates. 447
Mahler, Mrs. John, Bronygarth, Oswestry, Salop.
Mainwaring, Mrs., 11 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
Malda, Luis, Gante No. 1, Mexico City, Mexico.
Mallet, Right Hon. Sir Louis, G.C.M.G., C.B., Wardes, Otham,
Maidstone, Kent.
*Mander, Geoffrey Le Mesurier, Wightwick Manor, Wolverhampton.
*Manfield, Miss Muriel R., 63 Delaware Mansions, London, W. 9.
Mann, Rev. Frederic, Coombe Dale, Coombe Road, South Croydon,
Surrey.
*Manning, Miss H. T., 102 Central Avenue, Plainfield, New Jersey,
. U.S.A.
Mansell, Andrew Evans, Mount Vernon, Melton Mowbray, Tas-
mania.
Mantell, Colonel A. M., 10 Sion Hill, Bath.
Mappillay, K. I. V., Puthumadam, Chennithalay, Mavelikaray,
Travancore, S. India.
Marriott, Mrs., 9 Trinity Crescent, Folkestone, Kent.
*Marsden-Smedley, Mrs., Lea Green, Matlock, Derbyshire.
Marsden, E., 12 Ellerdale Road, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
Marsh, Edward H., 5 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn, London,
W.C. 1.
Marston, Charles, J.P., Afcot, Compton, nr. Wolverhampton.
*Marston, Commander G. M., R.N., Park Lodge, Albert Gate,
Kjiightsbridge, London, S.W. 1.
Marten, Miss A. R., Osbornes, Liphook, Hants.
Marten, Rev. G. H., St. Mark's, Purley, Surrey.
*Martin, E. Le Breton, 20 Portland Place, London, W. 1.
Martin, Mrs. J. Biddulph, Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury.
Martin, T. B., Woodlands, Snaresbrook, London, E. 18.
*Martindale, Miss B., 4 Piazza Paganica, Rome, Italy.
Martineau, Alfred Edward, Aitchison College, Lahore, India.
*Mason, Miss, 211 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass, U.S.A.
Mason, Miss H. M., Morton, Eureka Road, Rondebosch, Cape Town,
S. Africa.
*Mather, Mrs., Langholme Bridge Cottage, Broughton Beck,
Ulverston.
*Mather, Rev. Herbert, Royal Automobile Club, Pall Mall, London,
S.W. 1.
*Mathews, Dr. F., Welsh Row House, Nantwich.
448 Members and Associates. [part
*Mathews, H. N., Aldwick House, Bognor, Sussex.
Matthews, Dr. Caroline, 13 Longton Grove, Sydenham, London,
S.E. 26.
*Maunsell, G. A., 35 Upper Gloucester Place, London, N.W. 1.
Maxwell, Dr. Joseph, 37 rue Thiac, Bordeaux, France.
*Maxwell, Sir John Stirling, Bart., PoUok House, Pollokshaws, N.B.
Mayor, R. G., 11 Campden Hill Square, Kensington, London, W. 8.
M'Alpme, Sir Robert, Knott Park, Oxshott, Surrey.
MXIlellan, Mrs. Clara D., Briarcliff Manor, New York, U.S.A.
*M'Carthy, Mrs., Christ Church Vicarage, Luton, Beds.
*M'Connel, D. R., M.A., The Camp, Steep, Petersfield, Hants.
M'Connel, Mrs. D. R., The Camp, Steep, Petersfield, Hants.
M'Connel, H. W., M.B., M.R.C.S., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
M'Connel, Mrs., Matlaske Hall, Norwich.
*M'Dermott, Captain F., I.A., c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., Bombay, India.
M'Dougall, William, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B., Emerson Hall, Cambridge,
Mass., U.S.A.
M'Gusty, G. A., 35 Leeson Park, Dublin, Ireland.
M'Intyre, Mrs., 25 St. John Street, Oxford.
*M'Kay, H. G., St. Bede's School, Duke's Drive, Eastbourne.
M'Keever, Buell, 3900 Lake Avenue, Chicago, 111., U.S.A.
*M'Kenna, Mrs. Theodore, 24 Bryanston Squ?^re, London, W. 1.
M'Laren, Rev. David J., The Manse, Trhiity Gask, Auchterarder.
M'Lauchlan, G. M., c/o Miss Geddes M'Lauchlan, Ravenswood,
West Linton, Peeblesshire.
*M'Master, Mrs. John Bach, 2109 De Lancey Place, Philadelphia,
Pa., U.S.A.
M'Neile, Rev. R. F., Redgate, Uppingham.
M'Vickar, Mrs. John A., c/o Munro & Co., 4 Rue Ventadour, Paris.
Mead, G. R. S., 47 Campden Hill Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Meek, Maximilian de, Grosvenor House, Kasr-el-Nil, Cairo, Egypt.
Meebold, Alfred, Heidenheim, Wurtemberg.
*Meek, Mrs., The Cottage, Templesheen Road, East Sheen, London,
S.W. 14.
Megson, Albert, Fern Villa, Headlands, Ossett, Yorks.
Mehrji, Munchershaw Hormusji, M.D., 3 Batlivala Villa, Sleater
Road, Bombay, India.
Meissner, Mrs. de, 1524 31st Street, Washington, D.C., U.S.A.
*Menon, Dr. M. P. K., 50 West End, Queensbury, Nr. Bradford,
Yorks.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 449
*Merton, Gerald, Slopes, Woldingham, Surrey.
*Micklethwait, Richard K.
^Mikuska, Professor Viktor, Masarykova 303, Pardubice, Czechoslav
Republic.
Milburn, Rev. R. Gordon, Black Bridge, Beaulieu, Hants.
*]VIiles, Miss, 59 Egerton Gardens, London, S.W. 3.
*MiUard, ]\Irs. Almira B., c/o The American Society for Psychical
Research, 44 East 23rd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
jVIiller, Mrs. Carolyn A., Gainesville, Florida, U.S.A.
*Mirlees, W. J., Shelford, Cambs.
*Mitchell, T. W., M.D., Hoath Cottage, Hadlow, nr. Tonbridge.
*Moncrie£f, Captain M. M., Hemley, Woodbridge.
*Montague, Mrs., Penton, Crediton, Devon.
Monteagle, The Lord, K.P., Mount Trenchard, Foynes, Co.
Limerick.
Monypenny, Mrs. A. E. G., 5 Talbot Square, London, W. 2.
*Moore-Brabazon, Lieut. -Colonel J. T. C, 11 Ennismore Gardens,
London, S.W. 7.
*Moore, His Honour Judge, 42 Acacia Road, London, N.W. 8.
Morier, Mrs., 65 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
*Morley, Mrs. Evelyn, 7 Green Street, Park Lane, London, W. 1.
Morris, Miss D. M., Corner House, Laleham-on-Thames, Middx.
Morris, ^Irs., Comer House, Laleham-on-Thames, Middx.
*Morse, Major John, Vinchelez-de-Haut Manor, St. Ouen, Jersey,
C.I.
Morton, Mrs. P. N., 73 West La Crosse Avenue, Lansdo^\^le, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Morton, Miss Mary, 15 Greville Road, London, N.W. 6.
Moses, E. J., c/o Messrs. E. D. Sassoon & Co., 4 Mission Row, Cal-
cutta.
Moss-Blundell, F. B., 19 Lebanon Park, Twickenham, Surrey.
*Muir, ^Irs. W. E., Rowallan, Haslemere, Surrey.
Muirhead, Mrs. James F., 19 Lancaster Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Mullens, Mrs., 31 Lowndes Square, London, S.W. 1.
*Mullins, Colonel W. B., Ambersham House, Midimrst, Sussex.
Murphy, Gardner, Dept. of Psychology, Columbia University,
N.Y., U.S.A.
Murphy, Miss Imogen H., 23 Somerset Terrace, Duke's Road,
London, W.C. 1.
450 Members and Associates. [part
Murray, Professor Gilbert, LL.D., Litt.D., 82 Woodstock Road,
Oxford.
Murton, Miss Josephine, Marnwood. West End Avenue, Pinner,
Middx.
*Musgrave, Geoffrey, Selukwe, S. Rhodesia, S. Africa.
*Myers, Mrs. F. W. H., 12 Cleveland Row, St. James's, London,
S.W. 1.
*Myers, L. H., Twyford Lodge, East Grinstead.
*Nash, Miss Diana, 2611 Guilford Road, Cleveland Heights, Cleve-
land, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Nation, CajDtain Cecil, R.E., 59 St. James's Court, London, S.W.
*Naylor, M. C, 9 Brackley Road, Chiswick, London, W. 4.
NeUd, Miss Maria, 27 Brompton Square, London, S.W. 3.
Neustadter, Louis W., 461 Mission Street, San Francisco, Cal.,
U.S.A.
*Neville, Lady, Banstead Place, Banstead, Surrey.
*Newbold, Eric, 11 Oakhill Road, Surbiton, Surrey.
*Newcastle, The Duke of. Clumber, Worksop, Notts.
Newton, Miss F. E., 156 Sloane Street, London, S.W. 1.
Newton, Heber, Oamaru, New Zealand.
Newton, Miss I., 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Nicholson, Lady, 6 Kensington Court, London. S.W. 7.
*Nicoll, Mrs. DeLancey, 3 Seaniore Place, Park Lane, London,
W. 1.
*Nicolls, Brig.-General E. G., C.B., 19 St. Andrew's Road, Bedford.
*Ninnis, Roger E., M.B.,
*Nisbet, E. T., Birnieknowes, Cullercoats, Northumberland.
Niven, G., Shiantelle, Aldrington Road, Streatham Park, London,
S.W. 16.
Noel, Miss Frances, Becket House, Thaxted, nr. Dunmow, Essex.
Noel-Cox, H. L.. M.D., F.R.A.S., 65 Elgin Mansions, Elgin Avenue,
London, W. 9.
*Noltee, A. C, Buitenzorg, Java, Dutch East Indies.
*Norlind, Ernst, 12/13 Upper Bedford Place, London, W.C. 1.
Norris, Stuart, 3 Birchfield Road, Birmingham.
Northcote, Rev. H., St. Margaret's Parsonage, New Galloway, N.B.
Nott, William F., 22 Chancery Lane, London, W.C. 1.
Nutter, Miss H. G., 6 Acacia Road, Norbury, London, S.W. 16.
Odell, S. W.. 410 Citizens Savings Bank Building, Pasadena. Cal.,
U.S.A.
Lxxxi.] Members and Associates. 451
Ogilvie, Mrs. Robert, c/o R. G. Ross, Esq.. 11 St. Colme Street,
Edinburgh
.
Ogle, Lieut. -Colonel N., c/o GrincUay & Co., P.O. Box 93, Bombay.
* Oldham, Mrs., 11 Albany Villas, Hove.
I
Oldham, G. F., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., Dunelm, Haden Road, Old
HiU, Staffs.
Oman, Sir Charles W. C, Frewin Hall, Oxford.
*Onslow, Hon. H., Clandon Park, Guildford.
Osborne, Miss H., 2 Northcote Mansions, Heath Street, Hampstead,
London, N.W. 3.
*Osmaston, ]\Irs., Stoneshill, Limpsfield, Surrey.
*Owen, A. S., Keble College, Oxford.
Owen-Williams, Mrs., Ridgeway, nr. Narberth, Pembrokeshire.
Oxenham, Mrs., 3 Baring Crescent, Exeter.
I
Pack-Beresford, Denis R., J.P., Fenagh House, Bagenalsto^^^l, Co.
, Carlow.
t Pagan, Mrs. G. L., 6 Clarendon Crescent, Edinburgh,
i Paget, Sir Richard, 74 Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Page-Turner, F. A., J. P., 15 Palmeira Square, Hove, Sussex.
*Paley, G. A.,
*Palmer, Mark, B.A., 33 Fitzjames Avenue, West Kensington,
London, W. 14.
*Parkin, John, Blaithwaite, Carlisle.
*Parr, F. C, The Gables, Norfolk Road, Margate, Kent.
Parr, W. H., 10 Westbury Park, Bristol.
Parsons, Ambrose, Said House, Chiswick Mall, London, W. 4.
'
Parsons, Karl, Speedwell, Northwood, Middlesex.
^Parsons, Miss Llewellyn, 99 Park Avenue, New York, U.S.A.
Parsons, N. M., 68 Kensington Park Road, London, W. 11.
t Patel, F. J., L.R.C.P., West View, Middle Colaba, Bombay.
Paterson, Miss Mary N., Royal Marine Hotel, Ventnor, Isle of
Wight.
Paul, J. Rodman, 505 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa., U.S.A.
Pease, Mrs. J. R., Sesame Club, 29 Dover Street, London, W. 1.
*Peck, IVIiss Charlotte L., Maidencombe House, St. Mary Church,.
S. Devon.
r Peck, Geo. L., The Wellington Apts., 19th and Wahiut Sts.,
Philadelphia, Penn., U.S.A.
Peckham, Orville, 1320 N. New Jersey Street, Lidianopolis, Md.,
U.S.A.
1
I
452 Members and Associates. [part
Pedley, Chas. H., Winterley House, nr. Crewe.
*Penniiigton, Mrs. Henry, 279 Trinity Pvoad, Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 12.
Penny, W. R., Railway Stores Department, S.A. Railways, Salt
River, nr. Cape Town, S. Africa.
Perceval, Hon. Mrs. Dudley. 153 Church Street, Chelsea, London,
S.W. 3.
*Perdicaris, Ion, The Manor House, Chislehurst, Kent.
Perkins, Miss S. R., c/o Dr. Perkins, 57 Harley Street, London,
W. 1.
Perrott, P. D. M., 24 Bridge Road, Worthing.
Perry, Sir E. Cooper, M.D., 3 Albert Court, Kensington Gore,
London, S.W. 7.
Perry, Horace H., Court Royal, 144 King's Cliff, Brighton.
Perry, T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Perry, Mrs. T. S., 312 Marlborough Street, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Pfau, A. R., Junr., Mankato, Minnesota, U.S.A.
*PhiUimore, Hon. Mrs., Kendals, Elstree, Herts.
*Pickard, Mrs. Fortescue, 41 Hertford Street, Park Lane, London,
W. 1.
*Piddington, J. G., Fishers Hill, Woking, Surrey.
*Piercy, Major B. H., 94 Piccadilly, London, W. 1.
*Pigott, Percy, 416 Hessle Road, Hull.
Pigou, Professor Arthur Cecil, King's College, Cambridge.
*Pilcher, Giles T., Treen, Frith Hill, Godalming, Surrey.
*Pinney, Miss Ida A., 17 Doune Terrace, North Kelvinside,
Glasgow.
Piper, John E., LL.B., 10 Herondale Avenue,Wandsworth Common,
London, S.W. 18.
Pithapuram, The Rajah of, Pithapuram, Godavari Dist., Madras
Presidency, India.
Place, Rev. C. A., Lancaster, Mass., U.S.A.
*Platt, Mrs. Evelyn, 22 Chesham Place, London, S.W. 1.
Plenty, E. P., Hill House, Wash Hill, Newbury, Berks.
Plowden, Mrs., 6 Westcliffe, St. John's Road, Eastbourne.
Pollard, J. EUery, L.R.C.P., 7 Esme Road, Sparkhill, Birmingham.
*PoUard, W. H., M.B., 343 Hagley Road, Edgbaston, Birmingham.
*Pollock, Mrs. Hugh, 13 Cresswell Gardens, London, S.W. 5.
Ponsonby, Hon. Mrs. C. B., 14 West Halkin Street, London,
S.W. 1.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 453
*Pontifex, Dudley D., 73 Alleyn Park, West Dulwich, London,
S.E. 21.
*Poole, H. J., 9 Millerfield Place, Edinburgh.
Pooley, H. F., Scotter, Well Walk, Hampstead, London, N.W. 3.
*Poore, Mrs. J. B., 17 Rosemount Road, Bournemouth West.
Portsmouth, The Countess of, Hurstbourne Park, Whitchurch,
Hants.
Post, Mrs. Wm., St. Lucie, Fla. ; and Buckhannon, W. Va.,
U.S.A.
*Potter, John Wilson, 219 Ashley Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Powell, C. Berkeley, J.P., 283 Metcalfe Street, Ottawa, Canada.
Powell, Ellis T., D.Sc, Rosedene, Brondesbury Park, London,
N.W. 6.
*Powell, Mrs., Ashdown Place, Forest Row, Sussex.
Powles, Lewis Charles, Bother Cliff, Rye, Sussex.
*Preedy, Kenelm. 77 Warwick Road. London, S.W. 5.
*Price, H., Royal Societies' Club, 63 St. James's Street, London,
S.W. 1.
*Prideaux-Brune, H.,
Prindle, H. E., New Paltz, Ulster Co., New York, U.S.A.
*Proctor, Captain G. Norman, c/o Messrs. Cox & Co., Hornby Road,
Bombay, India.
*Pulver, S. H., Dunedin House, Basinghall Avenue, London, E.G. 2.
*Pumphrey, Mrs., Hindley Hall, Stockfield-on-Tyne.
Putman, Miss Irene, 328 Wahiut Avenue, San Diego, Cal., U.S.A.
Pye, W. A., Priest Hill, Limpsfielcl, Surrey.
*Pynsent, R. B., New University Club, St. James's Street, London,
'
S.W. 1.
Quackenbos, John D., M.D., 37 West 73rd Street, New York
City, U.S.A.
*Quinby, Rev. John W., East Bridgewater, Mass., U.S.A.
*Radcliffe-Whitehead, Ralph, Woodstock, Ulster Co., N.Y., U.S.A.
*Radclyffe-Hall, Miss M., 7 Trevor Square, Ivnightsbridge, London,
S.W. 7.
Rae, J. Burnett, M.B., 61 Harley Street, London, W. 1.
Raikes, E. B., Drayton Old Lodge, Norwich.
Raikes, Mrs., Beomonds, Chertsey, Surrey.
*Raines, Lady, 46 Sussex Gardens, Hyde Park, London, W. 2.
*Rajagopaliengar, R. V., Royampet, Tiruvadi P.O., Tanjore Dt.,
Madras Presidency, India.
454 Merahers and Associates. [part
*Rampling-Rose, Major W., Llyndir Hall, Rossett, nr. Wrexham. '
Ramsden, Miss, 16 Incognito Gade, Christiania. }'
*Randell, Rev. J. Mickley, 3 Park Mansions, Vauxhall Park, !
London, S.W. 8.
|
*Ransom, Francis, Newlands, Hitchin, Herts. \
*Rashdall, The Very Rev. Hastings, The Deanery, Carlisle.
|
*Rashleigh, John C. S., M.D., Throwleigh, Okehampton, Devon.
Rawlinson, Rev. G. C, 20 Holbein House, London, S.W. 1. '\
*Rawsthorn, Mrs., Yew Trees, Ashton-on-Ribble, Preston.
|
*Rayleigh, The Dowager Lady, 65 Cadogan Gardens, London, S.W. 3. ^
Reade, Herbert V., C.B., 181 Queen's Gate, S. Kensington, London, i'
S.W. 7.
i
Ready, Miss E. A., 74 Regent Road, Leicester. i
*Reckitt, Miss Juliet E., 20 Dulwich Wood Park, Upper Norwood, 'i
London, S.E. 19.
j
*Reeves, Mrs. M. S., 31 Pembroke Square, London, W. 8.
|
Regina Madre, S. M. La, Palazzo Margherita, Rome. '
Reid, Mrs., Crescent House, Effingham Road, Surbiton. j
*Reid, J. Kenelm, M.D., 39 Linden Gardens, London, W. 2.
^
Rendall, Rev. Dr. G. H., Dedham House, Dedham, Essex.
*Rhondda, Sybil Viscountess, Llanwern, Newport, Mon. i
*Richardson, Dalton, M.D._, 404 Scarborough Building, Austin, ,
Texas, U.S.A. \
Richardson, Frederick W., County Analyst's Office, Hustlergate,
j
Bradford. I
Richmond, Kenneth, St. Merryn, North Cornwall. j
Riddle, Mrs., Hillstead, Farmington, Corm., U.S.A. ;
*Ridley, Henry N., F.R.S., C.M.G., 7 Cumberland Road, Kew,
'
Surrey.
j
Ridley, M. Roy, 11 Percival Road, Chfton, Bristol. I
*Ridley, Miss, Stagshaw, Daleham Gardens, London, N.W. 3. ;
Ridley, The Viscountess, 10 Carlton House Terrace, London, |
Ritchie, A. J., Oriental Club, Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
Ritchie, Thomas, J.P., Conservative Club, St. James's Street,
London, S.W. 1.
Riviere, Mrs. Evelyn, 10 Nottingham Terrace, York Gate, London,
N.W. 1.
Rix, Rev. A. H., The Vicarage, Shelf near Halifax, Yorks.
*Roach, 0. A., 401 Cedar Street, San Antonio, Texas.
S.W. 1.
lxxxl] Members and Associates. 455
Robbins, Judge Rufus M., West Palm Beach, Florida, U.S.A.
Roberts, W. M., Bar Harbour, Maine, U.S.A.
Robertson, Mrs. J. G., 90 Regent's Park Road, London, N.W. 1.
Robinson, George R., 25 Water Street, Liverpool.
Robson, Hon. Kathleen, 26 Eaton Square, London, S.W. L
Rogers, Edmund J. A., M.D., CM., 222 West Colfax Avenue,
Denver, Colo., U.S.A.
Rogers, Rev. F. C, St. John's Vicarage, Colchester, Essex.
*Rogers, George F., M.D., 4 King's Parade, Cambridge.
Rogers, T. Percival, Henleaze Park, Westbury-on-Trym, Glouces-
tershire.
*Rose, T., Sunnyside, Harold Wood, Nr. Romford, Essex.
Ross, Samuel, 67 WiUis Street, New Bedford, Mass., U.S.A.
*Russell, i\Irs., 68 Madeley Road, Ealing, London, W. 5.
*Russell, Mrs. E. S., Bryans' Ground, Presteign, Radnorshire.
*Rust, Dr. Montague, Boyndie, West Newport, Fife.
*Ryan, Mrs. E., 51 Hallam Street, London, W. I.
Ryder, Miss M. L., 122 Pevensey Road, Eastbourne.
Ryves, Miss Evangeline, Damory Cottage, Walton-on-the-Hill.
St. Hill, Mrs., Thimble, Littlewick Green, Berks.
*St. John, Brig. -General G. F. W., C.B., Picton House, Llandowror,
St. Clears, Carmarthenshire.
*Salter, F. R., Magdalene College, Cambridge.
*Salter, W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
^Salter, ]\Irs. W. H., The Crown House, Newport, Essex.
Samaldas, Hon. Lalubhai, 99 Apollo Street, Fort, Bombay,
India.
*Sassoon, Mrs. Alfred, Weirleigh, Matfield Green, Kent.
Savill, Mrs., M.D., 7 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
*Savory, Ernest J. C, 61 Carey Street,, Lincoln's Inn, London,
W.C. 2.
*Savory, H. J., 7 Shamrock Street, Napier, New Zealand.
*Scatcherd, Miss F. R., 14 Park Square, Regent's Park, London,
N.W. 1.
Schaaf, Albert E., 2034 East 83rd Street, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, Corpus Christi College, Oxford.
Schofield, Mrs., 30 Argyll Road, Kensington, London, W. 8.
*Schoff, Wilfred H., 110 Montgomery Avenue, Cynwyd, Pa.,
U.S.A.
Scott, ]\Iiss A. D., Darent Hulme, Shoreham, nr. Sevenoaks.
456 Members and Associates. [part
Scott, Rev. D. D., C.F., The Manse, Onehunga, Auckland, New
Zealand.
*Scott, Lieut. -Colonel G. B., 27th Punjabis, c/o Henry S. King &
Co., 9 Pall Mall, London, S.W. L
Scott, Captain J. E., Chelsfield, Sneyd Park, Bristol.
Scott, Mrs. Minturn, Waterside Coj)se, Liphook, Hants.
*Scott, Sydney C, 92 Westbourne Terrace, Hyde Park, London, W.2.
*Scott, Mrs. W. E., 3 New-nham Walk, Cambridge.
Scott, W. Sibbald, M.B., Irwell, Winchcombe, Glos.
Seabra, Alberto, M.D., rua 15 de Novembre No. 9, SaO Paulo,
Brazil.
*Sebastien, C, Sanchez, Samana, Re^^ublica Dominicana, W. Indies.
Sedgwick, Mrs. H. D., 120 E. 22nd Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Selborne, The Earl of, K.G., Blackmoor, Liss, Hants.
Sellers, Miss R. A., Wellesley Girls' High School, Naini Tal, India.
*Sempill, Colonel The Master of, c/o Naval Dejjt., Tokyo. Japan.
Seton-Karr, Captain H. W., 8 St. Paul's Mansions, London, W.6.
*Sewell, Mrs. C. H., 21 Royal York Crescent, Clifton, Bristol.
Seymour, Admiral of the Fleet Sir E. H., O.M., G.C.B., G.C.V.O.,
Hedsor View, Maidenhead Court, Maidenhead, Berks.
*Seymour, Miss E. F., South Cottage, Pirbright, Surrey.
Shackleiord, Hon. Thomas M., Room 420, American National
Bank Building, Tampa, Florida, U.S.A.
Shakes]Dear, Mrs., 12 Brunswick Gardens, Kensington, London,
W. 8.
Shand, Alexander F., 1 Edwardes Place, Kensington, London, W. 8.
Shastri, B. G., Railway Magistrate and Registrar, Udaipur
(Mewar), India.
Shaw, Arnold E., Grove House, Asplej^ Guise, Beds.
*Shaw, Mrs. Bernard, 10 Adelphi Terrace, Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Shaw, Rev. Sir Charles J. Monson, Bart., The Rectory, Wrotham,
Kent.
Shaw, Lady, 10 Moreton Gardens, London, S.W. 1.
Sheldon, Miss M., The High School, Bargate, Grimsby.
Sheets, J. C.
*Shewan, R. G., c/o Shewan, Tomes & Co., Hong Kong, China.
*Shove, Miss E., M.B., 30 York Street Chambers, Bryanston Square,
London, W. 1.
Sibly, F. Arthur, LL.D., Haywardsfield, Stonehouse, Glos.
*Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1.
lxxxl] Memhers and Associates. 457
Silver, Mrs. Kingston, 33 Marsham Street, Westminster, London.
S.W. 1.
Silvester, Captain R. S., 27 St. John's Hill, Clapliam Junction,
London, S.W. 11.
*Sime, Mss E. Boyd, 35 Anson Road, Tufnell Park, London,
N. 7.
*Sime, J. Boyd, Dean iVIills, Hawick, N.B.
*Simmonds, Miss C. E., 33 Clarence Gate Gardens, London, N.W. 1.
Simpson, IVIiss Price, Beech Barns, Alton, Hants.
^Sinclair, Miss May, 1 Blenheim Road, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
Singh, Amar, Hoshiarpur, Punjab, India.
*Slight, L., 66 Wadham Road, North End, Portsmouth.
Sloggett, Lieut. -General Sir Arthur, K.C.M.G., K.C.B., 6s Bicken-
hall Mansions, London, W. 1.
*Sloss, ]\Irs., c/o Societe des Nations, Geneva, Switzerland.
Smith, Adolphe, 12 Crookham Road, Fulham, London, S.W. 6.
Smith, Miss Beatrice E., Lea, Grange-over-Sands, Lancashire.
Smith, G. Albert, Rosedene, 7 Melville Road, Hove.
*Smith, H. Arthur, 7 Queen's Mansions, Brook Green, London, W. 6.
Smith, Sir H. Babington, C.B., 121 St. James's Court, Buckingham
Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Smith, J. Hoyle, Spring Bank, Eccles, Lancashire.
*Smith, Right Hon. J. Parker, J. P., D.L., 41 Drumsheugh Gardens,
Edinburgh.
Smith, Rev. Sidney M., Holy Trinity Vicarage, Halifax, Yorkshire.
Smith, Mrs. WiUiam, c/o The Royal Bank of Australia, 18 Bishops-
gate, London, E.G. 2.
Smith, WiUiam Hawley, 2039 Knoxville Avenue, Peoria, 111., U.S.A.
Smith, Rev. WiUiam J., St. Marnock's Manse, Kilmarnock.
*Smith, W. Whately, Rackenford Lodge, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Smith, Mrs. W. Whately, Rackenford Lodge, Weybridge, Surrey.
*Smithson, Mrs., 42 Tilehouse Street, Hitchin, Herts.
Snow, Mrs., 1 Brown Road, Hoe Street, Walthamstow, Essex.
Soley, Mrs., 66 Holbein House, Sloane Square, London, S.W. 1.
Southern, H., 24 Carholme Road, Forest HiU, London, S.E. 23.
Spencer, Major R. E. E., Walbottle Hall, Newburn-on-Tyne.
Spens, William, Corpus Christi CoUege, Cambridge.
*Spranger, John A., 4 Via Micheli, Florence, Italy.
Stacey, F. C, 5 Fulready Road, Leyton, London, E. 10.
458 Members and Associates. [part
Stanton, Rev. Horace C, Ph.D., D.D., 1818 Arch Street, Phila-
delphia, Pa., U.S.A.
*Stanton, Mrs., Armscote, Stratford-on-Avon.
Steel, Mrs., Court o' Hill, Tenbury, Worcestershire.
Stephens, Mrs., Hotel Continental, rue Castiglione, Paris.
Stephens, W. F., Mahe, Seychelles, via Bombay.
*Sterling, Miss F. M., Home Wood, Hartfield, Sussex.
*Stevenson, Mrs., 52 Abinger Road, Bedford Park, London, W. 4.
Stevenson, A. Creery, Streeve, Church Circle, Farnborough, Hants.
Stewart, Mrs. C. A., Larghan, Coujiar Angus, N.B.
Stewart, Miss M. A., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Stobart, Mrs. St. Clair, 7 Turner's Wood, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 4.
Stoehr, Miss, Hotel Belvedere, Bordighera, Italy.
Stout, Professor George F., Craigard, St. Andrews, N.B.
Strachan, W. M., Strood Park, Horsham, Sussex.
*Strachey, John St. Loe, Spectator Office, 1 Wellington Street,
Strand, London, W.C. 2.
*Stradling, Capt. R. E.,R.E., Civil Engineering Dept., The University,
Birmingham.
Stratton, F. J. M., Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
Streatfeild, W. H. R., M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 42 Ovington Square,
London, S.W. 3.
Strode, Miss E. L. C, 63 Lonsdale Road, Barnes, London, S.W. 13.
Strutt, Captain Hon. A. C, R.N., Terling Place, Witham, Essex.
*Strutt, Hon. Richard, Rayleigh House, Chelsea, London, S.W.
*Sturdy , Edward T. ,
Norburton, Burton Bradstock, Bridport, Dorset.
*Summerson, F. C, 222 South Norwood Hill, London, S.E. 25.
Swaine, Mrs. R. C, Letchworth Lane, Letchworth, Herts.
Swainson, Miss F. J., Stonecross, Kendal.
*Swainson, Miss M., 23 Warrington Crescent, London, W. 9.
*Swayne, Mrs. Noah Haynes, Junr., Drawer N., Ardmore, Pennsyl-
vania, U.S.A.
Swinburne, Mrs., The Manor House, Southwick, Sussex.
Tait, Mrs., St Andrew's House Club, 31a Mortimer Street, London,
W. 1.
Tait, Mrs. W. J., LismuUen, Arthur Road, Wimbledon Park,
London, S.W. 19.
*Talbot, Mrs. Hugh, 1 Oakwood Court, Kensington, London, W. 14.
*Talbot, P. Amaury, c/o The Secretary, Lagos, Nigeria.
1
Lxxxi.] Members and Associates. 459
*Tatham, A. T., ^lountain Rise, Pietermaritzburg, S. Africa.
Tatliam, Hon. Justice F. S., D.S.O., Parkside, Alexandra Road,
Pietermaritzburg, S. Africa.
*Taylor, Miss E. Waring, 23 Warrington Crescent, Maida Hill,
London, W. 9.
*Taylor, H. Dennis, Stancliffe, The Mount, York.
*Taylor, Mrs. Lewis S., Yacht Violeta, c/o Royal Cornwall Yacht
Club, Falmouth.
*TeUing, W. H. Maxwell, M.D., 29 Park Square, Leeds.
Temple, Reginald W.
Tennent, W. J., 69 Essex Street, Masterton, New Zealand.
Thatcher, ]\Irs. G. R., 20 Alexandra Road, Ivingston Hill, Surrey.
*Thaw, A. Blair, 1 Via Lazzaro Spallanzani, Rome, Italy.
*Thesiger, Mrs. Ernest, 6 Montpelier Terrace, London, S.W. 7.
*Thomas, Rev. C. D., South Hill Lodge, Bromley, Kent.
Thomas, Miss Edith J., Mynydd Ednyfed, Criccieth, N. Wales.
Thomas, Ernest Seymour, The Residencj", Alexandria, Egy23t.
*Thomas, Miss S. E., 368 Alexandra Park Road, Wood Green,
London, N. 22.
Thompson, Edwin, Woodlands, 13 Fulwood Park, LiverjDool.
Thompson, Sir Matthew W., Bart., 39 Steeles Road, Haverstock
HiU, London, N.W. 3.
^Thompson, Owen, K.C., 2 Arkwright Road, Hampstead, London,
N.W. 3.
*Thomson, Edward J., 6 Windsor Terrace West, Kelvinside, Glasgow.
Thorburn, Rev. T. J., D.D., LL.D., 21 St. Helen's Road, Hastings.
Thornley, Miss F. J., 36 Downleaze, Stoke Bishop, Bristol.
Thorp, Richard, Colenso Hill, Napier, New Zealand.
Thrupp, T. C, Claremont, Woodlands Road, RedliiU, Surrey.
Thurston, Rev. Herbert, 31 Farm Street, Berkeley Square, London,
W. 1.
Tipping, Miss K., 7 Lansdowne Circus, Leamington.
*Todd, Miss C. E., 1 Clarence Road, Teddington, Mddx.
Torkildsen, Vilhelm, Bergen, Norway.
Tottenham, Miss Mary T. A., Ballycurry, Ashford, Co. Wicklow,
Lreland.
*Trethewy, A. W., 4 St. James's Place, London, S.W. 1.
Trevor, The Lady Juliet, 16 Upper Brook Street, London, W. 1.
*Trotter, Mrs., Chatley, Norton St. Phihp, Bath. |
*Troubridge, Lady, 7 Trevor Square, Kjiightsbridge, London, S.W. 7.
^
I
I
460 Members and Associates. [part
*Tubby, Miss G. Ogden, 5 West 47th Street, New York City, U.S.A.
*Tucke.y, C. Lloyd, M.D., 27 Silverdale Road, Eastbourne.
Tudor, Owen S., Friday's Hill, Haslemere, Surrey.
*TugweU, Mrs. Arthur, 49 St. Catherine's Road, Southbourne,
Bournemouth.
*Turner, Miss J., B.A., 14 Endsleigh Street, London, W.C. 1.
Tuson, K. H., Lieut., R.E., Brompton Barracks, Chatham.
*Tyrone, The O'Neill de, 59 rua das Plores, Lisbon, Portugal.
*Tyrrell, G. N., Torbay House, Parkstone, Dorset.
Tyrwhitt, Rev. H. M., 19 The Glebe, Blackheath, London, S.E. 3.
Ulman, Mrs. Jacob A. ,
Brooklandville, Baltimore County, Md. , U.S.A.
*Upton, Miss Florence K.. 21 Great College vStreet, Westminster,
London, S.W. 1.
Van Deren, H. S., Nashville, Tenn., U.S.A.
*Van Loon, Dr. F. H., c/o Hoofdbureau B.G.D., Weltevreden, Java.
Van Meurs, H., Schenck-de-jong-weg 6, Buitenzorg, Java.
Van Renterghem, A. W., M.D., 1 Van Breestraat, Amsterdam.
Vatcher, Mrs., 21 St. Leonard's Road, Ealing, London, W. 13.
*Venancourt, Comte de, 7 Rue Duperre, Paris.
*Verney-Cave, Hon. Mrs., Stanford-on-Avon, Rugby.
Verrall, Miss M. E., The Lydd, West Hoathly, Sussex.
*Vett, Carl, Strandvej 6 Str., Copenhagen, Denmark.
Vyvyan, Mrs. T. C. Poldhu. Richmond, Natal, South Africa.
Wagner, W. Q., St. John Street, Melrose, Johannesburg, S. Africa.
Waite, Miss E. V., Ackworth, Station Road, Epping, Essex.
*Wales, Hubert, Homewood Heath, Hinclhead, Surrey.
*Waley, S. D., 18 The Green, Kew, Surrey.
Walker, Mrs. Claude. 12 Southwood Court, Hampstead Garden
Suburb, London, N.W. 4.
Walker, Miss Madeline J., 107 Queen's Gate, London, S.W. 7.
Walker, Miss May C, National Provincial Bank, Llandudno,
N. Wales.
*Walker, Lieut.-Col. P. L. E., 36 Princes Gardens, London, S.W. 7
Walker, R. A., RoUeston, Stretton, Cromer Road, Bournemouth.
Walker-Munro, Mrs., Rhinefield, Brockenhurst, Hants.
* Wallace, Abraham, M.D., Wendela, Harrow-on-the-HiU, Middlesex.
Wallace, C. A., 1 Adelaide Avenue, Belfast, Ireland.
Walsh, Rev. A. Digby, Oxford and Cambridge Club, Pall MaU,
London, S.W. 1.
Walsh, Correa M., Belleport, Long Island, N.Y., U.S.A.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 461
Wanderley, F. M., Corumba, Matto Grossa, Brazil.
Wang, C. Y., Rue de Paris Extension, Hankow, China.
*Warburton, A. P., c/o A. Scott & Co., Rangoon, Burma, India.
Ward, Hon. Kathleen, Aughnacloy House, Killiney, Co. Dublin,
Ireland.
*Warner, Rev. D. V., 1370 Greene Avenue, Westmount, Montreal,
Canada.
Warren, iVIrs. Fiske, 8 Mount Vernon Place, Boston, Mass., U.S.A.
Warrender, Miss Margaret, 50 Wilton Crescent, London, S.W. 1.
WasteU, Mrs., The Rowans, Crowborough, Sussex.
Watson, Mrs. Milne, 73 Eccleston Square, London, S.W. 1.
Watson-Taylor, Mrs., Dibleys, Blewbury, Didcot.
Webster, ]Mrs. Julia C, Swanton, Vermont, U.S.A.
Weinberg, Dr. A. A., Helperoostsingel 2, Groningen, Holland.
*Weinberg, Harry J., North Road, The Park, Nottingham.
*Wellesley, Victor A. A. H., C.B., 20 St. Loo Mansions, St. Loo
Avenue, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Wemyss, Countess of, 23 St. James's Place, London, S.W. 1.
Western, P. J., Cambridge Mission, Delhi, India.
*Westlake, Ernest, Godshill, Fordingbridge, Salisbury.
*Weston, James, 37 Queen Street, Worthing, Sussex.
Weston, Miss Lena E., Rumbers Hill House, Tunbridge Wells,
Kent.
*Westray, Mrs., 25 Cavendish Road West, St. John's Wood, London,
N.W. 8.
*Wetterstad, Dr. S., Bondernes hus, Christiania, Norway.
Wheeler, C. Bickersteth, 80 Hamilton Terrace, London, N.W. 8.
Whitaker, Joseph J. S., ViUa Malfitano, Palermo, Sicily.
*Wliitehead, Miss Mercia D., St. Mary's, Trumpington, Cambridge.
*Whitfield, A. Stanton, F.R.Hist.S., Bentley Moor, Walsall, Staffs.
*Whitmee, A. C, Homelands, Fortis Green, London, N. 2.
Whiton, Rev. J. M., Ph.D., 65 West 127th Street, New York City,
U.S.A.
Wigan, W. L., Clare Cottage, East Mailing, Maidstone, Kent.
Wild, Miss Ida, Old Larkshayes, Dalwood, Axminster, S. Devon.
Wilding, Mrs., 11 Essex Street, Strand, London, W.C. 2.
Wilkins, Mrs., 10 Grosvenor Square, Rathmines, nr. Dublin.
W^ilkins,C. F., c/o Messrs. H. S. King & Co., 9 Pall Mall, London, S.W. 1.
*Wilkins, Rev. H. J., D.D., Redland Green, Bristol, Glos.
*Wilkmson, Mrs. L. G., Cromwell House, Haresfield, nr. Stonehouse.
4G2 Members and Associates. [part
Wilkinson, Miss Marian, S., Ford Cottage, Water End, York.
Wilkinson, Sidney, M.R.C.S., L.R.C.P., 49 Rodney Street, Liver-
pool.
Willcocks, Miss M. P., 35 Pennsylvania Road, Exeter.
Willett, Miss Cicely, c/o Standard Bank, Simon's Town, Cape
Province, S. Africa.
Williams, Mrs. Glynne, 7 Berkeley House, Hay Hill, London, W. 1.
Williams, Mrs. S. R., 12 Lorne Road, Oxton, Cheshire.
Williamson, Mrs., The Copse, Brook, Godalming, Surrey.
*Williamson, John, M.D., Heathfield, 18 College Road, Epsom.
*Williamson, The Very Rev. Dr. Wallace, 44 Palmerston Place,
Edinburgh.
Williamson, Mi's.,
W^illiams-Walker, Dr. A., National Hospital, Queen Square,
London, W.C. 1.
WiUis, Grant B., 173 W. Second Street, Mansfield, Ohio, U.S.A.
*Willock, Mrs. C. J., Elderton Lodge, Thorpe Market, Norwich.
Wilson, Charles J., Derlamogue, Ailesbury Park, Dublin.
*Wilson, Mrs. C. M., Queen Anne's Mansions, London, S.W. 1.
*Wilson, Mrs. C. Stuart, Gresham House, Sharia Sulieman Pasha,
Cairo, Egypt.
Wilson, Mrs. H. J., 12 Cheyne Court, Chelsea, London, S.W. 3.
Wilson, Percy, 48 Clarendon Road, Putney, London, S.W. 15.
*Wilson, R. S., c/o Peirce Leslie & Co., Ltd., Calicut, Malabar
Coast, Lidia.
*Winby, Lieut. -Col. L. P., 39 Upper George Street, London, W. 1.
Wingham, T. A., 174 Aberdeen Avenue, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.
Wise, Miss A. Stewart, 16 West Kensington Gardens, London, W. 14.
Witherby, Arthur George, Newtown Grange, Newbury, Berks.
*Wodehouse, The Lady Isabel, Kimberley House, Wymondham.
*Wolf, Franciso Eugene de, P.O. Box 269, Bristol, Rhode Island,
U.S.A.
*Wood, Richard, Roseville, Sunday's Well, Cork.
*Wood, T. Eugene, The Limes, Kedleston Road, Derby.
Woodhull, Miss Zula M., Norton Park, Bredon's Norton, near
Tewkesbury, Gloucestershire.
Woods, Miss Alice, St. Ives, Radlett, Herts.
Woods, Miss C. E., 13 Cowley Street, Westminster, London, S.W". 1.
Woollett, Lieut. -Colonel W. Charles, F.S.A., 4 The Ridges, Farn-
boro', Hants.
LXXXI.] Members and Associates. 463
*WooUey, F. Duke, M.D., 2 Palace Court, London, W. 2.
WooUey, V. J., M.D., 18 Freta Road, Bexley Heath, Kent.
*Worsfold, Mrs. Basil, 3 Plowden Buildings, Temple, London,
E.G. 4.
Wrangham, W. H., 78 Barmouth Road, Wandsworth, London,
S.W. 18.
*Wriford, ]\Ii-s., 21 Bullingham Mansions, Kensington, London, W.
*Wright, Captain A. F., M.C., Trent Valley House. Lichfield.
*Wright, G. E., Has Madoc, York Road, Guildford, Surrey.
*Wright, Maurice B., M.D., 4 Devonshire Place, London, W. 1.
Wynn, John, Lieut., Widney, Solihull, Warwickshire.
Yaraschenko, Madame, La Cava, Bordighera, Italy.
Yeats, W. B., 4 Broad Street, Oxford.
Younghusband, Sir Francis, 3 Buckingham Gate, London, S.W. 1.
Zeehandelaar, Dr. I., 39 Sarphatistraat, Amsterdam, Holland.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXXI
(PARTS LXXIX-LXXXI)
1920-21
Adaptation to reality. On the difficulties of - - 43-45, 48-49
American Society for Psychical Research, Proceedings of - - 30
Amnesia in dissociation and secondary personalities 47, 57, 58-59,
121-123, 409-410, 416
Anaesthesia of hysteria - - 41, 46, 52-53. 57. 409 (footnote)
,, Self-induced 49 (footnote)
Apparitions, a prmiitive '"
spirit phenomenon - - - 77. 80
Association experiment. Procedure of - - - 87-88, 401-402
Psycho-galvanic reactions . . . . 402-403
,, ,, Suggested application of, for the
investigation of trance-controls - - - 401-416
Automatic writing the work of dissociated states of consciousness 47-48
B. C. A. case of multiple personality - - - - 121-122,410
Balfour, The Rt. Hon. Gerald W.—
Criticism of W. Whately Smith's A Sugge-ited New
Method of Research - - - - - - 413
,, Author's reply - - - - - - - 414
Notion^of Monads and psychical research - - 110 (footnote)
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard - - - 325-326, 333, 368 (footnote)
Barnes, Mary, Case of - - - - - - - - 61
Barrett, Sir William, In Memory of Sir William Crookes - - 12
Beadon, Mrs., Book-tests received by - - 244, 260-269, 383
Beauchamp Case of multiple personality - - - 58, 61, 112, 121
466 Index to Vol. XXXI. [parts lxxix.-
Body and Mind, Author's comments on the argument in - - 110
Book-tests, A71 examination of, obtained in Sittings with Mrs.
Leonard. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick ----- 242
Introductory . . . 242-253
General description of book-tests . - . . 242-244
Typical case 247-250
Main interest 338
Origin 243
Earliest record ------ 253 (footnote)
Tabulation of successes and failures - - - - 245-246
Case where the communicator's memory seems the probable
source of information ------ 253-260
Cases of accurate description of objects near - - - 386-393
Crystal Ball and Tassa 391-393
" Le Canape Bleu " - - - 249-251, 260, 285, 366, 367, 370
Statuette of Adeline Genee - - 285, 286, 366, 386-391
Cases, Some Miscellaneous 289-300
Chance, Question of
244, 252, 260, 270, 271, 280, 302-303, 376, 379-386
Cases which, to the author of the report, appear least possible
to explain by chance . - . . 376 (footnote)
Experhnent to test the probability of chance 379-383, 385-386
Communicator and Control, distinct personalities in their own
consciousnesses ------ 364-365
,, Mental condition of, when communicating. Control's
statement on - - - - - - 350 (footnote)
,, Modes of communication between, 350 (footnote), 351-352,
364-372
,, Building up 365-366, 372
., Feda's uncertainty as to the order of the
figures forming the page number,
260-261, 263, 264-265, 365
„ Motor impulses 369-370
,, Oral - - - - 365
,, Symbolic gestures 365
„ Visions 366-369, 370-371
Communicators
—
A. V. B. See below, Book-tests.
Dr. and Mrs. A. W. Verrall. See below, A. W. V. Book-tests.
Others. See below. The book-tests of individual sitters.
Conclusion --------- 375-378
Cross -correspondence. Question of - - - - - 313-338
Examination of the records for indications of the mode of
perception of a page in a closed book - - 349-374, 398-400
Comniunicators' statements on the way the pages are arrived
at 350, 352, 353-355
LXXXI.] Index to Vol. XXXI. 467
Book-tests
—
Communicators on the mode of apprehending the printed matter
355-364, 399-400
„ on the method of selecting messages 352 (footnote)
Experiments, Special 300-313
Identity, Personal, of the commmiicator, evidence of 253, 260, 338
Instances of statements about words or sentences in a closed
book which turn out to be verbally correct - - 270-289
Knowledge of external things near the book-tests
247, 249-251, 260, 283-286, 366-367, 370, 386-393
Mistakes, Seemingly genuine, and others 268-269, 338-348, 349,
393-397
Message found not on the page named but in corresponding
position on an adjoining page 270, 271, 276, 277, 281-282,
294, 304, 345-347, 349-350, 357
Conmiunicator's explanation ----- 349-350
Mrs. Beadon's Book-tests and Comments thereon 244, 260-269, 368-
369, 376 (footnote), 383
Note on Chance in Book-tests ..... 379-386
Soxirce, Possible, of the supernormal knowledge displayed
—
Clairvoyance 246-247, 291-292, 375-378
Cases which, to the author of the report, are most convincing
376 (footnote)
Memory of the communicator - - 246, 251, 253-260. 285, 292,
345 (foot-note)
Telepathy from the dead ... - 253, 260, 338, 375
,, from the sitter or other living persons 246, 250-251, 259,
260, 285. 300, 301, 309, 375
Book-tests included in the above report
—
A. Y. B., 243, 244, 248-253, 264-265, 267, 271-286, 289-297, 300-313,
314-317, 328-333, 334-337, 339-341, 345-346, 347-348, 349-
353, 355-357, 358-359, 360, 362-364, 365-370, 371-374,
376 (footnote), 379, 386-396, 398-399
Messages about lights 272-275
„ and A. W. V., - - - 277-281, 296-297, 301, 334-337
A. W. v., 243-244, 277-281, 286-289, 296, 297-300, 301, 315, 318-325,
333-338, 341-345, 351, 354, 355, 357-358, 360, 361, 365,
366, 376 (footnote), 396-397, 399-400
„ and Mrs. Verrall - - 244, 297-300, 333, 341, 351
Sitters, Individual, received by
—
Mrs. Beadon ....244, 260-269, 376 (footnote), 383
Dr. T. W. Mitchell 373-374
Miss Radclyffe-Hall. See above, A. V. B.
S., G. H. '
268
Mrs. W. H. Salter. See above, A. W. V.
468 Index to Vol. XXXI. [parts lxxix.-
Book-tests, etc., Sitters, Individual-
Mrs. T., apiDarently connected with Mr. Piddington's
paper on the "'
One-Horse-Dawn " Experiment 326-328
Mrs. Hugh Talbot 253-260, 338
Rev. C. Drayton Thomas - 244, 270, 314, 346-347, 360,
364 (footnote), 384-385, 386
Apparent connexion with an A. V. B. book-test 328-329,
330-332
(Una) Lady Troubridge. 5'ee above, A. V. B.
Mrs. Stuart Wilson, unidentified - - - 267 (footnote)
Several other sitters' book-tests. Reference to 253 (footnote),
268, 333, 349, 354, 357, 384
,, apparently connected with Mr. Piddington's Further Light
on the " One-Horse-Dawn " Experiment 322, 323-325,
326-328
Chenoweth, Mrs., Mediumship of, reference to - - - - 30, 73
Clairvoyance, in a case of dissociated personality -
66, 67, 68-69
connection with telepathy - - - - 377-378
,, Helpful clue in experimenting - 377, 378
definition of, and use of the term - - 242, 246-247
evidence for. On the 375-377
experimental work on 247 (footnote), 377 (footnote)
Possible som-ce of Book-tests 246-247, 291-292, 375-378
Telepathic 377
Communications purporting to come from the dead. See Book-
tests.
Telepathy between the living and its bearing iipon 210-212
Communicators
—
A. V. B. ; Dr. and Mrs. A. W. Verrall ; and others. See
Book-tests obtained in sittings with Mrs. Leonard.
Uncle Jerry, Reference to ------ 103
Complexes, Jting's theory of 80-83, 84, 85-89
„ On the nature of 87-88
,, ,, source of 87-92
Consciousness, Problems of 110-120, 121-123
„ Theory of co-consciousness - - 42, 121, 122-123
unity of - 57,58,110-120,121-123
,, Distinction between, and unity
of the self - - - - 57
See also Dissociation.
Control : A. V. B. 272-273, 313, 348
Hallucinatory Lights 272-275
Controls, A suggested method of investigation of the psycho-
logical status of 401-416
,, Distinction between general and personal 408 (footnote), 410
LXXXI.] Index to Vol. XXXI. 469
Cook, Florence, Sir William Crookes on, reference to - - 21, 24-26
Cory, Professor C. E., A case of dual personality - - 122-123
Crookes, Sir William, In Memory of - - - - - - 12
,, Psychical investigations 20-29
,, contributions to the Proceedings and Journal 29
Davey, S. J., Reference to the slate-writing of - - - - 238
Dissociated Personality. See The Doris Fischer Case.
Dissociation of consciousness, a beneficial process 43, 45, 47, 48-49
,, Capacity for and possibility of - - - - 44
On the origin of 41-49,64,112
„ Repression and ------- 45-47
Source of secondary personalities - - - 57-58, 64
,, Supernatural powers in states of 47-48, 65-69, 71-72
Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality - - - - 30, 112
History 31-39
Hypnotic phenomena - - - - . 32-34, 40, 49-50
Hysterical features - - - 32-34, 39. 40, 41, 43, 51-52, 72
Problems raised. Discussion of ----- - 39-74
Psychoanalytic interpretation, Data for - - - - 42
Secondary personalities. Disposition and character 30-31, 32-39,
61, 63-64, 72-73
„ „ Memory relations existing between 59
,, Mode of disappearance - - - 52-55
Source of - - - - 57-58, 64
Spiritistic interpretation of " Sleeping Margaret,"' On the - 69-73
Suggestive power of co-conscious personalities, examples of - 51-55
Supernormal aspect -------- 65-74
Incidents 65-69, 71-72
Dream, On the phenomenon of the, 80, 83, 85, 94, 97, 98-99, 101, 102,
114-115, 416
,, Primitive interpretation - - - - - - 78, 80
Dreams, Telepathic. See Mr. Wales' Report on Apparent Thought-
transference without Conscious Agency.
Ego or Self, Unity of the - - - - 57-58,110-120,121-123
FiTZMAURiCE, Mrs., Evidence contributed by - - - 258-259
Fliigel, J. C, Review of Freud's Totem and Taboo. Resernhlances
between the Psychic Lives of Savages and Neurotics - - 224
Freud, Exposition of the works of - - - - - 94-102
Freud's theories, of dissociation of consciousness - 41-42, 46, 64
dreams - - - 94, 97, 98-99, 100, 102
magic 226-227
the Unconscious - - - - 94, 95, 96, 224
„ Totem and Taboo. Resemblances between the Psychic Lives of
Savages and Neurotics. Review of 224
470 Index to Vol. XXXI. [PARTS LXXIX.-
Fuller, H. H., Thought-transference attributed to the agency of 125,
126-127, 129, 131-132, 160-162, 181-183, 199, 213-217
Hallucinations, Auditory and visual, in a case of dissociation - 66
Hanna, Mr., Reference to the case of - - - - - 61
Harvard Psychological Laboratory, Experimental study of tele-
pathy and alleged clairvoyant processes - - - - 218
Head, Dr. Henry, the effects upon sense-perception of injuries to
the brain - - - - - - - - - -117
Hodgson Memorial Fund, Report on the work done in 1916-17
imder - - - - - - - - - - 218
Home, D. D., Sir William Crookes on. Reference to - - - 21-23
" Horace Ode Question," apparent Book-test reference to 318-319, 323
Howard, Miss Sylvia, Evidence contributed by 144 (footnote), 166, 198
Hypnosis, Phenomena of 34-35, 40, 49-52, 55-56, 115, 116, 121-122, 210,
416
Hyslop, Dr. J. H., On the Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Per-
sonality 30, 65, 73-74
Hysteria, Phenomena of 34, 39, 40, 41-43, 46, 47, 48, 52, 56, 57, 72, 416
Primitive " spirit " interpretation ----- 78
In Memonj of Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S. - - - 12
,, Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. 1
James, William, President of the Society . - - - 105
,, ,, On suppressed selves in human personality - 60
Janet, Dr. Pierre, On dissociation and hysteria 41-42, 43, 46, 121
Jones, Dr. Ernest, Papers on Psycho -Analysis. Second editioyi.
Review of --------- 94
,, Lieutenant E. H., The Road to Endor. Review of - - 229
Journal of Abnormal Psychology, Dr. Morton Prince's discussion
of the B. C. A. Case of multiple personality - 121-122, 410
,, Professor C. E. Cory's case of dual personality - - 122-123
Jung, Dr. C. G.—
The Psychological Foundations of Belief in Spirits - - 75
Studies in Word-Associatioyi, Reference to . - . 402
Theory of Complexes 80-83, 84, 85-89
the Dream 80-82,83,115
Symbolism 100, 101
The Unconscious . . . . 84-87, 95, 96, 99
" Le Canapk Bleu " - - - 249-251, 260, 285. 366, 367, 370
Leonard, Mrs. Osborne, Trance phenomena of. See Mrs. Henry
Sidgwick's Examination of Book-tests.
Life after death, Development of views of - - - - 119-120
Lights, Hallucinatory 272-275
LXXXI.] Index io Vol. XXXI. 471
Lodge, F. L., Evidence contributed by - - - - 103-104
Lodge, Sir Oliver
—
In Memory of Lord Bayleigh 1
Note on " A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena of
Trance " 103
M'DouCxALL; William, F.R.S., Presidential Address - - - 105
Memory, Apparent dependence of, on the integrity of the brain 116-118
,, Relations existing between Secondary Personalities - 59
Miles, C, Experiments in Thought-transference, Reference to - 210
Mitchell, Dr. T. W., The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Per-
sonality ------ 30
,, Review of Dr. Ernest Jones's Papers on
Psycho-Analysis, second edition - - 94
,, ,, Sittings with Mrs. Leonard and Book-tests
received ----- 373-374
Monads, The notion of ------- 110-123
Bearing on question of Survival - - - - 119-120
Exponents of 1 10 (footnote)
Multiple Personality. See Personality.
Mj-ers, F. W. H., On the Subliminal, reference to - - - 95-96
„ Telepathy ----- 209 (footnote)
,, ,, ,, TeliBsthesia ------ 377
Neuroses, Parallelism between certain priniitive Systems of
Thought and 224-228
Note on " .4 Becord of Observations of Certain Phenomena of
Trance" . . - 103
CEdipus, Apparent reference to, in ^Irs. Leonard's trance - 325-326
"One Horse Dawn" Experiment, Further Liqht on - - 323-324
Book-tests apparently connected with - 322, 323-325, 326-328
Q^dixDus, Apparent reference to, in Mrs. Leonard's trance 325-326
Telepathic impressions apparently connected with - 145-146
Perovsicy-Petrovo-Solovovo, Count, On the hallucination
theory, reference to 22 (footnote), 27
Personality, Human, Problems of
—
Conception of its nature and evolution 43-45, 48-49, 57-63, 110-116
Disintegrating forces. See Dissociation of Consciousness.
Multiple, Cases of, reference to - 42, 58, 61, 112, 121-123
,, Discussions on. See The Doris Fischer Case ; also
Journal of Abnormal Psychology.
,, Secondary Personalities
—
Child-hke - - - - - - - 60-61
472 Index to Vol. XXXI. [parts lxxix.-
Personality, Human, Problems of
—
Multiple, Secondary Personalities
—
Classification, Discussion on the problem of - 58-65
,, based on memory - - 58, 59
,, „ Character - - 59-61
Fundamental lines
of cleavage - 61-64
,, ,, possession of Super-
normal power - 65
Co-conscious type - - - - 58, 59, 122
Extinction by gradual regression to childhood
and infancy 52-55
Memory relations between - - 58-59,121-123
Monistic view . . - . 116,121-123
Soui'ce -------- 57
Spiritistic inter]3retation - - - 30, 73-74
Suggestive power in co-conscious series
51-52, 55-56, 123
Supernormal powers ----- 65
Trance-controls, Question of their identity
with ------- 401-416
See also Theories of : Complexes,
and The Unconscious.
" Peveril," Miss Ray - - - - 192
Physical Phenomena of Spiritualism, On the - - - 10, 20-27
The hallucination theory - - - - - 22 (footnote), 27
Piddington, J. G., Further Light on the " One Horse Dawn" Ex-
periment. Reference to - - - 322, 323-326, 327-328
Piper, Mrs., Note on the trance phenomena of - - - - 103
Post -psycho -analytic School . . - . - loO, 101, 102
Presidential Address by Dr. W. M'Dougall - - - - 105
Primitive psychology in regard to belief in souls and spirits
76-80, 83-84, 88, 89, 91, 92
Systems of thought, parallelism between certain, and
neiu-oses 224-228
Prince, Dr. Morton, Discussion of the B. C. A. case of multiple
personality 112-122, 410
Prince, Dr. Walter F., and the Doris Fischer Case
30-40, 49-50, 51-55, 65-73
Psj^chical research, Attitvide of psychologists and other men of
science to 106-108
Psycho-Analysis, Papers on, by Dr. Ernest Jones, Review of 94
Psychoanalysts and the phenomena of multiple personality - 42, 45
,, On the teaching and work of - - 42, 43, 45, 46, 64
Psychology and Psychical Research ----- 106-108
LXXXI.] Index to Vol. XXXI. 473
Radclyffe-Hall, Miss M., (and (Una) Lady Troubridge),
Book-tests received by. See Book-tests : A. V. B.
A Series of Sittings with Mrs. Leonard, Reference to - 366
Ramsden, Miss H., Experiments in tliought-transference,
Reference to -------- - 210
' Randolph, '
a possible cross -correspondence between a Book-
test and Mrs. Stuart Wilson's aiitomatism - - 289, 313
Rayleigh, Lord, Iti Memory of ------ - 1
Presidential Address, Reference to - 208, 210 (footnote)
,, Psychical research, work on - - - - 7, 9-11
Record, A, of Observations of Certain Phenomena of Trance,''^
Note on, by Sir Oliver Lodge ------ 103
Report, A, on a Series of Cases of Apparent Thought-transference
without Conscious Agency ------- 124
For detailed references, see under Thought-transference.
Repression, Psychoanalytic theory of . - - - 96-97, 224
Reviews
—
Freud's Totem and Taboo. Resemblances between the psychic
lives of Savages and Neurotics ----- 224
Dr. Ernest Jones's Papers on Psycho-Afialysis, Second
edition --------- 94
E. H. Jones's The Road to Endor 229
Dr. L. T. Troland's A Technique for the Experimental Study
of Telepathy and Other Alleged Clairvoyant Processes - 218
Reynolds, Mary, Reference to the case of - - - - - 61
Richet, Professor Charles, Experiments in Clairvoyance, Refer-
ence to ------ 247 (footnote), 377
Road, The, to Endor, by E. H. Jones. Review of - - - 229
St. Paul, Conversion of, from the standpoint of the theory of
Complexes - . 82-83
Salter, W. H., Review of The Road to Endor . . . . 229
Salter, Mrs. W. H., Script of, Experiment to influence, through
A. V. B. - - 330, 335-336
,, Sittings with Mrs. Leonard and Book-tests received.
See Book-tests : A. W. V. and Mrs. Verrall.
Samuels, Miss Jane. See " Report on a Series of Cases of
Apparent Thought-transference without Conscious Agency."
Schiller, F. C. S., D.Sc, On dissociation ----- 45
,, Review of Dr. L. T. Troland's A Techniquefor the Experi-
mental Study of Telepathy and Other Clairvoyant Processes - 218
Secondary Personalities. See Personality, Multiple.
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry, An Examination of Book-tests obtained in
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard - - - - - 241
For detailed references, see under Book-tests.
„ Experiments in Thought-transference. Reference to 209-210
474 Index to Vol. XXXI. [parts lxxix.-
Silberer, Dr., On the theory of Symbolism - - - 100-101
Smith, W. Whately, A Suggested New Method of Research - 401, 414
Smyth, Miss D. Bowyer, evidence contributed by - - - 258
Society for Psychical Research
—
Members and Associates, List of - - - - - 419
Offioers and Coimcil for 1921 - - - - - - 417
On the work of the Society . . . . 39-40,106-109
Spirits, Existence of, from the viewpoint of modern psychology - 92-93
Interpretation of, by the theory of Complexes - - 83. 92
Sjjirits, The Psychological Foimdations of Belief in - - - 75
Statuette of Adeline Genee. See " Book-tests obtained in
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard : Cases of Accurate description
of objects."'
Studies in Word-Association, by Dr. C. G. Jung, Reference to - 402
Subliminal activity and communications purporting to come
from the dead 210-212
,, Myers's conception of the - - . . . 95-96
Suggested, A, New Method of Research, by W. Whately Smith - 401
Criticism of - - - - - - - - - 413
,, Author's reply to - - - - - - 414
Suggestion, Hypnotic 50-51
Relations subsisting between hj^pnotic personalities
in co-conscioiLS series ------ 51
,, from within, in cases of secondary personalities 51-52, 55-56
Survival, bearing of the conception of monism upon the cjuestion
of 119-120
,, evidence of personal identity - - - 253, 260, 338
Symbolism, The Psycho-analytic theory of - - - 98-102
Talbot, Mrs. Hugh, Book-test . . . . 253-260, 338
Technique, A, for the Experi^nental Study of Telepathy and Other
Alleged Clairvoyant Processes, by L. T. Troland. Review of 218
Telacsthesia, On 377
See also Clairvoyance.
Telepathy and clairvoyance, Probable close connexion of - - 377
„ at a distance. See " Thought-transference, Report
on Cases of, without Conscious Agency."
„ between the living and its bearing upon communica-
tions purporting to come from the dead - 210-212
Experimental 218
See also Thought-transference,
from the dead. Question of - - 253, 260, 338, 375
„ in connexion with dissociated states - 47-48, 67-68
On the evidence for 9, 109, 240
„ Question of the nature of the processes concerned 208-210, 219
Against the jjhysical theory - 210 (footnote), 212
LXXXI.] Index to Vol. XXXI. 475
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton. See under Book-tests.
Thorjae, Miss C, Evidence contributed by - 190-191, 196, 198
Thought-transference, Experimental, Reference to - - 209-210
Thought-transference without Conscious Agency, A Report on a
Series of Cases - - - - - - - - 124
Apparent premonitory impressions - - . . . 200
^ Bodily sensations transmitted - . . - 126-127,213
Cases in which the aggregate seems to exclude chance-
coincidence - - - - - - - 133
,, which, assuming a telepathic connexion, seem worth
examiiring as throwing hght on its nature - - 165
Casual Agency - - - - - - - - - 189
Chance-Coincidences ...... 165-167
Classification of percipient's impressions - - - - 130
Distortion by automatist - - - - - - 167
Effort inhibits transference - - - - - 127-128
Independent Agents - - - - - - - - 196
Mistakes resembhng mishearing - - - - - - 199
Possible transference of associated ideas - - - 188
,, ,, latent thoughts - - - - 183
" Rapport " objects - 199
Telepathy as against clairvoyance - - - - - 188
Totem and Taboo. Resemblances between the psychic lives of
Savages and Neurotics, by Freud. Review of - - - 224
Trance-controls and secondary personalities 40, 47-48, 61, 65, 401-416
,, On the Cjuestion of their identity - - 401-416
Trance phenomena of Mrs. Piper, Note on - - - - 103
Troland, Dr. L. T., A Technique for the Experimental Study of
Telepathy and' other Alleged. Clairvoyant Processes. Review of 218
Troubridge, (Una) Lady (and Miss Radclj^ffe-Hall), A Series of
Sittings with Mrs. Leonard, Reference to - - - - 366
,, Book-tests received. See Book-tests : A. V. B.
Unconscious, The, of the Child 94, 95
,, Parallelism of Jung's concejDtion of, with the primitive
belief in souls and spirits - - - 84, 86-87, 88
Theories of .... 84-86, 88-92, 94, 95, 96
Unitary ego or self. Theory of - - 57-58,110-120,121-123
Verrall, Mrs. A. W., Communications purporting to come from.
See Book-tests : Communicators.
Script of 336-337
Visions, Waking, On the phenomenon of - - - - 81, 83
Primitive " spirit " interpretation .... 77, 80
476 Index to Vol. XXXI. [lxxix.-lxxxi.]
Wales, Hubert, A R&port on a Series of Cases of Apparent
Thought-transference without Cotiscious Agency - - - 124
For detailed referencas, see under Thought-transference.
Wilson, Mrs. Stuart, A possible cross -correspondence between a
Book-test and the automatism of ^ - 289, 313
,, Unidentified book-test . _ _ . 267 (footnote)
" Word-association " test. See Association experiment.
Z., Alma, Reference to the secondary personalities in the Case of 61
GLASGOW : PRINTED AT THE UNIVERSITY PRESS Br ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
OF THE *L •-'^
tTl
PROCEEDINpS
OF THE
Society for Psychical
Pabt LXXIX. Vol. XXXI.—^ay, 1920. Peic
^^^^
CONTENTS *1 ^
3? ^
CHAP.
^
I. In Memory of Lord Rayleigh, O.M., F.R.S. By Sir Olivi^
Lodge, F.R.S. 1
II. In Memory of Sir William Crookes, O.M., F.R.S. By Sir
William Barrett, F.R.S. . • • .12
III. The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. By T. W. *
Mitchell, M.D. ^0
rV. The Psychological Foundations of Belief ki Spirits. By C. G.
Jung, M.D., LL.D. . . . •
75
Supplement.
Review : Dr. Ernest Jones's " Papers on Psycho-Analysis."
By T. W. Mitchell, M.D. . . • •
Note on "A Record of Observations of Certain Phenomena
of_Trance " {Proc S.P.R., Vol. VI.). By Sir Oliver
Lodge, F.R.S.
The reeponsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers jntblished
in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors.
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MAOLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED,
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW.
Ageiits for the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Mabylebone, W. 1.
GLASGOW: MAOLEHOSE, JACKSON &' CO., 61 St. Vincent Street.
AMERICA : THE F. W. FAXON CO. , S3 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved.
The Society for Psychical Research.
OFFICERS AND COUNCIL FOR 1920.
Rt. Hok. a. J. Baifouk, M.P., O.M.,
F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
Oeorge B. Dorr.
Professor J. H. Hyslop, Ph.D.
PRESIDENT.
W. M'Do0GALL, F.R.S., M.Sc, M.B.
VICE-PRESIDENTS.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
Professor Gilbert "MtiRRAY, LL.D.
F. 0. S. SCHILLEE, D.Sc.
Mrs. Henrt Sidgwiok, D.Litt., LL.D.
W. W. Baggally.
The Right Hon. G. W. Balfour.
Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
The Rev. M. A. Bayfield.
Captain Ernest N. Bennett.
Sir George Beilby, F.R.S.
G. Lowes Dickinson.
The Hon. Everard Feildino.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D.
Sir Lawrence J. Jones, Bart.'
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S., D.Sc.
T. W. Mitchell, M.D.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.
Litt.D.
COUNCIL.
D.,
J. G. Piddington.
St. George Lane Fox Pitt.
W. H. Salter.
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc.
Sydney G. Scott.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, D.Litt., LL.D.
H. Arthur Smith.
W. Whately Smith.
Sir Joseph J. Thomson, O.M., P.R.8.
Charles Lloyd Tuckey, M.D.
V. J. WOOLLBY, M.D.
Maurice B. Wright, M.D.
FORMER PRESIDENTS.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - - - - " - - 1882-1884.
Professor Balfour Stewart, F.E.S., 1885-1887.
Professor Henry Sidgwick, - - - - - - 1888-1892.
The Eight Hon. A. J. Balfour, M.P., F.R.S., - - - 1893.
Professor William James, 1894-1895.
Sir William Croqkes, F.R.S., - - . . . 1896-1899.
Frederic W. H. Myers, 1900.
Sir Oliver Lodge, F.E.S., 1901-1903.
Sir William Barrett, F.E.S., 1904.
Professor Charles Richet, - - - - - - 1905.
The Right Hon, Gerald W. Balfour, ... - 1906-1907.
Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, - - - - - . . 1908-1909.
H. Arthur Smith, - - - 1910.
Andrew Lang, LL.D., - - 1911.
The Eight Eev. Bishop Botd Carpenter, D.D., - - 1912.
Professor Henri Bergson, ------- 1913.
F. G. S. Schiller, D.Sc, 1914.
Professor Gilbert Murray, LL.D., Litt.D., - - - 1915-1916.
L. P. Jacks, LL.D., D.D., 1917-1918.
The Eight Hon. Lord Eatleigh, G.'M., F.E.S., - - - 1919.
NOTICE.
Any well-attested information, bearing on the various subjects which
are being investigated by the Society, will be gratefully received,
whether from Members, or persons intending to join the Society, or
from others. Communications to be addressed to the Secretary,
Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.l.
The Rooms of the Society, at 20 Hanover Square, London, W. 1, are
open every week-day from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m., except on Saturday,
when they close at 1.30 p.m.
Proceedings of
The Society for Psychical Research.
Principal Contents of. Parts LXXIV.-LXXVIII.
[A Contents Sheet of the whole Series can be obtained on application to the
Secretary, Society for Psychical Research, 20 Hanover Square, London, W.
Part LXXIV.—December, 1917. Price Gs. 9d. ($2.00) net. faob
I On the Development of Different Types of Evidence for Survival
in the Work of the Society. By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick, .
245
II. The Ear of Dionysius : A Discussion of the Evidence. By
Miss F. Melian Stawell, . •
•
III. The Ear of Dionysius : A Reply. By The Right Hon. G. W.
Balfour, . . •
•
IV Presidential Address : The Theory of Survival in the Light of
its Context. By L. P. Jacks, LL.D,, .
V. Some Experiments with a New Automatist. By Mrs
Salter,
VI. Some Recent Cases of Premonition and Telepathy.
Rev. M. a. Battield, . . .
•
W. H.
By the
260
270
287
306
350
376
Supplement.
VII. In Memoriam—Mrs. A. W. Verrall,
VIII. Bevieius :
„ , . , n j.
Proceedings of the American Society for Psychical Research,
" The Doris Fischer Case of Multiple Personality. By
F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, . . • •
•
Sir Oliver Lodge's "Raymond." By Mrs. Henry Sidgwick,
Part LXXV.—July, 1918. Price 6s. 9d. ($2.00) net.
I." The Psychoanalytical Use of Subliminal Material. By Constance
E. Long, M.D.,
II. Dream-Analysis. By Miss Alice Johnson, . . . •
.
IIL Psychology of the -Unconscious and Psychoanalysis. By T. W:
Mitchell, M.D., .
•
•
Part LXXVI.—November, 1918. Price 4s. 6d. ($1.35) net.
I. Ftesh Light on the "One-Horse Dawn" Experiment. By J. G.
386
404
1
33
134
Piddington,
II Evidence of Supernormal Communications through Motor Auto-
matism. By Sir William Barrett, F.K.S., . . .
. 251
Supplement.
TII Review : Mr. John E. Coover's Experiments in Psychical Research
III. i^e^*^'^.
- ^t^niovA Junior University's Psychical
_
Research Monograph, No. 1." By F. C. S. Schiller, D.Sc, .
261
Proceedings of the Society,-—'Continued.
Part LXXVII.—June, 1919. Price ;4s. 6d. {$i:35) net.
I. Presidential Address. By the Right Hon. Lord Rayleigh, paqe
O.M., .
F.E.S.r -j' r'-^fif'^^
I
• • • .
'275
II. Note on Mr. Piddington's t*aper called "Fresh Light on the
'One-Horse Dawn' Experiment." By Sir Oliver Lodge,
•
. .;. F.R.S ,291
III.' A Reply to Sir Oliver Lodge's Note. By J. Gr. Piddikgton, . 296
IV. "The Reality of Psychic Phenomena." By W. Whately Smith, 306
Part LXXVIIL—December, 1919. Price 7s. (^?2.50) net.
On a Series ot Sittings witi. Mrs. Osborne Leonard, Bj' Miss
Radclyffe-Hall and (Una) Lady Teoubridge.
Bound Copies of Volumes I,-XXX. of the Society's Proceedings, or any
Part separately, can be obtained through any Bookseller, from Mr. Francis
Edwards, 83 High Street, Marylebone, London, :W., as above.
Members and Associates can obtain bound copies of volumes, ot separate Farts,
at half-price, as below, on application to the Secretttry, Society for Psycliical
Research, ,20 Hanover Square, London, W. Or, in America, to The F. W.
Faxon Co., 83, Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
Vol... L (Parts i.-iv.)
M II. ( >» V.-VII.)
l> , III. { »J
VIII.-IX.)
))
IV. ( »» X.-XI.)
»»
V. ( is XII. -XIV.)
>)
VL ( It XV. -XVII.)
Jt VII. ( J
)
XVIII. -XX.)
>J
VIII. ( >> XXi.-xxnj.)
91 IX. ( »> XXIV.vXXV.)
}}
X. ( ) J
XXVI.
)
iJ XI. ( )J XXVII. -XXIX.)
yt XII. ( )» XXX. -XXXI.)
»» XIIL ( J) XXXII. -XXXIII.)
)>
XIV. ( J y
XXXIV. -XXXV.)
)) XV. ( JJ XXXVI. -XL.)
)) XVI. ( J
)
XLI.)
JJ XVII. ( JJ XLII.-XLV.)
J J
XVIII. ( >» XLVI.-XLIX.
)
)» XIX. ( )> L.-LII.)
3> XX. ( J» ^ LIII.
)
>> XXI. ( )» LIV.-LVI.)
>» XXII. ( > 1
LVII.)
>) XXIII. ( >l LVIII.-LIX.)
)> XXIV. ( Jt LX.-LXI.)
1
)
.XXV. ( it LXII.-LXrV.)
1
)
XXVL ( )> LXV.-LXVII.)
)»
XXVII. ( ) >
LXVIII.-LXX.)
J»
XXVIII. ( )
)
LXXI.)
) >
XXIX. ( 93 LXXII.-LXXIV.)
Li paper. ( ) >
LXXV.
)
( J
)
LXXVI.
)
{
l)
LXXVII.)
( 99 LXXVIII.)
pp. 336 7s.'6di $2.35
340 7s. 6d. $2.35
500 7s. 6d. $2.35
605 6s. •$1.85
606 - 7sr 6d. $2.35
707 7s. 6d.
"6s.
.^$2.35
-^.Hjil.SS
442
647 7s. 6d. $2.35
407 6s. .$1.85
466 6s, '11.85
637 7s. 6d. ^
$2,35
391 6s. $1.85
653 9s. $2.65
436 7s. 6d. $2.35
522 9s. $2.65
650 9s. $2.65
468 9s. 4d. $2.75
548 10s. 6d. $3.15
508 9s. 9d. $3.00
444 9s. $2.65
584 9s. $2.65
445 9s, 12.65
602 10s': 6d, $3.15
758 10s. 6d. $3.15
540 , 9s,. $2.65
544 9s. $2.65
562 9s. $2.65
657 10s. 6d. $3.15
467 9s. 9d. $3.00
173 f 3s. 4d. $1.00
99 2s. 3d. $0.70
63 2s. 3d. $0.70
215 3s. 6d. $1.15
Cloth-lettered Covers for binding most of the Volumes, price Is. 6d. (50 c.)
each.
The Society auso issues a Monthly Journal for Privatk Oircttlation
among Members and Associates only.
Robert MacLehose & Co, Ltd., University Press, Glasgow. -
