{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patti_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Patti D Probable NDE 28","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patti D Probable NDE 28  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patti D Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						1503 Patti D Probable NDE 28  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was at a dental surgery. I went under the sodium pentothal okay. Next thing I knew I heard the fluttering of wings by my right ear. Then silence. I was in a dark cozy place that is 'the womb of existence' and at the same time every place. There was no sense of being enclosed, but at the same time, I was 'in' and 'out in the void'. No walls, no tunnel. Not blackness like shutting your eyes. It was a warm soft off-black color. If I had eyes, they would have been open. I was not in my body. That is the best I can do.

I 'saw' just the black wings like those of an eagle. About six feet in length from the shoulder to the tips. They floated in space with the shoulder end up. One was just in front of the other. They weren't attached to anything. They were just floating there all by themselves. They were to my right. Next, my consciousness is back in the office. They brought the crash cart into the office. There was a lot of activity, but I didn't care what they were doing to the body. I was very detached looking at my body in the dentist's chair. Yes, that was my body. It was in distress. They were working on it. So what?

Next thing I'm back in the 'womb' again, learning, soaking up, receiving, being told, being informed of 'things'. I'm not specifically aware of details or such, just that understanding in being delivered to me. But I couldn't tell anyone what any of it was. I just knew that it was there -- like having a reference library delivered to you and you haven't read anything yet. If you needed a piece of information, you would already know it. Next, I'm 'settling' into my body. It's a smooth process. I don't jerk into or fall into it. I'm not real happy about being back. But I don't fight it. There is a lot of activity going on. I go unconscious for a while.

I come to again and I know that they took out the equipment and are acting like everything is fine, but they know it was 'touch and go there for a while'. When I leave the office, I look for the crash cart. I open a door to see it and the nurse looks at me real funny and shuts the door quickly. I know that she is very uncomfortable that I have gone directly to it, opened the door and looked at it. She quickly shuts the door and hurries back the rear of the office.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1961

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         I think I nearly died. Or at least left the body. I 'saw' what I later learned was a crash cart and extra people in the office all around me when I was out due to the sodium pentothal. This was a relatively simple dental procedure.  I had no evidence of cessation of breathing or heart function that I had ACCESS to. I ended up in the hospital a day after leaving the dentist's office. There were 'complications'. My mother took care of everything and never gave me details.

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I didn't see myself. I just was. I just existed out of the physical form.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was out on sodium pentothal, but I 'saw', 'heard' and sensed things in the office, in the staff, and in the place I call the 'womb of being'. This was no dream. I was conscious and alert metaphysically, even though my body was unconscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The space and time of which I've spoken is out of everyday life as we know it. I bounced back and forth between the dental office the 'womb'.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    The sound of the wings fluttering in my right ear. I liked it. It felt normal, familiar, and comforting. Maybe I'd heard it before and had missed hearing it. I can hear it today and it makes me smile. While I under the sodium pentothal I 'heard' the sounds of the staff working. I knew there was a problem. I might die and that was all right. I've never liked this planet all that much and if I could go home that is all right by me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     Only that I was suddenly in the womb and suddenly out of it. But I didn't go through the tunnel everyone talks about and I didn't see any light anywhere while I was in the womb. But 'in' isn't exactly the right word. I was suddenly there. Maybe more like a state of being than a place. It was a place and every place at the same time.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Only the wings of Horus or an eagle or some such thing. The information was coming from someone somewhere but I didn't meet anyone in the usual sense. The whole universe was communicating with me. The whole universe is One.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Just the 'womb'. Which was a place and everyplace at the same time. It's impossible to relate.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calm, peaceful knowing. I was happier there in the void than I'd ever been on this planet. There was assurance, wonder, and almost a bliss. I accepted coming back to the body, but would have preferred to stay there. I've come to think of the wings as the wings of Horus and have very warm affectionate feelings about them. No, I feel a great deal of love for, about, those wings. I did not have any grand revelations or big surprises or anything like that. I feel kind of smug that I could walk directly to the crash cart. And I like knowing that the nurse knows that I know where the crash cart is. Whatever happened scared them and they aren't being honest about it. I know this.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     There was the knowing. Everything, every quark, charm, neutrino, atom, spirit and entity everywhere and every time is One. All is part of everything. Nothing and no one is separate. That is one of the things that is so sad about this life. People feel separated and cut off and we aren't -- not in reality. Separation is like our idea of time. It's just something we all agree on arbitrarily.  Our purpose is just to be. That's very hard for me as I realize it now, writing this. A tree's purpose is just to be. That is enough and yet we keep striving to be bigger, greater, grander, smarter, richer, prettier, and stronger. And in a way it's all for naught. At the same time, I'm not advocating the end of culture and striving for excellence in our lives. Again, it's very difficult to convey.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Deep down I knew I had to study and learn because there will come a time when I will be a 'fountain of knowledge' for others. Past that I can't elucidate. I just don't know. I knew I had to gain lots of basic medical information. Again to help others. I knew deep down that I would develop the mystical side of myself, again to help others. I don't get to do much in life for self-aggrandizement, but that's just as well because I probably wouldn't be very good at it. :)

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     On a subconscious level more than anything else. It was almost an initiation of sorts, like an event that I can look back on and learn from now. I knew on an inner level that I had to learn as much as I could because there would come a time when it would be needed and even if I didn't understand it all then, I should go ahead and read and study and learn and I have. It also showed me that I really could safely challenge early teachings. Because of that experience I was able to grow beyond the religious teachings of my youth without throwing the baby out with the bath water.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I 'saw', 'heard' and experienced phenomena that can't be explained in language easily. Mystical and poetical expressions help, but there is no equivalent in 'sane' society.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I always had them, but it was like that event was a signpost, looking back. I became more conscious of them, I think. Also, that event has been like a signpost. As things have occurred in my life, I can look back and say, 'Oh, yes, this fits.'

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Being in the womb of being and hearing the sound of the 'wings of Horus' was the best. The worst was having to leave to come back to this world.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I've told very few people. I told my favorite nursing instructor about this first one and she said, 'Oh, darling girl, you were dying! You heard the angel's wings.' For her it was proof of her beliefs -- she was born and raised in Wales. The doctor said I was hallucinating. Maybe I was, but I don't think so.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Learning to meditate reproduces some of the sense of calm, restful stasis that I experienced during the time in the 'womb of being'. It doesn't reproduce the blissful aspect, but comes close.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I'm Patti from Sacramento who called to ask if what I experienced was an NDE (I've had two). I'm so tired of being told if I don't know what happened, that they were fantasy or hallucination. Art Bell, on 'Coast to Coast AM' radio show, said something to the effect that if I don't know if they are NDEs then they aren't. After listening to the program and reading a bit on your site, I'm more convinced than ever that although my experiences aren't the same as others, they are really NDEs. There are two but I'll fill out two separate forms.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Don't let anyone cut off scaredy-cats like me who can't make themselves understood when they're put on the spot (as in trying talk on national radio!). Art meant no harm and he had a program to run. I might very well have done the same thing in his place. Maybe a section somewhere for 'If you think you might have had an NDE or an Out of Body Experience' would be in order. Can you imagine the number of people out there who have been told that 'it's all in your head', 'it's a hallucination', etc.? If I hadn't gotten mad and determined, I never would have gotten this far!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patti_d_probable_nde.html