{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patrick_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Patrick M NDE 3867","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patrick M NDE 3867  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patrick M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1829 Patrick M NDE 3867  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was funny because I really did not think it was real. It was so unreal. I was listening to a voice while I was watching my family, my mother, sisters, and even my father were there. They were all standing around a hospital bed. About the same time, I am given a decision to make, to stay, or I could go with a couple of my close friends. At the same time, it was dawning on me and then the doctor was checking my eyes and the monitor is beeping and commotion. I was told that I had an accident and I was okay. That I had been working with a boom truck (small crane) they are telling me I scared everybody, that one minute I was over there touching the large metal box and then a loud SNAP and I was thrown about forty-fifty feet away. The truck tires exploded then the electricity went to ground through the truck stiff legs. My friend or coworker told me I scared everybody then, the CPR was not working, and then at one point I sat straight up my mouth wide open screaming but there was no sound. The audio was not working. Then I blacked out again.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'August  second, nineteen seventy-seven'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  WORK ACCIDENT  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 'ELECTROUTION, 12000 VOLTS ..15 amps were drawn on that circuit the day I was hit'  I was given up for dead in the emergency room. After five hits with the defibrillator, I was idling again - lumpity, lump, ity, lump.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   NOT.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       NOT.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The whole time it was like I had two voices talking at the same time, like this team has, or you could go here, but the voices were almost...

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Too hard to explain.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Almost like at the airport where you're going up the gangway where the doors are open the light shining and over your shoulder.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     It was more voices that I remembered, long ago friends that had passed already.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Almost like at the airport at the end of the gangway.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       It was at first very peaceful, then confusing.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I learned everything matters, nothing should be taken for granted.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   I was a tan blonde curly haired California beach kid

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I am not religious in any way shape or form. When I go to church with friends or my wife I feel almost like a fraud because I have a belief that if you live as a respectable human being on a daily basis, there is nothing to confess or to be forgiven for.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'I think church is for people that want to believe they can be saved,but might not be saved....'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I am not religious in any way shape or form. When I go to church with friends or my wife I feel almost like a fraud because I have a belief that if you live as a respectable human being on a daily basis, there is nothing to confess or to be forgiven for.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I have a few friends today that I have had since before the accident and they feel that for the most part it made me a better human being, caring compassionate, loving.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   The whole thing was very peaceful.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have little things happen constantly, a little freaky at times, but when I tell people they think I am crazy.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    It was a couple of months after my accident, the buddy I shared it with died shortly after, a little freaky again.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     For me it was a wakeup call, or more like a huge SMACK in the face, WAKE UP, quit living your life in the way I had been. And to become a better human being in all ways, my personal relationships, my professional relationships, etc., etc. IT TOTALLY changed me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Today.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   NONE, other than maybe some magic mushrooms, just kidding.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Out of the blue one day I met a man who as it turned out was one of the people that saved my life - roughly five years and a light year away - he starts telling me a story about how he was at a job site when this accident happened. HE was STUNNED when he realized it was me. His life changed.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patrick_m_nde.html