{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patrick_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Patrick P NDE 9430","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patrick P NDE 9430  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patrick P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5062 Patrick P NDE 9430  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I had taken some Delta-8 gummies with my sister since they were legal and I wanted to relax. I can't drink due to Asian Flush syndrome and wanted to celebrate my recent graduation for my Master's degree in Space Studies - Aerospace Science.  Both my sister and I took the same dose (3 gummies) then I headed to bed with my wife. My sister was fine with No ill effects.

  About two hours later I woke up in worst pain than anything I could imagine. I managed to gain a tiny bit of control over my muscles to tell my wife to call 911 before I started "fading". I could feel my heart seizing and my vision starting looking like I was dropping away. I was screaming in my head to get out of it. The lights in the room were on and I didn't even notice the lights were on at that point as it all went dark.

  In the shades of a color I cannot describe, like a brown-purple-grey-black, I saw a rope and ballard line like the line to a club with rope gates leading to the front of a building. The "bouncer" quickly clasped the rope closed and some of my deceased family members were there telling me "No, go back!" In the void a soothing voice told me "No, not like this. Follow my breathing. Concentrate on breathing." It was coaching me on breathing as I could feel my heart seize up again shooting pain down my limbs, which I had lost control of all conscience control over and they were just twitching.

  After the paramedics stabilized me, I was loaded in the ambulance. On the way to the hospital my vision turned red and had lines like looking at a voice on a spectrograph from a spectrum analyzer. As that happened I heart my heart monitor flat line and thought "aw f#$%. No, you gotta be kidding me!" Just then the voice cane back and coached me through breathing again. After that, I started to feel my limbs again.

  I feel like I've been given a second chance and that I'm confident God exists. God was coaching me on how to survive. If it wasn't God then who was it? I wasn't a voice you hear, you felt it.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 28 July 2022  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Allergic Reaction.  Drug or medication overdose       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)    poisonous substance, waiting for toxicology report. I was lucid the entire time and remembered thinking "aw f#$%  No" when my heart monitor flatline briefly.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was in pain so definitely paying attention more.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Almost all of the time except when I was sedated at the hospital and finally got sleep. I was watching myself die.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No     

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       No  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It disappeared at times even though I knew my eyes were open.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear everything going on around me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Hard to describe the color.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was barred from continuing forward into it at the gate.  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Focused, like "how do I come back".  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       No  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others     A lot aware, like I had a purpose to be sent back.  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of No return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will  The "bouncer" and dead relatives were telling me to go back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

  What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Nothing in particular- Secular unaffiliated.   Logical skepticism based on a lack of evidence.  
  
Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know God hears me when I praise it.  

  What is your religion now?       Other or several faiths.   God exists but not as human as we describe in religions. God is God. At the center of the universe, you can hear its heart beat and that is the origin of all life. I dare anyone to dispute this and create complex life in a lab. At the center of the milky way, you can hear the heartbeat.  
  
Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was a "0's and 1's" type of guy who didn't believe anything without evidence. I have seen the evidence and I believe now.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in a God now.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   A voice you didn't hear but felt. It wasn't familiar.  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I was sent back for a reason. I don't know why.  

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     The heartbeat of God can be heard at the center of every constellation. We are connected to it.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     The being was coaching me back.  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told I was going back for a reason. I was never told why.  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     Whatever it was, I was barred from entering.  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No       

  What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life.     I appreciate everything more. It's like my life has "come into focus".  
  
Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am much more grateful for everyone.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Some things like the color are hard to describe.  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience    

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My sister, my brother-in-law, my mother, and my wife.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     No doubt anymore.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patrick_p_nde.html