{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patsy_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Patsy D NDE 307","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patsy D NDE 307  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patsy D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1131  Patsy D NDE  307  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

I want to tell you a little about my background and then tell you about my NDE.

I was born in Kansas in the heart of the Bible belt.  I was raised a devout Christian. I had been baptized by the age of twelve, and taught the words of God; all the concepts of heaven and hell, as taught in the Bible, all of which I accepted and certainly believed, to me it was the gospel truth. I was very religious. I make a point of this because I did not have the *normal* NDE, which is unusual when you consider my background. By 1965, I was the mother of four children and the wife of a lineman for the power company, and to make ends meet, I was working in a drive-in restaurant. I was a deaconess and a Sunday school teacher in my church, my life revolved around my family, my church and my home. In my spare time, I bowled twice a week in a bowling league. I begin to have trouble with my left leg, it would give out and I could not stand on it. I went to my doctor and he recommended having the veins stripped in my left leg. He assured me, it was elective surgery and I would be in the hospital only three days.

The following week the operation went as planned, with no complications. The next day I got up and walked around. The only thing I remember that was unusual was that twice I found myself on the floor with no memory of how I got there. On the third day, I went home, feeling fine. The following day I went over to my neighbor, Pearl, for a cup of tea. We were sitting there and suddenly I begin feel strange, I told Pearl that I would go home and lie down for a while. She said she would walk with me. I told her no, that I was all right and that I would see her later.

It was about 2:30 pm I walked across the street and up a short embankment, into the middle of the carport. Suddenly I was floating above my body, which was lying in the carport. I had no sense of movement and I was not afraid. I was fully conscious. I looked down and wondered why my body was lying on the ground and I was in the air. I thought it was interesting how my body looked. I had never seen my body from this view before.

Shirley, the neighbor across the street, saw me fall and she come running over calling to Pearl. She and Pearl picked up my body, carried it into the house, and put it down on the bed, where, still floating, I perch on the headboard, looking at my four children, who stood at the foot of the bed, watching the unsuccessful attempts being made to resuscitate my body.

Pearl told my daughter to call for an ambulance. She went into the living room and called them. My body voided all wastes and they were trying to clean it up. They removed all the clothing except for a tee-shirt. The ambulance came and two attendants came in, put my body on a stretcher, and carried it out to the ambulance. They told Pearl to get in. She told them that I had just came home from the hospital the day before. Shirley, said she would tell Bill, my husband to meet us at the hospital.

As they placed my body in the ambulance, I floated along with it. I was not attached to it in any way that I could determine. I just thought everything was so interesting. The driver turned on the siren as we started for the hospital. The attendant began trying to revive my body. Pearl was telling him what had happened as he was trying to find a pulse. He put an oxygen mask over my body's mouth and applied electric shocks to the chest three times, each time taking a pulse. Halfway to the hospital, he stopped and told the driver to turn off the siren. I was dead. Pearl started crying.

I turned around and was immersed in light. I was surrounded by unconditional love, and total acceptance. I knew I was complete at last. Never had I felt such safety and serenity before. Suddenly, I had all knowledge. All that I had ever heard or known was swept away. I knew that Christ had not died on the cross and that there is no sin or evil. I knew that I had existed since the moment of creation, that I shall always exist, and that all consciousness is in the act of becoming. I knew that I had lived many times in physical reality and I watched those expressions and observed each of them. I experienced what we mean when we say that we have free will and that we choose everything. There are no absolutes. I watched every thought I had ever chosen to its natural end, and each person it had touched. I knew that I was, and had always been, a speaker. Which meant I carried information between entities and their expressions. I was in physical reality because it is time for the physical being to mature and accept their responsibility for their creation and to realize that they create their reality. I knew then that I must return because my role was not finished yet. Also, I saw my own death, in 2010, drowning in my own body fluids. I gained the knowledge that all people choose their own time and create the method of their demise.

I turned around and I was in the hospital emergency room. Bill, Pearl, the ambulance attendants, two policemen, were there. A nurse standing at the head of the table on which my body was lying covered with a sheet. The doctor was in a rage, telling Bill that I had died from extreme malnutrition, often brought about by women dieting in order to make themselves thin.  He insinuated that my husband was to blame. Bill was trying to explain to him that he had just taken me home from that very hospital only the day before and it was impossible for me to have died under those circumstances.

I floated over to my body and sank down into it.

I want to tell you what it felt like when I entered my body. I have never felt such joy. I was enthralled with this wondrous body I had created. I could feel the consciousness of each cell in my body. I could feel the joy of the blood as it rushed through the veins and the sharing of the creation of new life as each cell sang its energy. I truly knew what the phrase 'I sang the body electric' meant. I was so captivated by this wondrous creation which all of me had created and the loving cooperation that existed between all the cells that had joined together to create this marvelous body called Patsy. I joined in this song of life, thanked each of them, and praised them. I could feel the energy as it traveled through my nerve paths to its destination. How alive and vital this body was. What a marvelous creation it was and how well it worked together in perfect synchronization in its exuberant celebration of life. As long as I wear this body, I will never forget what I had experienced in that moment.

My body begin to shake and the sheet fell to the floor. The nurse screamed. The doctor ran to the table. I sat up, trying to get off the table. I wanted to dance and sing for the sheer joy of being alive. He pushed me down on the table and told the nurse to get a sedative. I struggled to get up, I told the doctor that I was all right and I didn't need a sedative. Suddenly I realized I knew what everybody was thinking and they were all terrified. I calmed down and laid still. He was terrified to even touch me. The nurse did not want to approach the table again.

Everyone in the room were frozen in place. As if their brains could not process what their eyes were observing. I became aware that I was ravenous. I told the doctor that I needed food. He sent for an orderly to take me up to a room. Then he went over to the desk and begin to fill out papers. I could see that he could not think about what had just happened.  He was afraid of me.

The orderly came and wheeled my gurney into the elevator. As I was chattering away with the orderly, I noticed, Bill was staying as far away from me as possible. I knew in some way I had to help Bill because he had to go home and tell our children what had happened. I told Bill that I was all right and that I wanted him to go home and just tell the children that I would be home tomorrow. He never said a word. He just leaned over, kissed me, and took the elevator back down.

The orderly told the floor nurse that all of them in the emergency room acted as if they had just seen a ghost. She laughed, asking me if I too had seen *the ghost*, I answer no and asked for something to eat and drink. She glanced at the clock behind the nurse's station, which showed 10:04 pm she told me that the kitchen was closed for the night, but she would see what she could find for me. I was then put in a ward with two other women. She left the room. I immediately woke my roommates up. I was so happy to be with people who would (or perhaps could) react to me in a normal fashion that I started singing, dancing around the room, telling jokes. The nurse returned with the promised food and told me to get into bed and be quiet or she would have to strap me down. So I did.

The women went back to sleep and I lay awake all night. I read every mind in the hospital and wandered through everyone's dreams. To the ones who were dying, I help them to leave and explained to them where they were going. To the babies who had just entered this reality, I had long conversations and they told me why they had chosen to come and why they had chosen their parents. To those who were frightened and suffering, I helped them to see that they really chose the suffering and they had to choose not to suffer because it was not necessary.

The next morning, a neurologist came in and asked me many questions. He poked me with a needle. I read his mind and told him what he wanted to hear. He left thinking he had been right, that I had just had an emotional event that was caused by stress and he would recommend bed rest. I had planted these suggestions in his mind. That afternoon my surgeon came in and sat down and asked me what happened. I read his mind and knew that he knew I had died. I told him he would not believe me. He said, 'Yes, I would, I have to go before a board of my peers and tell them what happened and why I released you to go home. I am a surgeon and every day I face my enemy, death, across my operating table and the more I can understand about him, the better I am able to help my patients. I have had five hundred patients experience death and live to tell about it and I'm not moving until you tell me what happened.' So I told him. He told me that my file would be placed with the others and destroyed upon his death. I asked him what I should do and he said, 'I don't know. Your life will completely change and I don't know how to tell you to live it.' Where are the others who experienced this? He told me he could not tell me. He told me not to tell anyone what had happened or they would put me away. I told him I could read his mind and he said yes that he knew that. He said that in time, I would lose this ability but at first, it would help me to adjust to my new awareness. He told me that I had been officially dead for one hour and he said he thought it was more than several hours. I went home that day. I never saw him again. He died two years later.

He was right. My world had turned upside down. I went to church the next Sunday and couldn't even sit through the service. I wanted to stand up and tell everyone that this was all wrong and how wonderful they were. The ability to read minds stayed with me for almost a month and then slowly faded into the background. I now use it in my role as a speaker. I begin a search for others like me. I explored the psychic community and found that they, too, taught that people were victims and powerless. If you constantly seek your answers outside yourself, you will never find wisdom. You already have all the answers, so you always must look within.

In 1974, I was told by a palm reader to go to Lacey, Washington, to a certain house and I would find my voice. I went and when I arrived, I knocked on the door and a young man opened the door. He told me to come in and that 'Gene' would be back in a few minutes. Fifteen minutes later Gene entered and I recognized him.

He had been my tutor when I was in Atlantis and had used his students to gain advantage over his enemies. He said, 'I have been waiting for you.' He took me down to the basement to his library and gave me the book 'Seth Speaks'. He told me this would give me the language I needed for my work. I went home and read it and it was exactly what I had learned in the light. Gene died two years later from a brain tumor. For two years, he helped me to prepare myself for my role as a speaker. I have all of the Seth books and I have searched for others since that time.

In the years since, I have lived the principles I learned in the light. I only sleep four hours a day now, which is the usual for me. I have never slept more than five hours at a time. I have no fear of death. I live in the moment. I am in excellent health and create what I want. I do not use drugs, alcohol or have insurance. I have never met a stranger and I don't know what the word shy means. I have never been homesick and I am at home wherever I am. My life has been a grand adventure. I stand between two worlds and move easily between them.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    summer 1965

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Surgery-related  I had just returned home from elective surgery. The surgery was the veins in my left leg were stripped.  Clinical death .


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  See main narrative.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was completely conscious and fully aware of what was happening.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   Time and space did not exist. I was no longer focused in this reality.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I was immersed in the light.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      A completeness, unconditional love and absolute safety.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     I knew that I was a speaker and had always been a speaker. Also see main narrative.

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I reviewed all my expressions since the moment of creation.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     See main narrative.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The best part was the trust I had in myself. The worst part was the search for others who had a similar experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    Their response is always, I always knew that was the way it was.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Many of them. I have hitchhiked through time. I have visited other realities and have delivered messages between entities and their expressions.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      My life has been a grand adventure. I live in the moment and I have no fear. I know I create my expression and I am always aware of the beauty and majesty of this reality and all people I meet.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patsy_d_nde.html