{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patrick_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Patrick R NDE 2255","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patrick R NDE 2255  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patrick R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						644  Patrick R NDE  2255  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

First Incident: I was looking down at my body lying in a fetal position on the ground, but what was happening, because I was in the most beautiful light you could ever imagine. I came to; I realized I was in hospital. A nurse walked past, she looked in, and said, 'It's good to see you back with us.' I asked her where I was. She said, 'You had an accident and you are in hospital, I will get your doctor.' He arrived and told me I had a steel bar in my cheek. It smashed my cheek-bone and smashed my sinus.

For the next two and a half years, I kept trying to convince doctors and hospitals (including Psychiatric Hospitals) that something was wrong with me, describing everything that was happening. I had a seizure, saw my doctor; she got me to have a CT scan (computerized tomography scan). The full damage was revealed. The bar had gone through my brain, nearly coming out the top of my skull.

Second Incident: I was loading some 4x4's on a car transporter. I was reversing one onto the transporter. When I apparently accelerated, I had the door slightly ajar, as I went through the rams that lifts the top-deck, it ripped the door off, pulling and trapping my arm, that I had resting on it, and smashing my head between the ram and the car. I smelt petrol! I had to get out. I motioned to a man who had seen what happened. He just looked at me with his head tilted, in the same position I had mine. I pushed the vehicle sideways and got out. I was taken to hospital. As the doctor started to stitch me up, the most BEAUTIFUL feeling came over me. The doctor said, 'What's happening?' I thought, 'Get lost idiot.' He asked again! 'Patrick, you have to tell us what is happening.' (He said this more urgently.) 'Just leave me alone,' I thought. I KNEW if I stopped to tell him this most wonderful feeling would stop. I came to. The doctor asked what happened. I told him I just had an out of body experience. He asked, what is one of them? I told him what happened. 'I went to the light, as I was going in the light I went back to the accident saw myself, bleeding from the head and my arm was limp, as if it was about to fall off. I came to.' The doctor asked me, for the next ten minutes. I tried to tell him what an OBE was. Even though I told him what he had told each of the nurses to do and what each nurse did, HE WAS SO CONFUSED about my statement. Then he nearly floored me when he said, 'But YOU HAVE BEEN DEAD for the last five minutes.'

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	10 March 1986 --- 10 March 1994   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident     Direct head injury    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 1st Incidence - Serious brain injury -should not have survived . (Neurologist opinion)  2nd Incidence -Another head injury - heart stopped for 5minutes.  Have medical notes for both incidences.  First incident - A steel bar went through my cheek, THEN through my brain. (Have CT Scan.)  Second incident - Multiple head injuries, and nearly had my arm ripped off.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   There was an extremely STRONG sense of KNOWING.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       While I was in the light.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     First Incident - I was in the light.  Second Incident - I went back to each accident, seeing myself AFTER the accident had happened, but I was going to the light.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was the most beautiful light I have ever seen. In fifty-six years on this planet I have never seen anything as beautiful as it.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Euphoric.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     I have had a review during an electric shock. But nothing happened like that.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am a free Spirit.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Spiritual ----  Free Spirit .  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am a free Spirit.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am very much a loner as if I am searching for something. EVEN though I am in a permanent relationship, and have a child.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The most wonderful euphoric feeling of what was happening, and I did not want it to stop.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I KNEW everything was going to be okay.  I learned to play the Didgeridoo, I learned Reiki, Pellowah and many other metaphysical healing techniques.  AFTER my second NDE/OBE for the next year, I met eighteen people. WITHIN ONE minute of starting to talk to these people. We are talking about OBE's/NDE'S!!!  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The Light.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Three years. They knew about my accident and thought I was just a bit loopy. I once spoke to Dr. Cheri Sutherland - she was okay.  See previous question.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I Knew it had happened.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I STILL KNOW it happened. And with everything that has happened in my life since my first accident, I may not have got instructions to do this or it is not my time, I believe just by being in the Light was MY instructions.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patrick_r_nde.html