{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_k_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia K Probable NDE 8279","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia K Probable NDE 8279  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia K Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						4330 Patricia K Probable NDE 8279  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I felt peace and was so happy to  be relieved from suffering. I looked down at my body lying in the delivery room. I knew that  I and the twins had died from sepsis.  I followed the light. My Grandmother spoke to me and asked, 'Why are you here?' I replied by thinking, 'I need to take care of the twins.' Grandma told me, 'We will take care of the twins. You need to go back because you have more work to do.'  At that point, I was returned to my body. 

This made me angry. How could God take away my children?! After I left the hospital, I was angry-very angry that God would kill my children. On three separate occasions, my Grandmother came back to me in like a dream but it was not a dream.  She showed me Heaven. She was trying to save my soul and show me what to expect.  She showed me that God's love was all around us. She took me back in time to show my what she looked like at age 33, which was my age at the time of the experience.  She showed me her black and white polka dot dress, the colors,songs, and the love of God.  My anger turned to love. The meaning of life is love. God loves all rreligions, not any particular religion. Life is a gift to get closer to God when we pass. Only the brave souls come to Earth.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/21/1986

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Childbirth       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function)   In 1986, I was pregnant with twins. The water broke at 28 weeks. The twins and I got sepsis. My temperature was 107.5 F. The  souls of the twins left earth and my soul followed them in the light. I looked down at my body, and I was happy that I was not in pain anymore. At this point, I realized that life is temporary and death is our permanent state. I followed the light and met my Grandmother and Mother-in-law who had passed away.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I knew that I died from sepsis. My temp went to 107.5 F. The nurse had neglected to give me Tylenol, and didn't read the doctors instructions.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal.   I had no body. I spoke in thoughts, not words. When Grandma and I hugged, she was able to hug my soul. I tried to do the same, but my body was in the way.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning.     I was able, with my Grandmother, to travel back and forth in time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Heaven has no beginning or end. God was present to all, but some were closer to God based on their earthly life and death.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard Grandma speak and I heard myself speak.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     When my soul left my body. At first, I went to the light. It was very bright, but gentle.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Grandma and Mother-in-law.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm.     I saw Heaven

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sad that my babies didn't live. Happy to know that earthly life is temporary and that our souls live for an eternity. Very happy to be shown Heaven, sad that I couldn't stay.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about myself or others.     I understood why my body died, and that life is short since there is no time in Heaven.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No.     My Grandmother showed me Heaven three times

The experience included:       Awareness of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Slightly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Mormon.   I worship God and pray. Religion is good, but not necessary to get to Heaven.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     God would like thanks for his gift of life, and praise

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.   My Grandmother and Mother-in-Law were there to greet me. The twins entered Heaven.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     I knew that this was 'home.' Death is the only way to go home.

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     See above

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I saw different 'levels' of Heaven

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew that God exists, and that life is temporary

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Love each other

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists.     Yes     I knew that our souls live on.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     We can do so much more without our bodies

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     We choose our life before we are born.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love IS the meaning of life.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life.     Many changes that are hard to describe

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I know to be kind and love others. It's part of our soul's journey to be closer to God.  
  
After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't tell anyone what happened to me for 20 years.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     To help people pass over to Heaven. Know when people are close to death and to help them if they are afraid.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Leaving my body, seeing Heaven, and going back in time with grandma.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I try to explain, but I don't think everyone believes there is an afterlife

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     The afterlife was more real than life here on Earth

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     I knew what was happening to me was real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The formatting of this form is not correct.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_k_probable_nde.html