{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia S NDE 798","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia S NDE 798  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						306  Patricia S NDE  798  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

It was almost as if I was coasting and in the near distance I saw an extremely wide really bright light. Almost as if I was entering a well-lit foggy area. But at the same time I could see a field. The love and just so much inner peace was so over empowering that it cannot be expressed in words. I felt presence there. I do not mean that I think someone was there. It was the actual feeling of presence of several. My grandfather spoke to me. I did not see him or hear his voice. I felt him say, 'I am not going to take you away from your father like I was.' (I remember them exact words like it was yesterday.) At that time, my grandfather had been deceased for nine years. The whole experience was enlightening to me, as my life has changed forever for the positive. My experience was the actual feeling of the love not only in my body but in my inner self. It is very hard for me to describe. I guess you have to feel it for yourself.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    July 1990

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident    Clinical death Grade five liver laceration, I died twice on operating table.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      I was totally aware of what was happening at the time of the experience. But I was unconscious from my accident.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    I was a bit surprised to feel my grandfather talking to me.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Yes     Just a very short tunnel enough to see widening in front of me.

The experience included:      Presence of deceased persons

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      No

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   It was like looking into a light bulb but with a softer glow, and it felt almost as if the light was drawing you near.

The experience included:      A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     No

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     I completely believe there is a higher power and I certainly believe in angels now. I appreciate love even from a stranger. I guess I overreact to things that make me laugh. I laugh at the silliest things whereas I never have before. I tell people what they mean to me. I am more open.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My whole attitude toward everyone and thing has been a one hundred and eighty degrees turnaround.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   I cannot begin to explain to allow someone to understand what I felt and went through.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       Feeling the feeling of being completely engulfed in love.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    They think I have lost my mind. My mother and father thought I was brain damaged when I woke up and asked them about my grandfather. Nobody was influenced by it except me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   I tried the drug ecstasy once and looked up into the sky. The whole sky was lit up and the clouds were outlined in a brightness that I distinctly know was in my experience. I had looked at my boyfriend and he had an angel-istic glow around the frame of his body, and I told him it was time for me to go home. That what I was seeing and feeling was almost the same thing I had experienced before.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?      I really wish others would feel what I have. This world would be a better place.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_s_nde.html