{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_p_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia P NDE 5256","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia P NDE 5256  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia P NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2751 Patricia P NDE 5256  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was walking to the first football game of my Senior Year from on-base housing where I lived because my father was a Colonel in the Air Force. I felt totally safe, as it was the main drag on base at Kadina Air Force Base. I walked alone to meet my new friends from school at the stadium. I was stalked by a person riding a motorcycle. After I had been walking for some time, he had asked me if I wanted a ride. I had refused. It was this person who brutally attacked me from behind as I reached the parking facility. The sun was just setting and I could hear the band strike up. As I heard him slow down, I thought I was just going to be robbed of my purse. The attack from behind was so fast and immediate that it rendered me unable even to take my next breath. I couldn't move or vocalize, or even dig my fingernails nails into his hands. I remember an immediate sizzling sound in my ears, which escalated to such a high pitch that its loudness was all I knew. I was in terrible pain - and then there was complete silence.

Then I was aware of two persons dressed in brown cloaks from head to toe standing together. While I was floating above them at about the height of a rooftop, I was shown a scene of green rolling hills off in the distance, where an ambulance was taking my body away. I told those two persons that I wasn't finished on Earth yet. They turned towards each other and seemed to be pondering my statement. The next thing I was aware of was breathing heavily - my underwear was stuffed in my mouth making it difficult to breathe. I was totally nude, with my arms tied up around my head, bound by my shirt and jacket. The rapist was just finishing doing his thing. I pretended to be out of it, as I tried to see whatever I could between spaces in the clothing that had been used to tie me up. Because of presence of the two figures, I felt no fear. I still didn't know if I was going to live or not. Those two spiritual persons appeared to be still deciding about me. I was aware of them saying that I wasn't finished with my purpose.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  September  1972

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack  I was tackled from behind and fell to the ground and strangled with my face forced into the dirt all preventing me from breathing or screaming for help. My ears rang out a loud noise that escalated short of pain.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had been dragged into the tall grass, stripped of my clothing, brutally raped and strangled. He tried to break my neck by picking me up by the feet and shoving me toward the ground, forcing my body weight down onto my head. Being athletic, I did a handstand and forced myself away from him. That caused him to lose his hold on me. He caught me crawling away and started strangling me again, and I knew this was it for me.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       That was when I was pretending to be out of it. I didn't want the rapist to know I could see him, totally naked, by peeking through the openings in the clothing that had been used to tie my arms above my head. When he finished doing his thing, he picked me up by my feet, held my head down to the ground, and started to push down.   I felt a lot of pain in my neck, but still had to wait until I was perpendicular enough to then thrust my arms out into a perfect handstand. At that point, he lost his grip on me, and I knew I was receiving supernatural help. It was then that I spoke, and what I said freaked me out. I know it also totally freaked him out, because he paused, frozen, listening to my words. I started to rapidly crawl away, but then he caught me and started strangling me again.   When I woke up the second time, I thought for sure, FOR SURE that I was waking up in Heaven. I did not expect that this time I was still on Earth. I had to grasp and assess my surroundings.  When I knew he was now gone, I became aware that I was in very bad shape. I had no strength at all. Every time I stood up, I fell down. I desperately wanted clothes so I could go and get help. Help that was so close-by - there was a concession stand. I could hear people at the football game. I remember thinking that those two spiritual beings had granted my request. My life has been forever different. (Writing in this type of format can't express as much as speaking can. I'm sure you understand.)

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My view was from above, where I was floating at about the level of a roof top. I was not touching the ground. I was able to look down on the two persons who were dressed in brown cloaks with hoods. (I couldn't see their faces.) I didn't know them, but I knew they were important and good. I was at peace.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing while I was not able to breathe was full of a very loud hissing sound that escalated higher and higher and higher until one would think it could not get any louder. It absolutely prevented me from focusing on anything else. That sound was so loud, it was impossible to do much else. Then it suddenly stopped. Total silence. I know I was lucky to survive. Later, it was hard for me to look at myself in the mirror. The whites of both my eyes were a deep blood red. My face was all bruised from being beaten - I had never done anything to deserve such treatment.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Thoughts were communicated. I did not know them per se, but I knew they were spirits inside the draped clothing that covered them. No voices, just thoughts from me to them and them to me. And the vision that they sent me told me I was going to be found dead and taken away by ambulance.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was shown what the scene would be as my dead body was removed from the green hillside from where I was assaulted and raped. I viewed it all from above another words I was looking down upon the scene as those two beings stood on the ground near me.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt calm acceptance, and like I was negotiating. I knew I wasn't finished yet on Earth. And I don't know why. But since then, many times I've wished I had been ready. I don't like humanity and the evil that exists.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   None

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I became a true Christian. I know Jesus is my salvation. His teachings in the Bible make all the sense in the world to me. For me, I call it, 'Beginning Instructions Before Leaving Earth' the B I B L E. All things in this world have their truth revealed on every page, precept upon precept.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I became a true Christian. I know Jesus is my salvation. His teachings in the Bible make all the sense in the world to me. For me, I call it, 'Beginning Instructions Before Leaving Earth' the B I B L E. All things in this world have their truth revealed on every page, precept upon precept.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I just knew validation. I had been angry with God because I lost my mother when I was twelve years old, and now I was no longer mad at Him. It made me a deeper thinker about life. I became very different from my friends. I've remained totally unafraid of death. That is a huge revelation, to not have this fear of death as a type of ball and chain. I am not selfish. I have intuition. I just think so differently. Sexuality has so many different aspects to it. I have a respect for it now. Since my experience, I've never been driven by hormones. People are such fools, so carnally driven. If it were not so, life could be really different.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Can I answer this later? Perhaps I've already answered by what I've already entered. All of my relationships were changed by this. Specifically, my relationship with my own self was changed forever. All was so profound. I was hurt so badly, sometimes I feel I'm just a dead man walking, and duality kicks in.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   I know what I experienced. And I can somewhat narrow down how long I was dead and was experiencing another realm, because I came to and was quite aware of being raped. I also was strangled twice after he was done and at that time, I then knew for sure I was going to die. The first strangling went very fast, but during the second, one I knew that this stranger fully intended to kill me.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I'm intuitive and perceptive. I'm a sensitive. I'm brave and quick to realize what I know.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I wasn't alone. I really was alone, being brutally raped and horribly treated by a total stranger. I didn't deserve any of this total confusion. But when the stranger left me for dead, I was not deserted. This was so horrific and God - Jesus - tells us He will never leave us and this I do know is true because of this experience. Do you grasp what I'm saying? That rapist had no idea that I was being cared for while he abused me - with no more conscience than an animal. I was spared by the unseen world, which is eternity. This present reality is temporal and that, in itself, is LOVE.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away, I had to talk about what happened, even to the OSI. I did not hide anything and still don't. I make a point NOT TO BE SECRETIVE. I knew I've needed to tell others, so they might have an idea of why I'm so different, why I just won't and cannot do certain behaviors that other people do. I like to get beyond small talk, so not too many people stick around.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Uncertain   I had already been scientifically curious with my school friends about the various drugs that were so easily available. All of it was quite innocent back then, and purely isolated. Nevertheless, it was a culture that tried to gain the same sorts of paranormal or profound experiences as I had, but falsely, or through a back door, by synthetic means (drugs) rather than living real life in the raw.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Right away, I saw the experience as 'definitely real.' And I knew I was forever changed. For the most part, I had a lot on my plate to deal with then, but I always have. I had to learn how to forgive that stranger, that animal. I had to let it go in order to live again. I couldn't even walk with somebody close behind me. I had to keep practicing for my mind not to fear, because I knew there is a higher purpose to all of life.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I still see the experience as 'definitely real.' I've been in awe. I very much like to remember it, in case I missed something, and to remind me when life gets rough of what I have learned. I couldn't have made it up or dreamed that experience. It couldn't have been that my brain had blown fuses. It made sense to me then, and time has only proven it more. But this is all personal, it's only tangible to me. I know what I know. I do not need to make anyone else believe.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I haven't given it enough thought. The value can't go there. I was saved, and that's what's important. Bottom Line, I was saved. I wasn't left alone. I left this world and someone was there. The mysteries are only those we are yet to experience. And Man will never do it alone. I Thank God everyday for His Love. It is a kind of Love that Mankind can never give to one another.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I easily get exhausted when I communicate about it, because I relive it. I am drained energy-wise towards others. But when it's just me in my mind, thoughts flow very easily and concepts are grasped. When I write, I am not confidant about writing or spelling. There is one thing I have always believed since then: that THOUGHT is faster than the speed of light and that it travels, and that you can catch up to it, so to speak, in time. So what we think and speak, people do not understand the gravity, or powerful influence of what we are saying.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_p_nde.html