{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_s_nde_3259.html","mytitle":"Patricia S NDE 3259","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia S NDE 3259  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1188  Patricia S NDE  3259  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

We are having a picnic at the river. My cousin who is two days younger than me, waded out into the water. We were both so young that as we waded towards a tree or twig raising out of the water, we tried to reach it to hold on too. Neither of us were able to swim. I don't know if it was she or me that went under first, but, all of a sudden I could see her fighting to get up. I remember as I watched her kicking, working so hard to reach the surface, I seemed to see myself watching from outside my body, and I just seemed to be slowly and gently going deeper.

Next, I do not have a vivid recollection of time, but, it seemed that my whole little life circled before me like an old time movie. In such detail, that even to this day I can remember the swirl of my life. The next thing was that the wonderful unexplainable colors surrounding me was about the most beautiful thing or place I had ever seen. Then this being was with me, I don't think I knew if it was Jesus, God, an Angel or whom was with me, but, I do remember the overwhelming love and sense of wellbeing. I think of my old joke of the life review, where I was so young that I had to ask for a 'rerun.' However, even being six or seven I was shown each and every word I had uttered at anyone, each thing I had done to hurt any person by word or deed was and still is embedded in my mind. I also remember this wonderful being not being angry with me, but, I REMEMBER that I felt that I had somehow grieved Him. That seems to be closest human word that I can come up with to describe what I felt, not condemned, but that I had grieved the wonderful. I do not think we have human words to describe the colors or in indescribable feeling of being in His: presence. Then I remember, and this doesn't seem as clear a memory, just that I DID NOT WANT TO LEAVE, as I was yanked out of the water. It seemed to happen so fast, coming back.

All of a sudden, I was on the back of a stranger who swam me back to shore. It must have taken me a while to realize what had happened, my granny was so upset, I don't remember telling her anything, I think I couldn't have explained it if I wanted to. Recently, I finally shared what happened with my sister and cousin, the one that had been in the water with me. I asked her if she had experienced anything likewise, she said not at all. But, every detail is still and has always stayed in my mind, and I think always will.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    at age six - seven - 1946 or 1947

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Yes   Accident  near drowning  Other 'I was very young, sucked under in a river and what I encountered was from everything I have seen or read was a nde'.  Being so close to death from drowning.


How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  
I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Feeling out of my body, and watching my cousin fighting, thinking 'why' is she struggling so hard it seemed so beautiful. Of course, my life review is very vivid.  I could see and feel the wonderful of the water around me and the incredible sense that there are just no words for. The overwhelming sense of love, to where nothing in the world could even come close to.

Were your thoughts speeded up?      Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning   I could not begin to know how much time, it seemed like a very long time, for I seemed to have seen and been privileged with such a beautiful time and place, I know I did not want to come back.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?      Incredibly more vivid

Did your vision differ in any way from normal?    A few years ago I revisited that river in Oklahoma. I just could not believe that this muddy, rocky ugly river was the same place such a wonderful thing could have happened to me. The only way I can explain the colors, were that they were heavenly, meaning no earthly wording could explain the beauty and feeling. The water was soft wonderful pastel, blended, bright, and perfect, but I certainly can't tell what color on a chart they would be. The being was I guess more of a knowledge of His presence rather than form, no verbal sound, but, total understanding. So many years later as I looked at that muddy ugly water, I just could NOT believe it was the right place.

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    We did certainly not have a conversation in words, but, it seemed not to be needed. I just seemed to understand what the wonderful being was imparting to me with such love and mercy. It just seemed to cover me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?    Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      Uncertain     That is the only thing that I am uncertain of, it seemed so fast, someplace in my mind I kind of remember a light, but, it seemed so quickly that my life started reeling in front of me, and fast, fast, fast! That is when the 'being' seemed to be there with me.

Did you see any beings in your experience?      I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Sometimes I try to remember, but, I think it was just one incredible being. After I saw my short little life so vivid in front of me, I felt as I said before, no anger, no condemnation, but, somehow, I felt that 'he' grieved at my wrong doing. I know that this did happen it is still so very clear to me. Many years later when I became Christian, I understood why and what it meant. I am still yet learning things from that event, for which I am so very grateful. 

After my life review, and feeling the sadness from this wonderful being, i.e. after giving my heart to Jesus, and reading the word of God it became clear to me the Psalm 103:12 'As far as the east is from the west, so far has he removed our transgressions from us.' Vs. 16, 'And the wind passes over it, and it's gone, and its place remembers it no more.' I learned that each day it is vital for me to go to the Lord confessing my faults asking for His forgiveness, because I want that wonderful being never to look upon my transgressions again. God promises to forget them forever once that confession is made. Not that my slate will be as pure as I would want it to be, after seeing the pureness of our God, I know I will probably let pass sins know or unknown. It's just that I want as much as possible for my soul to be pure before Him the next time I come into His presence.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?      A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I certainly saw light, but, don't know if it was like at the end of a tunnel, just the presence of unbelievable colors, strength and safety encompassed me. And the personage of a being that was the most beautiful sights, so hard to put into words.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The beauty surrounding me and encompassing my whole life and being was certainly not the dirty muddy river that i was yanked back into.

The experience included:      Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Again, as I seemed to just be floating downward in the water, looking at my cousin struggling. I thought, why is she fighting so hard. I could also see my body just going down with no fear at all. I didn't even thing of struggling, I can't remember thinking at all, just enjoying the feelings that had wrapped themselves around me. I felt no fear, and I did not want to leave this presence.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?      Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?      incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?    I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe

The experience included:      Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control     Please remember I was only six or seven years old, maybe even younger, but, it was as real as if I had lived a life time full of sin. As I have previously stated, the feeling that I grieved this heavenly person with the things I had done wrong in my life. As such a young child I don't think the effect impacted on me too much, but, I never forgot the feeling, and years later after, becoming a Christian, so many feelings and things that were imparted to me came back.

Did scenes from the future come to you?      Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?      Yes     My grandmother had always taken us to church. However, we were so very young that I cannot speak to this question, but my whole life I have been drawn to Jesus from somewhere deep inside. It may be there are moments and things that I cannot remember during that wonderful encounter.

What is your religion now?      Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     My grandmother had always taken us to church. However, we were so very young that I cannot speak to this question, but my whole life I have been drawn to Jesus from somewhere deep inside. It may be there are moments and things that I cannot remember during that wonderful encounter.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?      I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?      I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes  I have an unshakeable faith in life beyond, and full belief in scriptures.  To be absent from the body, is to be present with the Lord' I also fully believe that we all answer for our lives, and am thankful for additional time to find time for the kindness and love that is more important than all the money in the world.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     No   However, the feelings left me with no way to explain in earthly words.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Uncertain     Somewhere in my mind I know God walks with me in a special way. Earlier in my life before becoming a Christian, I believed I had psychic abilities. However, now as a Christian, I still believe God has special talents and gifts that he has bestowed upon me. But, it would take me a whole book to explain the unbelievable life of blessing and tragedy I have lived. I would like the chance to explore this aspect more. Saying my life has been a soap opera is just the beginning. Huh!! Maybe I should write a book.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       The unspeakable love that I felt and never wanted to be apart from. I still ask the Lord why I was spared that day. The things that I do remember are just as real today as the day it happened.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    At least forty years.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?    No   Being so young, I am certain that I had never ever heard of NDE's for many years until maybe the 1970's about this happening to anyone else.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?     Experience was definitely real.     Since I was a very little girl, I don't think I shared or even remember much about the days shortly after this thing happened. My granny was just glad we were alive, and said we could never go near the river again.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?      Experience was definitely real.     Even though it was many, many years ago, the reality of that day under the awful dirty water, is still as vivid as if it happened yesterday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    Yes   Many, many things, but nothing to do with medications or substances if I am reading you question correctly. Again, it would take a book to share events in my life that have been out of my control, and somehow I have survived. I wish I could share with someone someday.

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_s_nde_3259.html