{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_d_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia D NDE 3475","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia D NDE 3475  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia D NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1539 Patricia D NDE 3475  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was prescribed a painkiller following oral surgery. The painkiller made me very sick. I spent the afternoon, evening and night vomiting. In one trip to the bathroom, I lost consciousness (presumably from all the vomiting) and hit my head on the bathroom sink as I fell.

I found myself in a very velvety, comfortable black place. It seemed to be as infinite as space to me although I couldn't see anything. I felt as if I was swinging back and forth ever so slightly at the center of this space. I had no knowledge of me (as I know myself to be in my usual waking consciousness) but I had self-awareness. I felt as though I was a tiny little 'pinprick' of consciousness. I felt very content to float in the warm comfort - I don't recall having any thoughts at all.

All of a sudden, the thoughts rushed in and I became very flustered. I specifically remember thinking, 'Oh, I'm supposed to be doing THAT!' THAT meaning this life - as if I was an actor playing a role and had missed my cue! It was that same feeling when you remember you left the oven on or forgot to pick your child up from school. A slip of the mind with important consequences.

As soon as that thought occurred to me, I was awake and staring at the shower door from my position on the floor.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Summer 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain  Accident. Illness. Direct head injury    Other Knocked our w/o medical attention  I was unconscious at home and alone. I don't know if I was in any medical danger or not.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As it was very brief, my level of consciousness was maintained throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Total lack of awareness of time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was vast blackness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Didn't hear anything.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The eternal blackness

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Comfort, contentment and then panic.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The comfort and contentment of just swinging in that black place. I'm generally a go, go, go person.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Right away. Reactions varied.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Reading; television programs.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The same.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My view has not changed.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Although my experience is not as epic or multi-dimensional as many others, I thought that fact alone might make it important to include.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I thought it was quite thought provoking, thorough and user-friendly.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_d_nde.html