{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_m_nde_4613.html","mytitle":"Patricia M NDE 4613","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia M NDE 4613  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2333 Patricia M NDE 4613  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was in the lake in a large tire inner tube, but unable to swim. I slipped out of the inner tube, head first into the water. I remember nothing except knowing that I was at the bottom of the lake and wondering why I felt no discomfort or the sensation of the inability to breathe. I lay there, looking up through the ripples in the water, and felt very calm and peaceful, thinking this situation was beautiful. I did not feel my body, but was very aware of the presence of what I believed was the sun shining through the water.

I then felt very warm, and the 'sun' became more and more brilliant until it seemed to surround my body. I continued feeling warmer and having a sense of amazement at the beautiful place, I was in. The light and warmth from the sun enveloped my body. I was drawn to this light and thought, 'This is the most beautiful place in the world.' I suddenly felt a thrashing movement, although I did not feel any sensation in my body. I resisted this sensation with great emotional agitation, and thought, 'Please do not take me away from this place.' I remember nothing of any resuscitation or rescue, although I learned it was my father who rescued me. I was told many years later that I was very agitated at being rescued and fought rather violently.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  July 1953

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was drowning.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized that the light from what I thought was the sun was enveloping me.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time, space, as the experience persisted. I have no recollection of being in the water after the light started to surround me.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was surprised to find myself looking UP from underneath the water, which I had never experienced.  I found the brilliance of the light unlike anything I had seen, but it was not like looking at sunlight, since my eyes did not turn away from the light, nor were my eyes squinting or hurting from the light.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light that, at first, I believed was the sun coming through the water. Then, the light surrounded me and warmed and embraced me.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I cannot describe any distinct locations, just being in a very different world.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Extreme joy, peace and happiness unlike any feelings felt before this experience.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   young child of Roman Catholic parents and extended family

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more inclined to seek knowledge from all sources and judge for myself what is true. I try to connect more with the mystical via my own soul rather than through formal religion.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   'very spiritually driven, without predilection to any specific religious group, Christian'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more inclined to seek knowledge from all sources and judge for myself what is true. I try to connect more with the mystical via my own soul rather than through formal religion.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes In spite of my faults, I try to see others through the essence of my soul, more that humanness, since we are all connected by our spirituality and the collective unconscious.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The incredible sense of joy and peace led me to realize that God is real and that there is an afterlife that is perfect, most importantly, that I have a soul.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Probably thirty or thirty-five years, since I did not realize the significance until I became more spiritually evolved.  Some people were disbelieving, others very little reaction. I assumed it was because I was so young at the time, yet I can recall every thought in my mind, every feeling.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably not real      I did not think about the experience at all.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I know by this experience that I DID experience the presence of God, purity, goodness, limitless love. I believe this experience has caused me to be more determined to examine my soul, and to seek deeper meaning in my life.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No, other than I would love to be able to recreate the experience in my life now. I would love to have the feeling of love and joy that was given to me through this experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       None.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_m_nde_4613.html