{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_m_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia M Probable NDE 4293","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia M Probable NDE 4293  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia M Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			2115 Patricia M Probable NDE 4293  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went by ambulance to the emergency room at my local hospital, with a swollen stomach and in great pain. The doctor wanted to send me home, but my husband refused to take me and insisted they admit me.  I lay all night with poison seeping into my body until the next morning, when I was air evacuated to another hospital, with doctors waiting to operate on me. I was cut open from my breast to my pelvic area to remove the sepsis that had gone all through my body. The doctors told my family that I would not make it and to call all the family in to say goodbye. I was on complete life support from the time I left the local hospital and for two weeks after my operation, which consisted of removal of half my colon and part of my liver. I also had the poison flushed from my system and blood transfusions.

While I lay on my death bed knowing nothing of this world, I was on the beach with my mother, holding her hand and walking on the sand. There was a dolphin in the nearby water. The water seemed white and all else was this grey sort of color, but transparent too. My father was standing on a hill by a big building with lots of windows, but I couldn't see in the windows because they were blacked out. My mother and father looked the same, but different too. I need to say that my mother and father have been dead for a number of years. This place was so peaceful and wonderfully beautiful that I never wanted to leave. I was so happy. I remember everything was grey, white, and no movement whatsoever. I was lying on a pure white slab. There was a dolphin laying by my side while I was on this slab and it was smiling at me. There was a man standing at my head. He was trying to talk me into letting someone try something one more time, and I didn't want them to, I wanted to stay right where I was and not return. He talked me into letting them do this one more time, and I woke up on Mother's Day to find out I was in the hospital. I guess God wanted me to finish what he put me here to do.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  April 28 2008
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  colon ruptured  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   My colon burst and I was full of sepsis.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In this place I knew everything.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I know now that our time is not God's time, as I was in this place for what seemed like thirty minutes when I was on the life support for two weeks.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed sort of grey but transparent.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My mother and father, and Jesus.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     this place i wss in was beautiful even tho it was grey and white and i have never been there before this

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, joy, peace, calm and happiness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   nondenominational

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate   nondenominational

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I am closer to people and more calm and understanding.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I saw my mother and father, who have been dead for a number of years.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I was able to talk I started telling my story.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I know this is real, because I saw and felt my mother, and I saw Jesus and my father.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My doctors said I was a miracle and that they did not save my life, that God saved my life. I know this to be true because I had only a very slight chance of making it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Everything in this seemed to help me to tell my story.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_m_probable_nde.html