{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_h_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia H Probable NDE 6737","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia H Probable NDE 6737  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia H Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3355 Patricia H Probable NDE 6737  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a Saturday weeks before Thanksgiving, 2001. It was a dull, cloudy day. Unusual for Florida.  In the past, we had talked about buying our first new motorcycle. Of course, a Harley.  Ron said 'let's take a ride and just look'.  I was positive we would never qualify for a loan, as we always paid cash all our marriage, never wanting credit cards.  Ron's eyes lit up in the Harley showroom like a little child. He was giggly.  We stayed there more than five hours, signed papers for a new Harley with every option available on it.  Came back one week later to pick up Ron's new baby.   We were riding our new Harley motorcycle, which was three weeks old.  It was two days after Thanksgiving.  I told Ron I wasn't feeling up to going out that night. I was too exhausted from working, but he insisted.  Ron was like a little boy with his favorite toy.  So, we motored to our local hangout to have wings and our kids came too, just to be with us.  We hopped on the bike and the sun was setting. It was a beautiful cool evening. We were on our way home. We were slowing to a red light and the bike was gearing down.  Seconds later the light was green for us to proceed. I never saw a thing. 

The accident happened on November 26, 2001. It marked the end of two lives. One dead and the other living. 

I was in a coma for five weeks with my life hanging in the balance. 

My body flowed in and out of death.  I remember thinking I was alive but seeing through my closed eyelids!  I thought I could be heard screaming to my sister Chris, who I could see clearly,’ hey over here, come closer’.  Our children agonized whom one would tell me Dad was gone, dead! I felt death cover my body pulling me close to the end of my life. There was no white light but free falling in the blue sky and clouds. All the while feeling calm, soothed, and exuberant.   

God had inaudibly spoken to my spirit revealing that Ron was with Him in heaven.  I was soooo jealous! I wanted to go to heaven, too. 

The trauma team told my kids to call all our family to come. They were sure I was not going to survive.  God knew differently. 

To this day, 2012, my children have never ever talked to me about their loss of their father and their broken hearts.   I do know our oldest, Josh, took 3 months off work. He could not function.  They have told me over the years glimpses of what occurred in my coma.  All three camped out for five weeks in the hospital’s intensive care unit, getting to know my nurses intimately and calling them by their first names. Luke carried my pillow around the entire time so he could smell 'me'.  

My reasoning for explaining my injuries in this next chapter is not for pity. Just saying I died twice and lived to tell about it does not reveal what I endured with my Lord's help all the while.  God saved me from a horrific accident. My intention in being so descriptive is so you could put yourself in my place.  

The purpose is to open everyone's eyes to the existence of a real living God. I personally was blessed with His obvious presence permeating through it all. The thought of this oh-so-humbles my soul. I am blessed. 

When the accident occurred, a twenty four year old woman blew through a red light into the intersection we just began to move into.  I didn't see a thing.  I was fifty-two. 

Years, years later I was told that Ron had sustained massive head injuries and his body was crushed on impact from her vehicle's thrust of speed.  His entire rib cage was mangled and of the back of his skull, the flesh was removed!  Barely alive in an ambulance, he died from a heart attack on the trip to the hospital. He was fifty.  It was one week to the day before our twenty-fifth wedding anniversary. It would have been December 4, 2001.     

The injuries I sustained were:  broken neck, broken back, shattered pelvis, left leg crushed, knee shattered, right arm broken at the elbow, fragments of asphalt embedded throughout my skull, punctured bladder, and a minor head injury even though I wore a helmet!  The police report stated in their estimation I was catapulted over two hundred feet from point of impact, flying over Ron, the bike, and her car. I rolled on the pavement like a rag doll. Eighty nine percent of my bones broke all at the same time.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  'November 26, 2001'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident  I was clinically dead but resuscitated twice  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) I was clinically dead but resuscitated twice  I was in a motorcycle accident and my husband died at the scene.  I was airlifted to a hospital where I was unconscious in a coma for five weeks.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  In the coma I could hear clearly conversations of my family in the intensive care unit. And I heard God's spirit talking to mine inaudibly.  No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I'm not sure of the timing of my death.  In this realm, time is of no relevance. Upon feeling my death, I was very conscious of it.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I knew that my intuition was incredibly stronger than most people.  I was a visionary who could project in my mind the bigger picture of my circumstances. I knew the end result before it happened but only for me and my family.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing before my death experience was exceptional as one expert told me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I could hear and see my sisters, Mom, and kids in my room.

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   In the aura around the angels’ visitation.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sadness, euphoria, love, anger, and acceptance.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I was told to go back. My life on earth would now have a purpose. That of dying twice and experiencing a heavenly being and spirit.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian   Worked as the Senior Pastor's Assistant 4 years at the time of the accident. Biblical teacher and believer since age 32.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Other Christian   I accepted God/Savior as my Lord 32 years ago and have extensively study the Bible.

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Three angels hovered together at the foot of my bed.  Beautiful is not a powerful enough word to describe them. Many years earlier, I had studied scripture of angels telling us they existed, created by God to watch over everyone, guarding, and these were for me! Their faces were bright but my vision seemed hazy.  They never spoke but they covered my soul with their presence, enveloping my entire body with love.  God had inaudibly spoken to my spirit, revealing that Ron was with Him in heaven.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Angels and the Lord's Holy Spirit

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     above

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   After a three year recovery, I realized my purpose after the accident in God's eyes was different from the world's view. I was to tell everyone to be of good cheer. There is a God and heaven. I've been there and my purpose is to tell you about it.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     To assure those who listen that God and heaven do exist. There is life after death that is so much better.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     already answered this above

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life     My faith is very much stronger and I have no fear of anything.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     Yes   Yes They believe there is a God.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        All of it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Approximately five years after where I could verbalize the horrific part and the inexplicable 'spiritual' goodness.  People are hungry to know the unknown about death.  When I share with them, they become hopeful.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Post traumatic stress disorder. I’m writing a book about it.  When I have to recall it all I begin to sob like I am now.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I am surely blessed by God to have felt His spirit envelope mine.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_h_probable_nde.html