{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_m_nde_168.html","mytitle":"Patricia M NDE 168","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia M NDE 168  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia M NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1441 Patricia M NDE 168  					  				  			  			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was taken to hospital on Boxing Day after having been sick with the flu for ten days. At that time, I was diagnosed with streptococcal pneumonia, streptococcal septicemia, and Escherichia coli infection of the kidneys. I was sick. I was also in denial of my illness and wanted to go home.  I have three children, it was Christmas, and I wanted to be with them. I was admitted, against my will, to the intensive care unit. That night I went home. I somehow arrived home to be with and watch my family, but they didn't know I was there. I sat in the living room and watched them with their gifts. I was peaceful in that place. My boys are sixteen, eight, and one and half years old and I felt good then, as I always did in real life, about their ability to love and care for each other. But I also knew that my job wasn't done. I knew I had to go back to the hospital.

When I returned there was a nurse looking at me in a strange way. Also, there was a doctor there. Someone said that my blood pressure was up to some level that I knew was too low (maybe 80/40) and I told them, they had the wrong person. At the same time, a pager went off over head that alerted medical staff that I was in code blue. I decided that I would need to go home again and that whatever was happening was not going to finish in that room at that point in my life.

The next few days were foggy but by January, 10th I was released and I returned to work at the end of that month.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  December 27.1999

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Septic shock.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  I saw myself at home in my usual form. I was watching myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Medically I don't think I was very alert although I was conscious. In other ways I was very alert and conscious.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I thought I was home for three days and when I told the people at the hospital that it was Thursday (since I'd been home) they told me it was only Monday. I was sure surprised!!!

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     Maybe a tunnel - both ways.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw my family but we did not communicate - they didn't know I was there.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     My home and my children.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, comfort, satisfaction with my role as a parent, a need to go on and finish a job, no fear, abandon to fate or God or whatever, no responsibility for what would happen next.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt that 'the world was unfolding as it should'. I knew that all was right with the small part of the world that I was responsible for, and I felt confirmed in the role that I have had with children (as a school social worker) for many years.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I decided to come back.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I feel less tolerant toward some ideas and attitudes and less connected to people who were not a part of this experience. Those I visited I am closer to, but I don't feel that I can talk about this to others and that makes me feel apart.  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Others don't understand what I'm talking about even though it's very clear to me. The time frames are hard to describe.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        It was all good - the bad part has been the aftermath. It would have been useful if I knew not to talk about it.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not positive. I made an off-hand comment at work about 'someday I'll tell you about my out of body experience' and I am now undergoing a major review after twenty years. My spouse doesn't really want to get into it. Most of the time I feel really alone.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Despite the physical and other aspects of the experience, I still cherish the insight and emotion that accompanied it - I would welcome another but I still want to come back!!!      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_m_nde_168.html