{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_m_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia M NDE 3154","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia M NDE 3154  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1248 Patricia M NDE 3154  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					Arrived at the emergency room with such an intense headache. As I was placed into a bed, I was awake but everything became black. I heard someone yell for the Atropine. The next thing I know, I'm hovering at ceiling height, looking down on myself lying on the hospital bed. I could see I was wearing a blue and white hospital gown, and one of my legs was folded under the other. I felt myself drenched in a cold sweat. I appeared to be asleep or unconscious. I didn't see anything else in the room, but a calmness was with me. I don't know how much later I awakened, admitted into a hospital room. You must understand that before this experience I had a history of depression and anxiety, and had episodes of being homebound because I was so scared of everything in general. All that stopped with this episode. To say that this experience changed my life is not an exaggeration. I am very grateful. I feel very fortunate to be one of few that know that after your body stops, something (consciousness) continues.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  Feb 1986

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Allergic reaction  'was on mao inhibiter, ingested sinus pill/brandy, suffered hypertensive crisis, was given Demerol to reduce blood pressure in hosp er, this treatment contraindicated, may cause death.'  Life threatening event, but not clinical death 

I was on mao inhibiter, took sinus medication and brandy, and suffered hypertensive crisis. Was given Demerol in emergency room to reduce blood pressure, this treatment contraindicated - states may cause death.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  

I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As I was at ceiling height looking down upon myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       As I was at ceiling height looking down upon myself.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    After hearing Atropine asked for, I heard nothing else. The rest of my experience was without sound.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Heightened awareness, euphoria, secureness such as a child hugged in a parent's embrace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Was at ceiling height of the room, and could sense I would go no further.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I now know there is an afterlife. And I feel closer to God.

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know there is an afterlife. And I feel closer to God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Time eternal the question has been, what happens to our awareness when we die? I know without a doubt, and I am one of very few, that our awareness continues after the body ceases. From God's mouth to my ear, so to speak.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more at peace, less confrontational, less afraid. More interaction with others.

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I awakened unafraid I was grateful. I feel I had been given the okay to finally live my life. I could hardly believe it myself. I felt 'like a kid in a candy store.'

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    As soon as I awakened in my hospital bed, and found family around me, related events. Most people don't believe me, or think it was a dream. But even today I can relate the experience in detail, and the calmness is still with me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Since I was responsible for bringing the episode upon myself, I suppose I should have felt guilty, or at least take responsibility for it. But until this moment, I never thought of the experience in those terms. It was such an overwhelmingly positive experience, and if I had to do it over again, I would do it in an instant, with reservations, because it could kill me.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     See above.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_m_nde.html