{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_gb_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia GB NDE 5435","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia GB NDE 5435  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia GB NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3266 Patricia GB NDE 5435  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					During the surgery I knew I was at risk of dying because of hemorrhage and eclampsia. [med: Eclampsia: a complicated, acute, life threatening condition of pregnancy characterized by seizures, coma, and other threats to the health of both mother and child. One emergency treatment for eclampsia is immediate delivery.]  I had the sensation that I was dying; that I was losing control of my body. My brain would send a command such as ‘Move your legs!’ but they wouldn't move. The nurse that was holding my head (I was fully conscious) was reporting my blood pressure to the surgeon minute by minute and it was dropping drastically with every minute that passed. When the surgeon delivered the baby (one month before its due date) the baby was not breathing and didn't have any vital signs. He performed CPR and a tracheotomy. The baby started breathing again and was rushed to the neonatal ICU. The instant the baby left the room, I began to feel my body gradually failing, from my feet to my cardiac plexus, and I heard the nurse's voice for the last time, reporting my blood pressure, ‘60 over…’

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  08/04/1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related. Childbirth.    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   Emergency cesarean/eclampsia.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The moment of the ‘negotiation’ about my return.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     The floating itself imposes a ‘non perception’ of the physical body; therefore the non-perception of occupying space. Time is different from ours. I can´t say whether it is faster or slower, or if the experience was temporal or ‘extemporal’.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Highly sharp perception of light and movement.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard a sound like the wind blowing.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     There was only light; circles of light.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I can't specify where we were. It was light and foggy.  I can't tell if I knew the other beings. What was said/negotiated was my return request.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Circles of light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Lightness and tranquility. No fear or panic.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I realized that, at that moment of my life, the only thing that really mattered was my son; at the time, a two year old boy.  It was the only memory of any ‘people’ I had during the experience.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Now I study and develop extra sensory abilities. My perception is sharper.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Nenhuma

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     A big interest in spiritualism, mediumship, telepathy, etc. emerged. Today I am an Umbandista. (Umbanda is a Brazilian spiritualistic religion.)

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Umbanda/Espiritualista

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     A big interest in spiritualism, mediumship, telepathy, etc. emerged. Today I am an Umbandista. (Umbanda is a Brazilian spiritualistic religion.)

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   The continuity of life and the eternity of the soul.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The word is ‘ACCEPTANCE.’  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Because it was an experience based on sensation, not on sight.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Telepathy

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The sensations of comfort and acceptance. The love that the beings of light felt for me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    After many years, I shared it with people close to me, and today I share it with people that are developing mediumship with me. Some become skeptics, some feel touched, and some get really interested and become closer to me.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   At my Umbanda workplace. During a meditation, which was intended to be healing, I felt a near death sensation. I felt I was losing control of, losing dominion over, my body      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_gb_nde.html