{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patrice_s_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Patrice S Probable NDE 32302","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patrice S Probable NDE 32302  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patrice S Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3648 Patrice S Probable NDE 32302  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					God told me to come back and that I was too young.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain  My entire soul was out of my body.  I was not on that operating table where my body was, I was in heaven and then I was sent back.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      No comment

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Fully alert

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I felt God's presence.  I know he was with me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    God told me to come back and that I was too young.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   I only saw the operating room light from above my body when I was with God looking down at the operating room light.  I never saw a light, I just went up.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I was in a realm with God that I can't describe really because it was all more transparent, and I was just above my body with him.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I didn't at that time.  I have had predictive dreams of my own situations that would occur.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    No Response   Roman Catholic

What is your religion now?       No Response   Roman Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have a strong belief in God now.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       Believed God probably exists

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Absolutely  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   God exists.  God judges us all.  I have come to the conclusion, after looking back at my experience, that there is a heaven, a hell and limbo.  God chooses where we go.  I had no choice in the matter.  I was sent back.  I don't know if I actually lifted myself out of my body to heaven, and that is why I was told I was too young and to go back, or if I was lifted.  I just know it was quick when I was looking over my body.  I guess out of all of it, I wonder if I left on my own accord due to all the pain, or if I was taken up.  The only things I do know are that I was there and that God said that I was too young and to go back.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       Absolutely Not

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       Absolutely

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       Not fearful

Do you fear death after your experience?       Not fearful  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Predictive dreams that involve my own life, which do not occur all the time. They are rare.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I used to keep it secret.  Only a few close family members would know.  I came across social media and the hatred toward God disgusted me and I felt a need to defend God and tell that he is real and he exists.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was real because I experienced everything as if I were experiencing life.  Now, the difference was that I was in a different realm, not my body, and I was with God.  There was more peace, calm and happiness.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       God is real.  This is not an experiment.  There should be just a showcase of real cases.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       The deceased section should also ask where you with God or other form of life because it starts out as deceased and I was not with a deceased person but I was with God      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patrice_s_probable_nde.html