{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1patricia_ar_nde.html","mytitle":"Patricia AR NDE 3956","mylang":"de"}
          	        Patricia AR NDE 3956  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Patricia AR NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1888 Patricia AR NDE 3956  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I went in for a scheduled surgery on July 10th, 2008. The doctor informed me it should be at least two hours at the maximum. He would try laparoscopic surgery but if it did not work that then he would have to make a normal full surgical incision. He said he doubted that very much though. I was contented and I kissed my father on the cheek and said I will see you when I come out. I was prepared for the surgery and sedated.

The next thing I know I heard the doctor yelling and the nurses running around. I looked to my right and saw the doctor beating on my chest, but I all I could do was stand there until I saw a light on the wall. It looked like a flashlight that grew bigger and I touched it and was taken into a tunnel with clouds spinning and rolling around. They clouds were grey, white, and smoky somewhat. I was gliding very fast with my arms just dangling. When I got to the end, the light turned orange and there was very tall man dressed in a tan work outfit (shirt and pants). I looked passed him and I could see yellow flowers and a large mountain and a blue sky. His face was the color of light sand and his hair was golden tan color. He had the kindest look in his eyes. I could hear the silence and see the trees and I wanted to run in, but he stopped me. He tilted me backwards and sent me back through the tunnel with a gentle push, at which time I heard the doctor say we got her. There was no pain when I was back in my body only a fullness of some sort around my chest and stomach. Within in a few minutes I heard, 'Code Blue, Code Blue,' and I was back out of my body again.

I looked at a nurse who was crying and I saw the pain on the doctor's face. I could see my body being worked on and there were eight people all trying to help coming in and out. I could hear the doctor saying, 'Don't, don't, no, no.' The next thing I know, I was floating up and through the ceiling and into space. I came into a large room full of light and then my eyes adjusted and I recognized my grandmother and friends and other family members. There were white marble seats, like a courtroom setting and I could see large throne. I looked down at my gown, it was a white sack dress, and my hair was hanging. I looked at the floor it was light grey marble which reflected my image. I glided over to a seat next to the throne and a tall man asked me questions.  He was at least six feet, with dark caramel skin and dark brown hair.  He had light brown eyes and a kind face. He looked similar to the black Indians from India. I looked at the throne and it was light and the face of a bear, eagle, lion, and ram all changing every second. When I looked to my right, I saw a dark brown man with a black pin stripped suit and a red tie. His eyes were snake eyes and blinked sideways. He had roll teeth like piranha and he had two people with him a women and a man who looked similar. The tall kind man who I knew was Jesus told me with his eyes that everything was going to be okay. The hearing continue for an eternity and I looked over at the witness box and saw my sister who is still alive crying. I looked at Jesus who told me to come to him and I did and he showed me his wrist and there were holes and the witness box clapped and I was sent back.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  7/10/2008

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Surgery-related    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was in surgery to have my gall bladder removed.  A two hour surgery turned into eight hours. My heart stopped twice.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   When I left my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I left my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was bright.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Loudness.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1patricia_ar_nde.html