{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pat_r_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Pat R Probable NDE 3631","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pat R Probable NDE 3631  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pat R Probable NDE   					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1638 Pat R Probable NDE 3631  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I found myself inside a tube that was like a bank deposit chute. Between my hospital bed and the chute, I don't know what happened. I knew there were 16 of these chutes in a perfect circle all pointing down. The chutes were each 40 feet long from what I could see, but they went on infinitely beyond that. I had landed at my destination and was head first into the bottom of my chute. These chutes were very tight, so I was held tight looking straight down at the bottom of the chute. There were people in each of the chutes, all head first down. The tubes were made of beautiful 6 inch thick crystal glass and people were lining up behind me face down. I knew I was getting out soon because a door would open at my chute and there were huge numbers of people walking around like in a city (a beautiful city with no dirt). The 16 chutes would rotate and one person was let out. Then there would be quietness, and then it would rotate and the next person would get out. Finally, my chute got very hot and I was miserable, but not more than 95 degrees F. It didn't burn me. My door then opened and I literally fell out of the chute and rolled into the city. There were normal people in clothes but they were all perfect without a scar or blemish. Kings and princesses in robes were walking about everywhere and the carpet were pure velvet. From that point on, I have no recollection of anything.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  05/20/05

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  AccidentDirect head injury    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Accident with broken back and coma.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The whole time.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     There was no time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     It was an infinitely long tunnel that was 6 inches thick of crystal clear glass.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     People were standing with their feet at my forehead, but they didn't care that I was new and didn't say hello. They were all super beautiful.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   Regular light, nothing more than normal.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     The landscape/city was like DisneyWorld and Kings and princes, plus common folk walked around in beautiful clothes. The chairs and furniture were ornate gold/velvet carpets/curtains/lots of red velvetty furnishings.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt safe and had no fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     More prayer and charity work.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Catholic

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     More prayer and charity work.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I knew I was safe. There either was or there wasn't time - it wasn't an issue.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Better friendships with trustworthy people.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The beauty.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     I kept it to myself (crazy?)

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was real!!!!!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Thank you for your site.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pat_r_probable_nde.html