{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pat_s_nde.html","mytitle":"Pat S NDE 8157","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pat S NDE 8157  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pat S NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						4254 Pat S NDE 8157  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been sick and I was going to have my gall bladder removed because that is what was thought to be the problem. My doctor had just gotten off the phone with me and I told her I felt like I was going to pass out. I sat up and filled a small waste can with blood. I managed to put on my coat and make it to my husband's vehicle where I collapsed in the front seat. It was a cold, gray winter day, but I remember seeing a beautiful blue sky. 
 
 I vaguely remember arriving at the emergency room and the nurses trying to get me in a wheel chair. That is when the indescribable feeling of peace came over me. I remember looking down and seeing my glasses lying in the seat of the wheel chair and wondered how I was able to do that. I had no pain. I then remember my husband sitting in the chair. I was holding his face in my hands and he was crying. 
 
 Then I don't know where I was, but it was a very, very intense blue. I was aware of a presence that spoke to me without using words. Although I did not see the presence, I felt it was male. I was told everything would be okay. I tried to protest, saying I had bills, a husband, and my children. Again, it was as if those thoughts just couldn’t happen. 
 
 I had a feeling of unconditional love and it was if all of a sudden I knew everything. I knew we were here to help one another and to love one another. The bad things that happen are because we are given free will and it is a choice as to what we make of it. After passing on in this life, there is no judgement against you no matter what you did in this life. 
 
 I remember seeing and speaking to my ex-husband who had died a few months earlier of cancer.  'Yes' I know it was he. Our marriage was not a good one and that is being kind. My ex-husband spoke to me and said, 'We have a date...' My reply was, 'With you? Hell No!' That is when I came back.  
 
 My son was on one side of me and my daughter was on the other. Later, after being released from the hospital I tried to tell my husband what had happened, but all he could do was cry. He told me he knew I was gone. I asked him how long I was without any life signs. He said it was about 15 to 30 minutes.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  12/10/2014

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes   Illness.        Life threatening event, but not clinical death.   I had a gastrointestinal hemmorage from a bleeding ulcer. I had no blood pressure and was not expected to make it.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes.  I could hear the nurses telling me to wake up, and I could hear my husband crying.  I lost awareness of my body.

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   It was much higher

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       the entire time

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     It was if it were magnified a hundred fold.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    No difference

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     it was a beautiful blue with different colors. It was like something I would compare to what deep space would look like

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I felt peace, love, and forgiveness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe.     It was like I just suddenly understood and knew everything. I knew why we were here, I knew where I would be going, and I knew death is not the end.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Unaffiliated- Atheist   I have never believed Jesus was real or that anything in the Bible was real

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Not important to me

What is your religion now?       Unaffiliated- Atheist

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.  A male  presence spoke to me without words

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God does not exist

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes,     the person that greeted me was a supreme being.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       Unknown  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     We are put here to grow, to love and help each other

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     you just know that there is

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I slightly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are not meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Love is the beginning, the middle and the end.

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Not compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       No changes in my life.     I have a hard time being sad when someone dies. I know that where they are going is so much better than here.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I didn't know if it really happened and the feelings were just beyond description

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Just the overwhelming feeling of peace

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told my granddaughter when I was out of the hospital. She was very supportive and 'no' she did not influence me in any way

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real.     Because the feeling was just too real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real.     My feeling have not waivered even though it was two years ago

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pat_s_nde.html