{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pat_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Pat H NDE 860","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pat H NDE 860  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pat H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1270 Pat H NDE 860  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					One night I was experimenting with a drug that a friend brought over called Angel Dust. We were doing this drug along with beer and marijuana and after a while, I felt like I was going to pass out so I laid my head back.

The next thing I knew I was floating among the clouds in a blue sky. I remember feeling so free, content and happy like being born again. I knew everything that was around me although I didn't see any limbs or torso or even eyes, I just knew. Also, I remember that at the time I had no memory of who I was or what I was and that all I wanted to do was to continue to fly among the clouds. Then suddenly I saw a large circle of light in the distance, I was curious at first but as it drew closer I had a recollection of the sun which if I look directly into can damage my eyes and I turned away from it which seemed odd because I didn't know where that came from. My curiosity got the better of me and I looked directly at the circle of light. The circle was getting bigger and was drawing me to it. I got close enough to see shadowy figures moving around inside the circle of light and as I was thinking of entering, a shadowy figure in the lower right side of the circle of light began to motion to me. I couldn't tell if it was motioning for me to come or to go and as I was about to move closer to find out something began to catch my attention.

At first, it was just a feeling but it gnawed at me until I began to pay attention to it. The gnawing became a sound, which meant nothing to me. It got louder and louder and then suddenly I recognized the voice and the name the voice had been calling. When that happened, I was pulled away from the circle of light.  I was pulled back along the path I had traveled among the clouds.  All the while, my speed seemed to increase until the rooftops were in view (it was like being attached to a rubber band) and then suddenly I was waking up with my friend leaning over me and shaking me. I have never been so disappointed because I have never been so at peace before or since.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1978

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Uncertain    possible drug overdose   unconscious, not breathing  Upon moving toward the circle of light, which I mistook for the sun at first, one of the shadowy figures I saw in the circle of light began to motion to me with its right arm. I could not tell if it was motioning to me to come or to go and my feeling of absolute peace, wellbeing and happiness began to waver.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I had no form, I only had consciousness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was totally conscious and alert but I had no concept of who I was only that I was.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     While I was flying among the clouds I had no sense of time or space only the moment.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Not until my friend had been calling me for about fifteen minutes.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I saw other beings but they were shadowy (not clearly defined). But I could tell that they were looking at me and that they were humanoid.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The light I saw reminded me of the sun, bright, white and round.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   When I recognized my friend calling me back, I was pulled back to my body as though I were attached to a rubber band that had been stretched too far.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I was and am not sure what to believe.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Only in that it is difficult to explain how I could be so aware of everything around me and yet have no physical body or senses.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The best part was the trip; the worst part was the return.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     No

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No       				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pat_h_nde.html