{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V35 1925","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v35_1925.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V35 1925","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XXXV
(CONTAINING PARTS XCIII, XCIV, XCV &• XCVI)
192^
Tke responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely zvith their authors
PRINTED FOR THE SOCIETY BY
ROBERT MACLEHOSE & COMPANY LIMITED
UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
1926
Agents jor the sale of publications :
LONDON : FRANCIS EDWARDS, 83 High Street, Marylebone, W. i.
GLASGOW: JACKSON, WYLIE & CO., 73 West George Street
AMERICA: THE F. W. FAXON CO., 83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
All rights reserved
PRINTED IN GREAl BRITAIN HV ROBFRI MACl.EHOSE AND CO. l.TI).
THE UNn iiRSITY PRESS, (;LASGOVV.
CONTENTS.
PART XCIII.
June, 1924.
PAOE
Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home. By the Earl om
DUNRAVEN
Introduction. By Sir Oliver Lodge, F.R.S 1
Author's Preface 21
Introductory Remarks. By the late Earl of Dunrave;)! , ,>>^6;
Names of Persons Present at the Seances . . ; j,"
R«cord of Stances • . '
. . 48
Classification of Phenomena , 284
> ^ " )
' J 1 . 3 > ' >
PART XCIV. '
May, 1925.
'An Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena. By F. E.
Leaning :
I. Introductory 289
II. Data and Bibliography ....... 290
III. Diffusion 292
IV. Frequency 295
V, Health 300
VI. Natural Vision 303
VII. Subject Matter 308
VIII. Features 327
IX. Companion Phenomena 343
X. Hypnopompic Variety 351
XI. Memory 357
XIL Control 362
XIIL Significance 368
XIV. Summary 373
XV. Crystal Vision : A Comparison 378
XVI. Theories and Explanations ...... 384
XVII. The AppUcation of Theory 393
XVIII. Interior Vision : its Mechanism 396
XIX. Sources Discussed 399
XX. Bibliography 404
Appendix A. Cardano 410
„ B. Lelorgne de Savigny 411
iv Contents.
PART XCV.
July, 1925.
PAGE
Frontispiece : Sir W. F. Barrett, F.R.S.
In Memory of Sir William Fletcher Barrett, F.R.S. . . 413
In Memory of Monsieur Camillb Flammarion . . . .419
Des Conditions de la Certitude. By Professor Charles Richet 422
Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band of Controls. By A. W.
Trethewy 445
Supplement.
Reviews : Dr. Carl Bruck's " Experimentelle Telepathic " . 466
Dr. Christoph Schroder's " Grundversuche auf dem Gebiete
„,:
' ', '. •'-
; der psychischen Grenzwissenschaften " .... 469
PART XCVI.
• •
; •
'
December, 1925.
A Report on Some Communications Received through Mrs.
Blanche Cooper. By S. G. Soal, M.A., B.Sc. . . . 471
Introduction 471
The Communicator of Section 1 480
Section 1 485
Section 2. The Study of a Fictitious Communicator . . 523
Section 3. The Case of James Miles 549
Section 4. The Case of Gordon Davis. A " Communica-
tion " from a Living Person 560
Appendices 590
Index to Vol. XXXV .595
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART XCIII.
JUNE, 1924
INTRODUCTION TO THE EARL OF DUNRAVEN'S
RECORD OF EXPERIENCES WITH D. D. HOME.
By Sik Oliver Lodge.
PART I.
The so-caUed " physical phenomena " of SpirituaHsm have
hitherto attracted but httle scientific attention in this
country : and even as regards popular attention they
have been less welcome than the more purely mental
or psychic communications which seem to have a bearing
on human destiny and survival. Physical phenomena of
this peculiar and unusual kind labour under certain dis-
advantages. They are rather easily imitated, for one
thing, or at least they attract the attention and arouse
the ingenuity of skilled conjiu-ers to see how closely they
can be produced by normal means. And since very few
of those who have had an opportunity of observing them
have had a laboratory training or been accustomed to
learn from actual experiments ; and since most people,
including physicists, are aware that conjurers under their
own conditions are able to deceive them ; there has
usually been a doubt as to the actual occurrence of any
abnormal physical phenomenon apart from conscious
human contrivance. And this uncertainty has prevented
a very whole-hearted attempt to bring such things to
book and ascertain their laws.
For laws, of course, they must have ;
though inasmuch
as the activity of live things is involved, those laws are
2 Sir Oliver Lodge
bound to be complicated by the general difficulties in-
separable from the activities of hfe. Live things are
usually excluded from a physical laboratory. The observer
excludes even himself during extremely dehcate weighings
or temperature determinations ; he may have to read a
scale through a telescope from the other end of a corridor.
And even in ordinary experiments, a buzzing fly or a
spider's web would be more than a nuisance in a scientific
instrument. Charwomen and mischievous students could
play havoc with a simple meteorological observation. A
physical experimenter always proceeds on the assumption
that vital activities have been excluded, or he takes
precautions to exclude them. Experiments on spontaneous
generation were for a long time vitiated by the unwanted
but overlooked incursion of hving organisms. But—in
contrast with all that,—in the particular class of observa-
tion with which psychical research is concerned, a hving
organism of some kind is bound to be introduced, or
nothing happens. Everyone admits that. The question
is, what sort of a hve agency is operating ? Is it an
ingeniously fraudulent one, or is it of an unknown and
unsuspected kind ?
We may sa3^ that in the p^^rely physical world nothing
supernormal ever happens. And even in the psychic
world there is no question of superseding the laws of
Physics and Chemistry : we must assume that they can
only be supplemented. There should be no suspicion or
suggestion about suspending Gravitation, for instance, or
uj)setting the Conservation of Energy. It ought to be
assumed that aU well ascertained laws are rigorously
obeyed, whether by animate or inanimate nature. But
it is a famihar fact that hve things introduce a supple-
mentary element, a guiding or controlhng element, an
infusion of will and of intelhgence, something not sus-
pending but supplementing the ordinary processes of
nature. Everyone knows how perturbing a kitten or a
barrel-organ or a mosquito can be : their action is en-
tirely commonplace, and in the case of the kitten may be
attractive, but they introduce a perturbing element
because of the spontaneous and incalculable character of
Introduction 3
their movements. I do not suppose that even Laplace's
Calculator could predict the orbit of a fly, or predetermine
the vibrations of air caused by an itinerant vendor.
So also hve people can lift stones that would not other-
wise have been lifted, they can light or extinguish a fire,
can penetrate mountainous obstacles, divert the course of
rivers, unite oceans, amend unhealthy climates, and do
many other things ; not by suspending but by modifying
and perturbing the direct incidence of the laws of nature.
Moreover, apart from perturbation, hving processes are
well known to produce curious results, such as birds'
nests, honeycombs, pictures, and cathedrals. Physics and
Chemistry are therefore insufficient in the examination of
vital phenomena : they must be supplemented by Physio-
logy and by Psychology. Furthermore, if it should turn
out that any unknown intelligent agencies exist, even
though they be only of the animal or savage order, they
might conceivably produce results akin to those suggested
above ; but their incursion would make scientific examina-
tion difficult, and would inevitably have a deterrent
influence on an investigator, so long as the agencies were
unknown.
In Psychical Research we set out with the intention of
not excluding unknown activities ; we are engaged in
examining the behaviour of specially endowed hving
people. Even in experiments on the purely mental side
we have to introduce " a sensitive," that is someone
with exceptional faculties, often called a " medium."
And the precautions necessary to ensure the honesty of
such a person, though necessary, are inevitably distasteful.
Nevertheless, on the purely mental side, precautions are
fairly easy ;
accordingly such things as Telepathy and
Clairvoyance, and the action of the subconscious generally,
have been seriously tackled ; and some progress has been
made. There are still some die-hards, but few responsible
people now doubt that there are genuine phenomena to
be investigated ; and though we are well aware that we
have, as yet, no adequate theory to cover the ground
completely, we can proceed by the method of working
hjrpothesis, we feel at hberty to suggest an experi-
4 Sir Oliver Lodge
mental theory, to be amended or modified as experience
grows.
On the physical side of these phenomena, however, we
in this country, and presumably in America also, have
made less progress.
The Society for Psychical Research has not ignored
the subject, but its experience has been in some respects
unfortunate ; and accordingly some of its skilled investi-
gators, who are quite entitled to their opinion, do not
share my views, or at least might express their present
convictions differently. It would be safe to say that
several members of Council are still in a state of doubt
about the occurrence of psycho-physical phenomena in
general ; hence nothing I say need be taken as repre-
senting any view held by the Society as a whole. The
Society as a whole preserves an open mind and would
welcome good opportunities for investigating abnormal
physical phenomena. Some of the members imagine that
the positive results obtained by others are due to a
lack of adequate precaution against trickery ! Others
conjecture that so-called precautionary measures may be
pushed to such excess as to frustrate the object in view
and to inhibit the occurrence of genuine phenomena.
It is better to err on the side of excessive caution than
of over-credulity, but it is difficult to form an opinion
on purely negative results. The subject has been seriously
attacked in Europe by physiologists and qualified medical
men, as well as by a few others of different or more
general training ;
they have endeavoured to ascertain
something of the laws of the phenomena, and responsible
publications embody some of their results. In this country,
—apart from some laborious and cautious reports by
Officials and Members of the Society for Psychical Re-
search, e.g. a long report by Messrs. Feilding, Baggally
and Carrington, in Volume XXIII. of the Society's Pro-
ceedings,—that branch of the subject has hitherto been
left mainly to amateurs, whose testimony to odd and
inexplicable occurrences is voluble and extensive, but
has for the most part been recorded in such a way as
not to attract the attention of men of science, or at any
Introduction 5
rate not to attract it in a favourable manner. And
many of the asserted phenomena have been more or less
closely imitated, with considerable mgenuity, on the
conjuring stage.
To this statement about scientific aloofness there have
been some exceptions. Every now and then a medium
has arisen possessing abnormal faculties to so great an
extent that a few scientific men have felt it their duty to
examine and report ; chief among them being Sir William
Crookes. Such men have suffered for their temerity.
Their testimony has not been widely accepted. Their
efforts to mduce others of their fraternity to come and
verify the facts have usually been unsuccessful. And
so the effort has exhausted itseh in a kind of sterility,
leaving no group or school of investigators to carry
on the work. In time this recurrent barrenness must
terminate, either in the discovery that all these observa-
tions are ill-founded and that no such phenomena occur,
or—as is much more liliely—in repeated confirmation of
the fact that the phenomena are real, and can gradually
be subjected to the reign of law and order.
Scientific men on the Continent have seriously taken
the subject up. Institutes have been founded for the
prosecution of the enquiry, and devoted experimenters are
sacrificing their careers and incurring odium and ridicule
in their endeavour to explore, verify, and enlarge this
nascent and puzzling branch of science. It can only be
by the combination of a number of workers of different
aptitudes and knowledge, all possessing first-hand acquaint-
ance with the disputed facts, that anything like a satis-
factory treatment can at length be achieved. One of
the first things that a would-be investigator has to do
is to make himself acquainted with the first-hand testimony
of responsible and trustworthy predecessors, especially
those who have had an opportunity of examining the
more powerful mediums who from time to time have
arisen in the past.
Assuming any of these wonder-workers to be genuine,
that is to say assuming that they are not consciously
or maliciously prodixcing their effects, it is safe to say
6 Sir Oliver Lodge
that they understand them as little as anyone else. While
they are being produced, the ostensible producers are
for the most part unconscious or only semi-conscious :
their organism is not wholly under thek own control.
The appearance is as if it were utilised by other intelli-
gences,—intelUgences it may be of a low order, possibly
not even human,—superhuman or infra-human. So, as
in cases of multiple personaUty and other pathological
phenomena, the investigation must be conducted, not by
the patient, but by the qualified practitioner who examines
and reports on the case. And inasmuch as the qualified
practitioner cannot be always present, and cannot himself
observe all the phases of the disorder, he must make
such use as he can of the testimony of friends and
relations, or of those who have been most closely associ-
ated with the individual durmg the access.
The physical mediums who have quite recently been
examined and reported on by trained observers are known
in this branch of scientific literature by such names
as Eusapia Palladino, Miss Goliglier, Eva C, Willy S.,
Kluski, Guzik, etc. And although it may be casually
and hastily thought that everyone of these has been
exposed or exploded, that is not really a considered and
reasonable and legitimate view. We have to be on our
guard against deception, but it is not really reasonable
gratuitously to suppose that an individual starts out on
a career of that kind, and subjects him or herself to
all the minute and repulsive precautions which have to
be taken, without any kind of foundation in reality.
To those who resolutely shut their minds to evidence,
and decide beforehand that they know what is possible
and what is impossible, neither this record nor any other
book on the subject will have any interest. But to
those who, preserving an open mind and not coming to
hasty conclusions, are impressed with the fact that these
things have been asserted for very many years by many
different people,—some who have attained distinction in
other branches of knowledge and who have suffered for
then' conscientious testimony to what they conceive to be
truth,—this book will be a useful compendium of direct
Introduction 7
first-hand observation witli an exceptional medium, un-
pretentiously and contemporaneously recorded.
It has long been known to psychical researchers that
such a record, privately printed, was in existence. And
many of them must have seen and perhaps read a copy.
But the copies were not accessible to the public, nor
indeed in any convenient way to enquirers. Existing
copies are few m number, and only to be found in
special libraries. Consequently when the present Earl of
Dunraven told me some years ago that he thought it was
perhaps his duty to make accessible the diary which he
wrote at the request of his father, to whom he reported
daily, I heartily welcomed the suggestion.
There were difficulties about carrying out the proposal ;
but Lord Dunraven thought he owed it to the memory
of his father that this contemporary record of observed
phenomena should not be lost to Science, especially now
that the subject was being seriously investigated and
similar experiences testified to by others, so that there
was some chance now of taking it out of the sporadic
unintelhgible stage of mere observation, and bringing it
gradually into the realm of organised science. This may
be a slow process ; but a beginning has been made.
Some of us are beginning to think that what " telepathy
"
has proved to be to the more psychic side of the enquiry,
" ectoplasm " may prove to be on the more physical or
physiological side.
A discussion of that, or any of the theoretical aspects,
is beyond my intention now, and beyond the scope of
this book. What we are concerned with here is a record
of the facts themselves. And all that I want to do in
this Introduction is to state that facts of a similar kind
have been observed both before and since, and to give
brief references to samples of those observations. This I
will do in the Second Part of this Introduction. I will
conclude this First Part by briefly saying, what appears
more fully elsewhere, that the late Earl of Dunraven was
at one time keenly '
interested in Home's phenomena,
and that his son, the present Earl, then Viscount Adare,
filially shared in this interest, to the extent of partially
8 Sir Oliver Lodge
living with Home, keeping a record of the odd things
that happened in his presence, and transmitting them
regularly to his father. It is of this calm and collected
record, made without decorations or exclamations of
astonishment or any other perturbing emotions, that the
book consists.
I ought also to say that the more striking things
occurred when Home was in trance, apparently under
control by some other intelligence, and speaking of him-
seK in the thu-d person as " Dan." Whether the usual
'
control ' himself had any ostensible name, I do not know ;
nor does it matter. But, to understand the record, it
must be known that Home under control called himself
Dan, his name being Daniel Dunglas Home. In this
state he was probably unconscious of his actions ; and
it was clear that his body or physiological organism in
the controlled state possessed unusual powers and pro-
perties. It could stand fire, for instance : it could be
levitated : it could even seem to be elongated, and be
made to do other things which in its normal state were
impossible. It could apparently be made to do things
which most people only dream they are able to do, such
as float in space.
One obvious quasi explanation will be, as it often has
been, suggested,—that the observers were under hypnotic
control, that they suffered from hallucination, and, so to
speak, only dreamed the things. Well, that is one of the
hypotheses that has to be met. There may be instances
to which it applies. But I am convinced that to the
great bulk of the phenomena known to me it does not
apply. And this opinion was shared by the high authority
of the late Lord Rayleigli, who, in testifying to such
experience as he had had of supernormal physical pheno-
mena, condemned the hypothesis of hallucination in his
case utterly : and I entirely confirm and support his
statement. One is no more hallucinated than when
making observations in a laboratory. One must be on
one's guard against seeing things because we are told of
them, or would like to see them, but that is a common-
place of scientific training. In his Presidential Address
Introduction 9
to the Society for Psychical Research the late Lord Rayleigh
speaks about his old experience, in and about the seventies
of last century, as follows :
" I was not disinclined to believe that what was, or at
any rate had recently been, orthodox opmiou might be
quite wrong, and accordingly became mterested hi what I
heard from friends of the domgs of Home and other
so-called mediums. Some of the stories could, as it seemed,
be explained away only on the supposition of barefaced
lying, or more charitably as the result of hallucination,
whether self-induced or due to the suggestion and influ-
ence of others. The possibility of the latter view cannot
be left out of account, but I have never seen anything to
show that it has the remotest application to niy own
experience or that of the friends with whom I have co-
operated.
" The interest that I felt was greatly stimulated by the
appearance of Sir W. Crookes's '
Notes of an Enquiry into
the Phenomena called Spiritual during the years 1870-73.' ^
I was acquainted with some of the author's scientific
work, and knew that he was a skilful experimenter and
likely to be alive to the precautions required in order to
guard against sense illusions."
After quoting a few phenomena testified to by Crookes
in this article. Lord Rayleigh continues :
" The two mediums whose names are mentioned in the
article, and with whom most of the observations were
made, are Home and Miss Fox, afterwards Mrs. Jencken.
A highly desirable characteristic of Home's mediumship
was the unusual opportunity allowed to the sense of sight.
Home always objected to darkness at his seances. '
Indeed,'
says Sir Wdham Crookes, '
except on two occasions . . .
everything that I have witnessed with him has taken
place in the hght.' [And Lord Rayleigh continues :
—
]
" I found (and indeed still find) it difficult to accept what
one may call the '
knave and fool theory '
of these occur-
rences ; but failing that, it would seem to follow that one
^Quarterly Journal of Science, Jan. 1874.
10 Sir Oliver Lodge.
must admit the possibility of much that contrasts strongly
with ordinary experience."
He then mentions experiments of his own with Mrs.
Jencken, Home not being available, and emphatically
says :
" In common, I suppose, with most witnesses of such
things, I repudiate altogether the idea of hallucination as
an explanation."
But the whole address should be read, in the Pro-
ceedings of the Society for Psychical Research, Vol. XXX.,
pp. 275-290.
PART II.
Summary of the Phenomena.
When, many years ago, Crookes lent me his copy of
the privately printed record now about to be published,
he said as he handed it to me, " You will get most out
of this book if you allow yourself, for the time, to imagine
that things happened as narrated." I doubt if I was able
to follow his advice then ; for at that time my experience
of supernormal phenomena was small, and my faith in
scientific orthodoxy strong. First-hand experience has now
done what second-hand testimony could not : it has
gradually shaken my beliefs out of their formal mould
and enlarged my perceptions of the possibilities and
realities of existence.
The phenomena testified to in this book may be classi-
fied roughly and incompletely as follows :
(1) Movements of objects ivithout contact, that is without
obvious and perceptible or normal contact. This is an
extremely frequent occurrence with practically all physical
mediums. Many observers, including myself, have testified
to the fact that it truly happens. (See, for instance,
Journal S.P.R. Vol. VI. pp. 354-357).
(2) Luminosities and scents. These also are common
phenomena, to the occurrence of which I can personally
testify. Sir William Crookes testified that he was not
Introduction 11
imposed on by phosphorised oil or other chemical means,
and that nevertheless, under the strictest test conditions,
" I have seen luminous pomts of light darting about
and setthng on the heads of different persons ; I have
had questions answered by the flashing of a bright Mght
a desired number of times in front of my face. I have
seen sparks of light rising from the table to the ceiling,
and again falhng upon the table, strildng it with an
audible soimd." {^Researches in Spiritualism,, p. 91.
Reprinted from The Quarterly Journal of Science.)
See also his summary of many other remarkable and
typical phenomena on pp. 88-96 of the same book.
(3) Levitatian. The levitation of ordinary objects is only
a special case of movement of things without contact. I
have not myself seen the levitation of a human body ;
but it is no more difficult to understand than the raising
of any other piece of matter.
Most of the levitations of untouched objects that I
have seen have been in a dim light ; but with D. D.
Home they are said to have occurred in daylight. And
my son, F. Brodie Lodge, whUe on a visit to Professor
Richet at his Chateau de Carqueiranne, saw such a levita-
tion in the presence of Eusapia Palladtno. The object
raised was a heavy table, specially made for the purpose,
without a flange, and with sharp pointed feet. The top
of the table was continued vertically downwards for about
six inches, so that when hands were on the top, there
was nothing to grip on, and it could not be raised normally
by a standing person. It weighed 48 lbs. (22 kilos), and
was purposely made awkward to catch hold of. This
table was at the time standing out of doors, in the full
blaze of sunshine. And after it had gone up in the air,
they all stood away from it ; and to Ricliet's delight, it
remained up. My son's testimony (from memory) is as
follows :
" It was only one incident among many at that time
—
August or September 1898. I Avas eighteen, and next
month started in business witli Alfred Booth & Co. in
Liverpool ; so I am sure of the date.
12 Sir Oliver Lodge
"At all the successful sittings with Eusapia that summer,
objects of various sizes were moved about, sometimes
visible, sometimes not, according to the illumination that
Eusapia allowed at the time. That day she must have
felt in particularly good form, because it was out in
broad daylight, with nothing overhead. But I was getting
pretty well used to the idea of table-lifting by then
;
only I was struck by Professor Richet's joyous chuckle
and triumphant challenge '
En pleine lumiere !
'
" I used to keep a diary during those daj^s on the Mediter-
ranean. The incident occurred on the drive in front of the
Chateau de Carqueiranne, just to the left of it as you
stand facing its front. We all started as usual round
the table—the special heavy wooden one you Imow of,
with sharp pointed feet, which surely none of us alone
could lift, and which had been sj)ecially made for tests.
When it was well up, about two feeb I should judge,
(Eusapia being held as usual), Ave all, including Eusapia,
stood back and away from it ; and Professor Richet
passed his hand under it and over it and all round it.
Then we did the same, some of us, and we were all
quite satisfied that there was no physical support of any
kmd."
(4) The jdaying of an accordion, either unsupported or
supported at the keyless end (page 193). This was also
observed later with the same medium by Sir William
Crookes and Sir William Huggins, when the accordion
was surrounded by a wire cage, so as to protect it from
interference (see Researches in Sjnritualistn, pp. 12 to
14, with illustrations. Also pages 92 and 94). I have myself
heard notes from an apparently untouched piano, and
have heard an accordion play under conditions reported
in Journal S.P.R. Vol. VI. p. 350.
(5) Withdrawal of scent from a flower (page 136). A
rather similar effect was perhaps the one and only physical
phenomenon achieved by Mrs. Piper, as testified to by
Dr. Hodgson. Mrs. Piper's fingers were moved near the
flower, as if withdrawing something from it ; and in a
few hours it had withered.
Introduction 13
(6) Pencil tvriting by itself. The phenomenon of " direct
writing," that is with no normal contact with the pencil,
is unusual ; but I have had experience of it under good
conditions. It is, after all, only the intelligent movement
of a piece of wood—the intelligence having some lin-
guistic acquirement, which is an additional feature. The
intelligent and responsive movement of various objects
above a dining-table in full light has been forcibly attested
by Crookes. (See Researches in Spiritualism, pages 90
and 93).
(7) Direct voices. These also I have heard with more
than one medium, and have verified then' genuine
character. On one occasion the tone of Raymond's voice
was recognised, though that is unusual. The incident
was subsequently referred to by him duruig a sitting
with another independent medium in an evidential manner.
(See Raymond Revised, pp. 173, 174, 177.)
(8) Elongation of the human body. This I have never
seen, and am only acquainted with verbal testimony of
Sir William and Lady Crookes to the same phenomenon
with the same medium Home. Nor can I be sure that
there was anything beyond levitation.
(9) The fire test. That is, the handling of red-hot
coals or the putting the face into the fire. This I have
not had experience of. But it is testified to by Crookes,
Huggins, and several other people ;
including Madame de
Crespigny. I quote Crookes's evidence from Sir William
Barrett's book On the Threshold of the Unseen, (page 75) :
" At Mr. Home's request, whilst he was entranced, I
went with him to the fireplace in the back drawing-room.
He [the influence controlling Home] said :
'
We wane you
to notice particularly what Dan [i.e. Home] is doing.'
Accordingly I stood close to the fire, and stooped down
to it when he put his hands in . . . Mr. Home then waved
a handkerchief about in the ah two or three times,
held it above his head, and then folded it up and laid
it on his hand lilce a cushion. Putting his otlier hand
into the fire, he took out a large lump of cinder, red-
hot at the loAver part, and placed the red part on the
14 Sir Oliver Lodge
handkerchief. Under ordinary circumstances it would
have been in a blaze. In about half a minute he took
it off the handkerchief with his hand, saying, '
As the
power is not strong, if we leave the coal longer it will
burn.' He then pub it on his hand, and brought it to
the table in the front room, where all but myself had
remained seated."
To this Sir William Barrett adds :
" Not only have we Sir W. Crookes' evidence, but a
former President of the Royal Society, the late Su- W.
Huggins, O.M., witnessed the same feat with Home and
gave me a detailed account of it. So also did Mr. S. C.
Hall who was jDresent on another occasion, when a white
hot coal was put on his head and his white hair gathered
over it, but he told me he felt no heat and bis liair
was wholly uninjured.
" Various other eye witnesses have informed me that
they have seen Mr. Home handle with impunity red hot
coals ;
among others a shrewd and able solicitor, the late
Mr. W. M. Wilkinson, writing to me from Lincoln's Inn
Fields, London, states that in the winter of 1869
—
" '
I saw Mr. Home take out of our drawing-room fire
a red-hot coal, a little less in size than a cricket-ball,
and carry it up and down the room. He said to Lord
Adare,—now Earl Dunraven,—who was present. Will you
take it from me ? It will not hurt you. Lord Adare took
it from him and held it in his hand for about half a
mmute, and before he threw it back in the fire I put my
hand close to it and felt the heat like that of a live
coal.'
"
Madame de Crespigny's much more recent experience
was published in The Daily Exjjress (of date to me
unknown). I asked Madame de Crespigny to send me a
statement ; and she says that it was in 1917.
"We met in an empty house in St. John's Wood,
ten or twelve of us, including a newspaper reporter from
the Daily Express. The medium was Mrs. Annie Hunter.
A large fire was burning in the grate and the reporter
Introduction 15
went down into the cellar and brought up a log of wood.
This was put on the fire and turned round until it was
red hot.
" The medium then went under cautrol il(e£, tontrol- was ,
said to be a Persian fire-worshipper). .She"'-]ifi>ed the^'fe^'
hot log from the fire, after talking in an excited way in, a
foreign language, and carried it about thsj. raora, putting,
it back in the fire now and then to keep it at red heat.
She approached the reporter, who shrank away, and his
hair was singed. She then offered ib to me. I argued
that as physical law told us flesh must burn if in contact
with a red hot log, and her flesh was not burning, another
law must be superimposed. I had learnt of an '
occult
'
law which was supposed to prevent contact, and con-
cluded it must be in operation, and that if the log did
not burn her, it would not burn me. So I put my hand
out without a qualm, and she laid the red hot log across
it, leaving it there for some seconds. When she removed
it, there was not a mark. I should not have cared how
long it remained. I knew it would not burn me.
" The man next me said that if conditions had been
norma] I should never have used my hand again.
" A man present, encouraged by what he had seen,
allowed her to put the log near his head, without any
bad results.
" I believe that had I had any fear, the vibrations
would have broken up the protective sheath.
Rose Ch. de Crespigny."
(10) Objects remaining on a slanting table. This also is
testified to by others. (See page 63 of Barrett's On the
Threshold of the Unseen, and also page xvi. of the
Biographical Introduction to the Memorial Edition of
Stainton Moses' Spirit Teachhigs.)
The late W. Stainton Moses, a master at University
College School, and one well known under his pen name
" M.A. Oxon," was not only a medium for automatic
writing and various intelligent communications about
things in general and for edifying teachings purporting to
come from the other side, but was also a physical medium
16 Sir Oliver Lodge
of no mean order. The phenomena testified to as fre-
quently occurring in his presence are,—raps, some of them
of great intensity, lights and luminous vapours of various
kmds, tli,e produetion of scents, of musical sounds, like
'bells, -
stiiiiged instj.'uments, and clarionets; also direct
,
writmg without anyone touching the pencil ; movements
and jevitatioiis : o| heavy objects ; the introduction of
objects from' other rooms into a closed and locked room
—a phenomenon which is frequently testified to, but which
I have not myself securely observed ;
—the direct voice,
that is to say, a voice in the air at a distance from the
medium, when precautions are taken to prevent or to
observe separately the medium's own articulation ; and
other very numerous phenomena.
Remarks on the Attitude of Orthodox Science.
This brief summary, with these few illustrative examples,
must suffice to show that abnormal phenomena have been
testified to again and again, and that Lord Dunraven's
experiences with Home are only striking instances of
things which occur with less facility and less frequently
through mediums of smaller power. In the years 1870,
1871, a serious attempt was made by Crookes to examine
some of these things in a very simple form and in a
careful metrical manner, in the hope that they might be
o1:)served and testified to by the very distinguished chief
Officers of the Royal Society. In the attempt to interest
those representatives of science he did not succeed ; for
they objected that some of the phenomena were impossible
in any mechanical or l^nown manner ;
—which of course
was Crookes's own contention, and exactly what he hoped
would arouse their interest sufficiently to cause them to
utilise the exceptional opportunity of acquiring new
knowledge by coming to witness what occurred. One
of Crookes's simple arrangements for the hoped-for de-
monstration was a long registering lever, on the fulcrum
of which the medium's hands were placed, with the result
that the far end was forcibly depressed. The deprecatory
excuse of an eminent man for not coming to see the
Introduction 17
experiment, was that it appeared to him contrary to all
analogy that a force acting according to physical laws
should produce the forcible depression of a lever by
acting on its fulcrum. To which Crookes replied that he
entirely agreed ; that was the whole gist of the experiment
and the only reason he regarded it as worthy of attention.
The episode illustrates one of the difficulties which is
bound to be encountered by investigators of novel physical
phenomena. If a new kind of force is exerted, the ex-
periments are almost bound to be surprising and, so to
speak, incredible. We are now inclined to suppose that
the force in these cases is due to the mechanical inter-
vention or employment of an invisible unknown material,
probably emanating from the medium, in the form of
what we now call ectoplasm,—a form of substance
which was then not recognised by anyone. Nothing but
direct observation and instrumental confirmation can
establish such things as reahties. A theory need not
jump into existence at the same time as new facts are
observed ; but until there is some guiding theory or clue,
the facts seem detached from organised science, and are
rebutted and disbelieved on theoretical grounds. Dis-
belief is only natural, and its foundation in common sense
is rather like a modified version of David Hume's argu-
ment against miracles, viz. that it is more likely that a
witness should lie than that a miracle should happen ;
because the one is consonant with human experience, and
the other is not. That is quite true ; but if the thing
really does happen, and if it can be shown contem-
poraneously to happen, the argument has no force ; the
facts, when proven, are themselves an expansion of
human experience ; and they clearly establish the need
for overhauling and enlarging our theoretical foundations.
Things that are unlikely may nevertheless be true. Our
knowledge of nature is not so extensive that we are able
to say beforehand what is possible and what is not
possible in a novel region of enquiry. The history of
science is too much disfigured by the premature rejection
and contempt with which novelties have often been
received. They are accepted, in the long run, by some
B
18 Sir Oliver Lodge
subsequent generation ; but the responsible generation
living at the time does not rise to the height of its
opportunities. Contemporary men of science unfortunately
write themselves down, as not only ignorant, which was
inevitable, but as blind and prejudiced and sadly bigoted :
though it is true that in their lifetime their contemptuous
attitude gains them credit for robust common sense
and sanity. They are wise therefore in their day and
generation.
It is singular, and perhaps depressing, that the obscurantist
attitude of Theologians in the past has been so amply
imitated by the pontiffs and high priests of science in
the recent present. They still oppose their admirable
theories and great knowledge of the universe to resist
the incursion of fresh information ;
they oppose observed
facts on a priori and utterly inadequate grounds. No one
ought to consider his knowledge of the universe so com-
plete and final as to be competent to negative careful
testimony based on critical and responsible experiment
and observation, especially if the observer has already
proved his competence in more recognised branches of
knowledge. Explanatory hypotheses may be criticised
severely, but the facts demand attention.
' General Lines of a Hypothetical Explanation of Abnormal
Phenomena.
Returning to the more general aspect of the subject,
I would point out that both on the physical and on the
psychical side—or in what Prof. Richet calls the objec-
tive and the subjective variety of metapsychics,—-the
principal phenomena have a character which could be
attributed to the action of unknown and hitherto un-
suspected Intelhgences, live things or live people. For they
simulate a life-like interference with the world of matter
through the agency of a borrowed human organism ; some
of the things done being such as we ourselves could do,
and some being beyond those powers. This is undoubtedly
their appearance, and I inchne to think that it is also
their reality. I think that these phenomena are mainly
Introduction 19
surprising because we do not otherwise know of the
agents who accomphsh them. If we did, they would
become comparatively commonplace. Their value lies in
the demonstration of the existence of these, what we may
call, " other people."
The fact is we have been living on an island planet,
apparently completely isolated, and not in touch with
anything higher than ourselves. Religious people have
always supposed otherwise ; but scientific people, ex-
cept in so far as they were also religious, have never
had occasion to postulate anything of the kind. Con-
sequently they feel great repugnance to beginning. They
would prefer to exhaust aU known categories before
introducing any new ones ; and in this they are mani-
festly right. But the time will come—has come already
in my view—when the known part of the Universe is
insufficient to account for the facts. Wo shall find our-
selves like a race of Pacific islanders, who have known
nothing about other people in the world, and who begin
to be afflicted with indications of unaccustomed pheno-
mena, coming at first from a distance,—wireless waves,
if any are sufficiently sensitive to feel that influence,
shot and shell for those who are insensitive. Such islanders,
if they were critical, would receive testimony to these
sporadic occurrences with incredulity and general suspicion.
At length there comes a shipwrecked sailor, who may be
seen by a few before he is rescued, but who is disbelieved
in by most. Then others arrive, and inexpHcable pheno-
mena begin to happen.
The parallel is not very close, because the visitants
belong to the same sphere of existence as the islanders.
The chief analogy is that the strange visitors are endowed
with what seem to be supernormal powers and extensive
knowledge, which for the most part they are unable to
communicate, or the islanders to receive. Even if one
of the islanders were taken to a modern city, he would
not be able, on his return, to convey anything but the
haziest idea of the achievements of civilisation. While
another, who had been taken to visit some other city in
a different country, might give a rather differing account
;
20 Sir Oliver Lodge
wherefore both would be disbelieved,—differences being
emphasised, and similarities overlooked.
The perception or realisation of other Intelligences in
the Universe than onr own, who are able under certain
conditions to communicate with us, may or may not be
welcome or invigorating ; and yet it may be true. That
is the only question for science.
The question of human siirvival, or persistent existence
—
which appears to be demonstrated by several of the more
psychic occurrences—is of a higher order, and more
momentous to humanity. Psycho-physical phenomena
appear to be of a lower grade, and seem to be a con-
tribution from fairly low-scale intelligences, who by long
practice have learnt how to manipulate matter by inter-
fering with accessible nerve-muscle mechanism and other
organised material. It is customary to attribute these
odd powers to the activity of the sub-conscious ; that is
to a submerged modification or variety of ordinary human
intelligence such as may be evoked by hypnotism ; and
this view, that the intelligence concerned is an emanation
from the subconsciousness of the medium, though surely
inadequate as an explanation of all that occiirs, is de-
serving of respect. Yet these phenomena, in spite of
their presumably low grade, are not so entirely dis-
sociated from discarnate human activity that they can be
ignored or disregarded, even by those who would prefer
to limit their enquiries to the purely mental or sub-
jective side ; nor can they reasonably be contemned.
We are not in a position to contemn any fact in the
Universe. We never know what the bearing may be of
any scientific discovery, nor what applications it may
have. Our sole business as scientific men is to explore
and ascertain the truth. If the truth, when ascertained,
seems to us and to posterity to be commonplace and
unimportant, that will be rather an unprecedented occur-
rence. Anyhow it would be one for which we are in no
way responsible. Important or unimportant, welcome or
unwelcome, we are bound to be loyal to what we con-
ceive to be truth, be the consequences what they may.
March 11, 1924. OLIVER LODGE.
AUTHOR'S PREFACE.
The occurrences that are recorded in the following pages
took place some sixty years ago. During that period a
great deal of attention has been paid to psychical matters
in general ; and spirituahsm in particular has been criti-
cally investigated by the Society for Psychical Research
and by other Associations. Many men eminent in the
sphere of science have studied the subject. A vast number
of facts must have been accumulated, investigated, sifted
and tabulated ; and phenomena observed and recorded
more than half a century ago are presumably out of date.
Whether they are, or are not, I am not in a position to
judge, as I have not kept in touch with the subject
since those distant days ; but I am told by those who
have, and who ought to know, that the experiences of
my father and myself are in some respects unique ; and
that, in the search after truth, they ought to be made
available to those who desire to study them.
I came across Mr. D. D. Home long ago in Paris, I
forget under what circumstances, but they had nothing
to do with spiritualism or with his mediumship. My
meetmg him again in 1867 was fortuitous. Circumstances
in the shape of rheumatism, or rheumatic gout, led me
to Dr. Gully's hydropathic establishment at Malvern and
there I became acquainted with Mr. Home, who was
staying with Dr. Gully as a guest. I was attracted by
some phenomena which took place immediately. I liked
]Mr. Home. He had the defects of an emotional character,
with vanity highly developed (perhaps wisely to enable
him to hold his own against the ridicule and obloquy
that was then poured out vipon spiritualism and every
one connected with it). He was Uable to fits of great
21
22 Preface
depression and to nervous crises difficult at first to
understand ; but lie was withal of a simple, kindly,
humorous, lovable disposition that appealed to me. I
struck up an intimate friendship with him, and spent
a great deal of time during the next two years in his
company, with the result that the phenomena, wliich
are here recorded, occurred at all times and seasons,
under all sorts of conditions—in broad daylight, in artificial
light, in semi-darkness, at regular seances, unpremeditatedly
without any seance a.t all, indoors, out of doors, in private
houses, in hotels—at home and abroad, and it is probable
that to that extent these experiences are pecuHar. They
were printed by my father in order to preserve them, but
for rigidly private circulation which was obviously neces-
sary at the time. Nearly all the jjersons mentioned have
" joined the great majority." Those remainmg with us
with whom I have been able to communicate have no
objection to publication ; neither have I, though the
records allude to matters very persona] to myself. And
as, in the opinion of those who have studied the subject,
publication would be in the interests of science, I have
agreed to it.
I came to certain conclusions at the time, but I do not
aUude to them here, preferring to leave readers to form
their own conclusions on facts placed before them without
comment. But some little explanation is necessary on
one or two points. I can, of course, speak only of the
period during which I was closely connected with Mr.
Home, but it is perhaps right to say that during that
time he never took money for seances, and seances failed
as often as not. He was proud of his gift, but not
happy in it. He could not control it and it placed him
sometimes in very unpleasant positions. I think he would
have been pleased to have been reheved of it, but I
beheve he was subject to these manifestations as long as
he Hved. It may be asked why did I abandon research
after an experience which, it will be admitted, was at
least interesting ; and it may be assumed that something
in Home's character or in the manifestations themselves
must have repelled me. That assumption would be quite
Preface 23
erroneous. My belief in the genuineness of the phenomena
remained unshaken, and my friendship with Mr. Home
did not diminish or change. The simple reason is that
having satisfied myself that the facts were not due to
trickery or fraud, I found that I made little progress
after a certain point. Phenomena were all of the same
character, mainly physical, designed apparently to prove
that some force or forces other than physical, as we
understand it, could be made to operate upon inanimate
objects. I had no inclination to investigate the nature
of these forces. Study of the occult was not congenial
to me. I was only twenty-four and I had my ambitions
and plans for my life. I loved sport and an active
" out-of-doors " life. All my instincts were to deal with
the physical world and the material aspects of life, and
I did not feel myself competent to deal with anything
else. I thought that in some cases absorption in the
subject tended to weaken the sense of self-dependence and
of the necessity of submitting everything to reason
;
and I found that seances for physical manifestations were
physically very exhausting to me. So having had my
experience I came to the conclusion that I was neither
by inclination or natural character designed to spend my
time in pursuing the subject, and I completely abandoned it.
Much of the narrative in the following pages appears
inconsequential and confused. It is not really so. Many
of the communications, comments, and remarks were of
too intimately private a character to be stated in full
at the time ; but the allusions were perfectly understood
by those concerned.
It will be noted that on one or two occasions state-
ments of a prophetic character were made, and opinions
are expressed, or are alleged to be expressed, by a spidt
on physical science which, I take it, are entkely erroneous.
On that I have nothing to say except that the narrative
states that the communication was very confused. But
in fau'ness I must comment upon seance 6, described on
pp. 62-63. That seance was obviously held on the
eve of my departure to join the Abyssinian Expedition. It
is stated that the spirit of an Abyssinian chief was chosen
24 Preface
to look after me ; that lie would save my life on two
occasions, and that though I could not then remember
his name I would later hear and recognise it. It is, of
course, impossible for ai\y one to say that under such
circumstances, or, indeed, under any circumstances, his
life was not in imminent danger ; but it is right I should
state that, so far as I was and am aware, my life was
not on two occasions, or on one occasion, in special
danger ; and that though I was much interested in the
Abyssinian tribes—then- manners, customs, and history,
and talked with many chiefs, I never recognised the name
mentioned at the seance.
I regret that the seances and occurrences were not
more methodically arranged and that headings may be
erroneous—as, for instance, ui the case of Seance No. 41,
and that details concerning the localities in which seances
were held, and the circumstances attending them, were
not more specifically stated ; but it must be remembered
that my records were embodied in private letters to my
father written at a time when no publication of any
kmd was contemplated ; and that the book was com-
piled and printed for strictly private circulation among
those who knew all about the circumstances mentioned.
The name of the narrator is not always mentioned.
It may be taken for granted that the letters or notes
were written by me, except in those cases to which my
father's name is appended. One or two accounts are
mentioned of occurrences of which I was not personally
cognisant. Obviously they were included because they
were explanatory of, or referred to, occurrences at which
I was present.
It is also to be noted that when Mr. Home spoke in
the trance state he aUuded to himself as " Daniel " or
" Dan," and in aUudmg to others always used the first
name except in respect of my father and myself. He
mentioned us as " Dunraven " and " Adare." It will be
remembered that in those days I was " Adare," and my
father " Dunraven."
It is desirable that the supernormal phenomena herein
mentioned should be co-orduiated and compared with
Preface 25
phenomena of a similar character which have been recorded
during the last half century and more. They should be
viewed in the light of knowledge acquired since they were
printed. The experience requires supplementing in that
direction, and Sir OUver Lodge and others have been so
good as to undertake that work. But this publication
is not based on recollection of events that took place
many years ago. Its sole merit consists of the fact that
the phenomena were noted and recorded at the time,
and the original text has not been altered in any way.
I was very yoimg at the time. I was devoted to out-
door sport and was not trained in scientific observation.
All that I desire to say is that, to the best of my ability,
I scrupulously examined certain strange phenomena, which
came under my observation, and faithfully recorded the
facts. My father's case was very different. The whole
bent of his mind was towards science. He was trained
in science and was an acute observer. He was a devout
Roman Catholic and a very Hberal minded man. His
remarks are valuable and his preface is retained. My
Uttle preface, written at the time, is without value, and I
have omitted it.
DUNRAVEN.
It may be of interest to reproduce the Introduction ivhich my
father wrote in 1870 to the volume printed for private
circulation.
INTRODUCTORY REMARKS
By the late Earl of Duneaven
The subject of Spiritualism was first brought under my
notice about fifteen years ago, by reading two or three
accounts of the occurrences which were taking place in
America. To some extent I was prepared for the fair
consideration of very strange and startling phenomena,
from having previously examined fully into the subject of
mesmerism. The result of this enquiry, carried on for
several months, under most favourable circumstances, was
a thorough conviction of the reality of the phenomena of
mesmerism, from the simple sleep up to clairvoyance. At
that time, scientific men in general, and the medical pro-
fession in particular, were loud in condemnation of what
they considered sheer imposture ; and one of the most
eminent of the profession, the late Dr. Elliotson, lost a
considerable portion of his very extensive practice by his
bold and uncompromising assertion of the truth of mes-
merism and its great importance as a curative agent.
Since then a great change has taken place in the opinion
of the public on this subject. Judging by the literature of
the day, as well as by the remarks current in society, the
general phenomena of mesmerism are widely accepted as
true ; and even those who believe in the higher pheno-
mena, including clairvoyance, are no longer necessarily
considered to be the victims of imposture.
Introductory Remarks 27
When table turning became one of the amusements of
the day, I witnessed and tried various experiments which
clearly demonstrated the inadequacy of Professor Faraday's
explanation of the manifestations by involuntary muscular
action. I was also present at a seance, where Mrs. Hayden
was the medium, and an attentive examination of what
took place sufficed to satisfy me that the subject was
worthy of careful examination, to be made whenever an
opportunity should occur for a full investigation into a
class of phenomena, opening a new field of research of a
very strange and startling description. This opportunity
has been afforded by Lord Adare's acquaintance with Mr.
Home, which commenced in 1867. I soon perceived from
his letters, that the manifestations were so remarkable
that they deserved to be duly chronicled and preserved.
At my request he has carefully noted, as fully as could
conveniently be done, the occurrences of each day, and
has permitted me to print the whole series for private
circulation. Publication is out of the question, as much
that is interesting and a valuable portion of the record,
relates to private domestic affairs, and to near relatives or
intimate friends.
Even after the unavoidable suppression of some curious
and instructive details, it was not without much reluctance
that we made up our minds to give even a very limited
circulation to this series of seances ;
but, after full con-
sideration we have deemed it best to print—as nearly as
we possibly could venture to do—the entire record ;
not-
withstanding the pain, to ourselves and others, which
necessarily accompanies the mention of communications
professing to come from those whose memories caU up the
deepest and tenderest feelings of our nature. It is obvious
that the chief value of such a record must depend upon
the trustworthiness of the narrator. Fidelity of description
is very rare, even where honesty of purpose is undoubted.
I believe that in the present case scrupulous accuracy, a
retentive ^memory, and an unexcitable temperament are
combined in an unusual degree, forming just such a com-
bination of quaUties as is indispensable for one who under-
takes to record phenomena of this exceptional and startling
28 Introductory Remarks
character. In several of the latter seances, portions of
them have been written by both Lord Adare and myself,
and then carefully compared ; some were looked over by
more than one of the persons present : thus everything
has been done to ensure the greatest accuracy. In
addition, each of those mentioned as present at the
seances (except a few who are not within reach) has
received a copy of the printed account, and replies have
been received from all, affirming the accuracy of the
reports. A list of these names will be given further on,
and thus the following pages, it is hoped, will be found
to contain the fullest and best authenticated account of
the phenomena of Spiritualism which has as yet appeared
in this country.
It must be borne in mind that an actual record of facts,
and not the adoption or refutation of any particular
theory, is the main object in view. Spiritualism wiU,
therefore, in the ensuing remarks, be regarded chiefly in
its scientific or phenomenal aspect, and I have purposely
avoided expressing any decided opinion on questions so
complicated, and about which at present such conflicting
opinions prevail, as upon the character of the phenomena,
the source from which they proceed, and the tendency of
the teaching to be derived from them.
The whole subject of Spiritualism is one which must
soon command the attention of thoughtful men in this
country, as it has very fully done in America, and to
some extent in France and other countries of Europe. In
America, the belief in Spiritualism may be considered as a
fait acco7npli. Its adherents are said to be reckoned by
millions ;
varying from three to eleven, according to
different accounts ;
but, even should the lowest calculation
be beyond the exact truth, as is probably the case, there
can be no doubt that a considerable portion of the people
of the United States, including many men eminent in
science, literature, politics, &c. (among whom was to be
reckoned the late President Lincoln), believe that a means
of communication is now open between the inhabitants of
this world and intelligent beings belonging to a different
state of existence ; thus affording a new and astounding
Introductory Remarks 29
evidence for the reality of another life, and of a spirit-
world. It is remarkable that this new source of evidence
should be discovered at a time when materialism, and the
denial of a future state are on the increase, apparently in
all parts of the world, and are said to prevail to an
alarming extent in America, the country, be it remarked,
where first these manifestations occurred on a large or
striking scale. The timidity or apathy of men of science
in England on this subject is to be deplored. A remark-
able example of the former was seen in the case of the
late Sir David Brewster. He was present at two seances
of Mr. Home's, where he stated, as is affirmed on the
written testimony of persons present, his impression that
the phenomena were most striking and startling, and he
does not apjjear then to have expressed any doubt of their
genuineness, but he afterwards did so in an offensive
manner. The whole discussion may be read in Mr. Home's
book entitled, " Incidents in my Life." I mention this
circumstance, because, I was so struck with what Sir
David Brewster—with whom I was well acquainted—had
himself told me, that it materially influenced me in deter-
mining to examine thoroughly into the reality of the
phenomena. I met him one day on the steps of the
Athenaeum ; we got upon the subject of table-turning,
&c. ; he spoke most earnestly, stating that the impression
left on his mind from what he had seen, was, that the
manifestations were to him quite inexplicable by fraud, or
by any physical laws with which we were acquainted, and
that they ought to be fully and carefully examined into.
At present I know of only three eminent men of science
in England, who have gone fully into the subject ; and
in their case the enquiry has resulted in a conviction
of the genuineness of the phenomena. I allude to Mr.
De Morgan the mathematician, Mr. Varley the electrician,
and Mr. Wallace the naturalist, all, as is well known,
men of high distinction in widely difl'ering departments of
science.
In investigating this subject, the greatest patience is
required. As in the somewhat analogous case of clair-
voyance, the recurrence of similar phenomena is most
30 Introductory Remarks
uncertain, owing partly to the varying physical conditions
of the medium, partly to the physical state of one or
more of those present, or even to the state of the atmo-
sphere ;
partial or even total failures must, therefore,
occasionally be expected. I remember at a seance held to
witness the clairvoyant phenomena of Alexis, how the
effect of the presence of one lady sufficed nearly to
obliterate his power ;
she, fortunately for us, left the room
in disgust at what she designated as humbug, as Alexis's
power returned almost immediately after her departure,
and we had a most interesting and beautiful seance. A
very analogous example in the case of Spiritualism will
be found at p. 192 of the following seances. Great caution
must, therefore, be observed, and great allowances made
wherever a hond fide desire to arrive at truth is the real
object of the enquirer.
Taking a general view of the subject, there are five
hypotheses, three of them widely accepted, for explaining
the so-caUed spiritualistic phenomena. The first, adopted
by the world at large, maintains that they are the result
of tricks or clever contrivance ; in other words, that the
mediums are impostors, and the whole exhibition humbug.
According to the second, which is advocated by some
scientific and medical men, the persons assisting at a
seance become, then and there, the victims of a sort of
mania or delusion, and imagine phenomena to occur, which
have no real objective existence. The third maintains that
the manifestations are referable to cerebral action, con-
scious or unconscious. This theory is evidently incapable
of embracing the whole of the phenomena, and is not very
widely advocated. The fourth, adopted almost unani-
mously by Spiritualists, is that the manifestations are
caused by the agency of the spirits of departed human
beings ;
and, generally speaking, by those who profess to
be present. According to the fifth, which is held chiefly
by believers in dogmatic Christianity, and also by many of
the Low Church and Calvinistic school, the phenomena are
supposed to be duo to the agency of evil spirits or devils,
personifying departed human beings, who have obtained
this new power apparently for the purpose of undermining
Introd^lCtory Remarks 31
that conception of Christianity which has hitherto been
ahnost universally received.
No amount of written or oral testimony seems to be
sufficient to carry conviction on this mysterious subject to
the minds of the vast majority of persons ;
yet a candid
enquirer, reading a record such as that contained in the
following pages, embracing so great a variety of pheno-
mena, witnessed under varying circumstances and con-
ditions, and attested by so many persons, can hardly
avoid, without putting aside the narrator's testimony as
utterly tmtrustworthy, admitting the possibility that some
of the occurrences here recounted are the work of an
agency beyond that of the persons present. The examples
are so numerous that it would be difficult to make a
selection for illustration ; but the reader's attention may
be caUed to those instances where Mr. Home had never
before entered the room in which the seance was held ; as
for example, at No. 5, Buckingham Gate, mentioned in
p. 57 ; or where, as in Seance No. 1, and indeed many of
the others, he had no possible opportunity of making any
preparatory arrangements. It is perhaps as well here to
mention, that we have not, on a single occasion, during
the whole series of seances, seen any indication of con-
trivance on the part of the medium for producing or
facilitating the manifestations which have taken place.
The larger has been our experience, and the more varied
the phenomena, the more firmly have we been convinced
that a large portion of them are but explicable on the
hypothesis that they are caused by intelligent beings,
other than the persons in the room ; the remainder being
probably due to the action of physical laws as yet un-
known.
The phenomena may be divided into two classes :
Physical manifestations ; and communications or messages.
The former are divisible again into those which are solely
or partly due to physical forces acting by a law—not yet
ascertained—and those which imply a power exercised by
an invisible and intelligent agent. To the first division of
the physical manifestations, certain movements and vibra-
tions of the table, or other articles of furniture may be
32 Introductory Remarks
referred ; and perhaps the cold currents of air so often
felt at the commencement of seances. As an example of
the second may be mentioned the case of the table rising
above our heads, described in page 218 ; but a more
decided illustration is afforded at page 227, where a table
was raised (no one touching it) and placed most carefully
upon another table ; also may be cited those occasions on
which the accordion was played, when not held or touched
by mortal hands. One very curious example of vibration
of the table will be found at the end of Seance No. 51,
p. 179, where the manifestation can only be referred to an
intelligent agent, or to fraud on the part of some one
present. I was so struck by the synchronism of the
vibration with each stroke of the clock, as indicating an
intelligence at work somewhere, that I examined closely
but failed to detect any indication that it was caused by
any one of those sitting at the table.
The communications may be divided into six classes ;
those which come through the alphabet ;
through the
planchette ;
writing by the influenced hand ; direct spirit-
writing ; audible spirit-voices ;
and, lastly, by the medium
in a trance. The first and last methods are those em-
ployed in the following seances. Those delivered by the
medium in a trance are obviously unsuited to convince
persons of the existence of spirits ;
generally they afford
no actual proof of the utterances being other than the
thoughts of the medium ; there are, however, exceptional
cases, as where a communication is made to some person
present, detailing circumstances unknown to the others, and
of which the medium is almost certainly ignorant. Gener-
ally, but not always, these examples may be referable to
the powers of mind-reading, similar to that manifested by
clairvoyants. A genuine message, spelled out by the
alphabet, is best suited to produce conviction that a
communication is really from a spirit, especially where the
raps, indicative of the letters which compose the words,
are made at a distance from the medium, or are of such
a nature as to have rendered it impossible for him to have
caused them. The most striking cases are those where the
mode of marking the letters is unknown to the medium or
Introductory BemarJcs 33
to any one present, except the person addressed. Examples
will be found at pp. 193, 194, and 206, where the letters
were indicated by my being touched on the knee. Not
only are the two modes of communication of very different
value as to their power of producing conviction in the
reality of the phenomena, but likewise as to the reliability
of the messages sent ; and this must be carefully borne in
mind when judging of the tendency of the communications,
or teaching derived from them. When Mr. Home speaks
in a trance, there is no certainty whether his utterances
are those of a spirit alone, or how far they may be mixed
up with his own ideas or principles. Sometimes the com-
munications are striking, at other times vague, sometimes
trivial. Messages through the alphabet, on the other hand,
carry at least a strong probability that they convey the
thoughts of a spirit ;
although even they too in some
cases exhibit indications of being affected by the medium,
and are therefore not quite reliable.
The foregoing remarks will suffice to shew that in my
opinion the first of the five hypotheses is utterly unten-
able. The second is disposed of by such cases as are
detailed in pp. 227, 232. In the first example, the table,
lifted up and placed upon that at which we were sitting,
remained in the same position after the seance was broken
up. In the second, the traces of the snuff which had
been poured out on the shelf under the window were
visible after supper. The third hypothesis requires no
particular comment, being held by a very limited number
among those who believe in the reality of the phenomena.
Only two, therefore, need occupy the reader's attention,
namely, that by which the manifestations are supposed to
be caused by deceased human beings, or that which
affirms them to be entirely due to the agency of lying
spirits or devils. It is worthy of notice how the majority
of the communications can be pressed into the service of
either hypothesis.
The probabihty of the latter of the two theories being
the correct one, extravagant and repulsive as this must
appear to so many in the present day, results from the
difficulty of reconciling the announcements of Spiritualism
c
34 Introductory Bemarks
with the belief in certain doctrines hitherto uniformly
maintained by all portions of Christendom. The necessity
of a sacrificial atonement through Christ to obtain our
salvation ; the sejoaration of mankind at death into two
classes, the saved and the lost ; the former destined to'
live for ever in union with God and in happiness, the
latter in perpetual separation from Him, in punishment
and misery ; and the existence of a personal devil, and of
fallen angels, whose unceasing efforts are directed to pro-
cure the loss of men's souls, are beliefs or doctrines which
have been universally held by aU churches. Now, the
first and most important of these doctrines, one which has
been regarded almost as the basis of Christianity, is
seldom if ever alluded to in the following seances, while
the two others are absolutely denied by Spiritualists in aU
countries. Thus, too, the miracles of the Old and New
Testament are referred to natural laws, as exemplified,
p. 144, in the passage of the Israelites through the Red
Sea ; and in p. 157, where the phenomena which occurred
on the day of Pentecost are imitated. More might be
cited having the same tendency, as for example the views
put forward in p. 119 ;
but, as has been already stated,
the principal object here is to place on record a series of
actual occurrences and communications, and then to
indicate very slightly such points as are most worthy of
the attention of an enquirer into their bearing upon the
prevailing opinions of the day, on questions of social and
religious importance. It should, however, be borne in
mind that the majority of the statements here alluded to
were made by the medium in a trance, and cannot be
regarded as so probably the sayings of spirits, as if they
were derived from messages through the alphabet. I must
also observe that I have read many communications
received through writing and drawing mediums which are
distinctly Christian in their teaching, they are full of refer-
ence to our Lord and to his office as the Mediator of
mankind ; but all, as far as my knowledge extends, have
a latitudinarian character about them. Most fearfiil pic-
tures are drawn of the consequences of sin, and of the
way retribution must be made for evil done in this world.
Introductory Remarks 35
Many Spiritualists affirm that communications coming from
these sources are of a higher kind than those conveyed through
the ordinary physical means, such as raps, table tiltings, &c.
In other important particulars there is an apparent con-
trast between Christianity and the tendency of SpirituaHsm.
In the New Testament, submission to authority and child-
like obedience are inculcated as qualities pecuUarly apper-
taining to the Christian believer, whereas the teaching of
the spirits, as here recorded, seems rather to bring every-
thing to the test of our reason. The spirit of Christianity
has generally been antagonistic to the spirit of the world,
and frequently to what may be called the spirit of the
age. Latitudinarianism ;
opposition to ecclesiastical rule
and authority ;
and dislike of forms as well as dogmas,
are characteristic of the present day ; and these principles
are in accordance with the general teaching of Spirituahsm,
which is decidedly latitudinarian, and in harmony with the
spirit of anti-sacerdotahsm as opposed to that of dogmatic
Christianity.
The reader of the following pages will not fail to per-
ceive that a high and pure morality is taught in them ;
that the love of God, the value of prayer, and the im-
portance of cultivating a truthful spirit are strongly incul-
cated ;
the terrible effects of sin, and the necessity of
leading a good life in this, in order to occupy a high
place in the next world, are forcibly pointed out. But
what must perplex an orthodox Christian reader of these
seances is the startling fact, that all reference to our
Lord's office and work, as the sole passport to heaven, is
practically omitted, and that He, whom all Catholics and
most Protestants recognize as the sun of their rehgion,
and the centre of their worship, seems to form so small a
part of the thoughts or teaching of the spirits that here
speak to us from beyond the grave.
That every variety of religious opinion, and all forms of
Christianity are taught by spirits, is fuUy shown in an
excellent book on Spirituahsm, designated by rather an
ill-chosen title, " Planchette ;
or, the Despair of Science." i
1 Planchelle ; or Uie De.paa of Science. [By Epes Sargent.] Boston
1869. 6 J
36 Introductory Remarks
This, however, is quite in accordance with the general
belief of Spiritualists, namely, that spirits hold various
views because they retain in the next world their complete
individuality, and to a certain extent their ignorance ;
they do not therefore know for certain that one system is
better than another. They teach immortality ; a living
Providence ; the possibility of communicating with us ;
that God has condemned no one to an eternity of punish-
ment ;
and they usually imply that a good life in itself,
rather than as springing from our union with Christ's
merits, is the passport to a happy position in the next
world. If what Spiritualists affirm be true, that the
spirits are really those of departed human beings, and not
demons, no harm can be done by narrowly scanning the
tendency of some of their announcements in an opposite
direction ;
and on the contrary, if they are demons or
devils, the importance cannot be overrated of warning
those who are interested in the subject, lest they find
themselves implicated in the adoption of a system, which
must on that hypothesis be looked upon as a very formid-
able conspiracy against the Christian religion, as hitherto
believed in all countries.
It must, however, be evident to a thoughtful peruser of
these pages, (and still more should he extend his reading
to larger works on Spiritualism ;
such, for example, as the
" Life of the Seeress of Prevorst,") that the evil-spirit or
devil hypothesis is surrounded by such formidable diffi-
culties, that hasty judgments and rash conclusions cannot
be too strongly deprecated. Not to go so far back as the
opposition made to Galileo and others, when their dis-
coveries appeared to militate against the letter of Scrip-
ture ; how many of us remember the sensation caused,
and the alarms expressed by pious and learned persons,
when the discoveries in geology demonstrated the impos-
sibility of the world being created in six days, a few
thousand years ago, but that it has existed and been
peopled with animals for millions of years. Again, the
universality of the Flood, so clearly declared in the words
of Scripture, is fouud to be incompatible with the results
of careful observation of the actual state of the surface of
Introductory EemarJcs 37
the earth. Among the beHefs exploded by geological
research, may be mentioned the doctrine that pain and
death, not only in man but in animals, are the result of
Adam's sin. The fact being that the remains of animals,
fitted to prey upon and kiU each other, are found in strata
formed millions of years ago, and in many cases the
smaller creatures which were devoured are found within
the stomachs of those by whom they were killed and
eaten. Later still, the short amount of time during which
man has existed on the globe, as deduced from even the
longest Scripture chronology, is irreconcilable with recent
researches in geology, in archaeology, and in philology ; the
accuracy of which is every year more and more confirmed
by additional observations, clearly indicating that man has
inhabited this world for a period, not to be reckoned by
thousands but by tens of thousands of years. This subject
might be pursued much further, and additional illustrations
given, tending to inculcate the necessity of modifying pre-
conceived opinions on questions of great importance. To
mention only one—that of miracles ; —certain phenomena
which have been universally considered as miraculous, or,
to use the current expression, supernatural, are identical
with those which are manifested by clairvoyants. How far
this may extend cannot at present be known, but sufficient
is established to render it advisable to pause before
denouncing those who deny that certain phenomena are
miraculous ; some of which are, and others may be,
referable to physical laws that have only recently been
included within the domain of natural science, and which
are as yet only partially understood. I would also point
to the wonderful healing powers of certain mediums, as
affording a subject of most serious consideration and re-
flection, but which need not be entered upon here as not
bearing upon the following seances.
Arguing by analogy, it need not surprise us to find, as
must be the case should the announcements of Spiritualism
be true, that the conceptions hitherto held by Christians
of all denominations, of the state of existence in the next
world, may require considerable modification. We are in-
formed that the spirit-world is very analogous in some
38 Introductory Remarks
resj)ects to this ; that it is one of continued progression ;
that we are not suddenly brought to the full knowledge of
religious truth ; that the belief we hold here we shall in
all probability, at least for a time, retain there, in pro-
portion as we are more bigoted in this life, and con-
sequently more difficult to teach in the next. We are told,
p. 95, " There is a contest " going on, " same as on earth "
;
but, " pnrity when freed from the mortal is strongest, as
truth overcomes error.'' At different epochs of the world,
the same subject is regarded from very different points of
view. For example, the idea of the punishment of hell
being a material fire was for many ages almost universal ;
it certainly is not so at present, even among the most
orthodox believers in the doctrine of eternal punishment.
A difficulty of another kind, one not easily got over,
stands in the way of the adoption of the evil-spirit theory,
namely the fact that conversions have been made by the
agency of Spiritualism, from Atheism and from simple
Deism to Christianity. To take one instance ; Dr. Elliot-
son was a strong materialist, and unbeliever ; he was
converted, through Mr. Home's manifestations, to Chris-
tianity. In accordance with this fact we have a message
from a spirit purporting to be his, (vide seance No. 10)
" / now hnoio that my Redeemer liveth," &c. Again others,
among whom are four or five of my own acquaintance,
have been led by the same means from Unitarianism to a
belief in the divinity of Christ. Still more striking are the
cases where persons have been brought into the Church of
Rome, several examples of which have occurred in America
and a few in England. The case of Dr. and Airs. Nichols
(Americans) affords a most remarkable instance in point
;
and it would be strange could any of these individuals be
brought to believe that their advance from a lower to a
higher religious creed was due to the agency of the devil
;
nor can the express testimony be overlooked of some pure-
minded, earnest persons, as to the elevating effect of the
belief in Spiritualism upon their hearts and souls. Take
for example the interesting and striking account of the
closing years and death of a very beautiful character, the
late Mrs. Home, as described by Mrs. Howitt and Mrs.
Introductory Remarks 39
S. C. Hall/ where the happiness and the blessings which
Spiritualism has produced, not only in her case, but in
their own, are portrayed in a tone strikingly earnest and
yet quite free from anything like excitement or exaggera-
tion. To ascribe such peace and joy in believing, such
love of our Lord, and resignation to His will as led the
Bishop of Perigueux—who administered the last sacraments
to Mrs. Home—to remark, " Though he had been present
at many a deathbed for heaven, he had never seen one
equal to hers ; "—and she a professed Spiritualist, and the
wife of one ot the most noted mediums in the world !
—
To ascribe, I repeat, such results to the agency of the
father of lies and the arch enemy of mankind, must
appear as impossible to many, as it must be revolting to
the two gifted writers whom I have quoted, and who bear
such strong testimony to the blessed influence which
Spiritualism has exercised upon their own lives and faith.
Attention should also be called to the seances at Homburg,
especially Nos. 19, 21, 22, where the action of the spirits
was decidedly exercised in various ways to promote bodily
health and comfort, and also to inculcate and reiterate the
advantage of good practices, such as examination of con-
science at night ; still more striking was the evident
anxiety on their part to prevent and counteract grievous
sin, as must be quite clear to those who read these
accounts with attention. Remarks upon this subject might
be considerably amplified ; but enough has been pointed
out to indicate some of the difficulties which surround the
adoption of the evil-spirit hypothesis. Indeed the only
answer which can be given, by those who maintain this
view, is that Satan is allowed an unlimited power, of
which he makes copious use, of transforming himself into
an angel of light.
Setting aside the religious question, and admitting even
that the spirits are those of departed human beings, the
difficulty of identification renders the whole subject in its
present stage rather unsatisfactory. This opinion, I know,
is to a considerable extent shared in by persons who have
been for several years believers in Spiritualism. Among
' Vide Mr. Home's "Incidents in my Life," chap. xii.
40 Introductory Remarks
those who took part in the following seances, some seem to
find little or no difficulty in believing that the spirits in
communication with them are the relatives or friends they
professed to be. I confess in this confidence I cannot
share. To take an extreme case, the idea that the former
possessor of Adare Manor should be present at a seance,
and yet only manifest that presence by shaking his son's
chair {No. 57, p. 199), seems as improbable as absurd.^
Whatever view be taken of the source of the phenomena,
the subject is one deserving serious treatment, and careful
investigation. The tone of levity which prevails in some
amateur seances, and the fashion now prevalent among
3^oung ladies of playing with planehettes, cannot be too
strongly deprecated. A power, which practically may be
looked upon and treated of as new, has almost suddenly
been developed among men ; a power which may be
fraught in many cases with serious consequences. Are we
in a position at present to pronounce from what sources
this power proceeds ? The veil which separates this world
from the next is partially raised ; can we say why this
partial unfolding of the future is permitted ; or to what
extent it may be developed, or what is the main purpose
for which this unexpected source of knowledge, or decep-
tion as the case may be, is revealed ? A partial but
decisive answer may be given to some of these questions.
A proof, derived from a physical and material source is
opened to men of an existence beyond the grave. The
tendency of the present age being materialistic and
sceptical, the evidence of the senses is required as a
ground for belief, to a degree far surpassing what has
hitherto been the case ; that evidence is now afi^orded for
the most important of beliefs, namely, that of a future
existence. The true answer to those who require the cui
hono of Spiritualism would appear, therefore, to be, that
through its instrumentality an incontrovertible proof is
1 Since these seances liave taken place, communications have been
made to Lord Adare (vide -p- 261) which, if genuine, would account for
and explain why none were given at the time from the source men-
tioned ; the probability, however, of identity is scarcely strengthened, in
my mind, by the tenor of these later communications.
Introductory Remarks 41
afforded to all wlio will fairly, fully, and patiently investi-
gate a world of spirits. This teaching stands out clear and
unmistakable above any conflicting theories as to the kind
of spirits who are the source of the communications.
That Spiritualism is not unaccompanied by danger is
allowed, even by its most earnest believers. This chiefly
springs from the great power of deception which may be
exercised by spirits, while the power of identification
remains so unsatisfactory as it is at present. For example,
messages are sent, or communications in the trance state
given, purporting to come from deceased members of a
family, commenting on family affairs ; it is obvious that
this may be a source of serious mischief. If, as is allowed
by all Spiritualists, bad and lying spirits can and do com-
municate, what is to secure one from being deceived by
them in a particular case ? A friend of mine believed that
a spirit present at a seance was a gentleman who had been
lately poisoned ; he asked if B was concerned in the
matter and was answered in the affirmative. This he
appeared to believe, and thus B , who lives in his
parish, to some extent lies under the imputation of being
concerned in a murder ; and this on the declaration of a
spirit whose identity seemed to me to rest on no solid
ground.
One of the most remarkable features in these seances is
the frequency of Mr. Home's trances. This peculiar phase
of his power has become much developed of late ; while
others, such as his being raised in the air, have compara-
tively diminished. To those who are familiar with mes-
meric trances, the genuineness of ]\Ir. Home's is easily
admitted. To me they are among the most interesting
portions of the manifestations which occur through his
mediumship. The change which takes place in him is very
striking ; he becomes, as it were, a being of a higher type.
There is a union of sweetness, tenderness, and earnestness
in his voice and manner which is very attractive. At first
sight much might appear to be skilful acting ; but after
having so frequently witnessed these trance states, I am
fully convinced of their truthfulness. Sometimes his utter-
ances are most impressive ; the language beautiful, con-
42 Introductory Remarks
veying his thoughts in the most appropriate words. That
he is possessed by a power or spirit, not his own, and
superior to himself, a very Httle experience will suffice to
render manifest. I can most fully endorse the statement
in Lord Adare's preface—of the very imperfect conception
of the impressiveness of some of these seances as conveyed
by our meagre reports. They are, as it were, mere
skeletons, as for example. No. 55 ; no one could imagine
the beauty and interest of that seance, from the very
inadequate account given there of what occurred. To be
appreciated or realized they must be witnessed, and that
under favourable circumstances. Those who have been
present will, I am sure, agree with me that some of them
are very touching and beautiful. A pure, lofty, and
religious tone more or less pervades them. The solemnity
which is always manifested at the name of God is remark-
able. After reading Mr. Chevalier's pamphlet^ I was
anxious to apply the test of using the invocation of the
Trinity. I never mentioned this to Mr. Home ; but it was
unexpectedly suggested by him when entranced during the
seance, No. 59, and with a totally opposite result, as the
reader wUl see.* The effect produced upon Mr. Home by
Pressense's " Life of Christ " was very striking. I have
never seen such reverence paid to the Bible in real Ufe ;
it reminded one of the devotion exhibited by a Catholic
to the Blessed Sacrament.
Another very remarkable feature and weU worthy of
attention, is the account given by the spirits of the mode
by which they are able to make manifestations, as is
detailed in pp. 117, 212, and other places ; also the ex-
treme difficulty experienced in making them, and the slight
causes which interrupt the power. In fact, when one
considers the number of favourable conditions necessary in
order that manifestations should succeed, the wonder is
^ Experiences in Spiritualism ; or the Adjuration of Spirits. . . . By
a late member of Mr. Home's Spiritual Athenaeum [i.e. J. O. Chevalier].
London, 1867.
- Mr. Chevalier states that when he asked the spirit who it was, using
the names of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, the word ''Devil'' was
spelled out.
Introductory Remarhs 43
that they do not oftener fail. Nothing can be plainer than
that the power of spirits over matter is one of degree,
varying each night, and indeed almost every minute. This
is the answer to those who are constantly remarking " If
they can do tliis, why cannot they do that 1 If a spirit
can raise an object an inch, why not a yard 1 If Mr.
Home could float in the air last week, why can he not
to-day ?
" and so forth. The causes of failure are weU
exemplified in the last seayice at Garinisli, No. 63, when
apparently, numbers were present, and evidently they had
intended giving us a series of manifestations as a wind up
to the seances in Ireland ; but this design was partly
frustrated by the state of the weather and Mr. Home's
health, as well as our own rather unfavourable condition.
A very common misconception on the general subject
ought to be here pointed out. The idea seems very preva-
lent that Mr. Home invokes or evokes spirits. This notion
is totally destitute of foundation. Neither Mr. Home, nor
any medium, as far as I know ever professes to call up
spirits. Several persons sit round a table, and Mr. Home,
while deprecating levity, desires to promote cheerful and
social conversation on general matters, without any premedi-
tated design or wish expressed that particular things should
happen or particular spirits be present. Some Spiritualists
begin every sitting with prayer, and generally with a
chapter in the Bible. I was at one lately, where, as soon
as the presence of spirits was announced by raps, they
were asked, should we begin by reading a chapter ;
" Yes,"
was the reply ; and they were then asked, what chapter
it should be, and they rapped out, " Acts, xi. chapter,
verses, 5 to 18." One more appropriate could not readily
be selected.
Before concluding these introductory remarks, I would
remind the reader, that the primary object of this little
work is to place on record a series of observed facts upon
a very mysterious and startling subject. It is only by
such means, pursued under varying circumstances, as to
time, place, and mediums, multiplied by different observers,
that a conclusive answer can be hoped for to the question.
Will the result of Spiritualism he good or evil ? is the
44 Introductory Remarks
tendencj^ of the movement as a whole to the glory of God,
and the happiness of mankind in the next world, or, is it
a great system of deception, carried on by the powers of
darkness, and fraught with danger to our souls ? Setting
aside the great majority of the world, who refuse aU
enquiry into a subject which they consider to be impos-
ture, or ridiculous nonsense, unworthy of serious thought,
many shrink from it as the work solely of evil spirits
;
others, from a fear of the danger derived from the difficulty
of identification, and the consequent deception which may
be practised ; and others again from an instinctive dread of
communing with the departed, and from an intense pain
caused by the idea that the state of those whom they
have loved should be so widely different from, and appar-
ently so much lower than what they have fondly believed
in, through the traditionary teaching under which they
have been brought up. Nor can we omit in fairness the
opinion of many of the opponents of Spiritualism who
maintain, that the examples of its being productive of
good effects are exceptional, and that the system must be
judged by its general results, which, as developed in
America, are, they say, drifting away from anything like
orthodox Christianity. This statement I am not in a
position to be able to pronounce upon one way or the
other.
Without attempting to conceal my own state of doubt
as to the source from which the phenomena of Spiritualism
proceed, and my decided impression of the danger which in
some respects seems possibly to accompany its pursait or
adoption, I have been most desirous not to bias unduly
those who are anxious to investigate a very interesting and
most curious subject of enquiry ;
especially as Lord Adare
takes a more favourable view than I can at present con-
scientiously hold, of the points about which such opposite
opinions are entertained by men of earnest and truth-
loving character. Why then, it may be asked, take any
part in enquiring into a subject, the tendency of which
seems so difficult to determine ? The answer is simple :
—
Chiefly, to examine for my own satisfaction ;
next, to
enable others, who may consider a similar spirit of enquiry
Introductory Remarks 45
advisable or interesting, to have the benefit of the ex-
perience derived from the following seances ; and also, to
shew to those who are already struck by, or much
occupied in, the pursuit of this mysterious subject, the
dangers by which it is surrounded, through the possible
tendencies of its teachings, or the deceptions practicable by
bad or mischievous spirits. I maintain that we are entitled
to investigate all the physical phenomena which may come
before us, provided we do so earnestly and with a desire
to arrive at truth. Acting upon this principle, I enquired
into the remarkable phenomena of mesmerism and clair-
voyance, when the propriety of so doing was doubted by
some for whom I entertained the highest respect. Upon
the same principle I now avail myself of the opportunity
which Lord Adare's acquaintance with Mr. Home has
afforded, of investigating the still more interesting and
startling phenomena of Spiritualism ; content that time
will clear up that which is at present so perplexing, and
enable honest enquirers to decide whether the subject is
one which they can with propriety continue to pursue, or
one which they feel themselves bound, as sincere followers
of Christ, and for the safety of their souls, to abandon.
NAMES OF PERSONS PRESENT AT THE SEANCES ^
[All the persons present at the following seances, with the
exception of three or four to wliom access cannot be obtained,
have received a copy of the account of the seances which they
witnessed, with a request that if the report coincided with
their own recollection of what took place, they would kindly
allow their names to be appended, as testifying to its accuracy.
Every answer has been in the affirmative as to the correctness
of the accounts ; but a very few have, for prudential reasons,
preferred that their names should not appear. By accuracy is
meant, that nothing has been inserted that did not occur, or has
been exaggerated. A gi-eat deal has necessarily been omitted.]
Mr. H. Jencken, Barrister-at-Law, Temple.
Mrs. Hennings, 9, Thicket Road, Norwood.
Mrs. Scott Russell, Norwood.
Miss Gallwey, 7, Lower Belgrave Street.
Mr. S. C. Hall, 15, Ashley Place.
Mrs. S. C. Hall,
Mr. H. T. Humphrey, 1, Clifford's Inn.
Mr. Hamilton, Sundrum, Ayr.
Mrs. Hamilton, ,, ,,
Miss Hamilton, ,, ,,
Mrs. Cox, Stockton House.
Miss Brooks, ,, ,,
Mr. Ion Perdicaris, 2, Heathcote Villas, Twickenham.
Mrs. Mainwaring, Ashley House, Victoria Street.
Countess De Medina De Pomar, Grafton Hotel, Albemarle
Street.
Mrs. HONEYWOOD, 52, Warwick Square
Dr. Gully, Malvern.
1 This list has been given exactly as it appeared in the original
(private) edition, 1870.
4G
Names of Persons Present at the Seances 47
Mr. Jones, Enmore Park, South Norwood.
Mrs. Mackdougall Gregory, 21, Green Street, Grosvenor
Square.
Lady Fairfax, 45, St. George's Road.
Major Drayson, 6, York Crescent, Woolwich.
Mr. Hart, 30, Duke Street, St. James's.
Mr. Sarl, 45, Cornhill.
Mr. J. Collins, Royal MiUtary Academy, Woolwich.
Miss Smith, Adare Manor, Ireland.
Miss Bertolacci, Vine Cottage, Fulham Road.
Miss E. Bertolacci, ,, „ ,,
Hon. F. Lawless, Maritimo, Black Rock, Ireland.
Capt. Chas. Wynne, LissadeU, SUgo.
Mrs. C. Wynne,
Mr. B. De C. Nixon, 1, Queen's Gate Gardens.
Mrs. B. De C. Nixon,
Mr. James Gore Booth, R.E., Aldershot.
Sir RoBT. Gore Booth, Bart., 7, Buckingham Gate.
Miss Gore Booth, „ „ „
A. Smith Barry, M.P., 26, Chesham Place.
The Hon. The IMaster of Lindsay, 9, Grosvenor Square.
Major Blackburn, 35, Beaufort Gardens.
Mrs. Blackburn, ,, ,,
Mrs. Wynne, Corris, Bagnalstown, Ireland.
Miss Wynne, ,, ,, ,,
Mr. J. Bergheim, 34, Hill Street, Knightsbridge.
Mr. H. A. RuDALL, 17, Langham Street.
Mr. F. Fuller, 12, St. James's Place.
Miss Douglas, 81, South Audley Street.
Dowager Duchess of St. Alban's, 4, Princes Gate.
Mr. Chas. Blackburn, Park Field, Didsbury, Manchester.
Capt. Gerard Smith, Scots Fusilier Guards, 13, Upper
Belgrave Street.
Mr. Stanley J. Mackenzie, 32, Bernard Street.
IMrs. Stopford, 7, Grosvenor Gardens.
RECORD OF SEANCES.
No. 1 Seance.
Malvern, November 1867.
Yesterday, Mr. Earl, a total disbeliever in Spiritualism,
Home and I, went to spend the evening with Mrs. Thayer,
an American lady, a friend of Dr. Gully's. We were
shown into the back parlour, a small room, the furniture
consisting of a heavy round mahogany table, without any
cover, with one leg in the centre, and of a piano and
several ordinary chairs. The room was lighted by a fire,
a large lamp standing on the piano, and two wax candles
on the table.
After Mrs. Thayer came in we sat and talked for a
few minutes by the fireside, until at Home's suggestion
we sat round the table, which was in the middle of the
room. Home was on my left, Mrs. Thayer opposite me,
and Earl on my right. The room was perfectly light.
After talking on ordinary subjects for perhaps ten minutes,
raps were heard by us all in various parts of the room, on
the table and on the floor and walls. Home requested
the raps to be made in various places and it was done.
He asked that they would rap under my feet, and I not
only heard the noise, but distinctly felt the jar while the
raps were taking place. I repeatedly looked under the
table, as did also Mr. Earl, to satisfy ourselves that,
however they were done, it was not by any movement on
Home's part. It was quite impossible that Home could
have made them, for while they were distinctly audible,
I looked under the table and could have detected even
the slightest movement of his legs or feet ; Mr. Earl
watched his hands and arms. Similar raps were occasion-
4S
Record of Seances 49
ally heard during the whole seance. At the commence-
ment of the seance we all felt cold cun^ents of air passing
over our hands. The table began to vibrate with the
greatest rapidity, and was then moved about and tilted up
in various directions. Mrs. Thayer had previously to this
placed a pencil and writing paper on the table. The
table was repeatedly tilted up at an angle I should say
greater than 45°. The surface was smooth polished
mahogany, yet the candles, paper, and pencil did not
move. Home asked that the candles might slip (as they
naturally would), and they did slide down the table until
near the edge, when at his request they remained station-
ary. While the table was tilted up very high, Home said
to Earl, " Take a candle and look under the table."
He took one of the candles on the table, and in lifting it
said, good gracious, how heavy it is ! I afterwards tried
the same thing, and found that when the table was tilted
up there was a difficulty in removing the candle from the
surface that made it appear very heavy. The table was
moved up against my chest, and as I pushed back my
chair, it followed me up until the back of my chair was
against the window, and I could go no further ; the
table was then pushed close up against me. I now felt
cold currents of air passing across my face and hands,
and a chair that was standing against the wall, at a
distance of perhaps five yards, came suddenly and quickly
out from the wall, and placed itself beside me at the table.
The effect was starthng. There was a lady's cloak on it,
which was pulled off under the table. Mrs. Thayer said,
" She could see a shadowy form standing between Home
and me." I saw nothing, but I was touched lightly on
the head, and distinctly as with a sharp tap of the finger
on the knee. I do not think it possible that anybody at
the table could have touched me. I could see all their
hands, and had it been done by a foot I must have per-
ceived the difference of touch, and have seen the motion.
Some time previously to this Mrs. Thayer had sent out the
servant to ask a friend for an accordion, and it had been
placed upon the table. The alphabet was called for (by
five raps) and the following words were spelled out (I am
D
50 Experiences in Sinritualistn [seance
not sure that I remember the exact words but they were
to this effect) :
—" / could not come the other night because
of H . Yours ever, Fred.'' Mrs. Thayer understood
the meaning of this message it having reference to a
previous seance, the first one, I beheve, at which she had
been present. After a few minutes the alphabet was again
called for, and the following words were spelled out : —
•
" My hoy I am near you." I naturally referred this to
my mother.
After this, the accordion was moved about on the table.
Home took it, holding it by the lower part, with the
keys hanging down over the edge of the table. It is
manifestly impossible for a person so holding an accordion
either to touch the keys, to inflate the bellows, or to
expel the air from it. Almost immediately the keys were
toitched in an uncertain manner, and then the accordion
began to play. It played something resembling a voluntary
on the organ : the melody was perfect, and the expression
beautiful. I am sure that if I had heard it so played
anywhere, under any circumstances, it would have occurred
to me how like the music was to what I had often heard
my mother play, when running over a few chords on the
piano. While the accordion was being played, I looked at
it two or three times under the table. Home was on
each occasion holding it as I have stated, and the instru-
ment was pulled out horizontally from his hand. I could
see the bellows drawn in and out, and the keys move.
At one time it was pulled violently under the chair at
my side towards me. Home asked me to name some
air. I wished to think of one that might help me to
identify whoever was playing the accordion, but I could
not. Earl asked for " The Last Rose of Summer." It
was beautifully played : first, the air quite simple, then
with chords and variations. After this Mrs. Thayer took
the accordion, and Mr. Earl also, but it did not play
again. During what I have narrated, the table was
occasionally moved, and raps were now and then heard in
different parts of the room. All manifestations ceased
when the accordion stopped playing. My hands during
the whole time were as cold as ice ; when the manifes-
NO. 1] With D. D. Home 51
tations ceased they became suddenly warm. I said,
" Dear me, my hands have become quite warm !
" Home
said, " Oh, then I am afraid there will be nothing more."
We waited perhaps five minutes ;
and, finding there were
no more manifestations, we got up and moved the table
over to the fire. Home began reading to us some poetry.
The last thing he read was descriptive of the passing
away of a poor old widow ;
and, after a passage speaking
of the love of Christ for her, strong raps of approval
—
that is, three raps in succession—were heard on the floor
behind him. We then said Good-night to Mrs. Thayer,
and went back to Tudor House. I turned into the dining
room and sat down by the fire alone. A few minutes
after. Home came in and sat down by me, and we talked
about ordinary subjects. We heard a sound that I thought
was the door creaking. He said it was not that, and
asked that the sound should be repeated, and it was.
He then asked that it should rap where I usually sat at
dinner ; and it did so right at the end of the table.
We were both sitting with our backs to the table. Then
came a noise as if furniture was moving. I turned but
saw nothing move. Home looked and said a chair had
moved up to the table. I looked again at the other side
of the table, and saw that a chair was standing against
it ; aU the others were against the waU. I did not see
it move. We then heard a sort of whistKng sound flying
up and down the room ; then a sound as of something
rushing up and down, and then, laughter, unmistakable
but not pleasant sounding laughter. After this one of the
servants came in, and nothing more occurred. When in
the dining room. Home asked whether the spirit that was
there in the room was one that loved me. It answered
" Yes." By " answered," I mean that three raps were given,
which means " Yes." He asked if the spirit would like
me to have another seance with him in London. " Yes,"
was answered.
52 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
No. 2 Seance.
About a fortnight after this I had occasion to go to
London. I went down to see Home at Mr. Jencken's,
at Norwood. We had a seance in the evening. There were
present, Home, Mr. Jencken, Mrs. Hennings, and myself.
Nothing very remarkable occurred ; at least, I do not
remember anything. The usual manifestations took place,
such as the table moving, and raps were heard ; the
table, a light card table, was lifted off the ground com-
pletely. During the first part of the seance the manifes-
tations seemed all directed to Home, afterwards the
table was in the same way as at the first seance moved
up against me. The accordion was played in Home's
hand. The last thing that occurred was that my chair
began to vibrate rapidly in the most violent way ; it
gave me a curious tingling sensation up my arms to the
elbow, and up my legs as though I was receiving an
electric shock. Knowing that this vibration almost in-
variably preceded any movement, or lifting of the table,
I thought that I was going to be raised into the air,
and most unwillingly I became very nervous and fright-
ened. If I had not done so I think some phenomenon
would have occurred ; but as soon as I became alarmed,
the vibration of my chair ceased. That was the last thing
that occurred that evening.
No. 3 Seance.
This day week I again went down to Mr. Jencken's
to see Home. After tea we had a seance. There were
present : Mr. Jencken, Mrs. Jencken (his mother), Mrs.
Hennings, Mrs. Scott Russell, Miss D R ,
another
lady whose name I forget, Home and myself. We sat
round the card table, all except Mrs. Jencken, who sat
in her arm chair in another part of the room. We had
a very beautiful seance. Miss D R had never been
present at one before, and was most of the time engaged
in looking under the table, and investigating what took
place. Very few raps were heard. The manifestations
NO. 3] With D. D. Home 53
began by the usual vibration of the table, the floor, and
our chairs ;
and by the cold currents of air passing round
the table over our hands. The table moved, and we
followed it until it was in a corner close to the wall.
Home had his back to the wall. On his left, at a little
distance, was a small square table, with a vase of flowers
on it ;
and on his right was a small round table, on
which stood a large vase containing a fern.
The chief part of the manifestations consisted in the
movement of these tables. They were brought close to
Home, and then were sometimes raised in the air and
inclined towards him ; sometimes simply tilted on one leg,
so that the flowers touched his face. The flowers were
in like manner also, as it were, presented to Mrs. Hen-
nings and Mrs. Scott Russell. Before moving the small
round table up to us, it was necessary to clear a space
for it, as the table at which we were sitting was close to
the window. Our table moved a little back, and we
then saw the window curtains drawn on one side out of
the way. This table was repeatedly raised in the air
to the height of 4 or 5 inches. Miss D R .
placing
her hands between it and the floor; and it was also
frequently inclined at such an angle that the vase must
inevitably have fallen off under ordinary circumstances.
The flowers on the square table and the fern on the
round table were frequently agitated and moved, but
were not broken ofl^ or plucked. On placing the ear
against the smaU table, it was found to be full of minute
raps, like a current of small electric sparks.
The phenomena connected with the movement of these
two tables occupied some time, during which we talked
about various matters and subjects. Miss D R .
and Mi\ Jencken were talking about Spirituahsm, and he
got rather excited, and was saying something to the effect
that he lost his patience when people said it was ah
trickery and conjuring, and that instead of that it was a
great and real blessing and dispensation vouchsafed to us
by God for our comfort. Approving raps occurred at
this, and he said "Is it not to shew us without doubt
that it is so," or some words of that sort. Assent was
54 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
signified to tlitit remark so emphatically that it made me
laugh. It seemed so energetic—first, " Yes " was rapped
on the floor and walls, then the small tables tilted them-
selves three times, and then the table we were sitting
round tilted itself up towards each corner in turn three
times, and lastly, being raised right off the ground, was
moved up and down three times in the air, and then
came down with an emphatic bang that shook the floor.
During this seance, it was remarkable how the spirits
joined as it were in our conversation, two or three times
signifying approval in the most emphatic way. I noticed
a remarkable circumstance in connection with the small
round table. When it was inclined at a considerable
angle I saw the vase move, but instead of slipping down
the slope, it moved up against it.
As I before mentioned, the small table with the fern
was raised in the air, and presented as if in greeting to
Mrs. Hennings, Home, and Mrs. Scott Russell. After this
had been done several times the alphabet was called for,
and the following message given (the exact words I
cannot answer for) :
" We would do more to shew our
love ; these (referring to the flowers) are emblems of God's
love.'' The letters were indicated sometimes by the small
table tilting, sometimes by raps on the large table. Soon
afterwards the alphabet was again called for, and the follow-
ing message given :
—" Sit alone in a corner with Adare."
Accordingly Home and I left the table, and sat in another
corner of the room at the small round table, having
previously removed the vase ;
immediately the table was
raised up and tilted against my chest. The table had
one leg terminating in three claws, one of them just
touched my toe, and the letters were indicated by the
claw tapping my toe. The following message was thus
given :
—" My oivn boy, I go with you, fear nothing, God
will give a mother 2^ower to protect her own boy. I will
yet speak to you tvhen alone." The table was then raised
off the ground, presented to m^e close to my face, two
or three times, and replaced on the floor. Home was not
touching the table ; but during aU this time was sitting
beside me in an arm chair, and I distinctly felt—and so
NO. 3] With D. D. Home 55
did he—some one standing between us. We then went
back to the large table and Home took the accordion
in his hand. He asked some questions, which were
answered in the affirmative by three single notes on the
accordion. Home in asking these questions became very
much affected—I do not know why—and his voice was
quite broken ; he asked whether the spirit holding the
accordion was the same that brought the chair to me at
Malvern ? ^ Whether it had not stood between me and
him when we were sitting in the corner ? The accordion
then played something like a voluntary on the organ.
The peculiarity being that the last few notes were drawn
out so fine as to be scarcely audible—the last note dying
away so gradually that I could not tell when it ceased.
I do not think it possible for any human hand to pro-
duce a note in that way. Sometime before this we had
all heard a whistling over Home's head, similar to that
which I had heard in the dining room at Tudor House.
It is a curious sound, something between a bird chirping
and the whistling produced by birds' wings rapidly moving.
After it ceased we all heard sounds as of a voice, but
not articulate. Home then asked if a spirit was en-
deavouring to make the voice heard, and was answered
" Yes, " and he asked if it would be repeated, and was
answered "Perhaps.'' It was not repeated until we left
the table. During the time the sounds were heard Home
was talking, which I was glad of, as I wished to feel
sure the sounds were not the result of ventriloquism on
his part. I believe I may also safely say that we were
all engaged in conversation at the time, so that the
sounds could not have been produced by any accomplice
among us. I did not, however, observe any of the
others so closely as I did Home.
After the accordion had played I took it in my hand
but immediately after I had done so the alphabet was
called for and the words were spelled out, " We can do
no more 7ioiv." All the manifestations then ceased. We
waited a few minutes, and Home asked if the spirits
1 There is no answer recorded to Home's questions, but I believe the
answer to have been in the affirmative.
50 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
were gone. No answer was returned, so we left the
table. I had particularly noticed three things.
1st. That the commencement of each seance appears
the same, namely, currents of cold air passing over the
hands of those at the table as if some sort of chain was
being formed. Any abrupt breaking of which by some
one suddenly leaving the table will stop the phenomena.
2nd. That if the attention be too much concentrated it
prevents the phenomena. They take place best when
those at the table are keeping up a general conversation.
If anything occurs, such as a table moving, and every-
body stops talking and looks at it, it is almost sure to
stop. In the last seance, I noticed that when anything
of that sort was being done, if every one turned to look
at it and stopped talking, the table or some other piece
of furniture moved as it were to attract attention. I
forgot to mention that Home at the last seance was
thrown into a trance. He remained entranced two or
three minutes, but said nothing. We foolishly all stopped
talking to look at him, and I think that broke the trance,
as he awoke, passed his hand across his forehead, and
remarked how quiet we all were.
At the commencement of a trance Home generally
tells the spectators to go on talking ; not to fix their
attention on him too much at first. I think that as
negative a condition of mind as can possibly be maintained
is almost a necessity to ensure strong manifestations.
This is not however the case, I believe, with all mediums.
The presence of dogs in the room, or much tobacco smoke,
will entirely prevent manifestations with Home as medium.
The efi'ect of these things is, no doubt, upon the medium,
not upon the spiritual influence.
Zrd. That the name of God is always treated with
peculiar reverence. In spelling out a sentence, if you
guess an ordinary word, they say " Yes " ; and go on
to the next. But though you may guess it, they spell
out each letter in the name of God, and instead of in-
dicating the letters quicldy, as usual, it is done in a slow
manner that impresses the mind with an idea of great
reverence.
NO. 4] With D. D. Home 57
No. 4 Seance—London, November 2lst—Recorded by
my Father.
Mr. Home came to my house, oiily Miss Gallwey and
Adare being jDresent. We sat round a small table in my
study. We talked about different subjects, wiiich Mr.
Home says is preferable to silence, or to thinking or
wishing too much on the one subject. Soon slight raps
were heard, followed by slight vibrations of the table.
We all agreed that the noise in the street was very
disagreeable, so we adjourned to the dining room, which
Mr. Home had never been in. I took in the table,
and, placing it near the fire place, we sat round it.
Raps soon came again, and slight vibrations. Some one
remarked that the table was rather creaky, when Mr.
Home observed, " I have taken a dislike to this table ;
let us sit at another. Here, this dining table will do."
" What," I said, " surely that huge table will not move !
"
"Oh, I daresay it will," he replied. The table was very
large, above seven feet long and five feet wide, and very
heavy, requiring considerable force to move it at all.
Under it is a Turkey carpet ; there were also quantities
of Adare's things upon it. Mr. Home and I sat
opposite each other at the sides, and Adare and Miss
Gallwey at the ends. Raps were heard at different parts
of the table, and near the fire place, and on the round
table we had brought in. Presently the table vibrated
very strongly—this was a most strange phenomenon,
the vibration was so uniform and powerful. The table
then moved at right angles to ]\Ir. Home. I may remark
that there was a green cloth on the table, and when
pressure was used, the hand would simply slip on the
polished mahogany. The table moved towards Adare
about a foot ; and it soon moved towards Miss Gallwey,
that is, in exactly the opposite direction. She said.
" May I stop it 1
" "I dont tliink you can," Home
rephed. " Yes I can," she said, as she pressed her hands
forcibly against the edge ; then suddenly withdrawing them
from the table, it made one move, or rather spring
forward, of nearly one foot in length, thus shewing the
58 Ex})eriences in Spiritualism [seance
great strength of the pressure which must have been
exerted by some mysterious power. We heard sounds
from the Httle table, and I saw it moving by itself.
It had advanced more than a foot towards Mr. Home
;
and it came still nearer afterwards. He sat rather back
from the table, with his hands laid lightly on it.
I expressed a hope that the power would become
stronger. These messages were given :
—" We would fain
do more if we could ; did love give strength, tve should he strong
indeed." And then " God bless you all ! " The indications
for " God " differed from the others, being three strong
vibrations of the table. After this we heard or felt
nothing more. As to collusion or contrivances, none such
could have taken place ; the change of Toom, and our
close observation, rendered this impossible. The idea of
our hands being able to move such a table is simply
absurd. The table, too, moved at right angles to where
Home was sitting. The vibration was very singular
;
the candles shook, and other things trembled visibly.
Once the candles very decidedly diminished in brightness
for a short time.
No. 5 Seance—November 23rd.—Recorded by my Father.
A seance was held at Norwood. Present : Mr. Home,
Mrs. Hennings, Mr. Jencken and his mother, Mrs. Scott
Russell, Adare, and myself. We sat at an ordinary card
table in the middle of the room, with two candles on
the chimney piece, and a bright fire. After about ten
minutes, raps were heard : the table vibrated a little,
and soon moved in the direction of Mr. Home, and
towards the piano. We followed, and were soon close to
the broad end of the piano. Raps were heard on and
about the table, and on a small table a few feet distant.
Our table gradually tilted up, at an angle of about
30 degrees or more. This was done more than once.
The narrow end of the piano moved from the wall two
or three times, and altogether about one foot, and
pressed Mrs. Scott Russell between itself and the table.
NO. 5] With D. D. Home 59
Tlie floor vibrated strongly ; this was very striking. The
five raps were heard for the alphabet, and the following
sentence was spelled out :
—" You are over anxious, and
not sufficiently jwayerful.''' Different movements of the
table occurred, and then the following sentence was
given :
—" On {? in) seeking for physical facts you lose
sight of God." It was very remarkable that the indications
for the word " God " were made, not by common raps,
but by the table giving sudden movements, whilst it was
either partially or wholly off the ground. At the end it
was clearly so ; and it made the sign of the cross by
moving forward and backward, and from side to side.
Before this the little table moved of itself, and I went
close to it, and I saw it move again slightly. It vibrated
slightly when Mr. Home did not touch it, but more
strongly when he did. We then got the accordion, and
Mr. Home held it just under the table. After a little
while it moved about and at last played, but apparently
at first with effort, a sort of plaintive melody, very
pretty, but nothing I had ever heard. I looked under
the table more than once while ]\Ir. Home's hand held
it, and I saw it playing. At one time it was held up
without his aid, for he put both his hands on the table,
and I was then watching it. It stretched from Mr.
Home, towards Mrs. RusseU, who took it, and it played,
but faintly. Home took it back. Alphabet then called
for, and the following message came:
—
"It was A. who
touched the keys.'' After this the accordion stretched
nearly horizontally towards me, and I took it, —and
held it a long time, but it did not play, though it was
moved about strangely, and distinct raps were made on
it. Before this Mr. Home said he distinctly saw a spirit
between Mrs. Scott Russell and me, and before he spoke,
she said she was touched in the side—I was conscious
of nothing. The cold currents were very sensible co-
night. After this the manifestations became feeble, and
while remarking this, the alphabet was called for, and
the following given :
—" Daniel is 7iot in a good state."
We waited longer, but nothing occurred. Mr. Home
on one occasion said, " There are curious influences
00 Ex'periences in S'piritucilisni [seance
to-night " ; and he then said his feet were moved about in
a strange way, and he was touched more than once.
Just before the seance began, Mr. Home was called
suddenly away to see a man on business, and this rather
disturbed him. When the floor was vibrating strongly
some one said it could be felt in the next house ; and
it was proposed that one of us should go in there, and
note the time. Raps of approval were given twice ;
but, somehow, Mr. Home said nothing, and no one went.
I forgot to mention that when the sheet of paper was
on the table, Mr. Home touching one corner, the other
end was Jifted uj) more than an inch, just at the time
when Adare felt the cold currents very strongly, as
might happen if a bellows were blown near it. The
paper was also rather curled up.
No. 6 Seance.
We had a seance the other night at Mr. Jencken's, at
Norwood. Home went gradually into a trance ; his eyes
were quite shut ; he got up, moved one or two chairs,
walked up and down the room, then sat down again
and began to speak. Mr. Jencken had been telling us
how one of the servants, Mally, was ill, and had been
seeing phosphorescent balls of light in her room at night.
Home being in a trance, said, " It was Hans made the
lights in Mally' s rooms ; if you all go presently into the
next room, he will show them to you. MaUy's mother
will pass away within, (I forget the exact time mentioned),
Mally must not be told this." After a pause, he turned
to me and said, " Do not let Daniel leave your house
on Saturday, as he wishes to do, because your friend is
coming ; we want to let you hear music in your room,
and we wish Daniel to stay." He then said, " Adare's
mother and Caroline are here." After a jjause he said
again to me, " Daniel will be able to see you from time
to time when you are away." After sitting a little time
in his chair, in an attitude of prayer, he got up and
NO. 6] With D. D. Home 61
walked round the table to me, and stood behind
me with his hand raised as in prayer, and then pro-
ceeded to make passes over me ; I felt nothing. He
held his hand out, made a hollow of it as if to hold a
fluid, and went through the action of pouring out some-
thing upon my head ; he then walked behind me, and
apparently prayed for some time, then placing his
hands upon my shoulders he drew me back towards him
and pressed his head firmly against my back ; I felt a
strong current of heat flow out of his hands into my
shoulders, and out of his head into my back. It was
very hot indeed. He then went back to his place and
sat down, then raising his hands, as if praying, he spoke
as follows :
—(Mr. Jencken took notes as well as he could
of what was said, but as Home spoke rapidly without any
stop, it was impossible to put down more than the heads
of his address.)
" Father of light, we, thy children, do approach thee
in all humble reverence and confidence. We do beseech
thee. Father of love, to grant us patience, charity,
love, that we may love others who are less fortunate
than ourselves. We pray that thou mayest remove the
veil that slirouds the eternal life from our sight, and
that knowledge not of earth be given us. Grant that
we may be purified in heart and body : that we may
lay aside our grosser earthly body and existence,
and assume the robe of our eternal being. Grant
that hope be given us, hope ! that is the star that
guides us ;
guides us who know so little of the great
world of spirits beyond the grave, {after a pause) We,
children of God, linger near you, the spirits, guardian
angels, hover around jou, and guard and aid you in
your hour of trial and suffering. To us the spirit-land
of higher spheres is like a beautiful planet, luminous,
shining forth as our goal—and spheres higher and higher
still, brighten as we advance in the vista of everlasting
progress. We cannot tell you all we know, for it is
the desire of more and more knowledge that impels you
onward and upward. As men see a star and desire to
know about it, and know that others are beyond it, and
62 ExjJeriences in Spiritualism [seance
invent instruments, and spend their lives in scientific
research and in seeking after truth, so it is with you ;
it would not be good for you to know aU, for there
would be no object for improvement and research. We
know all your sufferings and shortcomings, and what
you have to contend with, for have we not too been
mortals, have we not wearied on the roadside, and had
our times of agony and doubt ; but God, at the evening
of our day, brought us home, and called in the weary
travellers. God called us into his fold and brought us
home, that we may be nearer to thee, 0 God. Our
Father in creating beautiful things on earth, created them
for ever and ever, for all eternity, though they may fade
to our sight ; so beauty, poetry, sunlight, and all that is
harmonious are garnered up for ever. Even sound having
left the influence of this earth, goes on for ever down the
everlasting corridors of space. Thus summer is again and
again refined into autumn, toned and softened down,
softening down the wintry sky of the future, so too,
purer impvilscs, nobler aspirations, leave their impress
for ever upon the waves of eternity—like a wave of
sound, the impulse moves on for ever. All of you have
to grope your way in the dark paths of life, but we
hover near you, carry your minds upwards from earth,
whisper to your heart that it may learn to aspire to God.
Hope and love are component parts of the Godhead.
Truth is God ; waves may rise mountains high, but the
great beacon truth shines forth over all the waves to guide
us, lighting us on our way. From the eternal source
goes forth the eternal light to which we aspire. From
this great source emanates the small particle of light called
our soul, dwelling in this body we live in—The great God
who is light itself, for ever light us through all eternity,"
Home now spoke in a language none of us ever heard,
then said "Oh, how very wonderful, how extraordinary !
"
and turning to me, he said " A spirit has been approved
to go with you, sent by a higher spirit, one who has
charge of your past, your present and your future, your
high guardian spirit. He knows the country and has
been a chieftain in it. On earth he wore a large cross
NO. 6] With D. D. Ho7ne 63
of iron round his neck, it is brilliant and shines ;
he
was a good soul on earth, but was in a bad soil, tended
by bad gardeners ; too bad was the soil to develope his
soul. He speaks two languages, he is not far from your.
He lived near-—^Oh, I cannot get the name of the place ;
no matter, he has been where you are going, and is
charged to take care of you. He will save your life on
two occasions, you will know his name." Here Home
spoke two strange words. I said to Mr. Jencken, " Have
you written that down, for I have already forgotten it."
Home smiled and said, " You cannot write it down and
you cannot remember it, but you will recognize it when
the time comes." " Guardian spirits are given to those
who go to foreign countries, to guide and aid them,
whereby they benefit themselves ;
charity brings good to
those that use it, more charity is gained by charity.
Nothing prevents you going, he has breathed on you
once, he will again, and once again, when you return,
then never more ; he will accompany you if nothing
occurs to prevent your going ; he is very strong." Home
now got up, walked round to me, kneeled beside me as
in prayer, and again drew me back by the shoulders,
and pressed his head against my back, and I felt the
same current flow from his forehead as before. Home
stood up and said, " He is very strong and tall," and
standing there beside me. Home grew, I should say, at
least, six inches. Mr. Jencken, who is a taller man than
Home, stood beside him, so there could be no mistake
about it. Home's natural height is, I believe, 5 feet
10 inches. I should say he grew to 6 feet 4 inches or
6 feet 6 inches. I placed my hands on his feet, and
felt that they were fairly level on the ground. He had
slippers on, and he said, " Daniel will shew you how it
is," and he unbuttoned his coat. He was elongated from
his waist upwards, there was a space of, I suppose,
4 inches between his waistcoat and the waistband of
his trowsers. He appeared to grow also in breadth and
size all over, but there was no way of testing that.
He diminished down to his natural size, and said, " Daniel
will grow tall again " ; he did so, and said, " Daniel's
64 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
feet are on the ground," he walked about, and stamped
his feet. He returned to his natural size, and sitting
down, he said, " Daniel is coming back now, sit down,
and do not tell Daniel at once what he has said." In a
few seconds he awoke. After sitting a few minutes, he
said, " What can it mean, I hear a voice saying '
Go
into the next room, go into the next room '
1
" We
all went into the drawing room ; it was quite dark.
Home sat at the piano, and played a few notes. Mrs.
Hennings sat near him ; Mrs. Jencken a little way off ;
Mr. Jencken and I stood near the piano. Soon we
observed the light that we had been told we should see.
A small luminous ball flitting about, sometimes very
brilliant ; the chords of the piano were swept, but the
keys were not touched. The piano was lifted off the
ground about 2 inches. I had my hand underneath, and
it was again lifted about 2 inches, and then without
any effort, I should say 8 inches higher. It was not
tilted, but lifted bodily. We now heard loud raps,
the alphabet was called, and " Oood flight " spelled out.
Nothing more occurred.
No. 7 Seance.
We had a seance at No. 5, Buckingham Gate, the
other night. Soon after sitting down the table began to
shew evidence of some powerful influence about it. Mr.
Jencken had unfortunately to go away by the ten o'clock
train. After he left, we went into the dining room, and
sat at the small round table. We had paper and a pencil
on the table, and when the table was tilted the paper
slipped off, which it does not generally do. I had been
mentioning to Brinsley the fact that things on the table
generally remain stationary, though it be raised to a
great angle ; and we were all remarking how curious
it was that it would not do so now. The next pheno-
mena that occurred were entirely in connection with
making the pajDer stay upon the table. Home said in
all his experience he had never seen the same sort of
NO, 7] With D. D. Home 65
thing. His hand and arm were taken possession of,
that is to say, they became perfectly rigid, and were
moved quite independently of his will ; his fist was so
firmly closed that his fingers could not be opened ; and
the muscles of his wrist and arm felt like iron. He got
up, and altered the position of one of the candles on the
large table a few inches, and removed all our hands from
the table ;
he then commenced to mesmerise the paper,
pointing at it with the first and middle finger—the
others being clenched—making rapid passes over it, and
making circles round it on the table with great rapidity.
The table was rapidly tilted up till its edge touched
the floor. Being a table with one central support it
was nearly, but not quite, perpendicular—the paper
remained without slipping for some httle time. We requested
that it might be moved. His hand was agitated above it,
and the edges of the paper were blown up, apparently
by the current caused by his hand. The paper slipped
to the ground ; he took it and rubbed it round and
round on the table, and then tried to leave it on the centre
of the table. It would not, however, remain quite fixed,
slipping a little. Getting rather tired of this. Home
asked if we might not put the table in its place and all
sit round it again. We were told " Yes " ; and did so.
The following sentences were then spelled out :
" We
did it to gratify you " ;
" We have power to make the table
heavy:' We tried, asking it to become heavy and fight,
and it did as we required. A number of messages were then
given, all having reference to Miss D R . None
of us knew the people they purported to come from, or
anything about the circumstances they had reference to.
She had some difficulty in believing that an uncle of hers
was present as represented, and as a test of identity the
following was spelt by someone else : ''He alivays signed
his name ," mentioning a peculiar way in which
he signed. AU the rest of the seance consisted in mes-
sages and answers to Miss D R ,
amounting to
a conversation, and having some reference to matters that we
did not understand. We were wished Good night at the end.
The table was sometimes very violent in its movements.
E
66 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
No. 8 Seance—November, 186'/.
My dear Father,—I went down yesterday to Norwood,
and dined with Mr. Jencken. I was very much disappointed
to find that Home had settled to go up to London after
dinner, to hear a lecture by Miss Emma Hardinge. I
should much have preferred spending the evening quietly
there. We all tried to persuade him to stop, but in
vain. However, after dinner he recited us some poetry,
and to our great satisfaction he went on until he missed
the train. We then talked for some time, and had some
music. Mrs. Jencken played us some very pretty httle
musical airs. While Mrs. Jencken, Home, and Miss D
R were at the piano there came raps upon it. Mr.
Jencken and I were sitting some way off at the table.
Shortly after, Home suggested that we should sit round
the table. The room was lighted by a bright fire and
two candles. Almost immediately after sitting down, we
heard raps ; and the usual currents of cold air were
felt, also the vibration of the table and floor. We had
very little of rapping or movement of the table during
the seance. The table was, however, two or three times
raised off the floor, and sustained in the air for a con-
siderable time. We were talking about a gentleman
(a friend of the others) ;
abusing him a little for being
conceited and unpleasant in different ways. Home said,
" Oh, don't let us talk about our neighbours now."
However, they went on talking about him, not in what
one would usually call an ill-natured way ; but still,
cutting him up a little. The table was moving slightly
all the time, and at last the alphabet was called for.
The four following sentences were spelled out, with short
intervals between them :
" There is one God, He is the
Father of all.'' " God is tolerant—he hears with our
shortcomings.''' "Love and charity—God gives the one and
expects the other." " We are all hut mortals." After
such a beautiful rebuke as that, I need not say that we
did not talk any more about the shortcomings of our
neighbours.
I should say that Mr. Jencken had, soon after the
NO. 8] With D. D. Home 67
phenomena commenced, put out the candles. The fire-
light was, however, in a small room, quite sufficient to
show everything clearly. The name of God was, in every
case, marked in a manner different to that in which
the letters in the other words were indicated ; some-
times by the table being raised and waved about. Once,
when the table was in the air during the whole sen-
tence, by slow strong vibrations, instead of raps. Home
now said he was touched for the accordion, and took it,
holding it in the usual way. Almost immediately, without
any apparent effort, it began' to play powerful, clear,
and beautifully harmonious chords.
It played for some considerable time when the alphabet
was called for and this was spelled :
—" You are quite
correct, it tvas Augusta." I said, I did not see exactly to
what the sentence applied. The alphabet was called
again, and the words " The other night " spelled, making
the sentence complete, and referring to what you and I
had been speaking of in the train about the message
on Saturday night, " It was A touched the keys.''
After this the accordion was again played for some
little time most beautifully, the notes being drawn out
so fine, that it was only by bending the head and listening
attentively, that the harmony could be heard dying
away and then swelling again. The accordion was drawn
out from under the table, Home still holding it, lifted
over his head, and brought round to Miss D R ;
it was lifted up and presented towards her, the same
was done to me, and it was rested on my left shoulder,
and while there, close to my ear, it breathed out the
softest sounds. There was a noise as of someone breath-
ing behind me, which the others also heard, but, I think,
that must have been caused by the instrument. The
accordion was in like manner presented to Mr. and
Mrs. Jencken, and then went under the table again.
A very remarkable thing now occurred, the accordion
was seized by some influence that evidently could not
play it, and which disturbed that previously acting. It
abruptly left off playing, then began again quite dif-
ferently, playing three or four notes with a powerful
68 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
loud touch, and then it broke down altogether. Home,
before the change said, " Ah, there is some strange
influence at work now." After the discordant notes,
the accordion was raised above the table. Home stiU
holding it, he said his arm felt quite paralyzed, and
that he was obliged to follow it ; it drew him from his
chair, and went near to D and remained there
some time oscillating backwards and forwards, and waving
itself about, the accordion then led him back to his
chair, after which it went under the table and re-
commenced playing as before the interruption. Soon
the alphabet was called, and the following spelt :
—
"We do all we can to sheiv you that we do not forget"—
•
and then the accordion finished the sentence by playing
" Auld Lang Syne," first quietly, then with full loud
chords. Home said suddenly, " Oh, this is a very
poAverful spirit." He stood up, or rather he was raised
up, and his hand was violently agitated in the air ; he
then sat down, and his hand was extended towards the
flowers on the small table, the fingers pointing towards
them. His hand remained there a few seconds, and was
then brought round, and with a motion like sprinkling,
cast the perfume of the flowers towards each of us in
turn ; the perfume was so strong that there could be
no mistake about it. This was done twice. His hand
was then raised a little above my head, the fingers point-
ing towards me, and went through motions something
like mesmeric passes, or as I thought as though blessing
me. His hand was then placed upon mine, and stroked
my fingers gently, first one then the other ; it then was
carried to his own face, and passed across it two or
three times. His hand was now swung violently to and
fro, then remained quiet, and presently it was extended
to the flowers again. I could distinctly see it with
the fingers pointing towards the flowers, about six inches
above them ; I am sure it never touched them. His
hand became quite luminous, and was brought slowly
round and across the table, until it remained with the
flngers still extended, over my hand. I raised my hand
towards it, and a leaf of sweet-scented geranium fell
NO. 8] With D. D. Home 69
apparently from under liis hand into mine, tlie leaf
was not held in his fingers, neither could I see it until
it fell. (Home said, when his hand was extended over
the flowers, that it felt to him, as though it was resting
on a solid or semi-solid substance.) At the same moment,
the alphabet was called for and this spelled, " Take it
ivith you, my hoy.'' This sentence followed immediately,
" We have done %vhat tve promised, look mider the hand-
kerchief." Mrs. Jencken had, on the evening they had
had such beautiful manifestations, a short time ago,
asked that a flower might also be given to her. They
had announced that it would be done, and now imder
her handkerchief there was a piece of geranium ; her
handkerchief had been on the table all the time, and no
one had touched it.
This sentence was now spelled, " Next for dear D ."
Home's hand was extended again to the flowers ; it
certainly was not nearer them than 6 inches ; it became
luminous, and a flower was given to D in the same
way it had been given to me. The alphabet was again
called, and this spelled, " This is for you," and at the
same moment, a flower dropped at Mr. Jencken's hand ;
none of us heard it broken off, or saw it, but it fell on
the table just in front of his hand. " Our joy " was now
spelled, and the accordion played, and then " Our thanks
to God " and it played again. The alphabet was called,
and " Weejj 7iot " spelled. Dear old Mrs. Jencken was
quietly crying, not as she said for sorrow, when the
words " Weep not " were spelled, her handkerchief was
gently taken from her under the table, and afterwards
replaced upon it. After this, " Good night " was spelled,
and nothing more occurred.
V No. 9 Seance—July 26th, 1868.
Present : Mrs. Jencken, Mrs. Hennings, Mr. Jencken,
Home, and myself. Physical manifestations very slight.
Home passing almost immediately into a trance, in which
he delivered the following address, purporting to come
70 Experiences in Spirihialism [seance
from the spirit of Dr. Jenckeu ; to prove identity several
tests were given.
Dr. Jencken, during the last few years of his life,
had been quite blind, and was in the habit, when dictating,
of going through the form of writing with great rapidity
on his knee with his finger ; he also had a peculiar
habit of clasping his hands together, and speaking with
his head bent very low down. Home imitated him in
both respects to the very life, and also mentioned some
circumstances that had occurred many years before at
Mayence.
The first words Home spoke were in a very low voice,
telling us to go on talking. He then got up, threw away
a silk cushion he had been sitting on, and said, " Re-
member, Dan must not sit on a silk cushion while this
very hot weather lasts." He remained silent for a few
minutes, and then commenced speaking with a clear voice,
and in a very impressive manner. Part of the discourse
was in verse, but owing to the partially darkened state
of the room and the rapidity of his utterance, it was
quite impossible to write it down. The following notes
taken by Mr. Jencken are for these reasons very im-
perfect.
" There are laws which govern the approach of spiritual
beings to earth, and their organic life, and there are
epochs of darkness when the spiritual spheres are far
removed from the earth ; when the approach of spirits
is all but impossible. These epochs have been called by
those on earth the dark ages ;
they mark the absence of
spiritual intercourse. There are also times of near approach,
not unlike your winter and summer seasons. This alternate
action is a great law ;
great principles rule all things.
There was such an epoch of easy approach at the time
of the Ancient Egyptians. They knew this and under-
stood the laws better than you do. Before that time
spirits had not taken sufficient pains to encourage the
invention of means for the perpetuating of knowledge.
There was no printing, nor mechanical contrivance, in
those days. Since then, during the period that their
approach to earth was more difficult, they had turned
NO. 9] With D. D. Home 71
their attention more to those matters, so that now
knowledge can never be so lost again. You are now entering
upon a period of very near approach. It is coming like
the tide in a river—irresistible, overriding the current,
overcoming all ; it is coming grandly and Godly. What has
already been seen is but the smallest wavelet of the
tide that is coming upon the earth. Some of you here
present will see it ; others among you will have joined
us, and will be helping on the great work we have in
hand. The echoes of it are coming ;
they sound like
the notes of the organ rolling up the aisles of those
grand old cathedrals that men have built—notes signifying
the heart-felt prayer of an earnest soul ascending to the
throne of God ; never lost but echoing on for ever.
Spiritual truth must come ; truth is a lighthouse, a
beacon, a speck, a point, leading onward to realms of
love. We have no power, we can do so little, that we
often wonder that we are able to do anything for you.
Language is too imperfect, we cannot convey to you our
meaning ;
you cannot understand us ; our state is so
different from your material state, that it is with great
difficulty that we can work upon it to make our presence
known ; not that it is painful to us—no, no, it is a
labour of love. But still it is an actual labour to us.
The earth is still so imperfect—so undeveloped—that we
have much difficulty in dealing with material objects.
Why, even such a little thing as the silk cushion that
Dan was sitting on, prevented us from making physical
manifestations to-night ;
yet we did succeed in giving
you each a token of our presence, though it was very
slight. Henry, the floor vibrated under your chair.
Adare, your chair was touched. Amelia and Mary, you
both felt the current of cold air pass over your hands.
You aU felt something.
" The earth is as yet very immature, but progressing.
A period of very near approach is at hand ; after that
there will be one, probably two epochs of darkness.
We are entirely dependent upon atmospherical conditions.
Now, to-night, the atmosphere is so surcharged with
electricity, that it appears to us quite thick, like sand.
72 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
It is so unlike our own, that it is almost impossible
for us to get near you. We feel like men wading through
a quicksand—slipping back as fast as we advance. At
other times, when your earthly atmosphere is in a natural
state, it is more like our own, and we have no difficulty
in being near you. You wonder if we wish you to be
better than you are. You are all good. The germs of
good are in all. We can see further than you can ; and
know all your trials, all your doubts and difficulties.
Were we not once mortals as you are ? We see the
troubles and the thorns that beset your path. Stretch
forth your hands—thrust them through the brambles
—
draw them not back or the blood will flow—stretch them
out and let them remain, there shall they find rest.
We know not of time ; to us, yesterday, to-day, to-morrow
are all one. Had we hours, days, years, even ages, like
you, we should say time passes slowly, or time passes
fast. We never tire ; we are eternity. Happiness is not
idleness. Labour is joy, the labour of love. Even on earth
it is not the spirit that wearies of a labour of love ;
it is the
poor weak body that tires, that faints, that falls to sleep.
We have work to do, to elevate ourselves, and to draw
you onward and upward. We constantly watch over you,
and sympathize with all your cares. We never weary ;
we do not judge you ; we were as you are. God alone
is the Judge. You ask why we always speak of love ;
it is love that brings us to you. God is Love. Spirit
messages are ahvays breathing love for God. God is
Love. ,. .
" Henry, your father is pleased that you are engaged
upon his works, he too has his work to do. He was
aided in writing, and knows now that higher spirits
aided him. Do you remember at Mayence, how he was
affected ? (Here Home imitated his peculiar mode of
writing upon his knee, and manner of speaking.) An
inferior spirit had got influence over him. I see him now,
he had great self-esteem and was very opinionated, and
only wanted his own ideas to become prominent ; this is
very dangerous, and must be guarded against. Truth,
truth—worship truth : particle by particle build up the
NO. 9] With D. D. Home 73
temple of truth ; be consistent, fur Cod is Trutli. Here
we have no narrowing creed, no four church walls, with a
cushioned pew for the rich, and a plain board for the poor
man, to limit the worship of truth. The great four walls
of eternity ; the blue ether, set with sparkling stars, gems
made by the hand of God, ever lustrous diamonds of
the heavenly orb, peep-holes of heaven ; it is there we
worship, and through them we peer in our search for truth.
" One great objection made to Spiritualism, is, that we
do not disclose all the truth—if true, why not tell all ?
Are you capable of perceiving the truth ? The man
has not yet been formed upon the earth fitted to know
the whole truth. Immortality is before you ! Immor-
tality gleams upon earth—gleams like a lighthouse, like
a beacon to you. The future is not even understood
by all of us,^ but we draw nearer and nearer to God,
for here there is no one to hold you back, to say
you are mad ;
peals of angel voices call you onward and
upward ; cheer you in your struggles, and aid you.
" There are great laws of development that draw the
organic and the inorganic together ;
you on earth witness
the onward course of aU things in the organic world,
rising to higher conditions, as, for instance, the develop-
ment of the child into manhood. Onward is the progress ;
onward and upward. Search,—search for truth,—be true, be
brave, be prayerful ;
ye are all children of God created by Him.
The meaning is obscure. The words, '"
The future is not even under-
stood by all of us ; but we draw nearer and nearer to God, for here
there is no one to hold you back—to say you are mad," evidently
refer to spirits, and the sentence should stand :
" For here there is no
one to hold trs back—to say that we are mad." Substituting the words
" us " and " we " for " you," which is evidently improperly used. It is
an open question whether the remaining lines belong to the same
sentence or not ; the context would rather lead me to suppose not. If
the lines constitute one sentence with the same train of thought rimning
all through it, then the word "you" should be altered to "us" in the
last two lines also, which should read thus :
" Peals of angel voices call
us onward and upward ; cheer us in our struggles and aid us." But it
appears to me more probable that the reference to the state of the spirits
concludes with the word " mad, "
and that the remaining lines are an
aspiration or prayer that "peals of angel voices may call you" (that is,
mortals) "onward aiid upward ; cheer you in your struggles and aid you."
74 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
The time is rapidly coming for a great change in spiritual
life ; we are nearing the cycle, so near that some of you
here present will witness the change, others will have gone
to their home, to their rest, to the blessed. Are you
weary of life ? weary of the earth 1 The soul tires not,
it is only the body. (In answer to question by H. J.)
You are right ,
Henry ;
your father is clearer in his
views now, more to the point, sees things clearer than he
did when on earth. Oh, how much he wished to know
Daniel ; had he but known him ! You remember how
anxious he was about him."
No. 10 Seance.
Last Monday I was at a seance at Mr. Hall's. There
were nine present : Mr. and Mrs. Hall, Home, the Misses
Bertolacci (mediums), a cousin of mine, two gentlemen
whose first seance it was, and myself. Almost immediately
we felt the sort of phenomena that usually take place
first, such as cold currents of air passing over the hands,
table vibrating, &c. These ceased, and for some time
nothing occurred. Some one suggested that the young
ladies should try if anything would be written. They
did so with the planchette, both placing one hand upon
it at the same time. These words were written, " By
patience, and in the name of Christ." We were also told
by the same means to sit down again in the same positions
we had occupied before. After a time very strong mani-
festations took place, the table vibrating, tilting, and
being raised about a foot off the ground ;
raps were
heard on the table, on the floor, on our chairs, &c.,
—
nearly everyone was touched. I felt a hand between my
leg and Home's : I was sitting next to him. There was
evidently some very strong influence about Home. After
a time a message was given by raps :
" / now knoiv that
my Redeemer liveth : have patience and bear all. Daniel,
I owe you many thanks.—John Elliotson." After this, in
answer to some question (I forget what), the table was
tilted three times in the four opposite directions, and was
NO. 10] With D. D. Home 75
then lifted three times in the air. Home's chair was once
drawn away a little from the table, and raised off the
floor, but certainly not more than one inch. His chair
was also turned completely round, so that his back was
towards us, his feet during the whole time the chair
was moving being off the ground. An arm chair moved
of itself a distance of about a yard up against the back
of my chair. Home's hand and arm became cataleptic,
and were moved about quite independent of his will.
His hand was sometimes thumped and beaten violently
against the table, but without causing him any pain.
His hand was moved to the back of my neck, and
pushed me forward in my chair. He then began to thump
me violently on the back, and to rub me across the back,
commencing at the right side. His hand also stroked and
patted my head, and was also moved to my cousin
sitting at the opposite side of the table, and stroked and
patted her hands and head.
The following message was written by Home's hand,
his fingers being so strongly clenched, it was with dif-
ficulty that the pencil was inserted between them. " We
know all your discussion about A W • ; we are
the best judges, it ivas a bad influence. F—— and F ."
The paper was then pushed across to my cousin to read,
neither of us could understand what F and F
meant, although we ought to have guessed, as the same
words had been used about the same subject, in a message
given us a few days previously. Seeing that we could not
make it out the words "forget and forgive " were written.
Other messages were written through Home and one of
the ladies present. Mr. Holt, a gentleman whose first
seance it was, became much affected ; soon after sitting
down, his hands Were taken possession of and violently
agitated, sometimes on, and sometimes under the table ;
occasionally his arms were drawn back behind his chair,
his hands being all the time violently agitated ; a pencil
and paper were given him, but though his hand moved
over the paper with the greatest rapidity, nothing but
scribbling was the result. So strong was the influence
over him, that he went and sat alone upon the sofa at some
76 Experieyices in Spwih/alism, [seance
distance from iis, to try and diminish it , wlien be left,
the power about the table became sensibly lessened ;
he continued to be slightly agitated the whole evening.
We were all anxious to know Avho was endeavouring to
make him write ; two Christian names with the word
" uncle " between them were written through Home.
Home at one time said he felt convinced that a spirit
was near him who had passed from this life by being
drowned. Some little time after, Mr. Hall was telling
us how one of his brothers had been mysteriously drowned
at sea, he being a very good swimmer ; Home's hand was
taken possession of and wrote the word " Shark " upon
a piece of paper, and then pushed it to Mr. Hall. Home
and one of the ladies present went into a trance at the
same moment ; for some time they sat in their places,
occupying themselves with putting their fingers upon the
sheets of paper on the table, and then waving their
hands about, the paper adhering to their fingers ; Home
then got up and walked about the room ; he took a
large sheet of paper off the table, doubled it up and
placed it on the piano in the next room ; the young
lady also got up, and sat down upon the sofa, at the
other side of the room.
Home sat down in his chair, and began to talk to
Mrs. Hall in a whisper. 1 could not hear the exact
words he used, but they were to the effect that during
their occupation of that house, there had been a bad
influence present during searices twice only. He mentioned
who one of the spirits was, and said that the same
influence had that evening turned Home round in his
chair, and had brought the arm chair up against mine.
He also told her that in the house to which they were
going, nothing but what was good and holy would come
near them. Home was elongated to the extent of, I
should say, 6 inches, four times ; he walked about,
stamped, and shuffled his feet, to shew that he was
standing fairly upon them. He went round to Mr. Holt,
one of the gentlemen present, and made him place his
hand upon his waist that he might feel how he became
elongated and contracted. Mr. Holt said that he held
NO. 10] With D. D. Home 11
his hand flat against Home's side ; that the lower edge
of his hand was resting on his hip bone ; that he felt
Home's lower rib pass under his hand, until it was
some inches above it ; the whole flesh and muscle
apparently moving and stretching. On the contraction
taking place, he felt the lower rib come down until it
pressed against the upper edge of his hand and moved
into its proper position. Home said that the young
lady had also been elongated, and would be again. She
was then standing near the table in a trance, and began
swaying herself from side to side ; she was palpably
elongated to the extent of, perhaps, three inches. About
this time a loud knock came at the outside door. Home
said, " He must come in—it is the Master of Lindsay."
Home then opened the room door, went out into the entry,
and took the gentleman by the hand ; he led him into
the room ; made him shake hands with Mr. and Mrs.
Hall, with the young lady who was in the trance, and
with me, we being all perfect strangers to him. Home
then said to him, " You must go out of the room until
Daniel awakes, for if he was to awake and find you here,
he would be frightened." Shortly after this they both
awoke, and the party broke up.
I arrived at home about half an hour before Home.
Soon after we had gone to bed we both heard the hall
door loudly slammed. I said, " Oh, Dan, you have left
the door open, and some one has come in !
" He declared
he had locked it, and put the chain up ;
however, we
both got up and went down to see what was the matter.
I found the hall door locked and the chain up, and the
study and dining room doors both wide open. I went
into the study and heard raps, I then went out to where
Home was standing in the entry, and we heard raps on
the floor. He said, " Oh, I am sure it is dear old Dr.
Elliotson," " Yes," was rapped. I then said, " In that
case I suppose no burglars came in and we may go to
bed again ?
" " Yes," was rapped. We went up stairs.
Dr. Elliotson following us rapping on the banisters and
78 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
stairs. After we had got into bed again we heard heavy
footsteps walldng about the room, and raps in various
places. Home carried on a conversation with Dr. Elliot-
son for a little time, asking questions and receiving
answers to them by raps.
He (Dr. EUiotson) told us that he had not suffered
pain in passing away, and that he had found the other
world very much what he had expected it to be ; that
he had not intended to frighten us by making a sound
as of slamming the door, and that he would be more
careful not to make so much noise in future ; but that
as yet he had only imperfect control over physical mani-
festations ; that he had followed Home to the house,
and was glad to be near him, &c. Home and I talked
about him for some little time, he joining in our conversa-
tion, assenting or dissenting by means of raps.
Two days after this as we were getting up, about
10 o'clock, a bright sun shining into the room, loud
raps came upon the floor, &c., and a long message of
a private character was given to Home.
No. 11 Seance—July, 1868.
Having missed the last train to London I was very
glad to accept Mr. Jones's kind offer to remain a]l night
at his house. Home and I carried a sofa upstairs to his
(Home's) room for me to sleep on. I did not leave the
room after bringing in the sofa. My clothes I placed
upon a small round table near the foot of the bed.
On a chair by the sofa I placed a pocket handkerchief,
two eye glasses, and a snuff box.
During the seance in the evening it was said that I
should hear music without any instrument that night.
Home turned off the gas previous to going to bed. A
certain amount of light entered the room from the street,
so that it was not perfectly dark. I could easily distin-
guish Home when he sat up in bed ; and could have
seen anybody moving about the room.
NO. 11] With D. D. Home 79
We had not been in bed more than three minutes
when both Home and myself simultaneously heard the
music ; it sounded like a harmonium ;
sometimes, as if
played loudly at a great distance ; at other times, as if
very gently, close by. The music continued for some
minutes, when Home got up to ask Mr. Jones if any one
was playing the accordion. Mr. Jones returned with him,
and we all three then heard the music. The usual
phenomena of rajDS and vibrations of the floor, sofa,
&c., occurred very frequently and with great power ;
the raps sounded all over the room ; on the floor, walls,
even on Home's bed ;
on, under, and in my sofa. My
sofa occasionally vibrated very strongly ; the bed clothes
on Home's bed and on the sofa were frequently pulled
and moved about. We both several times heard sounds
such as would be caused by some one in a muslin dress
moving about the room, although we could see nothing.
After a short time I heard the chair close to my sofa
moving, and a finger touched one of my hands that was
hanging over the side of the sofa, the next moment I
felt the snuff box on the chair touch me, and found
that the chair was moving, I said that I thought some
one had touched me, but that probably I had been mis-
taken, and that it was only the box ; the spirits said by
the alphabet that I had been touched. The chair then
moved to the foot of the bed, and we heard the various
articles upon it being stirred about. I was sitting upon
the sofa, with one hand resting on the edge, suddenly
I felt something brush across my hand ; this was repeated,
and I became aware of something swinging in the air.
I then heard some object brushing backwards and for-
wards against the back of the sofa, inside ; on putting
my hand to the spot, my eye glass was placed in it.
I took the glass, and in drawing it away I felt, by the
resistance offered, that the cord was attached to some-
thing ; while feeling the resistance a hand and arm
holding the end of the cord became visible. This I saw
distinctly for a second or two, it then disappeared.
I now heard a sound near the foot of the bed as if
my double glasses were being opened and shut, and I
80 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
distinctly saw a figure, apparently draped, standing over
the foot of the bed ; it held something, I believe the
double glasses, and I could see the hand and arm waving
backwards and forwards ; I could hear the eye-glass
swinging in the air, but could not see it ; the figure
stooped down towards Mr. Jones, and disappeared. A
message was then given :
" The figure is not the same as
the one that touched you."
About half a minute after, I distinctly heard something
moving along the side of the sofa, and immediately my
double eye-glass was placed upon the back of my hand ;
I felt the hand that held it push it on, and then stroke
and pat my fingers ; I took three fingers of the hand in
mine, and held them for some seconds ; as I increased the
pressure upon them, they appeared to withdraw them-
selves from me ; I was again touched, and my hand
stroked and patted, the fingers were like a delicately
formed human hand, the skin feeling perfectly natural to
the touch.
A message was now given : "We place it there to shew
you that we do not tvish you to contract a habit, pernicious,
and that can he of no possible use to you." While wondering
what this could mean, my snuff box came right across
the room through the air, falling against my leg, where it
remained. Home saw it pass through the air in front of
him. I asked who had thrown it ; and was told " Grand-
father Goold." Mr. Jones asked if the snuff had been
taken out, " No," was immediately rapped in various
parts of the room.
Mr. Jones wished that something might be done for
him, and he was slightly touched. He asked also that the
chair might be moved round to him. The chair began
again to move, but there was not room for it to pass
between the foot of the bed and the round table. The
table was raised off the floor and moved out of the way,
the top becoming slightly luminous. While moving, it
suddenly fell to the floor and rolled over. My clothes
tumbled off, the money in the pockets rolling about the
room. I said, " I wonder how it happened ;
it is so unusual
for them to let anything fall." They answered, " It
NO. 11] With D. D. Home 81
happened by 7nistake." I observed, " How kind it is of them
to answer questions like this." They answered, " Would
you not do the same for us.'' Mr. Jones said that he
supposed the spirits in the room were friends of mine.
They answered " YesJ' I asked how many of my own
family were present. They answered " Six." I asked if
they had not come to welcome me home from abroad.
They answered " Yes," by rapping three times all over
the room.
A message was now given :
" We ivish to give you
the ." Here it broke off ;
and though Home re-
peated the alphabet three or four times, nothing more
would come. While we were wondering at this unfinished
sentence my pocket handkerchief dropped through the air
into my lap. I took it up and found there was something
hard in it. It turned out to be my latch key that I
had left in my trowsers pocket, knotted into one corner
of the handkerchief. The remainder of tlie unfinished
message was then spelled out :
" Key to the mystery," making
altogether, "We ivish to give you the key to the mystery."
Mr. Jones had been telling me that the spirits were
anxious to prove to me that there was an actual intel-
ligence at work, and that the phenomena were not the
result of mere animal magnetism.
After this, " Good night " was spelled out. The last
sound I heard was that of the jingling of the money
while being picked up about the room. I put my eye-
glass, handkerchief, and snuff-box on the floor. Mr. Jones
left the room, and I very soon went to sleep. In the
morning I found the things on the floor in the same
position that I had left them in, the key being still
knotted to the handkerchief. The chair was near the
foot of the bed, a blanket that I had thrown off my
sofa entangled round it. The table was lying on the
ground—my clothes on the floor. All my silver I found in
the pocket I had left it in ; the gold, consisting of four
pieces, I found on Home's counterpane.
These phenomena could not have been caused by any
mechanical contrivances. In order to produce the violent
vibrations and the raps on the sofa, it would have been
F
82 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
necessary to attach some complicated machinery to it ;
that was impossible, as I assisted to carry it up from the
drawing room, never left the room after we had brought it up,
and was lying down upon it within three or four minutes
after we had placed it in the room. It would have been also
necessary to attach machinery to the chair and table.
Articles were taken from the chair, and conveyed to me
without any human agency, for I must have seen anyone
moving in the room, and the chair was too far removed
from Mr. Jones and Home to have been reached by them
by any means.
No. 12 Seance—5, Buckingham Gate, August Srd, 1868.
One day last week Home complained of not feeling at
all well, and of being in very low spirits. I did not feel
well myself, and lay down on the sofa, where I presently
went to sleep. When I awoke, Home told me that there
had been raps on the tables, &c., but that instead of
cheering him they made him feel more uncomfortable.
They had given him answers to several questions. He
asked why it was that he felt so low and ill. The answer
was, " There is nothing Spiritualistic in it ; it is rather
a tinge from the thoughts of Adare.'' This puzzled me very
much, as I was quite unaware of anything having
taken place that could give rise to unpleasant thoughts.
I sat down at the writing table and heard raps on various
parts of it. They again said that they showed their
presence to " cheer Dan." Home had said that he felt
a desire to smoke a cigarette, a thing I have never known
him do before. He smoked one, owing to which, I think,
a fit of coughing was brought on. Home coughed up a
quantity of blood and seemed relieved by it ; he then
lay down on the sofa. The raps continued for a short
time, and I asked if Home's indisposition was anything
serious. They answered, " No." I asked if he would be
all right soon. They answered, " Yes." This occurred
about 3 p.m. in broad daylight.
NO. 13] With D. D. Home 83
No. 13 Seance—5, Buckingham Gate.
Two or three days subsequently, Home and I having
gone to bed after a seance here, at which we felt a few
movements of the table, we had manifestations in the bed
room, consisting of our beds vibrating strongly and of
raps on the furniture, doors, and all about the room.
Home's bed was slightly moved out from the wall. We both
heard something on the dressing table being moved about,
and at the same moment we both saw in exactly the same spot,
a perfectly white column, it can scarcely be called a figure,
as the shape was indistinct. It moved from the dressing
table towards Home's bed. Home said he saw a white
object about the size of a child floating near the ceiling
above his head. I saw it also, but it appeared to me to
be in mid air, half way between the bed and the ceiling :
it was floating about in a horizontal position ; it was like
a small white cloud without any well-defined shape. I
saw it descend close to Home, who then lost sight of it,
but I perceived it come within about two feet of his head.
It then slowly floated to the foot of his bed and dis-
appeared. I afterwards saw the same appearance near the
door. Home saw it intercept the light coming in from the
window against the opposite wall ; I did not. We had
three messages given us : First, " We love God best by
loving you and seeking to influence you for good.'' Second,
" Seeing that you have been troubled to knoiv what we
meant by its being rather a tinge from the thoughts of Adare,
we wish to tell you it was oiving to something in a letter
received from his father." The manifestations continued for
some time when the third message was given :
" Noio
sleep." After this we heard and saw nothing more.
There was sufficient light in the room to distinguish
candles, books, &c., on the table.
No. 14 Seance—August 6th, 1868.
Present : Mrs. Jencken, Mrs. Hennings, Mr. Jencken,
Home, and mj^self. Very few physical manifestations.
Home's hands were taken possession of, and were strongly
84 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
agitated,^ he took the accordion and played with consider-
able feeling, his hands moving and touching the keys
independent of his will, during this he went into a trance,
got up, walked to the piano and played a piece of music
with considerable execution ; he then sat down and spoke
as follows : (Dr. Elliotson speaking through him the
greater part of the time).^
" Henry, do you know that your father met Dr. Elliot-
son to-day, and for the first time, and much pleased him ;
they are charmed with each other, he (Dr. Elliotson) is
very enthusiastic. Those that are longer away from
earth lose their intense interest in it, they have other
calls upon them. He, like your father, sought for develop-
ment and truth, though often wrongly guided ; he did
not look up to the great sunhght, but doubted and erred.
These two have, as I said, met to-day, just now, according
to your mode of computing time. Dr. ElUotson is so
delighted to meet your father. '
Why have we not met
before ?
'
he says, '
we ought.' '
That was your fault.
Dr. Elliotson ; not mine.' Then he turns back, shakes
your father by the hand and tells him he is so glad to
know him. In the state that we live in there are no
restrictions ; men are drawn together by mutual sym-
pathies. Here is no deception, no saying '
I am glad to
see you, my dear fellow,' when the heart does not mean
it. Thoughts are seen and read, and those suited to
each other are naturally drawn together.
" Dr. Elhotson is full of plans how to operate better,
he wants to invent some sort of mechanism to act with
the brain, some more powerful battery, he wants to
convince the whole world ; he is very enthusiastic. There
are some Physicists with large brains who strain and wear
1 I have frequently seen peoples hands taken possession of and
agitated during seances in a somewhat similar way. The same thing has
occurred to myself. In my case, my hands were moved about some-
times violently, sometimes gently, without any act of volition on my
part ; and yet in a manner not entirely beyond my control. In Mr.
Home's case the muscles became perfectly hard and rigid ; and I fancy
he can neither direct nor prevent the movements.
" The following account of what occurred during Home's trance is
compiled from the notes taken by Mr. Jencken.
NO. 14] With D. D. Home 85
themselves out with over work. The brain becomes
weary, loses its elasticity, disease sets in, preponderosis.
This was the case with Elhotson, but it was particularly
painful for him, as every morning on awaking he knew
what he was, and was aware of the state into which he
had fallen, but afterwards his brain failed him and could
not act. He is now so delighted,—delighted in studying
nature ; he is particularly engaged in studying how illness
is generated by mere presence without actual contact ;
he has a theory also of winds carrying diseases, and has
found that the south wind carries disease further than
any other : he finds that the winds have curative powers,
and that the geographical position of winds is important,
the currents having different effects at different altitudes.
" We can see all physical changes, and from out of
them, the moral changes resulting from them, for instance,
the heat and abnormal condition of the atmosphere will
in a short time produce a fermentation in the human
mind and changes will follow. It affects the human race
and must find a vent, in the same way as a heated
condition of body will result and find rehef in boils and
eruptions."
Home here threw himself back in his chair, rubbed his
hands together as if very much pleased, and said, " Now, if
you wish to ask any questions I am ready to answer them."
Question (Henry Jencken).—How do you make us see
spirit forms ?
Answer.—At times we make passes over the individual
to cause him to see us, sometimes we make the actual
resemblance of our former clothing, and of what we were,
so that we appear exactly as we were known to you on
earth ; sometimes we project an image that you see,
sometimes we cause it to be produced upon your brain,
sometimes you see us as we are, with a cloudhke aura of
hght around us.
Question (H. J.). —Do you use actual garments ?
Answer.—Purity is our clothing. We have no need of
garments ; but are enveloped in a sort of aura, or cloud
of hght. Other spirits, more impure and gross, dwelling
nearer earth, have need of garments.
86 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
Question (H. J.). —How do we appear to you ?
Answer.—Mostly in pure light.
Question.—Can you see our light ?
Ansiver.—We can see all hghts ;
sunUght, and every
colour that it is composed of. We see the most beautiful
combinations of hght. Everything has its Mght. We see
the progress either of growth or decay that is taking place
in everything. The table that you are sitting at was once
growing. We could see every particle expanding and
increasing ; now it is decaying ; and though it is so
gradual that to you it is not apparent, yet we can see
the change taking place in every particle of it.
Question.—In moving among us, do we present an
obstacle to you ? Do you avoid us ?
Answer.—We do, and must avoid you. For your ether
bodies and the atmosphere that surrounds you is, in
many cases, as sohd and impenetrable to us as granite
is to you. We can see both the light- of your spiritual
bodies and of your material bodies.
Question.—Are not the sun's rays composed of some-
thing more than light ?
Answer.—Of light only, and an elastic wave of elec-
tricity that precedes the light.
Question.—I suppose it is not possible for you to visit
the sun ?
Answer.—Most certainly we can. Why should we not ?
Question.—Does it take time for you to travel ?
Answer.—Yes.
Question.—I suppose you move in the same ratio as light ?
Answer.—We can travel faster than light.
Question.—What is the appearance of your form or body ?
Ansiver.—Exactly hke your material body, only slightly
smaller in every respect.
Question.—How do you produce material forms ?
Ayiswer.—You produce them with and through us.
Question.—But have you no field for action 1
Ansiver.—You cannot understand us ; the material is
to us as it were spiritual. Suppose I want a fruit, I
cannot create it by thinking of it ; I must go and fetch
it from where it is : so if I want an idea I must travel
NO. 14] With D. D. Home 87
into higher spheres, and seek and find it as an actual
created thing. Many things are more real than you sup-
pose ;
thoughts, are they not almost reahties ? Try and
think of a house you knew long ago ;
you will invariably
enter it by the door ;
you go in by the door in your
imagination ; were you to enter by the windows or the
walls, you would not understand or recognize it. That
will tell you that there is something of material reality
in the idea of a house in your mind.
Question.—Are then your flowers and fruits as actual
and real to you as those growing upon earth are to us ?
Answer.—They are as real to us as an apple or pome-
granate is to you.
Question.—Have you animals in your spheres ?
Answer.—There are animals that give pleasure such as
horses and dogs ; nearer earth are baser animals, and
those that cause pain ; some saints and holy men, being
in an ecstatic state have at times caught ghmpses of
what is going on near them, animals and men, strange
and curious forms all mixed up together. The only way
I can at all describe it to you is to look at a drop of
muddy water under the microscope, and observe the
strange forms ;
you will see the tail of one protruding
from another, and so on, hence the old ideas of satyrs and
creatures half man, half beast, hence the notion of devils
with horns and tails, and of a material hell. Other men
have seen higher and brighter spheres. All this is but
the imperfect imagining of those who see visions : as in
Dante's Frozen Hell, he saw the frozen zone and spiritual
forms moving about, and mixed them up all together.
Bodily suffering produces mental suffering ; and mental
suffering afflicts the body ; need you be told this ?
Instance, a case where fright may produce paralysis ; or
where pain, insensibility.
In answer to some question.—The spirit is always sane ;
the body makes insane. We can see the spirit Uke
—
what shall I say—well—hke, to use a very homely simile,
a jack-in-the-box ; we see the empty, useless casket, and
the spirit hovering above it, the spirit bounds forth as
soon as hberated by death—by sleep.
88 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
In answer to some questian.—8ome spirits are removed to
other planets, in the course of formation, not necessarily
as a punishment, but that by trial they may develope
and return again at some future time purified. Spirits
very often go voluntarily to other planets, until they
can fit themselves to be of use to those on earth, or
to dwell with other spirits in higher spheres ; tell this to
Dan when he awakes, as he has often wondered why some
of his friends have not returned to visit him ?
hi answer to a question.—Actual substances are thrown
off from the earth and get entirely beyond its attraction ;
and actual substances are brought from the sun to the
earth by means of the rays of light, substances that
can be weighed—aye, and that will be weighed some
day.
In answer to a question as to punishments.—-Why and
how are you punished ? You punish yourselves if you
have broken a law of nature ; for no natural law can be
broken without amends being made for its violation.
Cut a vein and the blood flows, because you have violated
a natural law.
Question.—Do you like making manifestations ?
Answer.—It pleases us to come to you, and to make
manifestations. We get so charged by remaining any time
in the earth's atmosphere, that it is a positive relief to
make sounds. There is a spirit now come into the room ;
he is what we call naturally charged. (Quantities of raps
heard on the table.) Now he cannot help doing that,
and it is a positive pleasure to him. (Speaking to me)
Elliotson did not want to frighten you the other evening
at your house ; he does not know yet how to manage
manifestations, hence the noise he made the other night.
He wanted to see Daniel and you too, but he did not
intend to frighten either of yovi.-^
Question (H. J.). —As to a law of predestination 1
Ansiver.—Yes, there is a law of predestination which
is quite true, only you could not understand it.
Question.—Infinite possibility gives freedom of action ?
^ Tliis sentence has reference to certain things that occurred at No. 5,
Buckingham Gate—mentioned in pp. 77, 78.
NO. 14] With D. D. Home 89
Ansiver.—Yes, infinite possibility, harmonizing with pre-
destination is the law. Oh, I wish so much some spirits
from other planets could come to you, but that is very
rarely allowed. When Malle (Mrs. Jencken's servant)
passed away, a spirit from another planet passed by the
open window, that was all, and yet the room was filled with
perfume for days ; if you had thought of it, and had gone
out into the garden, you would have found the perfume
stronger there than in the room.
" Henry, your father was inspired when he wrote his
works, remember this (grasping H. Jencken's hand).
Act ! Do something ! it is so very glorious to assist in
the search for truth. There are so many stubborn men
to be convinced. It is your duty to say that which you
know to be true, to utter it. (Taking my hand) Oh,
my lord, do something ! Act ! Aid the many beings yet
in darkness. There is the truth, it is only hid, it is
there nevertheless shining forth in all its splendour."
Dr. Elliotson, through Mr. Home, now spoke at some
length on the subject of mental and bodily disease and
imperfections, insanity and crime. He said, " It's very
wrong to allow persons to marry who are not properly
fitted to perpetuate their race. By allowing perfect
freedom of marriage, crime and disease become perpetuated,
and the lower and imperfect form becomes too permanent.
Such as are imperfect should be put aside, cared for,
pitied, but not allowed to perpetuate by marriage. Angels
standing by at very many weddings, where all is rejoicing,
weep and mourn—for they see the poor form that must
go out and suffer,—the outcast, the criminal, and the
murderer. But, when the soul is released, then a shout of
joy goes up to heaven that a spirit has been set free."
He then addressed us about the universal justice of God,
saying, " You hold up one book, the Bible, and you say
that all those who differ from you shall be damned, yet
other nations have other books and scrolls, and in their
turn say that all those who believe not in them, must
equally be damned. There is no damnation in that sense—
•
man is his own damnation ; it is the evil that lies in the
little troubled heart of ambitious man, whose acts are
90 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
after all but as the gurglings from the neck of a bottle,
signifying naught."
He then spoke of the great mistake parents make in
teaching their children religion without appeaUng to their
reasoning powers, and giving them something they could
hold on to. " Therefore is it that men are driven to
take refuge in a cold barren philosophy. I doubted and
told myself that all was not so, that there was no
future—no God, then there came this (rapping with his
fingers on the table, and being answered by some spirit on
the other side of the table), one, two, three four, nothing
more—and all was changed, and the scales fell from
my eyes, and the broad light of immortality shone upon
me. I felt that I was immortal ;
by a few gentle raps
only was all my scepticism dispelled." Towards the
close of this sentence "Home got greatly excited.
Suddenl}^ throwing his hand up to his forehead he said,
" Oh, Dannie !
" in quite a different tone of voioe,
and fell back in his chair ; he presently added, " Do not
be frightened, Dan will be all right presently, but we
have made too much use of him ; take his hands but
do not touch his feet, and let him stretch himself out."
We held his hands and he became perfectly rigid all over,
stretching his legs out to their full length. After a
minute he fell back in his chair, then started up and
taking Mrs. Hennings' hands said (Dr. Elhotson speaking
through him), " They tell me I have been too violent with
Dan, but my dear lady, I must just tell you this. You re-
member many many years ago you brought me a little
girl, a clairvoyant, and I was not good, and would not
be satisfied with the tests. I was influenced by the
other two girls ;
they were very jealous. You are not angry
now, are you ? You know I meant no harm. I mention
this to satisfy you of my identity. You have had many
such tests and are now satisfied."
' This scene occurred some 30 years ago at Dr. Elliotson's studio,
where Mrs. Hennings attended with a remarkable clairvoyant named
Ellen Dawson. Dr. Elliotson behaved very abruptly on this occasion,
and pmietured and injured the child, whilst in the mesmeric state ; no
one present knew of this mcident, and it had even escaped Mrs. Hen-
ning's memory until reminded of it.
NO. 15] With D. D. Home 91
After this, Home threw himself back in his cliair and
awoke, he said, " I am wide awake, but I cannot move at
all." In a few minutes he recovered, and said that he was
quite well ; that he did not know what he had been
doing ; but that he felt as though he had been very
happy.
No. 15 Seance—5, Buckinghmn Gate, August, 1868.
My dear Father,—While staying at Dunraven the other
day I saw announced in the paper the death of Adah
Menken, the American actress with whom both Home and
I were shghtly acquainted. On the following morning I
got a letter from Home, saying that she had been to
visit him, that she appeared very restless, and that she
was very anxious to come when he and I were together.
On returning to London, Home, at my request, came to
stay at No. 5. All the evening he complained of being-
very nervous and in an unpleasant state, which he
attributed a great deal to her influence. I felt just the
same, but put it down to having been out at two fires
and not home till six o'clock the previous morning.
Almost immediately after we had gone to bed and put
the hghts out, we both heard music much the same as at
Norwood but more powerful and distinct. Home said that
the music formed words ;
that, in fact, it was a voice
speaking and not instrumental music. I could hear nothing
but the chords hke an organ or harmonium played at a
distance. Home became quite excited because I could not
distinguish the words, thinking that if I could not hear
them, it must have been his imagination. He asked the
spirits if possible to make the words sufficiently clear for
me also to hear them. They said " Yes " (by raps) ;
and the music became louder and louder until I dis-
tinctly heard the words, " Hallelujah, praise the Lord ;
praise the Lord God Almight3^" It was no imagination,
or the result of anxiety on my part to hear the same as
Home did. Every now and then I could not distinguish
words, although he said he could ; but I repeatedly heard
92 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
the words above mentioned as plainly as possible. I cannot
in the least explain to you how the voice articulated ;
the words were not separately spoken, neither did it
resemble a human voice. The sound was slightly reedy
and metallic, not very unhke the Vox humana on an
organ. If you can imagine an organ pipe of some rather
reedy stop speaking to you, it will be as near it as
anything I can describe. Home said he heard the words,
" Adah Isaaks Menken " pronounced ; I did not. The
music or voice gradually died away. We asked if it was
Menken's voice, and they said not hers alone. There
were loud raps at different times upon the floor and walls,
and some article of furniture was moved : I heard the
movement, but could not see what it was.
The room was dark, the bhnd being nearly down over
the window. We both saw as it were a luminous claud
about the middle of the room over the table, and another
luminous cloud-like body floating in the air. Occasionally,
I saw a luminous form standing at the foot of Home's
bed which he did not see, and he at one time saw a
similar appearance at the foot of mine which I failed to
perceive ; we distinctly heard the rustUng of a silk dress
moving about the room. Home and I had called on
Menken at her hotel one day last year, and she then had
on a very heavy silk dress, it appeared as though she
caused the rustling of this dress to be heard by us. At
one time I heard some one moving, and looking over on
towards Home's bed, I saw her quite plain (as did also
Home) as a white slightly luminous body, I could clearly
see the folds of the drapery. In passing between him and
the window Home said she obstructed the light. She
moved up from near the foot of his bed where I first
saw her, making as loud a rusthng noise as a living
woman in a heavy silk dress would do, to the head of
his bed, bent over, put her hands upon his head, and
disappeared.
Presently Home said that she was slightly taking
possession of him, and I heard his hands moving about
on the bed clothes in the curious way that they do under
those circumstances. He then sat up in bed involuntarily.
KO. 15] With D. D. Home 93
and said she was taking possession of hira, and asked
me not to be frightened at anything he might do.
I felt rather nervous at this ; and asked him, if
possible, to tell me before he did anything. He said
nothing, but lay down in bed again. In about a minute,
he said in quite an altered voice, " I am coming over to
you now," and I saw him get out of bed. I did not feel
sure whether he was asleep or awake, and I said, " Can
you see your way ?
" He said, " Ah, I want no hght to
guide my steps." I then perceived that he was in a
trance, and that Menken was speaking through him. He
walked slowly over to my bed, knelt down beside it,
took both my hands in his, and began speaking.
I shall never forget the awfully thrilhng way in which
she spoke ; the desolation of the picture she drew of her
feeUngs at first. The words I do not recollect—the effect
of them I shall always remember. She went on to speak
of the wonderful mercy and goodness of God ; of the
hopeful state she was then in ; of the very little we know
of the next world, sapng that she had thought she knew
something of it. She spoke a great deal about Home, of
his character, &c.,_ &c., and a good deal about herself,
and mentioned a curious fact. She said that at the time
Home and I called upon her together, she felt then what
she was. " Yes," she said, " what was I but an animal ?
Yet I felt and knew that I ought to aspire to higher
things, and I longed sometimes for it." It appears as if our
having called together upon her, had some curious effect,
as she said she could not well say what she wanted, till
we were together again. She spoke of the intense desire
of the spirit sometimes to communicate with, and do
good to, those on earth. She spoke in such an humble
yet happy manner, of her having been permitted to come
that night into a house where so many pure and holy
beings had been. She spoke with the greatest pleasure
of having been allowed to go into my mother's boudoir,
and said that her greatest happiness, since she passed
away, had been that evening—in being permitted to make
her voice audible to iis in praising God. She went on to
say, how much she wished to be sometimes near me and
94 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
near Home to watch over us ; and assured me again
and again that she would do me no harm or hurt. She
then kissed my hand and said, " I must go now ; I
must not make too much use of Dan." Home then got
up and walked slowly away, turning round twice, and
raising his hands above his head in an attitude of prayer
or of blessing. As he went away from me, his clothes
became slightly luminous.
He got into bed and I could hear him breathing
regularly as in ordinary sleep ; in about five minutes he
awoke and asked me if I was asleep, he said he had been
asleep and wanted to know whether we had been hearing
beautiful music, or whether we had been dreaming. I
told him nothing about his having been in a trance
untd next day. Home said he felt remarkably happy and
calm,—probably some reflection of the more calm and
soothed condition of Menken when she left ns. I was in
a queer state, my fingers and feet tingled as if I had
pins and needles. Every time I dropped off to sleep I
heard, or fancied I heard, the same strains of music.
However I slept very soundly.
Now all this is to me far more wonderful than what
took place at Norwood. I was, to all intents and pur-
poses, actually conversing ^vith the dead ;
listening,
talking, answering, and receiving answers from Menken.
Home's individuality was quite gone : he spoke as Menken,
and we both spoke of him as a third person at a distance
from us. Menken said something (what I cannot remember)
about her having been a Jewess, and that events were
tending gradually towards a greater unity of different
creeds.
No. 16 Seance—Homhurg, August, 1868.
At Cologne we slept in a double-bedded room. As
Home was going to sleep, he said, " How odd." I asked
him what he meant ; and he said he had heard Menken's
voice say, " That is right, Dan," in reference to an
observation he had just made to me. She also told him
NO. 16] With D. D. Home 95
that she was with us that morning when we were talking
about the probabihty of dogs being able to understand
each other ; that they could communicate with each
other by magnetism, by touch, and through the eye ;
but not at all by sound. She added that she was going
with us. and that we should hear her voice.
At Frankfort, Home came into my room in the morn-
ing ; and on my asking him some question as to how he
had passed the night, said that after he had gone to
bed he heard Menken's voice say that his sheets were
damp, that he had found that they were so, and had
slept in a railway rug.
On Thursday night, at Homburg, we both heard strange
raps about the room. I then felt and heard Uttle gentle
taps upon the foot of my bed, by which I recognized
the presence of my mother. I asked if it was so, and
was answered " Yes." I said to Home that I was glad
my mother was there, because I thought that she had
not been near me for some time. This message came :
" Yoii must at times he aUoived foreign influences ; hut
I do not leave you—/ love yoxi too much for that.''' We
were taUdng about this sentence ; and Home was saying
it was unselfishness that induced my mother to give way
to other spirits sometimes, who were very anxious to
communicate, w^hen this message was given :
" The love
of our great Creator is unselfish.'' We then began specu-
lating as to whether there was a continual contest going
on in the next world between good and bad, and I was
answered by a message sajdng that " there is a contest
the same as on earth.'' I made some remark that on
earth it was a great deal a matter of physical force,
and that a good weak man could not turn a bad strong
one out of his house, when this message was given :
" Purity, when freed from the mortal, is strongest, as truth
overcomes error." Home presently said, " There is a
spirit standing in the corner, can you not see it ? I
can see it as a faint light increasing and decreasing in
brightness." I looked, but could not make it out ; but
I saw a faint light on the other side of the room, and
called Home's attention to it. As we looked in that
96 Experiences in S'lnritualitsm [seance
direction, the light in the corner shone out suddenly,
like a flash of lightning. It was an instantaneous per-
fectly bright flash of light, lasting perhaps nearly a
second.
No. 17. Seance.
On the 30th of August we had a seance at Mrs. Hamil-
ton's. Present : Mr. Home, myself, Mrs. Hamilton, her
daughter, Lady Fairfax, and Mrs. Gregory.
Very soon after sitting down, a strong influence became
apparent, and raps were heard vipon the table. My
hands were a good deal agitated ; I felt the cold air
very plainly. Home's hands were taken possession of,
and he was caused to get up. He went behind Mrs.
Hamilton and began tapping her very rapidly with both
hands on the ears and back ; while doing so, he went
into a trance. He continued to tap her ears and to
make passes over her. He then walked up and down the
room, leaning his head upon his hand as though thinking
deeply, and making gestures quite strange to him in his
natural state. He went behind Lady Fairfax, stooped
down, and holding her shoulders with both hands pressed
his head against her back. He then stood behind her,
pressed his hand to his side on the region of the liver,
and looked as though he was suffering great pain or
inconvenience ; he then opened the door and went into
the other room. From there he said, " Mary (Miss
Hamilton) and Adare, come in here." We went in and
foxmd Home on the sofa, leaning his head upon his
hand. He said, " Adare, take a pencil and paper." I
did so, and wrote down what he said. Home said,
" Mary, the drum of your mother's ear is surrounded by
wax ; the nerve is not paralyzed. Take some plain
sweet oil in a phial, place it in hot water until the oil
is warm, and drop one drop into the ear every night.
After some time a discharge will take place, that is, the
wax will become softened and come away. It is untrue
that the nerve is paralyzed ; there is nothing wrong
with that, or it would have been ciired at once. You
NO. 17] With D. D. Home 97
may remember once that the hearing came back ;
that
was because the wax broke away shghtly. Lady Fairfax
has an over secretion of bile—the hver is inactive ; this
causes irritation of the nerves, great loss of appetite—in
fact, a complete loathing of food. Take in the morning,
every other day, one drop of tincture of digitahs." Home
then came to my chair, sat down beside me, and pressed
me close against him. He sat down again upon the
sofa, and said, " You must prepare some little powders
composed of as much cayenne pepper as will he upon
the point of a penknife, the same quantity of ipeca-
cuanha, and twice that quantity of carbonate of soda :
take it immediately after meals. You could have it
made up into pills if you like, but the powders are best.
You suffer from indigestion—the bile is faulty ; that
causes nervous irritability, which extends to the brain,
and causes sleeplessness and other results. You should
avoid heavy suppers and strong drink late at night ;
but this, of course, must be left to yoiir own good
sense. We have no remedy for that : lead a plain
natural life."
Home then got up, told us to go back to the other
room, and not to tell him when he awoke what he had
been doing. We sat down again, and he placed himself
in exactly the same position behind Mrs. Hamilton as
he had occupied when he became entranced. He then
awoke and said, "Is it not funny, all the power has
left my hands !
" and sat down. We then had some
physical manifestations ; the table was moved, tilted,
and raised oli the ground ;
my chair was a httle moved,
as was also Home's. " Good night " was then said.
While he was in the trance, some one asked whether he
could see. I said " No "'
;
but, as if to prove he did not
use his eyes, he took out his handkerchief and bhnd-
folded himself, and did not remove it until just before he
awoke. He was also elongated while in the trance.
Mrs. Hamilton has been deaf for some time ; the
doctors have declared that the nerve is injured. Mrs.
Hamilton told me that Mrs. Weldon, of London, being
in a clairvoyant state, told her that her deafness was
G
98 Experiences in Sfiritualism [seance
owing to a secretion of wax, and recommended oil. Lady
Fairfax is very unwell, and I had been suffering from
sleeplessness, unpleasant dreams, and nervous uncom-
fortable nights.
No. 18 Seance—Homhurg, Monday, Sejitemher 1th, 1868.^
Last Tuesday, the 1st, we had a seance at Mrs. Hamil-
ton's, but nothing whatever occurred. Home was not
well. On Wednesday morning Home picked up a won-
derful specimen of the death's-head moth, and brought
it home, put it in a drawer and thought nothing more
about it. That night I suddenly awoke, Home said to
me, " A very curious thing has just occurred. I was fast
asleep, and so were you, all at once I turned round, awoke,
and saw a spirit—a man, standing by my bedside. He said
'
You are on no account to part with that death's-head moth,
it is your good genius, you are to give him two louis
to-morrow, and he will play with them according to his
impressions at a quarter-past twelve, and with the money
he wins you will get a medallion to put the moth in.
That window must be shut.' The spirit also said some-
thing to me about Mrs. Lyon, but I cannot remember
what. When the spirit had finished speaking, he moved
a step towards your bed, stretched out his hand, and
immediately you awoke." Home having a bad cold on
his chest, I got up and shut the window. (The night
before this—Home being much oppressed by difficulty
of breathing—a spirit told him through the alphabet,
to lie on his right side, he did so, and found relief.)
Neither of us could go to sleep after this, and after some
time I said " I wish as the spirit awoke us, that he
would send us to sleep again." Soon after I felt a most
curious influence, my eyes kept shutting involuntarily,
^ The date of this heading refers to the date on which the record
was made, not to the date of the seance. This will be found to be
the case with many other of the headings, and attention is called to the
point because in one instance (see below, p. 151) the system followed
has led to some confusion as to the time and place at which an im-
portant seance was held. [Ed.]
NO. 18] With D. D. Home 99
and squeezing themselves together so tightly that I could
not open them. My right leg and arms became occasion-
ally quite rigid ; the sensation was not the least uncom-
fortable. I was quite conscious and heard Home go to
sleep, but could not sleep myself for a long time.
On Thursday, the 3rd, I had fever, jjalpitation of the
heart, and felt very ill. Soon after we had gone to
bed, we heard raps, and a spirit said, " You have both
caught cold in that gambling room, sitting at the table in
the large room near the door, there is a strong current of
cold air there.'" I asked if it had not something to do
with Count Ronicker, they said, " Yes, his influence is
too strong, let hiin make a few passes over you and you
ivill conquer it.'' I asked, should he mesmerise me and
send me to sleep, they said, " No." They then said,
" We have already calmed you," which was the case.
Home then went into a trance ; he got up and came
over to me and sat down on my bed ; he sat for some
httle time holding one of my hands in his and pressing
the other against my heart. I felt very calm and quiet ;
he then joined his hands in prayer and began praying,
but I could not hear the words. I said, more to myself
than him, " I will unite my prayer to yours." He took
my two hands, joined them within his and we prayed
together ;
something affected me so much that I burst
out crying, and the tears ran down my cheeks. After
a minute or two, he passed his hand across my throat,
and stopped the crying immediately ; he than made
passes over my head and down my side, took my hand
and kissed it, kissed my forehead and said, " Good
night ;
sleep, sleep—when you fall asleep you will not
awake." He then got quietly into bed again ; in about
half a minute the clock (a very noisy disagreeable one)
struck eleven. He got out of bed and went into the
next room where he awoke and nearly fell down ; he
was so much astonished at finding himself standing
opposite the clock. The clock stopped at that moment.
100 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
though I do not believe he had touched it ; in fact he
could not have reached it without getting on a chair.
In a short time I fell into a sound sleep.
The next morning Home gave me two louis to play for
a medalhon for the moth ; I went in at a quarter-past
twelve and put one on red—red won ; I then put the
other also on red—red won again ;
making therefore
six louis. Something seemed to say to me six is enough,
and I put out my hand to the rake to take the money ;
however, when I had my hand almost on the rake,
I felt a disinclination to take it. I allowed the money to
remain on red, and so lost. I left the table to look for
Home to tell him the money was gone ; when half way
down the corridor I involuntarily stopped, turned round,
and walked back again. Something seemed to say, you
must use two louis of your own, and take them back
afterwards. I did so, and won a small sum. I took
back my two louis and handed the remainder to Home.
No. 19 Seance.
On Friday, the 4th [September, 1868], we had some
raps in the room, and a spirit said, " Are you good ?
"
We both thought, but could not discover that we had
done anything particularly wrong that day. I asked,
" Is the question for me 1
" No answer. " Or for Dan ?
"
No answer. " Or for both ?
" No answer. I said, " Is
it not for me ?
" Two raps came, meaning " Partly," or
"Perhaps." After a pause, they said, "We do not wish
to reproach you, but at the close of the day it is always
well to review all that you have dmie, so as to be able to
avoid rep)eating the same things, if wrong, another day."
The same night we both saw a luminous hand waving in
the air at the foot of Home's bed.
On Saturday, the 5th [September, 1868], Home was not
well, and a certain circumstance annoyed him. In the
NO. 19] With D. D. Home 101
evening, I took him up rather sharply about it ;
telling
him it was absurd letting liis imagination run wild, and
supposing all sorts of nonsense. At night Home was
very ill ; it was about eleven o'clock, I was undi'essing,
he was in bed. Count Ronicker came in and sat down.
Home became cataleptic or something having that appear-
ance ; his fingers were turned back, his arms and his neck
twisted round, and his whole body became as rigid as
iron—^for about five minutes he did not appear to breathe.
Count Ronicker magnetized him, and did him a great
deal of good. Home completely forgot English, and said
he could only speak Russian to the Count. He spoke
about me, but I do not know what he said.
After a time he got better, and went into a trance
and spoke Enghsh ; but so low that I could scarcely
hear. I asked him to speak louder, he said, " We cannot
—oh, do try to hear, we cannot keep Dan long in
a trance as we would wish, he is so ill." He said, " When
Dan told you to-day that he felt a disagreeable influence,
as it were, trying to separate you, he did not tell you
all ; he ought to have done so ;
you were too sharp
with him ;
you were too hard upon him also about
playing ; remember he is very differently situated to you ;
remember always that his nature is very sensitive, very
different from yours. You must arrange your worldly
affairs together." He then sat up in bed, and began to
talk in French, still in a trance ; he smiled and beckoned
to some one at the other side of the room. " Ah," he
said, " there is such a sweet gentle spirit here ; 1 will
tell you her name directly." He described her, and said
she had most beautiful eyes ; that when she smiled, she
smiled with her eyes also. He described the colour of
her hair, eyes, &c., minutely. " There is a httle child
with her—ah, there are two ! One passed away at its
birth ; the other is older." He than shuddered and
said, " There is a spirit here who committed suicide.
Oh!" he said, and began making passes before him,
and drawing himself back as i£ in horror. Soon he went
on in French, and said, " Daniel is very ill : his brain
is very bad ; the influence about him is mixed to-night.
102 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
At four in the afternoon lie began to be ill, and his
friend did not talk to him or understand it, and after-
wards his friend was a little cold and hard upon him ;
he has also undergone a very great trial lately, we cannot
cure him of the effects at once. We tell you that you
may understand the state he is in." He then lay down,
and said to the Count, " It was Sophy who made the
raps on the wall of your room last night. She is your
guardian spirit, and is always about you and caring
for you." The Count asked " Which Sophy ?
" He said,
" Both the younger and the elder." After a minute he
sat up again, turned to the Count, and said, " Where
then was your faith when you prayed to God on your
knees for death ? Where was your faith ?
—you should
then rather have wished to live." He talked for some
little time in French to the Count, and told him some
facts which he (the Count) swore positively to me could
be known only to himself and the spirit that Home had
been describing ; he then said, " When Daniel awakes we
will try and make some manifestations for you ; but
Daniel is so ill we cannot do much. You will take a
chair ; but not too near Daniel, your influence is too
strong. Adare will put the candle out." After he awoke
I put the candle out, and we heard distinct raps on the
floor, walls, door, &c., and the Count felt his head touched.
The Count then went away. Soon after he had gone,
the same spirit that had told us the night before to
review our actions said, through the alphabet, " How
about' to-day ? Soon after, he said, Are you happy?'"
I then heard that Home was getting some message
;
but I do not know what it was. I heard him say,
" I cannot do it—oh ! please don't ;
you know I am so
ill ?
" Directly after he turned his head round towards
me, and said that when he had told me he felt an un-
pleasant influence as though trying to separate us, he had
not told me all, and he went on to explain about a
very extraordinary case of second sight that had occurred
to him that day.
After he had done so, he said that he felt quite com-
fortable and happy. We talked for some time about
NO. 19] With D. D. Home 103
second sight, and he was explaining how one could tell
by the appearance of his eyes when it was lil^ely to occur
to him. Suddenly he said to me, " I am in the Kursaal,
in the playing room ; I will tell you what I see." All
the time he talked quite naturally, and knew that he
was in bed ; at the same time he declared he was actually
standing on the floor of the room, and could observe all
that was going on there. " Oh !
" he said, " it is horrible !
Oh, it is dreadful ! My God, it is so horrible that, if
it lasts long, I can never go into that room again ! I
see the table, and I see crowds of hands all about it,
flying about all over it,
—young hands, old hands,—hands
of men and women,—they are dashing about over the
table, sometimes catching hold of each other, and then
throwing each other off. Oh, there is a hand with blood
upon it ! There is an old man's hand, and a woman's
hand that seizes his, but he dashes hers away from him !
Oh, it is too terrible It is changed now. I will tell
you what I see directly. There are a number of young
people sitting round the table, all young, pretty and
pleasant looking ;
nearly all of them are women ;
they
are playing, but laughing, talking and thinking of other
things also, not intent upon the game ; the others are
all driven back from the table ;
they are in a varied
confused sort of crowd, there is a regular sohd barrier
that I can see before them. Some are leaning over
and trying to get across, but they cannot ; now the
table is covered with roses : I see that they are playing
with roses. A sort of leader among them, a woman, is
getting up and says, '
Well, I suppose we must take away
these lovely roses with us ; it is a pity, but if these
j)oor people prefer money to them, why we must take
them away.' Now it has again changed. The table is
covered with httle children, they are sitting on the table,
and most of them look thoughtful ;
they are such pretty,
sweet little children. The crowd is still kej)t back by the
barrier, but some of them look as if they wanted to
caress the children. There is one man who is stretching-
out his hands so eagerly towards such a rosy, pretty
little fellow, and wants to shake hands with him, but the
104 Ex2}eriences in Spiritualism [seance
child is saying, '
I cannot shake your hand, because we
have all just been washed and dressed, and your hands are
so dirty from the money that I must not touch them.'
"
After this he saw nothing more and went to sleep, and
awoke the next day wonderfully well, considering how
ill he had been.
On Sunday, the 6th [SejDtember, 1868], we had a seance
at Mrs. Hamilton's. There was a strong influence ; there
were raps on the table, chairs, &c. ; our chairs were
violently vibrated ; Home's chair moved, and there were
no messages. The table was tilted, not lifted. Count
Ronicker was present, and his magnetic influence was so
strong that it made us all more or less ill, and I think
stopped the seance.
No. 20 Seance—Friday, the 11th [September, 1868].
Last Wednesday night, soon after the lights were put
out, a spirit asked if our actions during the day had been
as they should be ? Soon after, he said, " The atmo-
sphere of this house is not good for either of you ; it is
very damp.'" I said, " Is that the reason I always awake
in the morning with a sore throat 1
" The spirit rephed,
" Yes.'' We asked where we should go ; the answer
was, " The Hesse is the highest.'' We accordingly moved
'into the Hotel de Hesse. The house in which we lodged
was, as the spirit said, in a very low and damp situation.
No. 21 Seance—Sunday, 13th [September, 1868].
Last Friday, we had a seance at Mrs. Hamilton's.
Present : Mr., Mrs., and Miss Hamilton, the Baron de
Veh and his wife, the Princess Karoh, Mrs. Watkins,
Mrs. Gregory, the Count de Mons, General Brevern,
Home, and myself. We had physical manifestations,
currents of cold air, vibration of our chairs and the table,
table-tilting, &c. Home's chair was moved shghtly ;
Mrs. Watkins, who was sitting near him, was moved also.
NO. 21] With D. D. Home 105
Mi's. Watkins had suffered severely from rheumatism,
and was quite bent double by it. Home's hands were
taken possession of, and he was moved to get up. He
placed himself behind her chair and began tapping her
on the back and grasping her shoulders ; he then sat
down and presently went into a trance. We recognized
by his manner the same spirit that had prescribed for
Mrs. Hamilton, and Lady Fairfax, and myself, on a
previous occasion. He walked up and down the room
two or three times ; then placed his head against Mrs.
Watkins's back, and held it firmly there for a minute or
two. He then walked into the next room ; beckoned to
me and made a sign as of writing. I got a pencil and
paper, and went in. He was sitting down, and said,
" We wish you to have a compress made—a sort of
plaster of tar spread upon a cloth, and covered with
muslin, to be placed upon the back ; it will give strength
to the spine. There is want of action, and no proper
re-action ; the blood is very acid—that is the cause of
the rheumatism ; that will do now." I went back to
my place ; he came in and sat down, and began to
speak of the different spirits present, telling their names,
and describing them, so that their relations present
recognized them. He said that with one lady there was
a sweet little girl who wanted to play with him, and he
went through the form as if playing with a child. He
then stood behind the Count de Mons ; addressed him as
his father ; lent his head against his, and spoke to him
for a long time in a most affectionate and touching
manner. He said he could become a medium and be
able to draw. Mrs. Gregory had been very sleepy for
some time. Home turned to her and said, " We wish
to take this influence away from you ; it is purely
physical—nothing spiritual about it ;
you live very much
with Lady Fairfax ; she is very ill ; that is what affects
you ;
you must not be too much with her ;
you are not
strong enough to bear it." He then made passes over
her hands for a few minutes. Home then began talking
to Madame de Veh, and spoke to her for some time in
a most kindly manner ; the words I forget, but they
106 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
were to the effect that she was on no account to let
her heart grow faint ; that the future would be brighter
than the past ; and that there was a new development
coming to her (she is a writing medium) ; what it was
they would not tell her, but it would cause her great
happiness. Home spoke to several others and then said,
" Daniel must now come back, as we want to make
some manifestations."
Soon after, he awoke. Although we sat for some time
longer, we had only slight manifestations. Two or three
people got up soon after he awoke, which perhaps was
the reason of it. During his trance. Home spoke some-
times in English, sometimes in French. When he was
describing the spirits present, he seemed not to be quite
certain about the name and relationship of one of them,
and said he must go and find out. He rose up, went
into the next room, and stood there a short time by him-
self, and then came back and told us about the spirit
in question.
September 15th [1868].
Last Saturday night I was very wakeful. Late at
night. Home being asleep, I heard raps on some part of
the floor near his bed. They were tolerably loud and
monotonous, going on with a regular beat, like the
ticking of a clock, until I fell asleep.
At dinner last Saturday, Home pointed out to me a
young man sitting at the end of the table, and said
" I feel impelled towards him—I have something, I know
not what, to say to him, or to do for him." After
dinner Home went up and spoke to him, and asked him
to come the following evening to Mrs. Hamilton's.
No. 22 Seance.
Last Sunday we had a seance at Mrs. Hamilton's.
Present : Mr., Mrs. and Miss Hamilton ; Mrs. Main-
waring, Mrs. Spearman, Mr. A- ,
Home, and myself.
NO. 22] With D. D. Home 107
Soon after we sat down, there were vibrations of the
table, the chairs, the floor of the room, &c., and we felt
cold currents of air. However, it soon ceased, and we
sat for some time without anything occurring. Some one
suggested that we should have tea, and try again after-
wards. We accordingly did so ; and after the things
were cleared away, sat round the table again. We felt
the cold air and vibrations of the table. Home suddenly
said that he had distinctly seen a figure pass before the
window outside. Before coming to the seance, Mr. A
had told us a curious occurrence that happened to him
the previous night. He was waiting in a garden to meet
a friend of his, a lady ; and he saw her, as he supposed,
walking towards him. He got up and went to meet her
;
but when quite close, he looked on the ground for a
second, and on raising his eyes the figure had disappeared.
He was very anxious to know whether what he had seen
was a delusion ; and if not, whether the figure that
passed the window was the same or not.
Soon after, Home went into a trance, and sat for a
httle time making passes over his own eyes and head.
He then went and stood behind ]\Ir. A , and looked
at him for some time. " Ah," he said, " you are like
the simoon—like a wild wind of the Desert." He talked
to him for some httle time ; I cannot remember his
words. He then said, " You have many spirits about
you who love you, and many who do not. Your atmo-
sphere is very varied ; it is Hke your character, change-
able, wild, uncertain. You are pursuing a phantom."
Home also said something about marriage, but I forget
what. He then sat down. ]Mr. A. had been wishing
to hear something about the apparition he had seen the
previous night, but had said nothing aloud. Home
turned to him, and said, " Yes, it had to do with what
you have in your mind. You understand very well what
I mean. When I said you were pursuing a j)hantom
that ought to have been sufficient answer to you. You
will have a vision at a moment when you least expect :
it will be a pleasant one. Take care that you profit
by it, or you will see one other vision which shall be
108 Experiences in Spirihialism [seance
terrible." Home then got up, went close to Mr. A ,
clasped his hands together, and said, " Ah, do think
of what you are doing ; do reason about it." He then
walked up and down the room, raising his hands and
letting them fall again, as a man would who had done all
in his power and could do no more, and saying, " The
ways of God are inscrutable —the ways of God are in-
scrutable." He then sat down and began explaining to
us how God's creatures could only act according to His
will ; and how spirits, though they could frequently see
events coming on in the future, yet could not avert
them. " We can see," he said, " the rocks in your path,
and can sometimes strew them and cover them with
flowers, but we cannot remove them ;
so, though we may
see misfortune—though we may see blood will be
shed about it—we cannot prevent it : we can only
influence, and sometimes warn." Turning and pointing
solemnly to Mr. A , he said twice, " There is danger
in it—there is danger in it." He then turned to Mrs.
Mainwaring, and spoke to her to the effect that she was
never to allow her mind to dwell on a certain subject
that had occupied her three times during her life, once
for a whole day. " You have got rather a low influence
about you," he said, " because you are always expecting
and wishing for spiritual interference in the every-day
affairs of life. You should take a higher view of it than
that. You wonder why the spirits do not help you. Are you
not a spirit ? You are all spirits, only you have the
earthly envelope about you. Rouse yourself, do all you
can to rouse yourself, and help yourself ; do not expect
others to help you if you do not act yourself. It is a
common thing for people to say, '
If spirits are about us, why
don't they manifest themselves ?
' Is not God everywhere ?
Is He not about you ? Why then does He not mani-
fest Himself ? Yet do spirits interfere in a thousand
ways that you little dream of, and never notice. God
has so ordained, that though many of you spend your
lives looking for evidence of His existence, yet every day
you pass by unnoticed the most wonderful and beautiful
evidences.
NO. 22J With D. D. Home 109
" Do not suppose for a moment that you can do any-
thing in secret ; have no false modesty or false shame,
and think not to do that in private which you would not
do before the world. If it be not enough for man to
know that God is everywhere, and sees all his actions,
then let him remember also, that his father, mother,
brothers, sisters and all those most dear to him, are con-
tinually about him ; do nothing therefore in private that
you would be ashamed of doing openly." Turning to
Mrs. Spearman, he said, " Louisa, when your mother
suffers from those acute pains in her limbs, she should
foment them with an infusion of hops, just pour boihng
water on the hops, and use it as hot as she can bear.
Hops are very good ;
they not only act as a sedative,
calm the nerves and mitigate the pain, but they also
strengthen and act as a tonic." He then, after hstening
apparently at J\Irs. Hamilton's ear, said, " The oil is too
heavy against the drum of the ear, that is why your
deafness was increased." Turning to Miss Hamilton, he
said, " Mary, yovi have used more than we ordered ; we
prescribed one drop only, you ought not to have used
more ; for the future, drop the oil on a bit of cotton
and use a httle ether with it."
Home then got up, walked round the table, taking
our hands one after the other. He was then twice
elongated and shortened to less than his natural height.
He made Mr. A put his foot on his feet, and place
his hands, one on his chest, the other just above his hips,
in order that he might be sure that he was standing
fairly on the ground, and that he might also feel the
elongation and contraction taking place. He then sat
down and turned to me, laughed, and speaking in quite
a different tone of voice, said, " A. M says she will
come to you to-night. She says she was with you last
night, and made those monotonous taps that you heard
;
she wanted you to sleep and thought that might send
you to sleep. She says she made those slow regular
sounds, Uke as it were the rocking of a cradle, as a
sort of lullaby to soothe you. She says she will be able
now sometimes to make sounds like that, even when you
110 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
are alone. When Dan said last night something about
having been praying for you, it was she who spoke
through him ; it was not Dan who spoke at all himself.
You had better tell him this as he has been rather
worrying himself, thinking that his mind must have been
wandering in his sleep. Dan will come back now ; sit
for five or ten minutes, and we will try and make some
manifestations-; we want John to see some." Home
then awoke, and we sat for a little time, but had scarcely
anything more. We then broke up and a most extra-
ordinary thing occurred. I was standing in the balcony,
the rest were about the table ; all of a sudden the gas
went out and the room was in darkness ; the gas was
not turned off, but went out. They all declared that no
one was . near the burner ; three people, ]Mr. Home,
Miss Hamilton, and Mrs. Mainwaring, said that they
distinctly saw a hand and arm stretched out over their
heads upon the jet of gas and that at that moment it
went out. They said it was so distinct that their first
idea was that some one had gone suddenly crazy and
must have burned themselves.
Mr. Hamilton told me next morning that he had
investigated it, and found that at the same moment
eight jets of gas went out in the house, namely one in
the room in which we were ; two in the next ;
three,
I think, on the landing and stairs, and two in the kitchen.
The meter had not been turned off, the meter does not
communicate with the street gas, but has a separate pipe
leading to the gasometer.
That night we heard raps announcing, I suppose, the
presence of Adah Menken ;
they did not last however.
Just as I was going to sleep. Home who was asleep,
turned in his bed, and said, " I have been trying but I
cannot." He said it in a different tone of voice to his
own, and as if he was rather vexed at having failed. I
said, " Never mind," which awoke him, and he asked me
if he had been talking in his sleep.
NO. 23] With D. D. Home 111
No. 23 Seance—Sunday, September 20th [1868],
5, Buckingham Oate.
Last Friday night, after we had gone to bed, we were
talking, and I was saying something about how small
and trivial our hves on earth must appear after we have
passed away. A spirit joined our conversation by saying
" Yes," by three very emphatic loud raps. Home pre-
sently had a sort of vision ;
being quite awake, and
knowing where he was, and describing to me what he
saw, he said, " I am in a desert, that is Just at the
edge of a great desert—there is a sort of barrier between
me and it. The desert is perfectly barren, there is no
light of the sun, but a great cross at the far side of it,
and the light flowing from the cross is lighting it all up,
the cross means truth ; there are a number of pigmies
all about the cross. Oh, it is so strange, they are all
working away as hard as they can, and trying to build
up blocks of stone and rubbish and stuff before the cross,
but as they build them up, the blocks become trans-
parent, and the light from the cross still shines through
them. The pigmies are digging away and working so
hard about it, they seem to have made a desert of the
place by digging out earth and stufi^ to hide out the
cross." Home suddenly stopped talking, and when he
spoke again, was in a trance, he said, " Now that you are
quietly at home, we wish to explain to you how it was
that Dan was so nervous at Homburg." He then ex-
plained some circumstances that had puzzled me a good
deal. He went on to say, " After that Dan caught a
cold, you also felt the same influence and you caught
a chill, then the magnetic atmosphere of that man Roniker
was so strong, that it irritated your nerves intensely,
and on that night you were on the point of having
brain fever, but by the foot bath that we influenced
Dan to insist upon your having, and by magnetizing you
through Dan, it was prevented. It was Adah Menken that
influenced Dan in that matter." I remarked how thankful
I was. Home said, " Oh, it was .not Adah Menken that
magnetized you. She made Dan see that vision he told
112 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
you of, she is very often about you." I said that it was
very good of her to endeavour to do us good. Ah, he
said, " It does her good ! Ah, if bitter tears could wipe
away the recollection of what has been, and the know-
ledge of what might have been ;
well, it was not to be.
It was not, therefore, it was not to be. Adah Menken
was the most suited of all the spirits about you to
interfere in that matter at Homburg that you know of ;
her hfe had made her more capable of it, in fact—as
she laughingly says herself
—' You must set a thief to
catch a thief.' She says that the wish you expressed at
Homburg shall be gratified. Get her book. She says,
'
If I could send it to you or write an order for it I
would, you know ; but then I cannot.' However, it is
very small and not expensive, and you can very well
afford to buy it, so if you will get it, she says she will
this winter write her name in it for you. You remember
saying that you wished to see an instance of direct
spirit writing, she thinks that will be a nice way to do
it for you ; she will do the same for Dan." I said,
" Shall I tell Dan ?
" " By all means. Dan is now
coming back to his desert, he will not know anything
about this httle episode." Having a matter on my mind,
I said, " May I ask a question ?
" He said, " Yes,"
before I spoke, having read my thoughts and said, " Yes,"
again, when I asked. I accordingly asked about what I
wanted to know, and received an answer and explanation ;
while he was speaking he laughed, and said, " Some
spirits say we should not tell you too much, since this
is in the future." Home then awoke and took up the
thread of his description of the desert, directly after he
said, "It is beginning to fade," the vision then melted
away gradually.
No. 24 Seance.
On Saturday we had a seance at Mr. S. C. Hall's.
Present : Mr. and Mrs. S. C. Hall, Mr. Humphreys, the
Comtesse Medina de Poniare, her son, a boy of about
NO. 24] With D. D. Home 113
14 years of age, the two Misses Bertolacci, Home and
myself. Before we sat down there were raps all about
the room ;
immediately after we were seated strong
physical manifestations took place, violent trembhng of
chairs, table, floor, &c., &c. ; currents of cold air, very
loud raps in various directions ; the table tilted, moved,
and was raised from the ground ; some questions were
answered. Home was in a very nervous state, presently
he went into a trance and said, " We are doing this to
calm Dan ; talk." He then got up, walked about the
room, sat down and played the piano for a little time ;
he then arose, went to the boy and placed his hands
upon his head, patting and stroking it ; he then went to
the Comtesse de Pomare, but when he came near her
he drew back, shuddered, and looked distressed, " Ah,"
he said, " there is something here the spirits do not hke."
Some one said, "It is because you are in mourning, and
have crape on your dress." " Yes," he said, " We do not
like that at all. He (her husband) has pulled your
dress two or three times, as you are aware of, he will
try presently and tear a bit of the black crape off to
shew you that he does not like it."
We began to talk about the custom of wearing mourn-
ing, and the difficulty there would be in breaking through
it. Home walked about the room ; then sat down and
said something to this effect : "If you like to put on
some outward sign of woe while those you love are in
gloom before dissolution, do so ; but to put on mourning
after that, when a soul has been set free, and has risen
nearer to God—yes, nearer to God—oh, no ; rather put
on all that is pleasant—all that is pleasing to the eye,
and cheerful ;
but, if you think that soul is not
worthy of approaching nearer to God, but must be in
darkness and tears, then, if you will, put on mourning ;
but wear it longer than six months or a year." " Yes,"
the Comtesse remarked, " but we do not wear mourning
because we think that a soul is unhappy ; but because
we ourselves are unhappy." Home said, " Have you so
httle confidence in God, that you cannot trust Him to
do all for the best ?
" He then spoke of some of the
H
114 Experiences in Spirihialism [seance
spirits present, chiefly addressing the Comtesse. He then
turned to Mr. Hall, and told him his sister was present
;
he smiled and said, " She is standing just there behind
you-—she has a communication to make to you, but she
cannot make it now ; she seems so gentle and timid."
Then he laughed, and said, " She has such a funny habit
of shading her eyes with her hand, as if she was afraid
the light would hurt them. Of course, it does not ; but
she cannot get rid of the habit now and then, and the
others are smiling at her for it. She is doing hke this
now," and he shaded his eyes with one hand, and went
feeling about before him with the other (Mr. Hall's sister
had been quite blind, and had had the habit of shading
her eyes and feeling before her, so that was a good
test of identity). Home then turned to me, and said,
" There is a spirit standing near you that went through
a great deal of sufliering before passing away, her name
is V ; she and the other spirit (Mr. Hall's sister)
seem so much drawn to each other. They both under-
went a great deal of suffering, and that appears to draw
them to each other. They are talking about it now, and
they are speaking of their suffering, as if it had somehow
purified them, and as if they were so thankful for it,
and considered it to have been the greatest blessing."
He told me that we should see lights that night, and
then said " Daniel is now coming back." He then awoke.
We had some more physical manifestations, and the
accordion was played under the table. Home holding it
in his hand. It was then suggested to put out the lights,
and try if we could see anything ; the candles were
accordingly put out, and we should, I think, have had a
wonderful seance, but that the son of the Comtesse de
Pomare got so frightened and nervous we were obliged
to stop. We had strong physical manifestations, the
table being lifted high in the air ; the window curtains
were moved, one being carried right across the table,
and twined round Mrs. Hall ; the other was drawn
between Home and me, laid over my shoulder, and across
my knee. I had hold of the curtain while it was moving,
and felt that there was a hand moving it, but when I
NO. 24] With D. D. Home 115
tried to touch the hand it shd away. I and several
others saw a form moving about behind me and Home,
and another form at the opposite side of the room, and
we were touched at different times ; however the boy
got so frightened we had to light the candles, and put
an end to the seance.
The same night Home had to drop some lotion into
his eyes. I dropped it in for him, and then put the
lights out. Almost immediately he said, " What a curious
effect that stuff has had, I see the most beautiful little
Hghts before me." I said, " That is not the effect of
the drops ;
you said when in a trance that we should
see Ughts." " That may be," he replied, " but, what I
see is in my eye," and so positive was he that he came
over to me and asked me to look into his eye, and try
if I could not see them ; of course I could not. He went
back to bed, and then I began to see the lights, and he
was satisfied that they were not in his eye. I saw the
most beautiful httle phosphorescent hghts moving. I saw
as many as three at a time ; sometimes there were two
together hke eyes, sometimes two would come together,
and then dart away again from each other. We had no
other manifestations.
No. 25 Seance—at Ashley House, October 20t.h [1868].
Present : Captain Wynne (Charhe) and his wife, Brinsley
Nixon and his wife, Home and myself. We sat at a
small card table. There were shght manifestations, currents
of cold air, vibration of the table and chairs, and raps.
The alphabet was called, and the sentence was given :
" Sit at the other table." As soon as the influence became
pretty strong, the table was moved towards the card
table. After a while we got up, and as they evidently
wished to alter the position of the table, we moved it
ourselves into the centre of the room, and sat down
again. We soon felt violent vibration of the floor, chairs,
and table—so violent that the glass pendants of the
116 Ex'periences in Spiritualism [seance
chandelier struck together, and the windows and doors
shook and rattled in their frames, not only in the room
in which we were sitting, but also in the next. The
card table was moved (no one touching it) up to our
table, and the two were pressed hard together. The sofa
was, under the same conditions, moved up to our table.
A sentence was soon after given :
" We had to overcome the
influence of the little table, and we have accomplished it."
Shortly after we were told to move the table and sofa
back to their places. We had raps on both the tables
and on the floor, and the spirits joined in our conversa-
tion two or three times by rapping " Yes " or " iVo." The
following message was then given :
" We have fnade
these external manifestations to convince 7jou all ; Charlie,
ask questiofis, we have a ivork to do -with you."
Charlie asked if Augusta would recover ;
they rapped
" Yes " emphatically. He asked if his sister would, and
after a pause they answered " Perhaps," by touching him
twice upon the knee. He asked if they could bring us
word what Augusta was then doing ; and afterwards
asked for the name of the spirit who had touched him.
" Will " was spelled, and a " W " ; but the power then
appeared to cease, as we could get nothing more. After
a pause, they spelled " Father," but the power again
failed. After an interval they said, " We have not power
to do more noiv ; find violin near," referring to the fact,
I suppose, that Augusta had her viohn near her. We had
no further manifestations after this. Both Emmy's and
Cadly's dresses were pulled during the evening.
After they had all gone, Home went into a trance.
" Ah," he said, " there was nothing wrong ; no evil
influence to overcome about that little table. It was
rather this way ;
you had been accustomed to sit at the
other table ;
you had eaten off it, and always sat at it,
and it had therefore become as it were partially magnetized
by you. We were obliged to equalize the power over the
room and furniture ; and we therefore brought the two
tables in contact, and moved up the sofa to inoculate
them, as we might say. There was nothing evil about the
card table. There is no such thing as evil in your sense
NO. 25] With D. D. Home 117
of the word. Evil is but good perverted and distorted,
gnarled and twisted out of shape. As a blade springing
up through the ground if it meets with a stone that
obstructs it, is forced out of its course, stunted and
thwarted, so is good changed by circumstances into what
you call evil. If evil was as you think, you would have
to say that the devil had made the world to answer
his purpose, but it is not so ; God has made the world to
answer his ends. You may not be able to see how all
this evil can ever harmonize and resolve into good ;
but it is nevertheless so. Because the sun rises in the
midst of clouds in the morning you do not know that it
will be cloudy all day ; no ; so it is that though all
may be dark and cloudy now, it will end in brightness.
" It is wonderful to stand as it were above and outside
the world, and to watch the great wheels revolving ; the
cogs look all black and broken, covered sometimes with
blood, and disfigured ; but yet they all fit in and work
on smoothly, though to you. it appears otherwise. Yet
a time will come when there will be peace and knowledge
on the earth about all those matters that so much distract
it now. The world revolves in its sphere, turning on its
axis, and will enter upon a region of greater peace and
knowledge.
" You do not know the difficulties that have to be over-
come in communicating with you. Supposing now we
want to make manifestations, four spirits would perhaps
take possession of the four corners of the room, and
would begin, as it were, to throw across to each other,
and weave together their harmonizing influence, so as to
get everything equahzed and prepared for the adoption
of whatever they want to do. One spirit will remain
in the midst who will manage and direct all that is to
be said—of course, if one of the other spirits wish to
communicate he would let him do so, they are not
selfish, but one must have the direction of the mani-
festations to ensure unity of purpose. That is why it
is so bad to wish for the presence of any particular
spirit ;
that spirit might come, and the others not being
selfish would admit him into the circle, and he not being
118 Experiences in Sjnrihialism [seance
in harmony with the others, would destroy the whole
thing. You may often notice, especially at the commence-
ment of a seance, a whole volley of taps let off, that
is a spirit discharging the electricity, to equahze the
current ; often until the whole is harmonized we cannot
stop ourselves from making raps and cannot control them ;
so that a spirit might at first, if you wanted them to
communicate before they were ready themselves, answer
"Yes" for "No," and "No" for "Yes." If you put
your ear also against the table while communications
are being given by raps, you will generally hear a number
of little ticks going on ; that is, some spirits are dis-
charging the electricity to keep the current in equili-
brium, while the others communicate.
"If we did not take all these careful precautions there
could be no conversation, nothing but a chaos of sounds
and raps. It is this same difficulty—the difficulty of
encountering the materiahsm of all about you, that is
the cause of a great deal that you call bad and evil
influence. A spirit might be standing near you that loved
you very much, that was not the least impure, and that
wished to soothe and comfort you ; and yet he might
only serve to irritate you, and the more anxious he was
to soothe, the more he might irritate and distress, because
he was not in harmony with you. You can feel that
yourselves ;
you are not always in harmony with your
best friends, and sometimes you do not feel as much at
ease with them, as you would among strangers, and would
have more difficulty in showing off any accomplishment,
such as playing, singing, &c., &c., to them than you would
to strangers. Now, this case of the lady who is said
to have had her hair pulled out by the roots ; it might
happen that a spirit that loved her very much was
standing near, perhaps even her own father wished to
soothe her and caress her hair, and it might have the
effect of irritating intensely ; he could not stop himself,
he could not withdraw in a moment the electric current
that was set going, and the consequences might be
painful ; of course all this applies chiefly to undeveloped
and partially developed medivims."
NO. 25] With D. D. Home 119
Question.—As it is so difficult to influence men are you
not constantly endeavouring to do certain things and
failing 1
Answer.—To a certain extent,—yes. But spiritual in-
fluence has much more to do with the affairs of the
world than what you dream of. All inspiration, poetry,
improvising as in the case of the old Troubadours,—all
that is owing to it—everything in fact, is set in motion
by spiritual interference. To those who pray earnestly
for and seek for hght and truth, hght will certainly be
given ; our greatest difficulty is the folly of men's hearts,
and their blindness. There are thousands of men who
pray that rather than that SpirituaHsm should be under-
stood, men should beheve it to be the work of the
devil ; to advance themselves one day only, they would
retard the progress of the world for ages. Every prayer
has its effect, and every aspiration and wish is a prayer ;
it is not necessary to go down on your bended knees to
pray. Would that you could see as we do the great
black cloud (to speak figuratively) of prayers and aspira-
tions that is for ever rising up from a populous haunt of
mankind like this great city of London. Aspiration for
truth and knowledge will surely bring its answer, and as
surely does every prayer to the contrary distort and
retard true progress.
Question.—I had a question put to me the other day
as regards the comparative truth of different sects, which
I answered according to my abihty. I should be glad to
know if I answered with anything hke truth.
A7iswer.—There is truth in every rehgion ; even the
poor Pagan, who bows down before his idol, possesses
the germ of truth, inasmuch as he worships something
outside and beyond himself. It is very wrong—oh, very
wrong indeed, to say there is only one portal to heaven ;
were that the case, there would be few indeed who would
arrive there. You are right in supposing that the form of
rehgion which is best suited to a man, though it may
contain a smaller proportion of truth than another form,
is yet the best for him ;
being the most adapted to his
character and mind, it is that in which he can expand
120 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
and improve himself to the best advantage. A good
answer for you to have given would be :
'
Spirits teach
individuality of spirit.' As you leave this world you are
apt—oh, very apt indeed—to continue for a long time.
Those who seek not to raise themselves, and look not
for truth, must continue as they were until they—to
use a common expression—find it does not pay ; then they
will try to improve and will do so. There is this in-
dividuality ;
and a man is apt to get around him an
influence agreeing with himself. Like seeks like every-
where—it is a universal law. The crow cannot consort
with the eagle, or the magpie with the dove."
Question.—" Have we not better opportunities here
than we shall ever have hereafter of forming ourselves ?
"
" Most certainly, this is your time. If you strive earnestly
and prayerfully here, you enter your true hfe in a state
fitted for it. Seek for truth and you shall find it."
Account of Manifestations at Stockton.
Little Dannie Cox died in London last Sunday, the
11th October, 1868 ;
Home, who was his godfather, and
very much attached to him, was extremely cut up about
it at first. On the Monday morning. Home breakfasted
with me at No. 5. I was reading the Daily Telegraph
over the fire, waiting for breakfast, and he was sitting
at the writing table, we heard loud raps on the floor
between us ; and the following message was given ^ :
—
" We wish you to take the body to Stockton (Mr. Cox's
place in the country) to-morrow ; you ivill place the coffin
in the draivi^ig-room ; and. at half-past eight we will show
you a spiritual funeral. You will take care that all the
family are there, and no one else ; if I ivant Mr. Bat
(family lawyer) / will send for him. I invite your friend
to be present." After this we went to breakfast, and
the same spirit rapped repeatedly on the table during
breakfast, and answered some questions.
1 Believed to be by the spirit of the late Mr. Cox.
NO. 26] With D. D. Home 121
No. 26 Seance.
^
The next morning the body was sent down ; I accom-
panied Home and Mrs. Cox. The drawing-room was
most prettily arranged, everything being covered with
white drapery, and quantities of flowers and ferns taste-
fuUy placed. The coffin was open, and the httle body
entirely covered with flowers, all but the face ; which
} looked very calm and peaceful.
At half-past eight o'clock we all entered the room,
and sat down, forming a sort of circle, but having no
table. Home went into a trance, got up and fetching a
chair sat down close to the coffin ; he then took Mrs.
Cox's hands in his and dehvered a most wonderful dis-
course, taking as it were for his text, the words, " The
Lord gave and the Lord hath not taken away, blessed be
the name of the Lord." He went through the greater
part of the burial service, explaining and expounding ;
I
he then spake in the most consoling manner to Mrs.
I- Cox, bidding her have confidence in God and in His
goodness, and not to look upon (hat as a separation
which was not so in reahty ; told her the little boy
would be continually with her, was there even now
;
spoke of his purity and happiness, told her to be strong
and not to give way to sorrow ; but now that her
husband and other relatives had undertaken the develop-
ment of little Dannie, she was to devote herself all the
more to the education of the two remaining children.
He then took Gerrie, the other son, by the hand, and spoke
to him for some time in the most impressive manner
about his future conduct through life, bidding him be an
honest God-fearing man, and to remember that his brother
would be cognizant of all his actions and therefore not
to do that which he knew would offend or grieve him.
He then took the httle girl's hand, petting and comforting
' her, and giving her messages from Dannie about his pet
rabbits and things of that sort, and telling her that
Dannie would often be in communion with her in her
sleep, and that she would dream of going about with him.
He then walked round the circle, taking each one's hand
122 Experiences in Spiritualism [SEAKCE
and saying a kind word or two, and standing up in the
centre, and pointing to each of us, enumerated the spirits
present, saying, " Your mother, your brother, and so on."
He then made a sign to signify that they were all stand-
ing round him, and raising his hands, prayed in the most
beautiful and earnest way for some little time, and then
sat down again in his place ; he said that little Dannie
would make raps, and we heard three distinct little ticks,
hke electric sparks going off ; he said we should recognize
Dannie by the pecuharity of his raps. He then said,
" We wished to have made physical manifestations, but
Dan is spiritually weak and we cannot, but something
will occur to-night." After Home awoke, we went into
the conservatory, and again heard httle Dannie rapping
on the floor and on the glass.
At supper, at about ten o'clock, there came suddenly
very loud raps all around on the table, walls, floor,
&c., &c. I never heard them so loud before. Home was
entranced, and taking Mrs. Cox by the hand led her
into the drawing-room. When there, she heard something
rusthng near the coffin, and immediately felt a little
hand touch her, and place between her fingers a sprig of
lauristinus. Home then brought her back into the supper
room ; and somebody remarked that lauristinus meant in
the language of flowers
—" If neglected, I die." Home
awoke immediately.
He and I slept in the same room. Soon after he had
gone to bed, he went into a trance ; and began discours-
ing about moral principles, &c. He then said, " You
tell his mother in the morning that Dannie gave her that
sprig of lauristinus, which means, '
If neglected, I die '
;
because he wanted to show her that if she did anything
unworthy of him it would give him pain. Your greatest
idea of pain is death ;
you are wrong there ; but that
is your idea, and therefore he put it in that way." I made
some remark about its being a very wonderful thing
his giving her the flower. He said, " We are going to
do something still more wonderful for you. A little later,
when the house is quite still, you and Dan are to get
up ;
you will take the slippers ; we will take care Dan
NO. 26] With D. D. Home 123
does not catch cold. You are to go downstairs, and
into the drawing-room ; Dan will stand at the door ;
and you are to go alone up to that little box you call
a coffin, and hft the lid a httle ; and then return to
Dan—that is all. Little Dannie's colours are purple and
white—signs of the greatest purity ;
purple and white
are the most perfect colours ; remember that ; and after
them blue, and so on down to black, which is the lowest."
Home then awoke, and presently said, " I feel impressed
to open the door." " Well," I said, " do so if you hke ;
it can do no harm." He got up and did so ;
and, on
his way back to bed, I heard some spirit tap him on the
shoulder. He said something in answer, and went into
a trance ; he picked up the shppers, put them on my
feet, and told me to get up. " Do not be afraid," he
said, " I require no light to guide my footsteps." He
took both my hands in his, and then led me rapidly,
without hesitation, out of the room, down the stairs,
and across the hall, the place being perfectly dark. He
conducted me into the drawing-room, and then stood
still, saying, " Now walk straight before you to the coffin,
and do as you have been told." I did so, raising the
drapery, and Lifting the lid at the head about an inch.
Home said " Raise it a httle higher, about as high as
would permit a hand entering." I did so, and heard some-
thing rustle inside. Home said, " That is sufficient."
I replaced the lid, and returned to where Home was
standing. He, as before, took both my hands in his,
led me upstairs, and into the bedroom, closed the door,
and put me down in a chair by the window, still retaining
my hands in the same position. He said, " Little Dannie
is here between you and the light ; can you not see
him ?
" " No," I said, " I cannot." He laughed and
said, " Dannie would make himself appear as white ;
but he cannot just yet ; he has so recently come to us.
He will try and make himself visible as a dark shadow to
you." I still said that I could see nothing. " Ah, never
mind !
" Home said ; and holding one of my hands in
his he stretched it out in the dark, and said, " Dannie
will let you play with it first." I perceived a strong
124 Experiences in S-piritualism [seance
scent, as it were, blown over me, and felt a flower
touch my fingers and then withdraw itself. Presently, I
felt a little soft hand touch mine, and a flower was given
me. I then felt a strong tremor run through Home's
hands, and he spoke as little Dannie, and said, " You
must get into bed quickly ; Dan is going to awake ;
if you would like very much to see what you have got
you can make an excuse to light a candle presently."
Accordingly, after Home had awoke, I lit a candle, and
found I had been given a purple and white petunia that
had been placed in one of the little hands in the coffin.
No. 21.-~Seance.
The next evening we had another seance, this time
sitting round a table placed against the head of the
coffin. The coffin had been fastened down and covered
with white drapery, most prettily arranged with flowers
and ferns. We had physical manifestations and some
messages from little Dannie, the table on which the coffin
was placed was moved about, the drapery agitated, &c.
We then heard pieces of fern being plucked, we could
distinctly hear the branches broken ; a piece of fern was
given to each person present, their attention being called
to it by being touched on the knee, and the hand being
then placed beneath the table the fern was put into it.
With the fern presented to me, the following message was
given :
—" Birth has given you distinction, let your life he
the more distinguished for a prayerful and earnest search
after truth ; it is kind of you to have come to the house
of joy ; truth seekers are brothers and sisters and should
share each other s sorroivs and joys." Home then went
into a trance, and took the lamp out of the room, saying
we were to see a manifestation that could only take
place in the dark. We presently saw a brilliant httle
star, it flitted about with an uncertain-like motion—some-
times approaching, sometimes receding from us. We
heard raps come from the star which flashed like an
electric spark at each detonation. Mrs. Cox suddenly
NO. 27] With D. D. Home 125
said that a quantity of Eau de Cologne had been thrown
over her from the ceihng. Home carried a small flask
containing some which the spii'its probably made use
of. Home, who was standing at some distance from
us, said, we should have the odour changed four times
and in effect a totally different scent was blown over us
four times on a palpable strong current of air. Home
then fetched the lamp back. We heard a knocking at
the door, he opened it and appeared to invite some one
to come in, but did not succeed ; he shut the door,
when the knocking re-commenced he oj^ened it again,
but was unsuccessful ; this was repeated three or four
times, at last he went and gathering some ferns and
. flowers from off the coffin opened the door and held
them out ; still it was in vain, the knocking again
occurred at the door, and this time he took little Ada
and led her to the door, when he appeared to succeed
in inducing the person to come in. He said, " It
is " (a little servant girl who had died two days
previously). " How very curious, she seems scarcely to
know that she has passed away, and says, she does not
like to come into the room where there is anybody dead.
Every time I opened the door she said, '
No thank you,
I would sooner not !
" But little Dannie wanted her to
come in and rapped, or rather got another spirit to rap
for him at the door, every time I shut it. I took the
flowers and ferns to show her there was nothing dis-
agreeable about the room, and then I took little Ada with
me, and she has come in now and is standing there in
the corner. She will move this fern that I have placed
here on the table near her." Home placed a fern on the
table, and presently we saw it taken up and put down
again. He then awoke.
The next afternoon the httle body was placed in the
ground. During the service a shght shower came on ;
but just at the conclusion, when we had lowered the
coffin to its place, a bright beam of sunshine broke out,
flooding us with hght ; and a beautiful rainbow appeared
126 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
in the heavens. On our way home, every one remarked
that the burial service, which is in general so impressive,
had that day while in church sounded strangely flat and
unprofitable. Mrs. Cox asked how it was that the clergy-
man had not used the words dust to dust, ashes to ashes,
earth to earth. We assured her he had ; but she declared
she had not heard them, although standing as near to
him as any of us.
No. 28.
—
Seance.
The same evening we had a seance, and Home was
entranced—Mr. Cox speaking through him. He turned to
Mrs. Cox and said, " I was there with httle Dannie to-day,
but I did not like to take him into the church ; we
waited outside. The reason why the service did not
impress any of you is, that there was no spiritual presence
inside the building—nothing but the bare rafters. We
magnetized you to prevent your hearing the words
—
dust to dust, ashes to ashes, earth to earth. Now, if
you had been consigning to the earth this day the body
of some celebrated mediaeval ecclesiastic or great saint,
those circumstances of the shower of rain, the bright
gleam of sun, and the rainbow, would have been considered
miraculous. Of course they were not so ; it is unreasonable
to think that God's great laws should be interfered with
to give you a rainbow. Yet was it the result of inter-
ference in this way. We knew by our superior knowledge
of meteorology, and the laws that govern those things,
that at that hour on Thursday, there would pro-
bably be a combination of circumstances that would
produce those effects. We therefore very strongly impressed
Dan to insist upon having the funeral on Thursday instead
of Friday, which was the day you had fixed upon ; and
we impressed him to make you all hurry. You remember
how he did hurry you all on your way to church. As
it happened, you arrived at the right time, and every-
thing occurred just as we expected. That is all the
interference there was." He then spoke for some time
KO. 28] With D. D. Home 127
to Mrs. Cox, exhorting her to have patience and courage,
and to trust in God. Tlie " Nameless Doctor " then took
possession of Home ; who after walking about the room
thinking, took httle Ada's hand in his, and said to Mrs.
Cox, " This child's stomach is of more importance now than
her brain ; do not push her too much in her studies."
Dr. Elliotson then took possession of him, and he spoke
for some time to Mrs. Cox. Then turning to me he
said, " I suppose you have found out, if not you will
—
I know I did when on earth—that if you try and climb
up one rung higher on the ladder of knowledge than
others, the world will scream and say you are going to
tumble down and break your neck ; but when they find
you stick there pretty safely, they will try and scramble
up after you, and endeavour to get ahead of you. Pro-
vided your own conscience does not reprove you, never
mind what the world says. As my friend, Mr. Cox said
to you yesterday, '
Be constant in a prayerful and earnest
search for truth ; seek truth, and you will find it.' " He
went on speaking for some time, describing different
phases of worldly ambition, and warning us against them.
No. 29.
—
Seance, November 3rd, 1868.
In the account of the phenomena that occurred at
Homburg, mention is made of Home finding a death's-
head moth ; of my being told to play with two louis, and
with the proceeds to buy a locket with it. I took the
moth to Tessier's, and ordered a crystal medalhon to be
made for it. In due course it was sent home. While
Home was sitting with httle Dannie Cox, during his last
illness, the locket in his pocket was broken by a blow
from some invisible hand, or other agency. We speculated
as to the reason for this, but came to no satisfactory
result. The day before yesterday I asked for the locket,
in order to get it mended. When I saw it, I thought
that the material was glass and not crystal. I took it
to my optician, and found I was correct. I then took it
128 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
to Tessier's to have a proper crystal made. Yesterday,
while washing my hands before dinner, I said to Home,
" I now know why the locket was broken ; it was to call
attention to the fact that glass had been substituted for
crystal." Immediately a spirit rapped " Yes," very loudly,
on the dressing table. About nine o'clock I was reading ;
Home lying on the sofa. He said, " There is a strong
spirit standing near you ; he is nicely made, and appears
to have nice features, but I cannot see them clearly.
His hair is cut very short indeed, and [he] has a sort of
mark not amounting to a scar, upon his cheek bone." I
could not think who it was, when it seemed to flash upon
me that it was A B ,
though I could not recognize
him the least by the description. Home said, " His
name begins with an A." I said, " No ; with a B, if it
is the person I imagine." " His name begins with an A,"
he said, " that is, of course, his Christian name. " Well,"
I said, " that would be right." " Yes," Home said, " his
name is A ; he says he will come to us to-night."
Home said it was a case of second sight, and asked me to
look at his eyes to try and discover the film that is said to
cover the eyes of a person during second sight. I could
see nothing abnormal about them, except that the pupils
were much dilated ; on applying light near them they
contracted naturally. The vision had nearly faded when I
examined his eyes.
Later in the evening we had a seance. Present : C. and
E. Wynne, C. and B. Nixon, James Gore-Booth, Home and
myself. We sat for about an hour, and scarcely anything
occurred. We then went into the dining-room to have
a cup of tea, and raps came on the table. We returned
to the other room and sat down, but had only very
faint- indications of spiritual presence. Home said to me,
" Let you and I and Charlie Wynne go into the bed-
room by ourselves for a minute, perhaps they would tell
us the reason why we have no manifestations." We did
so, and put our hands upon a small table. The table
tilted itself into Charlie's lap ; and we had messages
NO. 29] With D. D. Home 129
given by tilts of the table, by raps on the table, and on
the floor.
Message to CharUe.
—" We are developing you. You
heard sowids like drops of rain upon your pillow ; you
will soon he able to have raps ; persevere in sitting as you
have done at home : you will be rewarded by rnanifestatiotis."
CharUe asked, " Was that shaking of my bed anything
spiritual ?
" " Yes, like this table is shaken." Charhe :
" Yes, that is hke it exactly ; but I do not Hke to be
shaken in bed." The table was shaken more violently,
as if to say that perhaps he would be shaken again.
Charlie: "Who shook me?" "Grandfather William.
We took away the pain from Emmy the other night.'' In
answer to a question, they said there was nothing anta-
gonistic in any of the party, but that Dan was not in a
good condition. We joined the rest again, but had no
further manifestations.
After we had gone to bed. Home went into a
trance ; for some time he spoke with difficulty. He asked
me who certain people were. " Who is WUloughby
Wjmne ? Who is Emily ?
" he then said something about
a pretty Uttle child and two Amys ; and also there was
an uncle of mine there who used to give me apples out
of his pocket. I asked " Wyndham ?
" he said " No,
Goold." " Francis ?
" I asked ;
" Yes," he said, " Francis."
He then began to speak quite clearly, and said " We
would often hke to tell you who we are, but our oppor-
tunities of communicating are so rare and so short, that
we cannot generally do so. There are so many difficulties
in the way, it is hke sending messages along wires that
are continually breaking and getting out of order. We
could scarcely do anything to-night. Dan ought not to
have drunli a second cup of tea, or that second glass of
sherry at dinner ; the slightest thing is sufiicient to pre-
vent anything occurring. Ah, A has just come in
;
he has come busthng into the room ;
you heard him."
I said, " Well, I heard a noise as if the door had been
opened." " Yes," he said, "that was him ;
you will always
I
130 Experiences in Spiritvalism [seance
know Avlien A comes ; he will make a sound like that
at the door. He is standing close to yoix now, looking
straight at you. He does not quite understand his
position yet, poor fellow. He cannot disabuse himself
of the idea that he is going to be punished. He does not
think that according to the life that he led on earth
he ought to be in the company of those who are here in
the same room. He says, '
I am going to help you out
of a scrape, old fellow.' He has a strange regret at
having left the earth ; he was in love ; he will of course
soon cease to regret it ; but he does not quite understand
himself as yet. He asked us why you had put your
glasses there close to you ; and when we told him in
case he or any of us made ourselves visible to you, you
wished to be able to use them, he coidd not understand
that he could possibly make himself apparent to you.
He was a bit of a fop ;
fond of being neat and tidy, and
very careful of his hands ; he had very nice hands."
{hi answer to a remarh of mine.) " He says he has
nothing to forgive. He has been a good deal with your
mother ; she is fond of him ; he is very truthful. He
is very fond of his father ; he says that his father is
honest in his belief, and that is more than he can say
for most people. Your mother and he, and all of us
have been consulting about you, as regards a question
yovi promised your father that you would ask. Yow had
better absolve yoiirself from that obUgation, for your
mother would not like you to ask her about any single
or jaarticular dogma.
" That religion in which God's created creatures worship
him in spirit and in truth, forgetful of self, and casting
aside worldly amliition, is a true religion, nor does it
matter by what title you choose to call it. There is
too much of worldly ambition and love of power mixed
up in rehgion." Home then spoke to me about some
purely personal matters, and then for some time on the
subject that atonement mvist be made for all wrong done
on earth. "Ah," he said, "Many that are very high
and mighty when with you, must become very humble
indeed when they come to us ;
you would scarcely think
NO. 29] With D. D. Home 131
that Alexander the Great is yet, as it were, in the posi-
tion of the lowest servant ; he did certain things on earth
that he knew to be very wrong, and he was a very powerful
man—powerful, I mean magnetically. Every great general,
statesman, or orator, is full of magnetism. The power of
an orator, the way he draws his audience to him, is
mainly due to his magnetic attraction. We sometimes
magnetise you, and you are not aware of it. You were
magnetised just now, and you heard a spirit shout."'
I said, " I am not aware that I did." " You did not
notice it ;
you did not know what it was, and you did
not pay any attention to it ; but you heard it. The
spirit wanted to come into the room, but he knew he
could not. He was not worthy to come into the pre-
sence of those who are in the room, no one said any-
thing to him—no one rebuked him ; but he felt his own
unworthiness, and rushed away screaming, as you would
if suffering pain ; as you, if some one were telling you
some dreadful harrowing story, would cry out to stop
them, thus he felt what he was, and fled away. Now
some men would call him a devil, but he is not ; he will
try and make amends, and eventually all will come right.
God could not create what you call a devil.''
Home then began talking about dreams. He said,
" You may think it a very curiovis theory, but it is
true, that we are sometimes in communion witli
your spirits when we cannot even see your bodies.
In sleep, sometimes, your spirits are, as it were, nearer
to us, more open to impression. Of course, as you all
know, it is the mortal body only that requu'es sleep ;
the spirit is always awake. Now, with you, your stomach
is so much out of order, your digestion so hard, and in
such a bad state, that any impression upon you in
sleep takes a fleeting and painful nature."
{In answer to a question.) " Yes, you can take it with
other medicine. Take it for a fortnight, then leave o
for a fortnight, then take it again, and in two months
or so we can judge of the effect. We can only tell
these things by watching the effect." Home was then
silent for a short time. When he next spoke, he spoke
132 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
as little Dannie Cox. He said, " Oh ! I say ! now
look here (two expressions Dannie habitually used when
on earth). I Uke you to pray, it does good, and I am
fond of you. Never you mind about that fern, you shall
have another one. Perhaps you will find it yet, for I
am not sure that it is destroyed ; at any rate, never you
mind about it ; if it is, you shall have another. Dan is
going to awake now. When he has awoke, if you will go
and sit down on his bed for a minute I will come."
I did so, telling Home that I wanted to see if we should
have any manifestations. We heard a spirit come in and
walk about the room ; and perceived a hght near the
ceiUng. Little Dannie Cox then came and moved away
a pillow that Home had over his feet. He stroked and
pulled my feet, and sat on them ; and when Home
asked him if his mother was asleep, he bounced up and
down on my feet, feehng just as heavy as a child of his
age would if in the flesh. We also saw the same sort
of Httle star we had seen at Stockton. He then said,
" Now, good night," and stood upon the foot of the bed.
I saw him distinctly as a shadowy figure, of the same
size as his mortal body, with apj)arently some loose
drapery on. His hand was stretched out towards us
waving about. The hand and arm were directly between
me and the window, and interrupted the light as palpably
as if made of sohd flesh and bone.
No. 30.
—
Seance held at Mrs. Hennings' House, at Norwood.
Present : Mr. Home, Mrs. Hennings, Mrs. Jencken,
Mr. Jencken, Mr. Saal, Mr. Hurt, and myself. The
peculiarity of this seance was that the manifestations appear
to have been conducted with a view rather to convince
the spirits present, than the mortals.
Mr. Saal is a medium, but has been accustomed to make
a joke of the whole thing ; and has latterly been a good
deal troubled and annoyed by the spirits. We had
physical manifestations—tilting and raising of the table,
movements of the piano, currents of air, raps, &c., &c.
NO. 30] With D. D. Home 133
A series of messages were then delivered to Mr. Saal.
He was told that he should not treat spirits in a manner
that he would not dare to exercise towards mortals.
Good advice was given him, and he was told to submit
all to his reason, for it was given him for that purpose.
Suppose, they said, a spirit were to tell you to put
your finger in the candle, you would be very foohsh to
do so ;
you would be burnt ; but if a spirit was to tell
you to do this, and then magnetize you, causing you to
feel that some substance, as it were, had been placed
over your skin, you might reasonably think means had
been taken to prevent your being burned, and then you
would be right to try. Home then went into a trance.
He walked about the room, opened the door, and appeared
to welcome a number of people. He then seemed to be
explaining to them the different phenomena that had
occurred in that room. He showed how the table had
been raised, the piano and the furniture moved, &c.
;
and apparently explained the process of elongation, point-
ing to certain marks on the wall that had been made on
a previous occasion to record the height to which he
had attained. He then went to the fire-place ; stirred
the coals into ,a blaze, and seemed to recount how he
had handled hot embers. He sat for some time on the
hearth, and then got up and walked about a little while,
and taking up from the other table Glanvill's book on
Witchcraft, he appeared distressed. He brought the book
to me, and placed my right hand flat upon the cover,
supporting it himself underneath ;
raps came upon the
book. He gradually withdrew his hand until the book
was supported by one finger only ;
lastly, he withdrew
that also, and the book was suspended in the air, or
rather adhered to my open hand. My fingers were not
near the edges, my hand was extended flat upon the cover ;
I could not have grasped and retained the book in any
way ; it simply adhered to my hand. Home seemed
pleased at this, and laughed, and turned round to the
(to us) invisible spectators, as much as to say, " Do you
see that ?
" He repeated this experiment, making me
place my left hand upon his, which he placed underneath
134 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
the book, in order, as he said, that I might feel that his
hand left the book. When he withdrew his hand, there
was a space between it and the book of, I should say,
three inches. The book felt to me as though supported
from beneath by a cushion or column of air. He then
placed Glanvill on Witchcraft on the table, and, leaving
the room, brought back with him a large volume on
Mythology, which he had taken from a perfectly dark
library ; he also brought his own book. Reminiscences in
my Life, and laid them both upon the table. He then
walked about the room, and appeared to be expostulating
with the spirits, then sitting down he placed the three
books before him, in the form of a cross, and began
speaking about them. " This," he said, placing his hand
on the mythological book, " is pure Materialism ;
this,"
touching Glanvill, " Religion materiaUzed ; and this,"
taking his own book, " Materialism spiritualized. The
first, blood to appease a God ; the second, blood to
appease mankind ; the third, the blood of the soul to
appease mankind. Though you boast of your civilisation,
and though there are no longer persecutions of fire and
blood : yet is there a moral persecution, and, in many
respects, your age is as dark as any. Who will dispel
this darkness ? Who is bold enough to take the broom
and clear away the cobwebs ? It must come from the
material side—from your side—we cannot do it." He
spoke for a long time, more than half an hour I should
think. He likened different men's ideas of God to the
different attempts we would all make to delineate the
highest peak of the Himalayas. " None of you," he said,
" have seen it ;
you would all draw a different form and
none of you would be right."
He was very sarcastic about the wise men of the day,
who, he said, were afraid to investigate for fear of dis-
covering something beyond their own philosophy, and
which they could not account for ; and yet, not one of
them could tell you why one man's hair is hght and
another's dark. "You are much puzzled," he said, "about
many things. Know that the highest angels also are
lost in wonder and awe at many things." While talking.
NO. 30] With D. D. Home 135
he appeared to become uneasy and getting up, said,
" There is a spirit here who will go on arguing with
Dr. Elhotson, so that he cannot attend to anything ;
I must really interfere," and he walked to the other end
of the room, where he seemed to expostulate with some one.
Coming back he said, " Dr. Elhotson and Dr. Jencken have
invited a number of spirits here, they did not know
the nature of manifestations, and were anxious to see
them. Owing to circumstances not being favourable at
first we failed to do what we wished and they are not
satisfied, we will try again now." He went to the fire,
poked up the coals, and putting his hand in, drew out
a hot burning ember, about twice the size of an orange ;
this he carried about the room, as if to shew it to the
spirits, and then brought it to us ; we all examined it.
He then put it back in the fire and showed us his hands ;
they were not in the least blackened or scorched, neither
did they smell of fire, but on the contrary of a sweet
scent which he threw off from his fingers at us across the
table. Having apparently spoken to some spirit, he went
back to the fire, and with his hand stirred the embers
into a flame ; then kneehng down, he placed his face right
among the burning coals, moving it about as though
bathing it in water. Then, getting up, he held his finger
for some time in the flame of the candle. Presently, he
took the same lump of coal he had previously handled and
came over to us, blowing upon it to make it brighter. He
then waUied slowly round the table, and said, " I want
to see whicli of you will be the best subject. All
!
Adare will be the easiest, because he has been most
with Dan." ]Mr. Jencken held out his hand, saying,
" Put it in mine," Home said, " No no, touch it and see,"
he touched it with the tip of liis finger and burnt himself.
Home then held it within four or five inches of ]\Ir.
Saal's and ]\Ir. Hurt's hands, and they could not endure
the heat. He came to me and said, " Now, if you are
not afraid, hold out your hand ;
" I did so, and having
made two rapid passes over my hand, he placed the coal
in it. I must have held it for half a minute, long enough
to have burned my hand fearfully ; the coal felt scarcely
136 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
warm. Home then took it away, laughed, and seemed
much pleased. As he was going back to the fire-place,
he suddenly turned round and said, " Why, just fancy,
some of them think that only one side of the ember was
hot." He told me to make a hollow of both my hands ;
I did so, and he placed the coal in them, and then put
both his on the top of the coal, so that it was completely
covered by our four hands, and we held it there for some
time. Upon this occasion scarcely any heat at all could be
perceived. After having replaced the coal in the fire, he
went and held his hand—the fingers being extended down-
wards—about nine inches above a vase of flowers, " You
will see," he said, " That I can withdraw the moisture
and scent from the flowers." He came over to me and
rubbed my hands, imparting the odour of the flowers to
them ; his fingers were quite moist as with dew ; he also
flipped the moisture, and with it the scent from his
fingers to each person. He now appeared quite satisfied,
and after speaking a little to the spirits in the room,
opened the door and bowed them out, and then resumed
his seat. " Now," he said, " Do you all realise that you
have seen what is called a miracle, yet in reaHty it is
no such thing. All these phenomena only shew our
superior acquaintance with natural laws, and our power
over material substances. Mankind ought to have the
same power over the material world in which he fives ;
you little know the power that is in you ; had you faith,
you could do things you fittle dream of." He spoke
some time in this strain, and then said, " Dan is going
to awake now, do not tell him what has occurred, but
let him wash liis hands." When he awoke, he was much
exhausted, but after washing, appeared quite refreshed.
We examined him closely ; there was no sign—not even
the smell—of fire about him, neither was a hair of his
head singed.
No. dl-—Seance.
The other night, having been unwell for some days,
I went to bed very uncomfortable, and agueish ; I could
NO. 31] With D. D. Home 137
not get warm. Home's bed was rocked about, and he
said, "I do not know who you are, but unless there is
some object in it, I wish you would leave off rocking
my bed, for it makes me dizzy. The bed left off shaking
and a spirit spelt out " Adah." She said, " / am here
and seek to do you good ; can you imagine my inexpressible
joy, your angel mother has taken my hand in hers." Home
went into a trance, got out of bed, wrapped a fur rug
round his middle, then warmed his hands at the fire,
and commenced shampooing me over my chest, stomach,
legs and feet. He then took off my fur rug, warmed it
at the fire, and put it on again, and made passes over
my head, retreating as he did so to the further side of
the room. He then got into bed and awoke. I fell
asleep soon and slept soundly.
No. 32.
Last night, the 11th [November, 1868], I had gone to
bed about nine o'clock, and Home an hour later. Charlie
Wynne happening to look in, he sat down in the bedroom
and smoked. We were talking on serious subjects, and a
spirit joined in our conversation. Home went into a sort
of half trance and spoke for a short time. After Charhe
had gone. Home had a second-sight vision. He said that
he saw a wonderfully beautiful flower, the stem purple, the
leaves the purest white, the flower the deepest crimson,
turning to purple, each colour emitting a light of the same
tint. As he looked it changed and he said it had reference
to what we had been talking about, namely, whether there
was change in the next world. It was to shew that there
is. " You were speculating," he said, "as to whether
spirits could visit planets. They can visit them, planet
after planet, star after star, world after world, through
infinity, through space. Without change and progression
they would not be happy." He then said, " The tobacco
smoke is very bad, I was going into a deep trance, but
that prevented it ; I see it, not as a cloud of smoke,
but as material particles."
138 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
AdARE :
" But it could not be helped, I could not
have stopped him."
Home :
" You might, it was only false modesty, Charhe
would not have minded."
AdARE :
" But if I had stopped him when I saw you
were going into a trance it would have been too late."
Home :
" Yes, but you might have prevented it at
first, it was at any rate very bad for you." Home
was at this time only as it were half entranced, be became
quite entranced and said, " Tell Dan in the morning that
a Turkish bath will be good for him." He then got up
and began blowing as if to dispel the smoke, and
agitated the window blinds also, for the same purpose.
He said, " You have a stiffness about the head yet."
He got out of bed, came to me, and began rubbing and
kneading the back of my head, and the upper part
of my spine, occasionally extending his hand behind him,
and obtaining some moisture upon his fingers. I thought
at the time that he was using a phial of spirits of
camphor, that had been on the dressing table, but I
discovered afterwards that I had been mistaken. He
finished by vigorously rubbing my feet and legs ; he then
got into bed, rubbed his own chest, legs and arms, and
soon after awoke.
No. 33.
—
Sea7ice.
Last Sunday we had a seance at Norwood. Present :
Major Drayson, Mr. Collins, Mr. and Mrs. Jencken, Mrs.
Hennings, myself. Home, Charhe Wynne, and a Prussian.
We had strong physical manifestations, but none of the
higher sort, as two of the party were occupied in investi-
gations. Charlie happened to mention to some one a
rather curious reason that a lady of his acquaintance
had given for not believing in Spiritualism, namely,
that she had hved 50 years in the world without hearing
of it, and that therefore it could not be true. A spirit
said, " Sht forgot that people had lived before her, and would
in all probability live after her. Fmiunately all have 7iot
her organism." .
NO. 34] With D. D. Home 139
About ten days ago we had a smnce at Ashley House
with Henry and James Gore Booth. We had good
physical manifestations, which I think satisfied James.
No. M.—October 21th [1868].i
Last night I was saying to Home, that it was curious
my meeting him in such an unexpected manner at Malvern,
and wondering why it was that after having known each
other in Paris, we should have remained entirely separated
for so many years. I said that there must of course be
a reason for it. " Perhaps," I said, " my mother might
not have liked my investigation of Spiritualism." Immed-
iately a spirit rapped on a table by my bedside, " Yes,"
meaning that she would not have approved of it. Recog-
nizing the raps, I asked if my mother was there, and
was told, " Yes." Home asked, " But do you now
object to it 1
" Answer, " No, it adds greatly to 7)ty
Jiajypiness." After a pause, " My hoy ; now more than
ever, 7ny own boy." We then heard one of the ornaments
upon the wall being moved, and judged by the position
of the sound that it proceeded from a benitier that was
suspended over Home's head ; the benitier consisted of
a flat slab of marble, with two guardian angels repre-
sented on it, and a vessel for holy water. We heard the
benitier removed from the wall. My mother spelled out,
"/ bless you not with water, but by the 'ptire 2)7'esence of a
spirit ;
" and I then saw a hand and arm extended over
me, between me and the hght of the window. The
fingers were stretched out, and the hand descended
towards me, waving in an attitude of blessing until close
to my face, when it disappeared. Home then said,
" I see my Sacha (his wife) ; she is standing near the
foot of the bed, and has got the benitier in her hand."
I could see neither the spirit not the benitier. He said,
" She is bringing it over to me ; it is pressed against
my forehead ; she is making the sign of the cross with
1 If this record is correctly dated, it is given out of place, for the
preceding seances took place early in November, 1868. [Ed.]
140 Experiences in Spiritualism [seanoE
it on my face." Directly after I saw the benitier in the
air, near me ; it came quite close, pressed against my
face, and made the sign of the cross. I could see no
figure or anything supporting it. Sacha then said, " /
bless you both.'' The benitier was placed on Home's bed,
near the foot, and left there. Home said, " Do tell me,
Sacha, for otherwise I would not feel comfortable about
it ; did you take down the benitier because you do not
like it to be there ?
" Answer, " No.'' " Do you then
hke it ?
" " Yes, because it is a symbol of guardian
spirits " (referring to the figures upon it). She then said,
"And now a fond good night
;
" and my mother added,
" God bless you both."
No. 35.
—
Seance.
We had a very pretty seance at Mr. S. C. HalFs, the
beginning of last week. They had just come into their
new house at Ashley Place. There were only Mr. and
Mrs. Hall, Home, myself and one friend present. Home
went into a trance, and as it were, consecrated the house.
He prayed most earnestly and beautifully at the threshold,
at the hearth, at the dining table, and at Mr. Hall's
writing table. It was very striking. Dr. Elhotson then
spoke for some time through Home, and said, " I am
waiting for Dr. Ashburner, it will not be long before he
joins us, and right glad I shall be when he does."
No. 36.
Last night Home went into a trance, and spoke about
two strange sj^irits that were present. " Oh, there are a
number of men here, they are standing in a ring, and are
writing in little books : every now and then they dash
them down ; but they are compelled to take them up
and go on ;
they are very angry with each other, for
each one thinks that he has found out something much to
his advantage, and then he is disgusted to find that the
NO. 36] With D. D. Home 141
others know it. There is Fred Goodwin and a man
called Campbell among them, and there is one who seems
in a sort of mist, he says, '
You may put me down for
what you please.'
"
AdARE :
" Why they must be betting."
Home :
" Yes, they are betting, and they must go on
although they hate it. There is a regular barrier between
you and them, they would be disagreeable to you if they
came too close. It seems as though your mother had by
her love woven a sort of net between you, so that you
may see how horrible it is ; but still may not be hurt
by them."
I now heard a sound as of a horse galloping in the air.
Home :
" Do you hear that horse ? You will always
know that C D is near when you hear that noise.
He did not now make it himseK ; he cannot ; other
spirits made it for him."
AdARE :
" Will C D have to keep the company
of these betting men ?
"
Home :
" Yes, he will for a time, and it will be
painful to him, for he was not by nature coarse ; all
his coarseness was put on for bravado."
AdARE :
" Will he have to attend races ?
"
Home :
" Yes, he will ; and will see all the evil, all
the rascality and misery resulting from them. He will
not wish to go there ; but he will be compelled by an
irresistible impulse to do so until he becomes puriiied,
and fitted for better things."
AdARE : "I hope that may not be long."
Home : "It does not appear to me that it will be
long ; his nature is good ; he was very kind and did
many good actions. Many old and poor people to whom
he was kind, and some of his friends also who went before
him, are very anxious about him, and pray earnestly for
him. Altogether it does not seem that it will be long.
C D does not quite understand himself yet ; he
is conscious, but he does not know whether he is dead
or not. His mother is near him, and will be of use to
him. She > was a very worldly woman; she would be
higher than she is were it not for that." Home was
142 Ex'periences in Spiritualism [seance
then silent for a short time, he became much agitated,
and said, " Oh yes, I am sure we are very much obHged
to you indeed, are we not, Adare 1 We mortals are
very much obliged to you. Oh, please don't ;
Oh,
don't strike him ! Oh—(and there came a noise in the
corner of the room like a blow struck)—did you hear that ?
he hit him. Ah, they have all gone. Our mothers would
not let them come any nearer—they have gone now
—
they would have been disagreeable if they had been nearer
—they were so very rude and coarse—they were boxers
—
they made the noise hke of a horse galloping, and then
they said they had made a cursed row for us, and that
we were not thankful enough ; and they were angry.
One of them said, '
Come away, and let the chaps go to
sleep ;
'
but another got very angry, and got him in a
corner and hit him ;
you heard the blow." Home after-
wards said, " Of course he could not hurt him ; all these
things are done to shew you that perfect individuality
exists in the other world." Home soon after awoke.
No. 37.
—
Seance at Ashley House, November 20th [1868].
Last night the Master of Lindsay dined here. About
an hour after dinner, the drawing-room being very full
of tobacco smoke, we went and sat down at the table
in the dining-room. Immediately we had decided mani-
festations. The table was strongly moved ;
my chair
was rocked about ;
Lindsay and Home heard a voice ;
and we all heard a spirit moving about the room. We
were told to go back into the other room. Nothing
occurred at the table. Home got very drowsy—half
unconscious. He said he could see the table covered with
light, and light coming from my hands. He said, " How
very curious, I can see these words quite plain :
'
Some
one in a high position will commit suicide. He said he
had taken an overdose of medicine and drugged himself.'
"
After a short time he roused himself, and got better, and
presently went into a trance. He said to me, " There
are a great numlier of Roman Catholic spirits about you."
NO. 37] With D. D. Home 143
I asked if I knew any of them. " Yes, there is one you
knew, a priest, a very tall man. There are a great many
of them. It is curious, they seem to be going through
some sort of ceremony." He began speaking of the
strange and horrible influences about the Tower (Lindsay
is quartered at the Tower). He said, " They are very
dreadful, but can do no harm ;
they are obUged to re-
main at the Tower ;
they could not even make mani-
festations, were a seance to be held there. There is one
among them, could he manifest himself, it would be by
a most horrible stench, as of corrupt flesh." He described
him as having elevated eyebrows, pointed beard, and
wearing a ruffle. We asked if he had been a torturer,
or anything of that sort. " No," he said, " but an
instigator of those things. His tools and accomplices
have all gone. He is left alone—quite alone—walking
always round and round." " How unhappy," I said,
"he must be." "Unhappy," he replied, "Oh, he bears
a weight of misery upon him that would crush mountains.
Oh, those who perhaps here have worn upon their heads
a crown, when they appear before God and before His
throne, have to exchange it for a weight of woe upon
their brows that would seem insupportable." He described
several spirits at the Tower in most graphic language.
At last he appeared to see some spirit that he could not
endiire. " Oh ! go away ! Go away !
" he said, " You
must go away !
" He sobbed convulsively ; tore open
his coat and waistcoat ; took ofl: his cravat and collar, and
appeared to be sufl^ering very much. Presently he got
better, and we enquired who the spirit was ; he shuddered,
and told us not to seek to know. I asked why these
influences were suffered to come about us. He said,
"it is good you should know that there are two sides
to the picture, for fear that you might bring upon your-
selves such suftering as these feel." He then got up ;
pulled off his boots ; took a rose from a vase, and walked
into the centre of the room. Presently he came close to
me, and apparently spoke to a spirit. " Yes," he said
" Thank you." Then turning to me, said, " When
Dan went into the middle of the room, they took him
144 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
by the throat, and tore this button off his shirt ;
they
threw it at you, and you heard it drop ; and then
they tried to throw it in the fire, but they had to bring
it back to him." I asked, " Why did he take off his
boots ?
" " Just to typify his defencelessness ; that is
why he took the rose, to shew his goodwill. It is thus
that right overcomes wrong. Why, even if a beast were
suffering pain, and you went up and threatened it, you
could do no good ; but if you went soothingly and gently,
though at first it might resist, not knowing you, yet it
would soon become passive. Ah, the influence is all
changed." Turning to Lindsay, he said, " You wiU have
a curious manifestation at the Tower, quite alone."
Lindsay asked him about it. "I must not tell you
anything about it. Adare, perhaps, may be informed
;
but if you were, your mind would become too positive,
and that would surely stop it." He got up ; walked about;
patted me on the shoulder, saying, " You are all right,
you are going to get quite well soon." He sat down and
said, " I see an old man with silver locks ; he has on a
mantle, covered with stars." " Who is he ?
" I asked.
" Pythagoras. He is much interested about winds and
tides ; he has been studying the passage of the Red Sea.
He says it was quite a natural phenomenon, and has
occurred three or four times before the Jews crossed,
and once since. It is a curious circumstance, owing to
a combination of wind and of tide." I said, " Was it
observed when it occurred since ?
" " He says. No, he
thinks not," Home replied, " But when it occurs again,
men wiU observe it." " Are we about correct as to the
spot where the Jews crossed ?
" " Oh, yes, tolerably correct.
He (Pythagoras) was correct in his theory, that man should
never wear the skins of beasts ; there is an influence
in them that is never lost. He was right ; but he
exaggerated. You must, for instance, wear leather for
your feet, the influence is so shght and so easily counter-
acted by other influences that it does you no harm.
Caghostro is often with Lindsay, because he takes an
interest in freemasonry. You may tell Dan that he
has not been to liim for a long time ; but he will come
NO. 37] With D. D. Home 145
again to him. C D is very anxious to come to
you, but he cannot to-night. I see a woman, she repre-
sents Fate, she has in her hand a rosebud, it contains
a worm that has eaten it to the core, she is fastening it
to a horse—the horse is galloping off—oh, he looks as if
he must break his neck. Ah, the rosebud has fallen off
now. Everybody was anxious, before it was fastened to
the horse, to get at it, see it, and sniff at it ; but now
there are only two or three who have a good word to
say for it." "Is this emblematic of C— D ?
"
" Yes it is. The same spirit is here that foretold all
those earthquakes and convulsions of nature, he is standing
a long way off ; but he seems anxious to say that there
will be a great war, or plague, or some national disaster
of that sort before long." " In Europe ?
" " Yes." " In
England ?
" " No ; it seems rather that it is to be in
France." "Is it a war between France and Prussia ?
"
" No ; it does not seem to be." Home got up, walked
about, sat down again, and turning to me, said
—" The
doctor is pleased with you, boy." " What doctor ?
"
I said, " Why, Dan's silent doctor ; he says you will
get all right, the sooner you go away for a httle change
the better ; but you must not take a long journey,
or cross the sea, it would be very foolish to do so, a
chill might strike in again upon your stomach. He says
that the other night, when he rubbed the back of your
neck, he did not make use of any hquid, as you thought.
If Dan's fingers had been wet, they would have felt
rough to the skin ; but they did not." I said " No ;
they felt oily." " Exactly ; like oleaginous matter ; still
it was in reality nothing but very strong influence. I
cannot explain this to you, you would not understand it.
He saved you from very acute suffering, from violent
pain in your head ; he cut it off from your head, and
confined the disease to your stomach." Home laughed
and said, " Some of your relatives think that you have
made yourself ill by being at so many seances.'' " What
am I to do to dispel that idea ?
" " Why, do just what
you are doing ;
get well to be sure, that is the best
thing." Home then awoke.
146 Experiences in Spiritualism. [seance
No. 38.
—
Seance.
Last Monday we had a seance at Mr. S. C. Hall's—
•
which was a failure. We had scarcely any manifestations.
At the close, the spirits asked for a decanter of water,
they directed Home and the two Misses Bertolacci to
stand up and hold their hands in a certain position above
and below it ; and we were directed to stand round.
They held the decanter for some time, magnetizing it,
and were then told by the spirits to place it upon the
table. The spirits said, " Adare is to take a wiyie glass
full night and morning, and with the blessing of Christ, he
will he cured in six days."
No. 39.
—
Seance at Ashley House, Tuesday, November 24th
[1868].
Last Sunday Home went to Norwood ;
Lindsay accom-
panied him. They had a seance, but scarcely any mani-
festations. Lindsay came back here with Home about
eleven o'clock. We three sat round the table and had a
very curious seance, the room being nearly dark. Lindsay
and Home saw spirit forms. I did not ; but I saw, as did
also the others, phosphorescent lights about the room ; balls
of Hght would move along the floor and touch us, feeling
like a .material substance and highly electrical. Adah
Menken was there, and spoke to us a good deal. She
removed her book from the table, turned a leaf down,
and brought it back, putting it in my hand, and
telling me that she had marked a certain place. Little
Dannie Cox's spirit came and moved a small chair from
the wall, and placed it near the table. He Ufted the
chair (no one touching it), up in the air, brought it to
me, then carried it over the table to Home who was
sitting at the other side. He tried to materiahse his voice
so that we might hear it. We heard the voice distinctly,
and he articulated the words " Uncle Dan." The spirits
gave one message in a curious way. Lindsay was anxious
to be toiiched. They said, " All in good—•
" and then
NO. 40] With D. D. Home 147
turning the hands of a clock that was not going, so as
to make it tick and strike, hnislied the sentence, " All
in good lime." The table we were sitting at was twice
raised in the air so high that we could see under it without
stooping. It was altogether a wonderful seance. We had a
number of messages, but I forget them.
No. 40.
—
Seance.
Last week Lindsay called : he said that he had had
strong manifestations that evening when alone, and had
been told to go to Ashley Place. About 11 o'clock Home
came in. We sat round the table and had a most wonder-
ful seance. The room was nearly dark. We had physical
manifestations. Home went into a trance ; he walked
about the room for some time, arranging the hght, and
talking to himself ; he then opened the window, drawing
the curtains, so that we could see nothing but his head ;
and got outside the window. This frightened us, and
Lindsay wanted to stop him, but did not. Presently,
he came back and told us that we had no faith whatever,
or we would not have been alarmed for his safety.
He went into the next room, and we saw him pour out
from a bottle on the table about half a large wine glass
of brandy. He brought the glass back with him ; then
partially covering himself with the window curtains, but
holding the glass with the brandy in it above his head,
between us and the window, so that we could see it,
he was lifted off the floor about four or five feet. While
in the air, we saw a bright hght in the glass ;
presently,
he came down and showed us that the glass was empty,
by turning it upside down ; he also came to us and
turned it upside down upon our hands ; then going back
to the window, he held the glass up, and we heard the
liquid drop into it. He began talking about the brandy,
and said "It is under certain circumstances a demon, and
real devil ; but if properly used, it is most beneficial."
As he said this the light became visible in the glass,
and he was again raised in the air ; " But," he said,
148 Experiences in Spiritualism, [seance
" if. improperly used, it becomes so," (the light disappeared)
" and drags you down, down, lower and lower ;
" and as
he spoke he sank gradually down till he touched the floor
with the glass. He again raised the glass above his head
and the liquor was withdrawn. He then told me to come
and hold my hand above the glass ; I did so, and the
liquor fell over and through my fingers into the glass,
dropping from the air above me. I sat down and asked
him where on earth the liquor went to. " Oh," he said,
" the spirit that is making the experiment is obliged to
form a material substance to retain the fluid. He might
drink it, or hold it in his mouth ; in this case he held it in
his hand."
AdARE : "When you say his hand, do you mean his
own hand, or that he created a substance like a hand to
hold it ; was he obliged to be there to hold it, or could
he have been at the other side of the room ?
"
Home : "Of course he must be there ; it was his own
hand made material for the moment to hold the hquid,
as a hand is made material when you touch or feel it."
AdARE :
" Then that story in Howitt's book of a spirit
drinking a glass of beer may be true ?
"
Home :
" Oh, yes ;
certainly it may."
AdARE :
" But could he swallow and retain it 1
"
Home : (laughing) " No, he could not retain it long,
he must have held the beer for a time, but it must have
been spilled outside. If the doors and windows had been
shut, so that he could not carry it out of the room, it
must have fallen upon the floor."
AdARE :
" He could not then transport it through a
solid substance ?
"
Home :
" Oh dear no, certainly not ! If, when the
liquid in that glass was retained in the air, you had put
your hand there, it would have fallen to the ground."
He then said, " I am going to take the strength from the
brandy," and he began making passes over the glass and
flipping his fingers, sending a strong smell of spirit
through the room ; in about five minutes he had made
the brandy as weak [as very weak brandy and water ; it
scarcely tasted at all of spirit ; both Lindsay and I
NO. 40] With D. D. Home 149
tasted it, at the moment, and also some time after the
seance was over. Home then began to walk about and
talked, or rather some spirit talked through him ; he
turned and said to some spirit, " Well, really I think
you had better not, we don't know you, or know any-
thing about you ; thank you, yes, that will do quite
well." A chair then moved up to the table between
Lindsay and me, and Home said that the spirit who had
tried the experiments with the brandy was sitting there ;
Lindsay could see him, I could not. Home, or rather a
spirit talking through him, then began speaking about
manifestations to this spirit, but in such a low tone, I
could only now and then catch what he said. This spirit
appeared ignorant of how to raise a substance in the air,
and the spirit who was talking through Home seemed
much amused at what he said. He tried experiments
with my chair, but could not succeed, and Home laughed.
He then began talking about lifting him (Home) up, and
after speaking for some time in a low tone, apparently
suggesting different ways, he said, " Well, then, I will
lift him on to the table and sling him right off into the
air." " Oh, yes," said the other,^ " and perhaps break
his leg, that will never do." They then arranged that
he was to try by lifting him first on to the back of my
chair. Accordingly, in about a minute. Home was hfted
up on to the back of my chair. " Now," he said, " take
hold of Dan's feet." I took both his feet in my hands,
and away he went up into the air so high that I was
obliged to let go his feet ; he was carried along the wall,
brushing past the pictures, to the opposite side of the
room ; he then called me over to him. I took his hand,
and felt him aUght upon the floor ; he sat down upon
the sofa and laughed, saying, " That was very badly done,
you knocked Dan up against the pictures." Home got
up, opened the door, pulled up the bhnd and made the
room much hghter ; then sitting down, said, " We will
lift Dan up again better presently, and in a clearer hght
1 Apparently two spirits were at this time spealviiig alternately,
through Mr. Home, so as to let us know the meaning of what they were
•doing with him, and what the subject of their conversation was. :
150 ExjJeriences in, Sjnritualism [seance
so that you can sec better. Always examine well, never
forget to use your reason in these matters." He was not
however raised again, for some other spirits anxious to
communicate came, and those who were experimentahzing
gave way. " Ah !
" Home said, " There is an unadvanced
spirit here ;
you perceive the earthy smell 1
" We both
noticed it, and asked if he had long left this world.
" No, only a short time." We then heard the noise like
of a horse galloping, and I knew C D was there.
I said, " Is C D here ?" " Yes," he said " he
is." Home got up and said (C D speaking through
him), " I suppose you would think me a brute because
I ask for brandy." He took the glass of brandy, walked
about with it, and then put it down and sat down, and
in answer to Lindsay said, " For some years, with what-
ever medium it may be, you will always know him by
the sound of the horse." Turning to me, " You did not
do as much as you might for him. You might have
advised him and spoken to him." I said I was truly
sorry ; I had not thought I could have done him any
good. " Well, he thinks perhaps you might, but he is
not sure that you could ; but you might have tried
;
he was really attached to you, and is so still. He says
as regards all this (Spirituahsm), if you had spoken about
it, he would have called it all damned nonsense ; that is
what he would have said then. He wanted to see if
he could taste brandy, but the others would not let him."
I said, " Has he any desire for those things now ?
"
" Well, he never did care for brandy ; he was fonder of
champagne. He does sometimes think about those things,
but he will soon cease to do so ; his desire for them was
produced by bodily weakness, and when he finds himself
suffering no longer from that feeling, he will not want
them. Ah, poor fellow, poor fellow, he is crying ; he
says he was not what he ought to have been, but he
was not as bad as he has been painted. He is unhappy ;
something is weighing on his mind." I asked questions
and received answers, giving me much information as to
the cause of this spirit being unhappy. He mentioned
facts that I knew to be accurate, thus affording a satis-
NO. 41] With D. D. Home 151
factory test of identity ;
but, it being undesirable that
the identity should in this case be Imown, I refrain from
mentioning what passed. I then asked, " Can I be of
any use about it ?
" " He says if the real person is not
found out, he will try and manage to impress you—to
give you some clue ; so that without your name coming
forward, you might be of use." [After a pause) " Adare, He
says, that he would not come back to earth if he could ;
he feels that he has a better chance of improvement as
he is. All will come right, he says, in time ; he feels
as if he had been ploughed and harrowed, and torn to
bits, and may now bring forth fruits. Ah, he is off
;
restless, very restless. He turns back to say, '
Adare, I
would not come back if I could ; I know that aU is for
the best.' " We waited in hopes of Home being hfted in
the air again ; but the power was expended, and he
presently awoke, and we went into the next room. After
Lindsay had gone. Home went into a trance for a minute
or two, and spoke to me. He said that C
—
— D 's
coming had prevented them doing what they had wanted.
He said, " We were in the room when Dr. Hawkesley was
talking to you yesterday, and we much approve of his
suggestions. It is the quinine that caused those un-
pleasant feehngs in your head ; there was nothing spiritual
about it."'
No. 41.
—
Seance at 5, Btickinghant Gate, Wednesday,
December IQth}
On Sunday last, Charhe Wynne and I went over to
Ashley House after dinner. There we found Home and the
1 We reprint this heading just as it appears in the original edition,
but it has evidently been misprinted, as reference to the first two lines
of Lord Dunraven's report of the sitting will show. The heading should
run thus : No. 41 Seance—Wednesday, December 16th, 5, Buckingham
Gate. The date and place of the heading refer to the date and place
at which Lord Dunraven's account was written (compare e.g. the heading
to Seance No. 23, p 111) The sitting itself took place on Sunday,
December 13, 1868, at Ashley House, Victoria Street. This is borne
out by the Master of Lindsay's statement to the Committee of the
Dialectical Society in 1869, in which he speaks of " the limitations in
152 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
Master of Lindsay. Home proposed a sitting. We accord-
ingly sat round a table in the small room. There was no
light in the room ; but the hght from the window was
sufficient to enable us to distinguish each other, and to see
the different articles of furniture. Immediately on sitting
Victoria Street," and by Lord Dunraven's present recollection, which
on this point is perfectly clear. It seems worth while to call attention
to this mistake, for both the time and place of the sitting are of
evidential importance in relation to the famous incident which occurred
on this occasion of Home passing from one window to another.
The mistake is reproduced in Podmore's account of the incident
(see Modern Spiritualism, vol. ii. p. 255), where he refers to the sitting
as having taken place on " December 16th, 1868, at 5, Buckingham
Gate," having doubtless been misled by the wrongly printed heading.
In connexion with this mis-statement of Podmore's concerning the date
of the sitting a further point is worth noting. In discussing the credi-
bility of the witnesses to this incident Podmore points out that in a
statement written on July 14, 1871 (two and a half years after the
sitting) the Master of Lindsay referred to " the moon shining full into
the room," whereas there could only have been " faint moonlight," the
moon being on December 16th only " two days old." But, as noted
above, the sitting took place on December 13th, on which day, accord-
ing to a Nautical Almanack of 1868, the moon was new at 13 h. 33.2 m.,
and could not therefore light the room however faintly !
The Master of Lindsay's account of the incident, written in 1871,
does not seem consistent with his account given to the Committee
of the Dialectical Society in 1869 (in which, incidentallj^ he does not
seem to have mentioned the moon), but, as Podmore points out {op.
cit. p. 256), this may be due to inaccurate reporting. The chief point
of interest to note here is that in Lord Dunraven's almost contem-
porary report there is no mention of the moon. He only says that
" the light from the window was sufficient to enable us to distinguish
each other," a circumstance not difficult to account for when one
remembers that there must have been some light coming in from the
street outside, the curtains having been apparently undrawn.
The above footnote was submitted to Lord Dunraven and in reply
the Editor, Mrs. Salter, received from him the following letter :
—
22, NoBFOLK Street,
Park Lane, W.I.,
Gth May, 1924.
Dear Mes. Salter,
... I have seen a note from Sir Oliver Lodge and your
footnote relating to the discrepancies connected with Seance 41, and
I have also looked at my copy of the " Experiences." The discrepancy
is unfortunate, but it is, I think, easily explained. I frequently stayed
NO. 41] With D. D. Home 153
down we had physical manifestations and messages, chiefly
from Adah Menken. Lindsay saw two spirits on the sofa,
and others in different places. Home went into a trance.
Adah Menken spoke through him, to what effect I do
not remember ; also httle Dannie Cox. The latter having
in speaking to Charlie Wynne called him Charlie, turned
to me and said, " Please tell him that we always call
people by their Christian names." Home suddenly break-
ing off in the middle of a sentence said, " Who is this
man, E ? What does he want ? Do you know him ?
"
Charlie :
" Yes, I knew him, he came to me at
Lissadell, and told me a variety of circumstances connected
with his death."
at my father's house—5, Buckingham Gate—and Mr. Home often stayed
there with me. In my father's and mother's absence the house was,
of course, shut up, and my recollection is that I and Mr. Home just
had bedrooms there and lived out.
It is plain from the context of the book that we frequently went
from Buckingham Gate to attend seances at other places^ I take it
that the heading in the " Experiences " is copied from the letter which
I wi'ote to my father from Buckingham Gate, and probably on Bucking-
ham Gate notepaper, relating to the seance which took place at Ashley
House on the previous Sunday. The correct title should have been,
" No. 41 Seance at Ashley House, Sunday, December 13th." The
discrepancy applies to the date as well as the address, as the title
states Wednesday the 16th and the context commences " On Sunday
last."
There can be no doubt whatever but that the seance was held at
Ashley House on Sunday, December 13th, and that the notes con-
cerning it were posted by me from 5, Buckingham Gate on Wednesday,
December 16th. . . .
As to Mr. Podmore's account of the incidents, at this long distance
of time I am unable to give any information. The Master of Lindsay,
afterwards Lord Crawford, seems to have given his account of the
incident two and a half years after it had happened, and states that
there was moonlight. As you have examined the phases of the moon
at that date, it is obvious that he must have been mistaken as to
the moonlight. In my account, written immediately after the occur-
I'ences, I only stated that the light from the window was sufficient
for us to chstinguish each other. I have no doubt that the Master
of Lindsay, writing some time after, attributed the light erroneously
to moonlight.
Yours very truly,
DUNBAVEN
154 Experiences in Spiritualism [SEANOE
Home :
" He is come about that. Do you object to
his doing so ?
"
Charlie :
" Certainly not ; I am glad of it."
Home :
" Then he will sit down beside you."
A chair moved of itself from the wall up to the table
between Home and Charlie. Charlie said he could feel
that there was some one there, but he saw nothing.
Lindsay perceived the figure in the chair, and said he
was leaning his arm on Charhe's shoulder. The upstart
of a long conversation between Charlie and E——,
speaking
through Home, was that he, E , would on no account
give any information that would lead to the prosecution
of That Charlie had been told at Lissadell
to let the matter alone ; that he had not given the
information at Lissadell ; that other spirits very anxious
on the subject had done so ; that they had made some
mistakes, and that owing also to the imperfect develop-
ment of the medium other mistakes had occurred. That
some of the information was incorrect he said could be
proved by his writing to certain places, when he would
find that no person of the name given had been there.
He had not been allowed to discover what became of a
certain man after his, E 's, death. God's justice
was very different from man's ; and God's justice would
find him out. He could not and would not have anything
to do in the matter.
AdARE :
" But you do not object to human justice
taking its course ?
"
Home :
" Oh dear no ; it is necessary for the well-
being of society that it should do so ; in human afiairs
let human justice proceed ; but we cannot interfere
;
God's justice is so difi^erent from man's. It is obvious
also that were we permitted to continually interfere in
these matters, the result would be extremely bad."
Home became much agitated ;
" Ah," he said, " he
has something weighing on his mind ;
poor, poor fellow !
"
He laid his head upon my hand on the table and sobbed
violently ; two or three tears fell upon my hand.
Home :
" Do you feel how hot his tears are ?
"
Adare: "Yes, I do."
NO. 41] With D. D. Home 155
Home :
" They will leave a mark of blood upon your
hand."
Charlie :
" But at Lissadell he told me he Avas quite
happy."
Home : "80 he thought perhaps at the time ; but do
you think that a man can be cut off in a moment in
that way, leaving his family, Avho were dependent on him
for daily bread, almost totally unprovided for, without a
pang of regret and sorrow ? Poor fellow, he seems to
want to speak about something that has been lost."
Charlie :
" Is it about some missing papers ?
"
Home :
" Yes, that is it."
Charlie :
" Can he tell me where they are ?
"
Home :
" He says that unfortimately most of them
were destroyed, but some were sent to his lawyer. He
does not tell me the name of his lawyer, but the family
will know ; he says you wiU find several among some
receipts and other papers in a small box over the door
of his study ; there are two or three small boxes there.
'
Oh ! I wish. R M^as here. I could tell him things
about my affairs that I cannot tell you, Charhe.'
"
AdARE : "If R comes to London would you hke
him to meet Home ?
"
Home (excited) :
" Oh, yes ;
oh, dear yes. Ah ! he has
gone, poor fellow ; he is rather abrupt in his manner, is
he not ? He does not brook much delay." Home told me
to go into the next room and look if the tears had left
any mark upon my hand. I perceived a very sUght red
mark. When I returned he told me to stretch out my
hand. I did so, and Dannie Cox touched it with the
tip of his finger and said, through Mr. Home, " You will
see the marks plainer in the morning." They were rather
plainer, but stiU indistinct, when I awoke the next day.
Home then got up and walked about the room. He was
both elongated and raised in the air. He spoke in a
whisper, as though the spirits were arranging something.
He then said to us, " Do not be afraid, and on no
account leave your places ;
" and he went out into the
passage. Lindsay suddenly said, " Oh, good heavens
!
I know what he is going to do ; it is too fearful."
156 Ex'periences in Sjnritualism [seance
Adare :
" What is it ?
"
Lindsay : "I cannot tell you, it is too horrible
!
Adah says that I must tell you ; he is going out of
the window in the other room, and coming in at this
window." We heard Home go into the next room, heard
the window thrown up, and presently Home appeared
standing upright outside our window ; he opened the
window and walked in quite coolly. " Ah," he said,
" You were good this time," referring to our having sat
still and not wished to prevent him. He sat down and
laughed.
Charlie :
" What are you laughing at ?
"
Home :
" We are thinking that if a pohceman had been
passing, and had looked up and seen a man turning
round and round along the wall in the air he would have
been much astonished. Adare, shut the window in the
next room." I got up, shut the window, and in coming
back remarked that the window was not raised a foot,
and that I could not think how he had managed to
squeeze through. He arose and said, " Come and see."
I went with him ; he told me to open the window as
it was before, I did so : he told me to stand a little
distance off ; he then went through the open space, head
first, quite rapidly, his body being nearly horizontal and
apparently rigid. He came in again, feet foremost, and
we returned to the other room. It was so dark I could
not see clearly how he was supported outside. He did
not appear to grasp, or rest upon, the balustrade, but
rather to be swung out and in. Outside each window
is a small balcony or ledge, 19 inches deep, bounded by
stone balustrades, 18 inches high. The balustrades of
the two windows are 7 feet 4 inches apart, measuring
from the nearest points. A string-course, 4 inches wide,
runs between the windows at the level of the bottom of
the balustrade ; and another 3 inches wide at the level of
the top. Between the window at which Home went out,
and that at which he came in, the wall recedes 6 inches.
The rooms are on the third floor. Home presently got
up again, told us not to be frightened or to move, and
left the room. Adah Menken told Lindsay that they were
NO. 41] With D. D. Home 157
going to shew iis the water test ; but for some reason
or other I suppose they were unable to do so, for Home
came in again directly, sat down and said " Dan must
awake now, he will be very nervous ; but you must
bear with him, it will pass off." I asked Lindsay how
Adah had spoken to him on the three occasions. He
could scarcely explain ; but said it did not sound hke
an audible human voice ; but rather as if the tones
were whispered or impressed inside his ear. When Home
awoke, he was much agitated ; he said he felt as if he
had gone through some fearful peril, and that he had
a most horrible desire to throw himself out of the
window ; he remained in a very nervous condition for
a short time, then gradually became quiet. Having
been ordered not to tell him, we said nothing of
what had happened. We now had a series of very
curious mam'festations. Lindsay and Charlie saw tongues
or jets of flame proceeding from Home's head. We then
all distinctly heard, as it were, a bird flying round the
room, whisthng and chirping, but saw nothing, except
Lindsay, who perceived an indistinct form resembling a
bird. There then came a sound as of a great wind
rushing through the room, we also felt the wind strongly ;
the moaning rushing sound was the most weird thing I
ever heard. Home then got up, being in a trance, and
spoke something in a language that none of us under-
stood ; it may have been nonsense, but it sounded like a
sentence in a foreign tongue. Lindsay thought he recog-
nized some words of Russian. He then quoted the text
about the different gifts of the spirit, and gave us a transla-
tion in English of what he had said in the unknown tongue.
He told us that CharUe had that day been discussing
the miracles that took place at Pentecost ; and that the
spirits made the sound of the wind ; of the bird de-
scending ; of the unknown tongue, and interpretation
thereof, and the tongues of fire : to show that the same
phenomenon could occur again. He spoke at length on
the folly of supposing that God had long ago written, as
it were, one little page of revelation, and then for ever
shut the book, and turned away his face from mankind.
158 Experiences in Spirihialism, [seance
Charlie asked questions relative to the nature of God ;
the doctrine of the Trinity ; and God's having once been
on earth. Home spoke at great length, and with much
eloquence. I cannot remember the exact words ; but the
substance of it was, that it was impossible for us to
comprehend it ; that nearly every man had really in his
mind a different idea of God ; that whether our concep-
tion of Him was as a unity, duahty, or a trinity, it
could not be of much consequence, provided that we
recognized Him and obeyed His laws. He spoke much
of the immensity of God, and our almost utter ignorance
of Him and His works. He described the geometrical
forms and attributes of a grain of sand, and asked us if
we understood "^ything of that ; and then pointing to a
star, he asked us what we knew of that. He commented
upon the very shght knowledge that the most scientific
men had ;
mentioning that not long ago the spots on
the sun had been considered to be mountains ; then
water ; then faculae : but that now they knew them to
be great chasms. " But what they do not know," he
said, " is, that the sun is covered with a beautiful vege-
tation, and full of organic hfe."
AdARE :
" Is not the sun hot ?
"
Home :
" No, the sun is cold ; the heat is produced
and transmitted to the earth by the rays of hght passing
through various atmospheres. As to God's having been
once on the earth, He has never left it, but is every-
where."
Charhe also asked about the divinity of Christ, and said
he wanted to know the truth about all those matters.
Home spoke to the effect that even if they could tell
us the whole truth, our minds could not understand or
bear it. He said that spirits had different views on these
subjects, and that they could not and might not unfold
the truth. " You are taught," he continued, " as much
as you can bear. A common theory, speaking figuratively,
is that the heavens and earth are two cones ; and that
Christ is, as it were, the two apexes, joining and con-
necting both." He recommended Charhe, if he did or
could, to hold the doctrine of the divinity of Christ, in
NO. 41] With D. D. Home 159
its usually accepted form, saying that it was better for
him to do so, if it led him to a more religious frame of
mind ; but added, " Follow His teaching and carry out
His mission. His mission was one of Peace ; do not then
cut your neighbour's throat because he differs from you."
Home then launched out into a tirade against intolerance
and persecution, lamenting over the wickedness of man-
kind in supposing that bloodshed and persecution could be
pleasing to God. He spoke at great length on this subject.
AdARE :
" But if, for a time at least the whole truth
about such important doctrines as the divinity of Christ is
not perceived, do not the differences of opinion among
spirits who are much together, lead to bad results ? For
instance, my mother was very rehgious ; . ?nd especially
upon that subject of the divinity of Christ. She may be
frequently with spirits who do not hold the same views,
or hold them in a modified form. Do they still differ 1
Do they talk about it ?
"
Home : "It cannot lead to dissension ;
they know that
they are not perfect, and that they have much to learn.
The sort of conversation you have imagined to yourself
has actually taken place. A spirit has asked certain
questions such as :
'
Can you shew me that there was a
necessity for it 1
' '
Can you actually prove it ?
'
&c.,
&c. And your mother always, as you know, kind and
gentle, only says, '
No ;
perhaps not ; but I do not see
any reason why I should change the behef I always held
about it.'"
Home then turned to me saying, " You have been
much troubled and disturbed ;
you have a difficult and
tortuous path before you, and you have thought that if
there was anything in Spirituahsm it ought to be of use
and comfort to you. We know all your doubts and
difficulties, and sympathize with you. Be patient and
prayerful, and all will be well. Have you had a dream ?
"
Adaee : "I beheve I have dreamt something curious ;
but I am unable to remember what it was."
Home :
" Adah has been trying to impress you in your
sleep. Your mother allowed her to do so ; but she has
not quite succeeded ; she will try again. What you dreamt,
160 Experiences in Spiritualism [SEAKCE
you could not remember, it was this : You thought you
were journeying along a tortuous difficult path full of
obstacles ; at the foot of a mountain you saw two angels ;
the one very bright and pure,, the other rather darker
and more earthly. You were in doubt which to choose
;
but thought the darker one, being most material, would
be of most use. You trusted yourseH to him ; but as
you ascended the mountain, the path became more and
more difficult, and the angel that guided you became
himself weary and confused ; could not conduct you any
further, and at last you were obliged to stop. You found
then still greater difficulty in retracing your steps than
you had experienced in going up ; but at length, you
arrived again at the foot of the ascent ; and you then
trusted yourself to the other and brighter angel, when
the road became at once easy, and he led you up with-
out doubt or difficulty."
No. 42.
—
Seance at No. 5, Buckingliam Gate, December 20i^.^
My dear Father,—Last Tuesday we had a seance at
No. 7. Present : Home, Charhe Wynne and his wife,
Augusta Gore, the Master of Lindsay, Arthur Smith
Barry, and myseK. There appeared to be great difficulty
in making manifestations ;
indeed, the spirits said that
Home was ill and therefore that they had no power.
We felt strong vibrations of the table, which was moved
about. Augusta's couch was moved, (no one touching it)
as was the screen, at the head of her couch, (no one
toucliing it). The spirits also answered, and gave messages
by rapping on the couch ;
altogether it was not a bad
seance for convincing sceptics. Arthur was touched, as
was also Augusta, and the latter told me afterwards, that
she had seen spirit-forms in the room. Home was taken
possession of, his hands and arms became partially cata-
leptic, and he made passes in this condition over Augusta
1 The same mistake in the printing of tlie heading has evidently
been made in this case as in the case of Stance No. 41 (see above,
p. 151 ). Seance No. 42 appears to have been, held on Tuesday^ December
15,. 18.68,. at 7 Buckingham Gate. [Ed.^
NO. 42] With D. D. Home 161
for some time, then stooping down he made passes under
the couch ; which Augusta said she felt distinctly.
Charhe Wynne, Lindsay, Arthur and I, adjourned to
Ashley House to smoke a cigar. We sat for a short
time in the httle room, and had manifestations, but Home
was too weak for anything very wonderful. He was
elongated slightly (I think), and raised in the air ; his
head became quite luminous at the top, giving him the
appearance of having a halo round it. When he was
raised in the air, he waved his arms about, and in each
hand, there came a httle globe of fire (to my eyes, blue) ;
the effect was very pretty ; Adah Menken and Dannie
Cox were the only two spirits that I recognized by Home's
manner.
No. 43.
—
Seance.
Last Friday, I went to a seance at Mrs. E 's.
Present : Home, H. Jencken, Mrs. E , Mrs. Honey-
wood, Captain S , General , and myself. This
seance was in many respects the most wonderful that I
have ever witnessed. Home was in a trance the greater
part of the time ; the information that he gave was of
a very private character to Captain S ; it was given
in pantomime, not a word being spoken, in order that
some of the party should not understand. Captain
S ,
for whom it was intended, understood it, and I
fancy so did I ; but as it was quite private, and for some
reasons very fearful, I do not feel at hberty to mention
about it. I have since found I was mistaken. Home,
before he went into the trance, said that there was a
very strange influence about me. He partly made him
out, but by degrees, and said that his name (surname) was
Thomas. Thomas of some place. That he had been a
friend of my father's and of my grandfather, in fact a
greater friend of the latter than of the former ; that I
also had known him, that he used to have conversations
about rehgion with my father. He said that lie was a
very strange spirit, abrupt and yet undecided in his
manner ; "He wants to say something to you, but when
L
162 Ex'perieMces in Spiritualism [seance
I am going to speak he stops me." " Ah !
" he said,
" He is going, he says he will come again to-night."
Besides the strange story that Home in a trance acted for
the benefit of Captain S , he also took Captain S •
and Mrs. E (brother and sister) into another room,
and sj)oke to them in private for some time. We had at
diiferent times, pretty strong physical manifestations,
table hfted, &c., &c. When Home was acting the story,
it being most necessary that not a word should be
spoken, his jaws were locked and as rigid as steel ; I
felt them, as did others.
No. 44.
That night I slept in Home's room at Ashley House ;
we had a very beautiful manifestation. Home had been
giving a public reading the day before at Croydon, which
had been a failure, and he was much dispirited about it.
A spirit (his mother I think), said, " Do not he cast down,
Dan ; serve God truly, and his holy spirits will guard and
protect you ; fulfil your mission in life, and He will not
forsake you,—be not cast down." We then both heard,
as it were, a bird chirping about the room, and the
spirit added, " For He careth even for the sparrows.'' The
spirits conversed with us for some httle time by raps.
My mother spoke more to me than she has ever done
before ; Home being in a trance. He made use of the
same expressions my mother would have done, in a most
affectionate manner. He talked of her happiness, partly
on account of an immunity from physical pain and
weakness, partly owing to the blessed calm and peace of
her existence, and her knowledge that the hearts of those
she had loved still beat with love for her, and that soon
they would all be united again together. He told me
not to think that it was through want of affection that
she so seldom communicated with me, and gave me
certain reasons for it, and recited two verses of beautiful
poetry relative to a mother's love. He mentioned a
painful peculiarity of a spirit who had taken part at the
NO. 44] With D. D. Home 163
seance that evening ; a peculiarity that I also have, and
told me to take warning, and try and break myself of
it. He said that her great wish was to see me lead so
pure and elevated a life, that I might make my existence
here a stepping stone to a far higher state of existence
in the next hfe. He told me not to be discouraged by
failure, but to strive to do what I knew was right.
The spirit calling himseH Thomas of (name of place
unknown), came and began to talk about himseK. He
said that since he had entered the spirit-life, he had very
much changed his views on rehgion. He broke off
suddenly and said he would tell me all about it another
time. It was then late, past three a.m., and my mother
said, " I will request the other influences to leave you
;
you should sleep now."
No. 45.
Last night I slept in Home's room at Ashley House.
I did not go to bed till past three. Soon after I was in
bed, there were evidences of a very strong influence in
the room ; and we saw hghts and heard sounds, as if
some one was endeavouring to make their voice audible
to us ; and we heard a sound like footsteps. We then
had a very beautiful manifestation. There is a plaster of
Paris crucifix, about one foot in length, hanging on the
wall over Home's bed. We heard something being moved
on the wall, and presently saw this crucifix waving in the
air between us and the window. I could see nothing
holding it ; it appeared to move of itself. A spirit then
said, by raps on the cross, " It is to shew you that ive do
not fear the symbol of the cross ; ive should like you to
kiss it." The crucifix was then brought, or, as it appeared
to me, moved of itself, close to my face and was placed
upon my lips. I kissed it, and it was then taken away
to Home's bed and placed upon his hps. He did the same.
They then said, " We also will now kiss it." The crucifix
was moved away some distance, and we heard a sound
of some one kissing it three times, but saw nothing.
164 Experiences in Spiritualisfrh [seance
They then said, through the alphabet, that they had
something to tell me next Sunday ; and that the same
spirit that had spoken to us, through Home, the Sunday
before, would come again ; that we were not to interrupt
him by asking questions, but just to listen to what he
said, as he had something of importance to tell us.
No. 46 Seance.—Saturday, December 2^th [1868].
Last Sunday, Home and Lindsay went down to Norwood
to have a seance. They returned about 11 o'clock. Charhe
Wynne and Captain Smith came also to Ashley House. After
Home and Lindsay arrived, we went into the small room
and sat round the table ; the room was dark. We had
strong physical manifestations ; we were all repeatedly
touched by hands coming from imder the table. Our
hands when touched were on the table. A hand took
Charlie's hand, and the moment he felt it he exclaimed,
" This is F "s hand ; I could swear to her peculiar
touch."' The same hand also touched me ;
plajrfully
pinching and patting the back of my hand ; it felt old
and wrinkled. A spirit said by raps, " Yes, it is F ."
The hand again toviched Charlie ; he also remarked the
wrinkled feeling of the skin. A spirit then said, " Yes,
it feels to you as it once -was ; now it is 7io longer aged ;
"
and a hand feeling young and soft placed itself in Charlie's
hand, taking his in the same peculiar manner, but patting
him briskly as if to shew that it was full of hfe. G
H , an uncle of Smith, and H J , told us by
raps that they were present. I asked if it were true that
uncle Robert was conscious of their presence near him at
night, and if he had real manifestations. They replied,
" Yes, it is true, and not imagination on his part.'' I
asked them if Emmy had been touched on the shoulder
the morning before, or whether it was as I had declared,
her imagination. They replied, " She ivas touched.'" Charlie
asked if what had happened to him in clnirch was
spiritual ? They said, " Yes, certainly, it was." They
NO. 46] With D. D. Home 165
entered a good deal into our conversation. Lindsay fell
into a trance ; at first he could not speak, but after a
time in answer to a question, they said through him,
" Yes, he can see sometimes ; he will not remember
anything of it, we cannot talk through him much yet, he
is not fully developed, but he will be in time." Lindsay
when awake saw spirit-forms, I saw lights occasionally,
faint flashes and sparks. Home went into a trance ;
he walked about the room apparently settling what was
to be done, then sat down, and turning to me, told me
to go into the next room, and place outside the window
a certain vase of flowers. I did so, putting the vase
outside on the ledge, and shuttino- the window. Home
opened the window of the room in which we were sitting.
The flowers were carried through the air from the window
of the next room in at our open window. We could all
hear the rusthng, and see the curtains moved by the
spirit standing there, who was bringing in the flowers ;
Lindsay saw the spirit distinctly. A flower and sprig
of fern, or something of that sort, was now given to each
of us ; in some cases it was placed upon the hand on
the table ; others were touched, and on putting down
their hand, the flower was placed in it. I was touched
strongly on the knee, and a s^Drig of box was given me.
Afterwards, little Dannie said, " / will give you another
piece of fern in place of the one you lost ; hat you must
take great care of this ; it is only a very little hit." In
answer apparently to some question. Home said, " Oh
yes, certainly, give it to him yourself." Home told me
to hold out my hand—I did so, rather behind me ;
and
I felt Dannie's soft httle fingers touch mine, and pat my
hand, and place a httle bit of maiden hair fern in it.
Home then made some very curious experiments with
flowers : he separated the scent into two portions—one
odour smelhng exactly like earth ; the other being very
sweet. He explained what he was doing ; and how there
cam© to be the two j)rinciples, as it were, in the flower.
I did not clearly understand his meaning when he spoke ;
and I forget now what he said. While the flowers were
being given to us, Home said, " Listen ;
" we did, and
166 Ex'periences in iSpiritualism SEANCE
all heard the sprigs being broken in the next room.
While we hstened, the sound ceased. Home said, " You
see the effect of the concentration of your thoughts.
It is hard for you to understand ; but I assure you that
the fact of your all directing your thoughts to a certain
object there, sent a sohd column of polarized light right
through into the other room, and completely changed the
condition of the atmosphere there for a time, so that
they could not continue to do what they were about."
As soon as we had all been given our httle bunches of
leaves or flowers, Home told me to go into the next room,
and examine the vase. I did so, and found the window
closed as I had left it ; I opened it and found that
all the tall sprigs of fern, &c., &c., had been taken away.
Home never left the room we sat in after I had placed the
vase outside the window, so that even supposing that the
branches we received had been concealed by Home on
his person, still the sprigs in the vase must have been
broken off and removed somehow outside the window.
Home now left the room, saying, " Do not be frightened ;
Dan is not going out of the window or anything of that
sort." He returned, holding in his hand haff a lemon,
freshly cut ; he handed it to each of us to taste. He
laughed and said, " Yes, it is very good, is it not ? so
refreshing." He then held it up above his head, and
said, " We will withdraw all the acid flavour from it."
A yellowish light came over the lemon ; he held it up
for some little time, and said, " Now taste again." He
held it out to me ; but the room being rather dark, I
bobbed my nose against it, and therefore tasted nothing.
All the others tasted it, and described it as most disagree-
able, having no odour, and the flavour being a sort of
mawkish alkali ; some described it as Uke magnesia ;
others, as hke washing soda. Home laughed and said,
" We will take the nasty taste away presently." He then
described what had taken place, I cannot recollect what
he said, but the substance of it was that a purely natural
process had been gone through. " li you were to eat the
lemon," he said, " or swallow the juice, the same thing
exactly would occur by natural decomposition, all the acid
NO. 46] With D. D. Home 167
flavoxir would be freed, and would pass through the pores
of your skin into all sorts of forms, &c., &c., while the
residuum would be a substance, such as you now tasted.
It resembled soda ; it is of that nature, and that is why
lemon juice is so good for acidity of the stomach and
blood. We have done nothing miraculous ;
by our know-
ledge of natural substances and laws, we were able to
hasten as it were, a natural process, and withdraw at once
the acid, instead of its being diffused into various forms :
we have retained it in the air, and will now restore it to
the lemon." He held the lemon up and a rose-coloured
flame, or rather light, came over it. After a little, he
gave it to those who had tasted it the second time ;
they
said that it was quite good and fresh, and that all the
natural scent and flavour was restored to it.^
Home sat down and said, " It would be very nice if
the same party that are here to-night, could sit occasion-
ally together. You are all sympathetic, and in a very
short time you would all of you see not only sparks and
flashes of hght, but the whole forms distinctly of the
spirits in the room. I want also some time or other to
talk to you on a very interesting subject, namely, when
it is that the soul enters the body of an infant ; at what
period of its existence it becomes a hving soul. It aj)pears
a difficult subject to you ; it is really as simple as the
scent of a flower or its colour." Charhe then said some-
thing to him about the origin of man. " Oh, yes," said
Home, " that is a subject I want to speak to you about ;
some day I will, and of the difference in the existences
of different creatures. No creature that crawls—that is
unable, as it were, to do anything to preserve its life here
—has immortahty." " Do you mean," I said, that they
have no future ? " " Oh, yes, they have indeed a very
important future before them ; I mean they differ from
you as regards their individuality." I said, " Can you
teU me where the hne is drawn ?
" " There is no exact
hne ; some creatures are endowed with a greater amount
^ I believe I am correct in this account of the lemon, but I cannot
swear that Home did not leave the room after, as he said, restoring the
acid principle to the lemon, and before he gave it to them to taste.
168 Experiences in S^nrituaUsm [seance
of what you call instinct than others that are apparently
much above them in the scale of creation : like, for in-
stance, ants and bees. I cannot tell you about it now.
We have not been able to do at all what we intended
this evening. Dan must awake now, and you must not
sit any longer." Home awoke, and we went into the
other room.
No. 47.
—
Seance at No. 7, Buckingham Gate, Monday,
December 2lst [1868].
Present : Emmy Wynne, Charlie Wynne, Augusta Gore
Booth, Home, and myself. We sat at a large square tea
table, one side of it being placed against Augusta's couch.
Almost immediately on sitting down, we felt a strong
vibration of the table. The alphabet w^as called for, and
the following long message given ;
the first part having
reference to me and something that had occupied my
mind ; the latter part intended for all of us : "A perfect
submission to the crosses of earth life only worhs out for you
a purer and higher life, ivhen freed from the mortal and
nearer the divine. You, my darling boy, did not observe that
the little branch we gave you last night ivas in form a cross.
It has a deep significance. There are six leaves at every
point ; these, too, have a meaning, tohich you ivill one day
understand. Meanwhile, hear all ; God's truth ^vill overcome
error. Be patient, my darlings ; I am indeed happy that
you have been led to investigate.''
We had all the usual physical phenomena, though not
very strongly ;
the chief feature of the seance being the
amount of conversation carried on through the alphabet
;
and by spirits assenting or differing from what we said by
rapping " Yes " or " No " upon the table, furniture, &c.
Raps came on Augusta's couch, and it was moved about,
and the head part raised a little. After these manifesta-
tions a message was given : "Darling, this is G H ;"
and immediately afterwards :
" We all wish to see you thus,"
and her couch was again raised at the head, completing
the sentence :
" We all ivish to see you thus raised up."
NO. 47] With D. D. Home 109
The table moved about, and was tilted up sometimes to
one side, and sometimes to another. A whistle that was
on the table did not move when the table was tilted in
any direction, except towards Augusta ; when it was tilted
towards her the whistle rolled. In answer to a question
as to the cause of this, they said, " From a loant of
injluence on that side." They told us they did not with-
draw any influence from Augusta, as it would weaken her.
They afterwards turned the table round, so as to have the
side at which Emmy had been sitting next Augusta ; the
side which had been next to Augusta came opposite to
Home. This equalized the magnetic influence round the
table. At the same time we were told that they were
desirous of showing their presence by messages rather than
by physical manifestations. The table was raised in the
air about 18 inches, and remained poised for some little
time. Emmy's dress was pulled and shaken ; Home's
chair was moved. Having been told, through the alpha-
bet, to put the white cloth on the table, we did so. We
saw, and were touched by hands moving under the cloth.
A flower in Home's button-hole was taken away, and
carried underneath the table ; I heard it moving there.
Presently the same iiower was thrown from behind Aug-
usta's couch ; it touched her face, and then fell upon the
floor. It was taken up, and a hand and arm came from
behind her couch, and placed it gently against her cheek,
and gave it to her. Emmy said, " I saw the hand and
arm." A message was given " A hand, ivith the flower
from K ." Home also saw the arm ; I did not. Some
other manifestations were made about Augusta's couch, and
the words, " It was G H ," given. We then heard
a sharp noise that we took to be the chirping of a bird
under the table, and we heard something moving under-
neath the table. The message was given
—" We hope soon
you toill not require * * * ;
" and at the same moment a
heavy handle, used for winding up the couch, was raised
from under the table, and placed in Augusta's hand, im-
plying that they hoped soon she would be able to raise
herseK. The name " G H " was given to show
who had made the manifestation. We found that the
170 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
chirping sound we had heard was caused by the handle of
the lever turning while being moved under the table. This
chirping was imitated exactly by a spirit at some distance
behind us in the centre of the room. We now had a very
wonderful manifestation. We were merry about something
or other, and we all distinctly heard a spirit voice joining
in our laughter ; it sounded quite clear and loud. Home
asked if it was to shew that they hked to see us happy
and were happy themselves ; the answer was " Yes ; God
is so good." Soon after this the message was given
—
" Daniel is exhausted ;
" and all manifestations ceased.
During the seance Emmy and Augusta saw shadowy forms,
hands, and arms.
After talking a short time we went into the next room
(Uncle Robert's study). We were at supper eating, drink-
ing, and chatting very merrily, not talking of, or I beheve
thinking about. Spiritualism, when there came a knock at
the door. Charlie turned his head, and said, " Come in."
The door did not open ; but the next moment there came
knocks upon the table and a chair gUded out from the
wall to the table (no one touching it), and placed itself in
the most natural manner between Emmy and Home ; it
then moved up close to Home, and the alphabet was called
for by the chair tilting (no one touching it). The follow-
ing message was given
—" / like you because you do good
to those I love." Home asked who the spirit was ;
"(7——
-
H— " was answered. Emmy's dress was pulled, and
dragged strongly under the table, and a hand was twice
put into hers beneath the table. Charhe was touched on
the knee. Several questions were answered and another
message, which I forget, was given by raps on the table,
as loud as if some one had struck it underneath with a
hammer. The table was moved and tilted, and once raised
completely off the ground for a second or two, so slightly
that I did not perceive it, but the others did, and the
spirits afterwards said that it had been off the ground. It
must have required great power even to move and tilt it,
for the table was a heavy dining-room table covered with
plates, dishes, and decanters. Home was told that Aug-
usta had also had manifestations ; and when we returned
NO. 48] With D. D. Home 171
to the other room, we found that she had heard raps in
her room, while we were at supper in the other. She also
heard the raps and the movement of the table in the
study.
No. 4:8.~Fehruary 8th, 1869.
Last night I slept at Ashley House. Home was at a
party, and did not come in until very late. Soon after
he had gone to bed he went into a trance for a short
time. He was far from well, and the spirits said they
could not make any use of him. In the morning, about
11 o'clock, Sacha, Home's wife, said to me, through the
alphabet, " Will you from my part give to Florence some-
thing ? " I said I should be deUghted. She said to Home,
" Dannie, my broad gold Bussian bracelet.''
No. 49 Seance.—February 9th [1869].
In the evening of the 8th, Dr. Gully came in. As we
were sitting by the fire talking, Home went gradually into
a trance. He examined Dr. Gully's heart, gave him some
directions as to treatment, and told him that his head and
brain were all working beautifully ; that his head had not
been so clear and in such good order for some time. He
walked about the room conversing, sometimes with us,
sometimes with the spirits in the room. He asked me to
fetch an accordion from IVIr. S. C. Hall's rooms ; I did so.
He then said that Captain Smith was coming, and that he
had just then left his house. He became rather impatient
at his not coming quicker ; he was aware when he did
arrive, and told me to go out and meet him, which I did,
informing him that Home was in a trance. When Smith
entered. Home introduced him in a quaint style. Taking
Dr. Gully's hand, he said, " This is James—James Gully ;
and this is Wilham—Wilham Smith. You are to shake
hands. They call him a doctor —there is some sense in
that ; and they call you a captain, which means nothing
at all.".
172 Experiences in Sjnritualism [seance
Home aaid to me, " Turn off some of the gas, it is too
heavy on Dan's brain—hght is a regular weight upon the
brain, that is why a strong Hght prevents our making
manifestations ; the brain of the medium cannot act. . It
is through your brains that the atmosphere we make use
of is thrown off. For the same reason, manifestations
occur more readily at night, when there is an absence of
sunhght, than in the daytime. From a similar cause, a
strong hght upon the platform, as at Miss Hardinge's
lectures that you were speaking of this afternoon is very
bad. Light is a ponderable substance. There is much
that scientific men do not yet know about the nature of
hght ;
there is a material natural hght, and a spiritual
light. When men know all about material hght, they will
then turn their attention to the much greater subject of
spiritual light. Everything has its light." We now, at
Home's recjuest, went into the next room and sat round
the table ;
the room was dark with the exception of the
hght from the window. Home had that morning given
me the bracelet as a present from his wife to Florence ;
—
I had left it in the drawing room.
After we were seated in the small room, the attention
of the spirits appeared principally directed to Dr. Gully.
Home explained something to him about the muscles of
his left side, and they gave him several strong electric
shocks. Home seemed much pleased at this. " Oh," he
said, " that was so beautifully done, they managed it so
well, and it has answered admirably, and done you a great
deal of good." Dr. Gully had also some messages from
his daughter. I then felt that some one was standing
near me, and I heard something moving about my head,
and presently felt a substance brushed across my hair, and
then placed upon my head. I asked if I might put up
my hand and take it. Home said, " Wait a moment."
The substance was then taken from ofi my head and
passed across my hands on the table ; and finally I dis-
tinctly felt a hand place the bracelet given to Florence
by Sacha into my fingers. The hand pressed and patted
my fingers. Sacha, speaking through Home, then addressed
a few most touching and approjoriate words to me, on the
NO. 49] With D. D. Hwne 173
subject of marriage ; after which we all heard a spirit
move from beside me over to the window. Home got up,
placed himself close to the window and said, " Sacha will
try and make herself visible to you." Her form gradually
became apparent to us ; she moved close to Home and
kissed him. She stood beside him against the window
intercepting the light as a solid body, and appeared fully
as material as Home himself, no one could have told which
was the mortal body and which was the spirit. It was
too dark, however, to distinguish features ; I could see that
she had her full face turned towards us, and that either
her hair was parted in the middle, and flowed down over
her shoulders, or that she had on what appeared to be a
veil. She said, through Home, that she would try and
appear to us as white light, and she did so, but the form
was not nearly so distinct as when she stood as a dark
substance against the window. Captain Smith asked me
had I not intended to have been travelhng that night ;
I told him that such was my original intention, but that
I had changed my plans some days ago. He said, " I
know that, but it was not intended that you should travel
to-night. I have no idea why you were prevented, but
some day probably you will know. I was obliged (by his
hand being taken possession of) the other day, to write
down some questions ; I sealed them up and sent them to
Dan ; some day you are to open and answer them, I think
you will find something in them about it ; I have no idea
what I wrote." Home also told me later that the spirits
had not wished me to travel that night. Smith began
talking to me about the seance in which the lemon was
used, and said that he had been thinking deeply over it,
and beheved that there was an allegorical meaning attached
to it. Home said, " Yes, there is, and in many things
that we do, we frequently symbolise ; and are content to
know that you will, by thinking for yourselves, find out
the meaning : it is better so. We sometimes also do things
the meaning or object of which we ourselves do not know ;
we have our impulses the same as you. What meaning
do you attach to the story of the lemon ?
"
Smith : "I consider the lemon to have represented
174 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
human nature, and the yellow flame that surrounded it
our evil passions. The yellow flame devoured and des-
troyed all that was good in the lemon—the juice and the
fragrance, representing all that is good in human nature ;
and it left the lemon vile and worthless. The red flame
that then covered the lemon and restored it to its former
excellence represented the Holy Spirit of God, by which
alone our human nature, debased and destroyed by evil
passions, can be restored to its natural purity and beauty."
Home appeared much pleased, and said, " Yes, you have
read the parable aright : the yellow flame was the fire of
evil passions, and the pure bright red flame was the Spirit
of God." He then talked about the various colours in,
and virtues of, different crystals, diamonds, rubies, sap-
phires, emeralds, &c., and what they symbohzed. Adah
Menken came and said through Home, " Many would think
it horrible of such a one as I am to come to you now
;
but you, I know, think otherwise about me, and I must
speak a word to you relative to the very important step
you are about to take." She spoke a little about my
marriage, and said, " I will come again to-night ; I want
to have a long chat with you, and tell you some curious
things that occurred at Adare." When Home awoke he
was rather astonished to find himself sitting in the small
room, and Smith one of the part3^ He was entranced for
nearly two hours, and was much exhausted. After the
others had gone, my mother spoke to me through the
alphabet about my intended marriage. She also spoke
about Home going to Adare, one message I remember
being :
" Mortals seek for knoivledge ; but when we give them
the fruit of our studies, if it does not coincide with their
preconceived ideas, we are classed as devils." Home was so
weak that she could not make much use of him, and Adah
Menken could not say anything that she had intended. The
last message was :
" Dan, you are very weak ; you must not
sit for at least a week. We take away all power from you
for that time." I forgot to say that on Monday night
Home spoke in a trance to me about the difficulties in the
way of mediumship and communicating. As well as I can
remember, he said :
" Very strange occurrences often take
NO. 49] With D. D. Home 175
place with undeveloped mediums ; and you are naturally
much puzzled by them. These things are allowed some-
times as wholesome trials, in order that the person may
see how necessary it is to use judgment and reason, and
to approach the subject with the greatest care. Medium-
ship is of very slow growth ;
people are too hasty, and
expect to get everything at once. They are often also
told things to make them persevere, spirits are so anxious
to communicate, and it is such a joy to find people to
communicate through, that they rush in, as it were, and
try to encourage the medium by promises that apply
rather to mediums in general, than to any one individ-
ually ;
promises also which may take years in their fulfil-
ment, instead of days, as mortals in their impatience
suppose. You think too much of the individuality of
mediumship. Supposing a person is told that he is to be
a great healer, that he is to go forth teaching the nations,
and to be as a king among men ; that person would con-
sider it all as applying solely to himself : it apphes rather
to the whole subject, to all mecUums. Mediums should
be as kings, in the true sense of the word ;
they have a
wonderful gift, a weighty responsibihty, and they should,
if possible, set themselves apart, and lead pure, simple,
unworldly fives, that they may use their gift to the best
advantage. This mistake as regards promises, viz. : sup-
posing them to apply to a single individual instead of to
mediums in general, is an important fact, bear it in mind.
The discerning of spirits is important. Now if a dark,
cold, low spirit came into the room Dan would know him
and he could not stay ; he would feel mean and out of
place, and would have to go. Another person might not
perceive what he was—to use a homely simile, it is some-
thing fike a man making faces at you belund your back ;
he would not do so if he knew there was a mirror in
winch you could see him ; when St. Paul spoke of dis-
cerning spirits, he did not mean seeing them only, but
discerning the differences between them, judging between
the pure and the impure. Living in any way in an
atmosphere of deceit, holding seances on the sly, and
having anything whatever underhand about it, is very bad
176 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
and is certain to produce a bad influence. Mediums while
being developed must be yqxj cautious, very prayerful,
very guarded against deceit ;
very patient, humble, and
quietly receptive of what may come to them ;
very careful
and pure in life, for a calm and prayerful state of mind
is necessary for the influx of a high spiritual influence,
while lower influences can more easily impress themselves
—are more in their element, as it were, with natures more
disturbed, and less exalted and pure in mind and body.
If those who are being developed as mediums will remem-
ber and act up to this, they will arrive at a state in
which the}^ will know at once the pure from the impure,
and be able to judge of the influences about them."
[The following seances occurred at Adare Manor, and at
Garinish, a cottage of my father's, on the coast of Kerry.
For the sake of uniformity, I think it best to follow the
same famihar style, using the first person, as in the pre-
vious communications. The seances recorded by my father
are signed " D." ; those by me, " A."^]
No. 50.
—
Seance at Adare Manor, February 21th, 1869.
Mr. Home arrived yesterday, and this evening our first
seance took place. We sat in the gallery ; the party con-
sisting of my sister-in-law Mrs. Wynne, and her daughter,
Major and Mrs. Blackburn, Hon. F. Lawless, Captain
Wynne (Charlie), Mr. Home, Adare, and myself. During
the seance there was a strong gale of wind, with heavy
hail showers, and flashes of lightning. After a short time,
vibrations and slight movements of the table occurred.
Presently Mr. Home and Adare went to the end of the
room, and sat at a small table and asked what had best
be done. They received the following answer :
" The ex-
ternal atmosphere is not good. We are not sure that this
room ivill he conducive. We wish all who remain in this
1 The seances recorded by the late Lord Dunraven are Nos. 50, 51,
.55, 59 and a part of Nos. 56 and 57. [Ed.]
NO. 50] With D. D. Home 177
room to be in the circle. Go ivith your father and Fred
Lawless to try another room."' As Mr. Home and Adare
were walking up the gallery to tell us, Adare said " I
wonder if Charlie (Wynne) may come with us ?
" " Yes,"
was rapped on a table which they were passing at the
moment.
We went to my study, and sat at a small table. Raps
were heard, and JMr. Home soon went into a trance, and
immediately rose up and walked about the room, seemingly
in an uncomfortable state ; his e3^es were shut. He took
the green shade off my reading lamp, and then bandaged
his eyes ;
and after a few turns about the room, he came
back to the table. He seemed attracted to Lawless. He
placed his hand against the back of Lawless's neck, and
pressed it. Lawless felt a sensation as if a hot stream
flowed into him. Mr. Home then sat down ;
and, pointing
emphatically at Lawless, said :
'•'
You have considerable
powers ;
you have (or ought to have) large healing powers."
He again walked about, and seemed very uncomfortable,
conveying the impression that there was something un-
satisfactory about the state of the room. He said :
''
The
gallery is too large, and full of different influences, the
chairs even have different influences ; and then this room
is too full of business and of figures." He went out into
the hall ;
came back, and then went into the vestibule.
On returning he took Adare out, and asked him to come
and try the dining room. Adare said :
" Why not try the
room at the end of the passage ?
" (his mother's sitting
room). They went down in the dark, Mr. Home finding
the door, which Adare missed. They entered the room,
and immediately INIr. Home said: "This is the room."
He then quitted it, returned to where we were sitting, and
taking me by the hand, he led the way rapidly back to
the other room, and walked into the middle of it, Adare
coming with us. It was pitch dark. '•
This," he said,
•'
this is the room." We heard raps in different places.
He then took my hand, returned to my study, and sat
down. He addressed me in a loud whisper :
" That is the
room ; you will put some flowers there in the morning,
and have a fire in the afternoon. There will be a remark-
178 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
able manifestation up stairs ;
you will not know when it
will happen. You may go to that old ruin on Wednesday
night, or not later than Thursday. The men only are to
go, the ladies would be frightened.^ When Daniel comes
back, go and sit up stairs." Mr. Home soon after awoke.
At one time during his trance he was either elongated or
raised off the ground, for, while standing close to the
table, opposite to me, his head and the upper part of his
figure were rapidly elevated several inches ; the lower part
was concealed by the table ; this lasted only a few
seconds.
As directed we went up stairs, and sat at the large
table in the middle of the gallery. Miss Smith joined the
circle ; she became slightly hysterical and left the table,
but soon returned. Fred Lawless became nearly similarly
affected. Vibrations of the tables and chairs occurred, and
the usual cold currents of air w^ere perceived. Mr. Home
and Adare felt some strong influence between them ; the
chair of the former was pulled back from one to two feet,
and Mrs. Wynne's was half turned round. The table was
tilted in different directions, and was at last raised about
one foot off the ground. After this nothing more occurred.
D.
No. 51 Seance.—February 28th [1869].
As directed last night, we sat in Lady Dunraven's sitting
room. Present : Mrs. Wynne, C. Wynne, Lawless, Adare,
Mr. Home and myseff. The table was unsteady and creaky
;
we had very shght manifestations. After some time Mr.
Home went into a trance ; he seemed uncomfortable, and
walked about, altering the position of the different chairs
and articles of furniture ; he objected to the large stuffed
chairs on which we were sitting, and changed them :
saying, that the springs in them had a bad effect. He
drew down the blinds, and made movements with his
hands and arms as if magnetizing about the room. He
sat down near the fire, then taking out a coal, partly red
1 We had been previously talking about going to the Abbey.
NO. 51] With D. D. Home 179
and partly black, he brought it and held it between Mrs.
Wynne and me, as if showing it to us ;
then, without
making any remark, he put it back in the fire. He held
the coal by the black part, which, doubtless, was tolerably
hot ;
yet, still the experiment could hardly be called an
example of the fire test, such as was exhibited at Nor-
wood, and is mentioned in No. 30. After this he rubbed
and patted several of us on the back, and he pressed his
head against me between the shoulders ; I felt a warm
current flowing from it. He then sat down, and said that
the room was now in a much better state. After making
a few observations he awoke. Raps were heard, and we
were told to go and look for another table ; Mr. Home,
in order to know who should go with him, pointed to
each in turn, and Adare and I were chosen. We went to
the hall and the library, trying different tables without
any result ; on our return through the hall, we heard raps
on a table as we were touching it, as we passed ; so we
took it with us. We sat at this table ; but had only
sUght manifestations. We received this message, " We are
doing our best ; we hope you will be patient.''' We asked,
" How many spirits present ?
" and were told " Nine.'"
"How many that we have known?"' "Two." I ex-
pressed a hope that Dr. EUiotson would come, and we
were talking about him when the following was given,
" He will visit the Abbey.'" After a short pause we re-
ceived this message :
" The influence is against us ; we
mean the external atmosphere." And soon after the follow-
ing :
" We think you had better try the same table you had
last night." Upon this we adjourned to the gallery. We
were joined by Miss Wjrmie, Miss Smith and Major Black-
burn. The table vibrated, and raps were heard ; but
nothing remarkable took place.
During one of the periods when the table was vibrating,
the manor clock struck twelve ; the continuity of the
vibration ceased, but at each stroke of the bell a vibration
took place. When the last stroke had sounded, the con-
tinuity of the vibrations recommenced. Soon after this,
the following message was given :
" We have done our best
;
but find it is impossible. May God bless you all." The
180 Ex'periences in Spiritualism [seanoe
word God was spelled by strong vibrations of the table ;
we then adjourned. D.
No. 52.—Seance, March 1st [1869].
We had a seance at five p.m. Present : Major and Mrs.
Blackburn, Mrs. Wynne, Miss Wynne, Miss Smith, Captain
Wynne, Mr. Lawless, Home, and myself. Tolerably strong
physical manifestations occurred. No messages were given,
but the spirits present occasionally joined in our conver-
sation by rapping " Yes " or " No ;
" and they answered
a few questions as to the number of spirits in the room,
whose relatives they were, &c., &c.. The table at which
we were seated was moved, and raised in the air. A
good-sized table standing at some little distance behind
Home moved of itself ; and a chair behind me moved up
to me of itself. Some one asked, " How many spirits are
there present ?
" Twenty raps were given. Miss Smith,
having been requested to do so, asked if any of her re-
lations were in the room. ''Yes;'' was answered. "But,"
she said, " there are no relations of mine alive here ; no
one is related to me." The answer was " We are the
living." When leaving the room, Home told me he had
a strong impression that Mrs. Wynne and myself were to
sit with him alone sometime in the evening ; after dinner,
accordingly, we three went and sat in my room round a
large and tolerably heavy table. Immediately the in-
fluence became apparent by strong vibrations and raps on
the table and floor. The room was at this time lighted
by a bright fire and one candle. The following sentences
were given with short intervals between them, there not
being apparently sufficient power to enable the spirits to
spell out by raps many words in succession : "We are
pleased to have you thus.'' " Alone ?
" I asked.* " Yes."
" Emily ivelcome." Home's hands were influenced, and he
patted and stroked his chest.
The names were then given: "Richard," "James,"
" John," " Robert." " Is it Gore Booth ?
" I asked. " No."
We were speculating as to who these spirits could be, as
NO. 52] With D. D. Home 181
only one name was recognized by Mrs. Wynne, and none
by me, Home began describing them ; but Mrs. Wynne,
not knowing that it was of any consequence, interrupted
him, and he could not tell us who they were ; he said
however that we should know later. We now heard
persons moving in different parts of the room. In order
to be certain that we were not deceived, we asked that
the sounds might be repeated three times ; it was done as
we requested. Home also said he saw various figures, but
not with sufficient distinctness to be able to describe them.
Raps were constantly heard on the table, floor, and furni-
ture, and the spirits occasionally answered our questions.
The table was moved about shghtly, and raised off the
ground. Home went into a trance, got up and walked
about without speaking for some httle time ;
by the atti-
tude he assumed I perceived that " the Doctor " was
influencing him. He came up to me and whispered, " Tell
Dan not to eat so much sweet." Another influence then
came over him ; he walked about briskly, and seemed
happy and pleased ; he spoke in a loud voice somewhat
to this effect : "As regards the seances you have been
holding, it is most difficult for us to succeed. In the
first place the external atmosphere is most unpropitious,
neither have you approached the subject in a proper spirit
and frame of mind. In whatever way you regard the
subject, it is a most important one, and should not be
treated with levity, but should be approached quietly and
with earnest prayer. You are not sufficiently serious.
Some are actuated by curiosity, some are wishing for one
thing, others for something quite different ; the aspirations
are so various, it is almost as though you were praying
to different gods : the influences are consequently all
opposed to each other. You should come prayerfully,
earnestly, not hoping for, or expecting, anything in par-
ticular ; above all without levity. It is a solemn subject
if you consider it to be a great discovery, calculated to
throw light on hitherto hidden subjects, to overthrow
many errors, and to be of great benefit to the human
race. If you do not believe that we are what we pretend
to be, and even consider us to be evil, still it is a subject
182 Experiences in S'piritualism [seance
to be treated with solemnity, for you are communicating
with beings or intelhgences external to yourselves, difierent
from you, and beyond your knowledge or control. The
external influences also are very numerous and strange,
and are all, as it were, touching and fingering Dan
—
wondering at him. It is quite new to them ;
they have
never seen anything like it before, and they do not under-
stand it. Some of them are so intensely anxious to
communicate, to say something, others again do not at all
approve of it, and would wish to prevent anything of the
sort."
AdARE :
" That is curious !
"
Mrs. Wynne :
" Surely it would be more curious if they
were all agreed."
Home : (laughing) " Why, Adare, your aunt's notions
are more correct than yours, although you have been at
it so long ; but then you spoke without thinking. Oh
yes, indeed, some of them are very much opposed to it."
Adare :
" Will you give us any directions about our
seances ?
"
Home :
" That is what we have been trying to find out,
but it is difficult. You see if we pick out a few, then
those who are left out are annoyed, and those who are
chosen are sorry for the others who are disappointed, and
are affected by their influence. It would be much better
if you would settle among yourselves for some to sit one
night and the others the next ; we can tell you what
combination answers best ; we would sooner you settled it
among yourselves, then there will be no unpleasant feehng."
Home then put out the candle, and told me to help him
to move the table ; we placed it near the window and
sat down. Soon after he awoke. There was a strong
influence about the table, it vibrated and was hfted in
the air, the cloth was raised apparently by hands moving
under it, and I was touched on the knee by a hand
;
Home said he saw hands and figures. A hand came out
from under the table, covered by the cloth and touched
my left side, it remained there a few seconds and was
then withdrawn. This message was given, " / took it from
7ny oivn dear boy to give to you my dear sister, take it."
NO. 52] With D. D. Home 183
We none of us understood to what this referred, till I
noticed that a rose bud had been taken from my button-
hole, however I made no remark. We heard something-
moving under the table, and the cloth was raised, as if
by a hand, near ]\'Irs. Wynne. At Home's suggestion, she
put her hand down, and the rose was placed in it. A
flower in Home's button-hole was then jerked out across
the table, and fell by me. I asked who it was for, the
answer was, " For you to give to your father with love."
This message was then given, " Your happiness is ours.''
Then this, " We ivould fain manifest ourselves more power-
fully."
While this last message was being given, the table was
raised gently off the floor and moved up and down three
times in the air, then raised again a Httle higher, and
again moved up and down ; in this mamier it was, without
ever touching the floor, raised six or seven times, a little
higher on each occasion, until it was about three feet
above the floor. I have never seen a table sustained in
the air for so long a time. Mrs. Wynne remarked that
it was dehghtful to have no bad influence present, when
we had this message :
" Prayer to God will protect." The
table then began moving on the floor in a circle, and the
following was given :
" The love of God encircling you round
and about." Subsequently this was spelled out :
" We love
the symbol of faith ;
" and the table was raised in the air,
and twice made the sign of the cross. A perfume, as of
dried rose leaves and some aromatic substance, was wafted
across us and the message given :
" We must now go."
Nothing more occurred. A.
No. 5^.—Tuesday, March 2nd [1869].
On the afternoon of the 2nd I was seated by the fire
in my room reading, Home was writing at the long table.
Suddenly the round table, starting from the window, moved
a distance of six or eight feet, and placed itself against
the end of the long table. We both heard a sound as of
a bell tinkUng. Home began speaking about the spirit
184 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
present, and while doing so went into a trance. He said,
" Oh, he is very strange and restless, he is a monk."
I asked, " Is that sound of the bell the same as I heard
last night ?
" " Yes ; he was here last night, and says you
ought to have heard him. He has never been here before,
that is, not since this house has been built. The sound
of the bell is the same also as you heard outside the
house to-day with Dan, only it is more concentrated now."
I asked what the meaning of the sound was, " Ah, he
was a monk. He seems to have committed some crime
and then to have said mass, and the crime weighed heavier
on his conscience in consequence." A dagger was then
violently knocked off the table to the other side of the
room. I was not looking at Home at the moment and
cannot say whether he struck it or not. " Oh," he said,
" he cannot bear the sight of that." A large pair of
scissors were then dashed on to the floor from off the
round table, no one being near it. Home said, " He can-
not bear anything sharp and pointed ; Ah, he is trying to
pick up the scissors, but he cannot touch them because
they have, as you see, fallen in the shape of a cross.
Ah, poor fellow, he says he will not hurt you. he would
not stop a minute here, but that he sees you do not hate
and despise him ; he will do you no harm, but you must
not mind his being rough and abrupt in his manner. He
does not wish you to speak about this to the others, but he
wants you, Charlie, and Dan, to come here to-night ; he
has something to say ; he does not like those seances down
stairs, he is not pleased. He cannot speak to you him-
self, he can scarcely make manifestations ; he talks old
Irish. He is the same spirit that Fred saw,i he was
stripped of his gown and appeared to have on a blanket."
On the same afternoon, or the day before, I forget which,
Mr. Lawless, Home, and myself were seated on the bed in
^ This alluded to Mr. Lawless, having told us, while on a visit here
last winter, tliat he had seen a ghost or spirit in the castle. I did not
pay much attention to his statements, supposing it to have been some
illusion on his part.
NO. 54] With D. D. Home 185
my room ; Charlie Wynne was sitting by the fire. We
heard raps on the table, and a sound as of a hand brush-
ing on the wall, and the bed vibrated. A.
No. 54:.~Seance, March 2nd [1869].
Present :—Mrs. and Miss Wynne, Mrs. and Major Black-
burn, Miss Smith, Captain Wynne, Mr. Lawless. Home,
and myself. This evening we sat at a table in the
gallery ;
very slight physical manifestations occurred, which
soon ceased, and after waiting some time, the party broke
up. Mrs. Blackburn, Miss Wynne, Captain Wynne, Mr.
Lawless, and Home went up to my room to try there.
I followed them in about a quarter of an hour. Before
I arrived they had a message to the effect that the spirits
would do more if they could ; afterwards we had the usual
manifestations, currents of air, vibrations, raps, tilting of
the table, which was on two occasions also raised in the
air. At one time, Miss Wynne, Home, and I heard a
very singular rumbling and rolhng sort of sound in the
air behind us, which was repeated three times. We saw
hands (apparently) moving under the table cloth ; and Mrs.
Blackburn, Home, and I were touched. Mrs. Blackburn's
dress was sharply pulled two or three times, as was also
Miss Wynne's ; we all saw and heard it. Mrs. Blackburn
was slightly under influence, and became a good deal
agitated. Home went into a trance ; walked about, and
described to Mrs. Blackburn two spirits that were standing
behind her magnetizing her and causing the agitation she
felt. He said, " They will do you no harm, but on the
contrary what they are about is for a good object ; one
of them magnetized you in the same way this afternoon,
but there are now two, and it is consequently stronger.
The influence about you is very good, but very strong,
you could hear raps at night now." Mrs. Blackburn said,
" Oh, please don't !
" Mr. Home rephed, " Oh, no ; don't
be nervous, they will not do it ;
they know it would
frighten you, and they will never do that; but the time
will come when you will not be frightened at it." Going
186 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
to Mr. Lawless, he said, " You really must have more
command over your nerves, if you cannot control them
you must not come to seances ; you will get more and
more hysterical, and it will do you physical harm ;
you
had better go away for a few minutes." Then turning
to me, he said, " You did not do what you promised last
night. He is here ;
you know who I mean." I repHed,
" Yes, I know ; but Dan said last night that he had an
impression that Mrs. Wynne and I were to sit with him ;
and I could not do what I promised." Home said, " You
might have done so afterwards ; however it is perhaps as
well that you did not, for you might have attributed Dan's
illness to that. He is still here ; he is not pleased." I
asked, " Would it do as well to-night, or to-morrow 1
"
Home replied, " No ; he says he will come unexpectedly
again as he did the first time. Oh yes, he knows that
you did not forget, he does not blame you, but he is not
pleased ; he is very much annoyed at these sittings down
stairs." Home then opened the window, and appeared to
be debating as to whether he should go out or not. He
shut the window and said, " You will not let us do it ;
you have not sufficient faith." He then sat down and
awoke. We had a few more physical manifestations, the
last being that Home's chair was drawn away from the
table. -A..
No. 55.—Seance, March 3rd [1869].
This seance was held in Adare's room. Present :
—Mrs.
Wynne, Adare, Mr. Home, and myself. Soon after we
were seated, Mr. Home went into a trance. He got up
and walked about, remarking that the influence was good,
and that Mrs. Wynne's influence was very pleasant. He
went to the door, opened it, and said, " Ah, here is that
strange spirit that came to Ashley House—Thomas, your
father's friend—he is very eccentric ; he says he wants to
recall some conversation to your father." I said, " I hope
he will do so." Adare observed that if he exhibited the
same curiously abrupt and undecided manner that he did
NO. 55] With D. D. Home 187
at Ashley House {vide No. 44, p. 163), he would probably
say nothing, at any rate this night." Home said, " Oh,
that was his manner ; he is very eccentric." He then
walked up to Mrs. Wynne, and made passes over her head,
and held it between his hands, and told her that her cir-
culation was bad (which it is), and that her liver was out
of order.
He pointed to me saying, " Your influence is very good
for physical manifestations ;
you must not think that you
are any impediment to their occurrence." I had been
fancying that probably my presence was rather adverse,
and consequently I was unwiUing to attend the seance
;
but I had not mentioned this to Home. He then gave
Adare directions about the table. " You will place it near
the window ;
your father will sit next to Daniel, you on
his other side, then Mrs. Wynne, leaving a vacant space
next to the window." We then commenced talking about
his having had apparently some idea of going out of the
window last night [vide No. 54), and were discussing as to
whether there was any real danger in his doing so ; some
saying they would be nervous, while others, myseK among
them, said we should feel no anxiety whatever as to his
safety ;
upon which he remarked, " They will take care
and see when the conditions are right ; there need be no
fear." He then spoke about one of the semices which had
been held when he was not present, and said, " We do
not approve of it at all ; it is all wrong ; the whole thing
is in confusion. That sentence about B and the wicked
devil is not right ; there is no wicked devil in that sense.
We do not wish to enter into any explanation, we only
tell you that it is all wrong." Turning to Mrs. Wynne,
Mr. Home said, " John says he is coming to you to-night,
and that he wants to try and put his hand in yours."
Soon after this he sat down and awoke. He spoke during
his trance in a loud whisper.
We took the table over to the window and seated our-
selves as we had been directed. We soon heard a number
of very delicate raps, like a continuous stream of httle
electrical sparks, which lasted for a short time ;
they were
barely audible without placing the ear close to the cloth
188 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
which covered the table. We then felt vibrations, and
heard raps of different kinds, chiefly on the table, but
some dull sounds like knocks, occurred elsewhere. We
had extinguished the candles, but the fire gave sufficient
light to see near objects well, and distant ones faintly.
In the recess of the window was a large box or chest
with papers and other things lying upon it ; one could
see them, without being able clearly to distinguish what
they were. The alphabet being called for, the following
messages were given, with short intervals between them,
during which there were frequent raps :
" God be ivith you.
Your father Thomas Goold. You must not think ive fear the
cross, ive love it, loe also love God.'' " We are allowed to
2iray for you and watch over you.'' Soon after several loud
raps or knocks were heard, and the name " John Wynne "
was spelled out. About this time there were movements
and sounds about the papers on the box, and Mrs. Wynne's
dress was touched. Presently we had the following message :
" Could you hut know the reality of my identity, and the
unaltered and unalterable love I hear you, I well know it
ivould he a source of joy to you. I have not sent you
messages, for the reason that you could have no means of
distinguishing the certainty of my personality.'' ^ I then
said, " To whom is this message sent," and the answer
was, " You, my own." I added, " I should like to know
the name of the sj^irit," and was answered, " Augusta."
At this point some interruption seemed to occur. Mrs.
Wynne's dress was visibly and audibly moved about, and
Mr. Home several times saw a hand ; the slight sounds
about the papers on the box recurred. Presently, Mr.
Home's feet were moved and placed upon mine ;
strong
movements of his arms and legs took place ; his hands
appeared to be drawn about in different directions, and
rather violently agitated. After these movements had
^ This message clearly referred to my having several times lately
remarked upon the fact, that no message had, I believe, been sent to
me on any occasion during the previous seances in London or elsewhere,
by the spirit who would most naturally under the circumstances have
done so—which fact I had used as an argument bearing upon a par-
ticular view of the whole subject.
NO. 55] With D. D. Home 189
ceased, he said, " I feel a hand on me, pressing against
my chest ; and now it has, I think, taken the flowers from
my button-hole." The idea came into my mind that per-
haps these flowers were intended for me ; I quietly laid
one hand open upon my knee. Almost immediately a
flower was placed very delicately in it. I then felt another
flower, and tried to grasp the hand holding it, but did not
succeed ; it seemed to vanish, leaving the flower in my
hand. Some curious manifestations now took place. The
cloth on the table was lifted up, fully six inches, as by
a hand. This occurred along the side next the window
several times. Mr. Home saw the hand. Mrs. Wynne
became nervous, which was to be regretted, as she might
probably have felt the hand as had been told her at the
commencement of the seance. There were vibrations and
tiltings of the table, and various kinds of raps. Presently,
the alphabet was called for, and the following given :
Even should we he taken to a distant heaven, ivoidd it not
he our greatest joy to fly as the " Here the message
stopped ; and we heard a rustling sound about the box in
the window, which lasted two or three minutes. Adare
said, " I am sure I know what this means." My hand
was on my knee. I suddenly felt something touch it,
which I laid hold of, and drew out from under the table ;
it was an arrow. We then re-commenced the alphabet ;
and the word " descends " was given, thus flnishing the
sentence : ''as the arrow descends.'' During this mani-
festation, as also when the flowers were being placed in
my hand, Mr. Home was sitting quite still, with both his
hands on the table. A sheet of paper was lying on the
edge of the table next the window, on which a pencil was
placed. We presently saw the pencil moving about on the
paper. Mr. Home saw the fingers holding it. Adare
noticed it also, more than once, but of an undefined form.
We now heard something moving upon the box by the
window, and a heavy substance fell near Adare's feet.
Some of us at the same moment perceived a decided smell
of brandy. Adare said, " I know what it is." The
following message was then given :
" You must not take for
your cold stimulants." Adare asked if he was to take
190 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
none at all. The answer was by two raps, meaning,
" perhaps,'" or "a little.'' We afterwards found that it
was Adare's flask which had been thrown under the table.
On examining it no brandy appeared to have escaped.
Soon after this a curious manifestation occurred about the
table, just hke the sound and motion of the vibration on
board a steamer. This was succeeded by the following
message : "We deeply regret, hut tve have no more power.
God abide ivith you." During this beautiful seance, which
lasted nearly two hours, the table was twice raised up
from a foot to eighteen inches. The messages were spelled
partly by raps and partly by tilts of the table. I was
touched on two occasions, rather delicately, on the knee.
The whole seance was quiet, soothing, and very impressive.
D.
No. 5Q.—Seance, March Uh [1869].
Present :
—Major and Mrs. Blackburn, Miss Wynne, Law-
less, Charlie Wynne, Home, my father, and myself. We
sat in my room, which was hghted by one candle and the
fire. After sitting for some time without any movement
of the table or other indication of influence. Home went
into a trance. He got up, said in a low voice to me
" We have put Dan into a trance to try and equalize the
atmosphere, we wish to make manifestations," and after
walking about the room magnetizing it commenced speak-
ing in a singularly soothing tone of voice, his conversation
being principally addressed to Mrs. Blackburn. " There
are two Ehzabeths—who are they ? And Isabella—she
seems to have taken care of you, John, when you were
young. There is a spirit present with whom you were
acquainted, he is lame ;
you do not remember the name
now, but you probably will hereafter. Who was Margaret
Henderson ? (no one answered). Ah, your mother would
know, ask her ; she will remember about her. Talk, go
on talking to each other, your minds are much too positive ;
the human mind is like a barrier to us. Your minds now
are all intent, and it makes such a confusion that I can-
NO. 56] With D. D. Home 191
not see and find out what I want ; it is like looking
through a shrubbery with all the branches in motion : I
cannot make out clearly what there is on the other side."
Mrs. Blackburn becoming shghtly under influence and
agitated, he stood behind her and calmed her, saying,
" You must not mind it, they will do you no harm ; when
on earth they would not have hurt you, why should they
now ? You must have trust ; but even if you have not
confidence in them, you know that God protects you from
all evil—have trust in him. Should it seem unpleasant
and even evil to you, remember that God's ways are not
our ways ; and out of what is apparently evil, much good
may come ; that which you might at first consider bad,
may turn out to be the greatest good to you. It is the
influence that came over Dan when we put him into a
trance that affected you ; it was so strong—that is all."
Standing near Miss Wynne he said, " There are two Wind-
hams here, two young men, Windham Goold and Windham
Quin." Touching Charlie Wynne on the shoulder he said,
" Charhe, Robert says he has not forgotten his promise,
he will keep it, but he has not been able to do so yet ;
he is going to Emmy." Home then walked about the
room and said, " When Maria has sufficient faith and is
willing to be developed for the good of others, she will
go into trances." IVIrs. Blackburn requested my father to
ask Home if it was necessary that she should be wilUng.
Home said, " Do not be frightened, nothing will be done
to harm you, when you have sufficient faith in God's
protecting power,—when you can say, '
Thy will not mine
be done,'—when you are anxious for it for the benefit of
others, and to advance the truth, then it will come to
you ; until then the fact of your being unwilUng, of your
mind being opposed, would prevent it. Oh, there is a
Mary (or Maria) here, I like her so much. Dear me ! she
has such a curious way of smihng—she smiles with her
mouth only, she is very timid. There is also a man who
appears to have been shot ; who can he be 1 Was he
your grandmother's uncle ? He seems to have been in a
naval engagement. Although Mary is so timid, Maria, she
is your principal guardian spirit ; there is a miniature or
192 Experiences m Spiritualism [seance
portrait of her, with sonie peculiarity in the dress, do you
know it ?
" Mrs. Blackburn replied, " No." Home said,
" Ah, well there is one, at any rate there is a black cut
profile of her. There is an Alexander present." Home
went on for some time speaking about the spirits in the
room, and then stood behind my father and told us all
to talk ; while we were talking, he whispered to him, " You
should not fast much." He said, "I do not really fast
at all." Home added, " Your brain is very active and is
wearing the vital powers, and you should take nourishing
food—fasting materially would be bad, but spiritually would
be good for you." Home soon after awoke. A.
After this we remained sitting for an hour and a quarter
without any manifestations whatever. Mr. Home said
several times, " I feel a strong influence all about me ; it
is strange that there are no physical manifestations." At
last I proposed that some of the party should leave the
room, being certain that something must be wrong.
Blackburn and I went away. Mr. Home remarked, " A
few moments will shew whether their presence was the
obstruction." Still no manifestations. He then said,
" Charlie, do you and Lawless go, and send the others
back." Lawless went with the greatest reluctance. The
door had hardly closed when there were cold currents,
vibrations, and raps. I returned, and was scarcely seated,
when the alphabet was called for, and this message given :
" We love Freddy, but he is not in a state of mind or tody
conducive to manifestations^ Wynne fetched the accordion.
Mrs. Blackburn was very soon after touched on the dress,
and something became plainly visible moving under the
table cloth, along the edge of the table, raising up the
cloth several inches, as would be done were a hand and
arm [underneath it].^ The hand was visible on the cloth
to Mr. Home, and I once faintly perceived it. It touched Mrs.
Blackburn's hand. This manifestation was repeated different
times. I was touched on the ankle, and several times on
the knee. Miss Wynne's dress was strongly pulled. The
^ This sentence is incomplete in the original edition. The general
meaning is however clear. [Ed:]
NO. 56] With D. D. Howe 193
table was beautifully raised in the air, by three successive
lifts, to the height of eighteen inches or two feet. Mr.
Home then took the accordion, holding it under the edge
of the table with one hand, the other resting on the table ;
soon after it began to sound, it played with considerable
power as well as great delicacy, something like a voluntary,
with airs introduced. Then there were sounds like echoes,
so fine, as to be scarcely audible. The accordion was
drawn out towards Mrs. Blackburn, but not put into her
hand. I expressed a wish that it might be played with-
out being held by Mr. Home, upon which he withdrew
his hand, placing it on the table ; the instrument was just
touching the under edge of the table, where it remained,
as it were, suspended. It began playing very gently. He
clapped his hands several times to shew that he was not
touching it. The playing soon ceased, and he took it
again. Some notes sounded out of tune, and I said,
" either wrong notes are played in the chord, or the
accordion is out of tune." " Out of time " was rapped out
on the instrument. It played again very finely, and with
the tremolo efi^ect, which struck me exceedingly. I asked,
" Will you tell us who is playing " ; two raps were given,
implying doubt. Presently the alphabet was called for,
and the following given :
" Remember that ;
" and then " Oft
in the stilly night " was softly played. When one recalls
the words :
—
Oft in the stilly night, ere slumber's chain hath bound me,
Fond memory brings the light of other days around me, &c.
how touching the message becomes, and how beautiful the
mode of representing it.'^ I then again asked, " Will you
not tell us the name of the spirit who has been playing."
The letters " a-u-g " were rapped out by my being touched
delicately on the knee. I guessed the completion of the
word, saying, " Is it Augusta ?
" and I was touched, " Yes."
I then asked whether it would be possible for the organ
to be played if the bellows were filled, and the reply
" Perhaps," was given. I said, " I can identify the player
^ This air was, long ago, one of my greatest favourites.
194 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
from a particular circumstance." Some one remarked, " Is
it from AA'hat was played, or by the expression ?
" " No,"
I replied, when Adare said, "Is it from the imitation of
the tremolo 1
" " Yes," I replied, " that reminded me
immediately of the organ ;
" upon which the following was
instantly rapped out, by my being again touched on the
knee :
" You are right my own.'' Soon after this we all
heard strong sounds which proceeded seemingly from a
large oblong writing table, which stood several feet from
us ; we could perceive it moving ; it stopped within a foot
of our table, which then moved up to it. We heard first
one and then another drawer opened, on the side of the
table farthest from us, and a rusthng sound as if stirring
papers. After a short pause, the following sentence was
given, partly, if not wholly, (I forget which) by tilting the
table :
" We must cease, hut 7iot before praying God to bless
you.'' We then adjourned. During the sitting the table
was again lifted in the beautiful manner before mentioned,
reminding me very much of the action of the bellows of
the organ while being filled ; and it is very remarkable
that this occurred, as will be seen in the foregoing de-
scription, just before the playing commenced. D.
Having left my room, Home and I went down to the
smoking room. While he was speaking to me he broke
off suddenly in the middle of a word with a violent start
and went into a trance. Major Blackburn at that moment
came into the room, and witnessed what occurred. Home
jumped up, caught me by the hand, beckoned to Major
Blackburn to follow, and led us up to my room in a
great hurry. On opening the door, he said (apparently to
some spirit in the room), " Oh, please do not do that !
"
He then drew out the long writing table, placed it near
the window, put two chairs in front of the fire, and hung
a blanket over them to exclude the light ; then placed a
chair at each end of the table for us, and one for himseK
at the side of the table opposite the window and the
drawers. He drew out one of the drawers and placed a
piece of paper and a pencil in it ; tlien sitting down, he
said, " Listen !
" I listened, and distinctly heard the sound
NO. 56] With D. D. Home 195
of a pencil writing on a piece of paper in the open drawer ;
the word written was finished by three dots. Home then
threw himself back in his chair and said, " Oh, she is so
thankful that your father has seen what he has !
" He
began to sob violently, and calhng me over to him, he
grasped my hand, and said, " Oh, my darling I am so
glad that he has seen something ; I wish he could have
been here now, but the conditions happened to be favour-
able at this moment, and we could not wait. You \vill
give him the paper on which I have written, and the
pencil ; the pencil must be kept ; it may be used again,
but only at Adare. There was a spirit here when you
came in, who damaged the conditions a little, and the
writing is in consequence not very firm ; the pencil point
also broke, and the last letters are not quite distinct ; the
colour of the pencil is typical of my love—pure, deep, and
everlasting." The pencil was a red one, and the word
written was " Augusta." Home, on being asked afterwards
about his going so suddenly into a trance, said, " I can
remember being in the smoking room, and seeing two
spirits enter by the door ;
rapidly approaching, one of
them stretched out his hand towards me, and I immedi-
ately lost consciousness." A.
No. 57.
It was now nearly 10 p.m., and my father, Charlie
Wynne, Home and I went to the Abbey ; we walked up
the church, and stood near the altar. Home shortly went
into a trance. He took o&. a white comforter that he
wore round his neck, and tied it over his head, and began
walking with rapid measured strides up and down the
church. By the expression of his face, by his gestures,
and by his moaning, he appeared to be in great agony of
mind. As he walked he made (with his mouth, I think)
a sound that appeared to us closely to resemble that of
a man walking in sandals or wooden shoes, upon a tiled
or stone floor. His head became luminous, as did also his
hands. This occurred twice ; the second time more faintly.
196 Experiences in Sjnritualism [seance
An owl flew round the church screeching ; I attributed the
noise to Home, but as he passed me he said in a most
awful voice, " No, it is not so ;
" and as he repassed, he
added, " You were mistaken." He kneeled upon the ground
occasionally, waved his arms above his head, and appeared
in great distress. He came up to us and, in a frightened
tone of voice, said, " Oh, come away—come away !
" and
led us down to the other end of the church. He walked
about a little longer, then, taking my father's arm, he
said, " Do you see that tomb-stone with the light shining
upon it ? It would be better, aye, ten million times
better, to lie there in the cold dark clay, than to spend
years upon years, every moment of which is an eternity,
in wandering here." Raising his hands above his head, he
added, " oh, I am so weary—so weary !
" Soon after this
he awoke. He was rather nervous, and said to me, " Who
is that man standing by the window 1 Is it Lord Dun-
raven ? " He seemed quite astonished when he found we
were all near him, and that none of us could see the figure.
During the rest of the time we remained in the Abbey,
Home was entranced, I suppose, four or five times, and
even in the intervals, when he was awake and knew where
he was and what he was doing, he was under a very strong
influence. He stood talking to us for a few minutes, and
then said, " The figure is beckoning to me. I am quite
awake and not the least nervous ; I must go." He accord-
ingly moved towards the window and we followed him at
a short distance. He left the church by the choir door,
and went beyond the low broken wall, saying that he saw
the figure standing against a portion of the ruins, at some
little distance from where we were standing. I saw a
dark shadow against the wall, and I saw a light flash from
it as distinctly as if some one had struck a match there ;
Charlie Wynne said he saw the light flash at the same
moment that I did ;
my father saw the Hght also, but
faintly. Home walked towards the spot where he said the
figure was standing, he went behind the wall, and remained
out of sight for some minutes ; when he reappeared there
was somebody, or something with him, that is to say, I
could clearly perceive some substance moving alongside of
NO. 57] With D. D. Home 197
him as he walked. Presently we all saw him approaching,
and evidently raised off the ground, for he floated by, in
front of US at a height which carried him over the broken
wall, which was about two feet high. There could not be
a better test of his being off the ground, for as he crossed
the wall, his form was not in the least raised, but the
movement was quite horizontal and uniform. The distance
that we saw him thus carried, must have been at least
10 or 12 yards.
He then came back to us and we found he was in a
trance. He directed our attention to an old doorway near
us, saying, " He is there ; he is laying a stone ;
you will
hear the sound of a trowel." We listened and heard in-
distinct sounds ; I cannot say that they resembled the
sound of laying a stone. Home then awoke, and said
that he remembered that, before he went into the trance,
he had been walking about with a man dressed like a
friar in a brown gown ; that they had been talking to-
gether, but that he did not know what he had said to
him ; that this spirit (the friar) was unable to leave the
earth ; that he and the spirit had both been raised in
the air by some other strong influence. He described the
spirit as leaning on his shoulder. He soon left us, and
apparently was again engaged in conversation with this
spirit. He then returned, and spoke to us. This he
repeated two or three times, being sometimes in a trance
and sometimes awake when he addressed us. Finally,
while in the trance, he led us back into the church, kneeled
on the ground, apparently in prayer, two or three times,
and then began walking up and down the church, raising
his hands above his head, and saying, " Oh, how good !
Oh, how good !
" He then came up to us, and told us
that the spirit would be better and happier for something
that he had said or done that night, after which he awoke.
He said that he saw a figure in the air between us and
the window. Charhe Wynne and I both saw a shadow
move across the window. We then returned home.
It is a fact worthy of notice that although the night
was perfectly calm, the birds appeared to be in a singu-
larly disturbed state ; owls were flitting about, and some
198 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
other bird flew several times round the church, screaming
harshly. Besides night birds, ordinary birds (judging by
the sounds) were flying about ; and at one time, just as
Home said he saw the figure enter a clump of trees at
some distance from us, a bird seemed to fly out, chirping.
We heard in the church a sound as of a bird flying round
whistling, and Home, being then in a trance, appeared as
if following it about, and endeavouring to catch it. I
could see nothing, and do not know whether it was a real
bird or not. A.
Accurate as is the foregoing account of this strange
scene, it would be difiicult, indeed impossible, to convey
by any description, a just idea of its solemnity. When
we entered the ruins the night was quite dark and very
still. We walked quietly up the nave and choir, and
stood for some little time near the east window. Scarce
a word was spoken. We had not the least idea what sort
of manifestations were likely to occur. While Mr. Home
was walking a]>out, what with the deep tones of the voice
so utterly unlike his own—the occasional moans and utter-
ances of sounds of pain or distress—his disappearing in the
gloom and reappearing again^—the light shining around his
head and upon his hands, which were occasionally lifted
as if in prayer, and were thus visible when the rest of
the figure was lost in darkness ; his attitudes, sometimes
kneeling, at others as if searching for something near the
ground—the strange sounds which we heard, particularly a
sort of chirping or unearthly whistling, which seemed to
proceed from him, and the startling screams made by some
bird, but what bird we had not light enough to identify ;
the effect produced upon us was most thrilling, and one
which we are not hkely soon to forget. Before leaving
the Abbey the light from the moon, just about to rise,
enabled us to see objects ; the sky too had become clear,
and the stars shone out, while an air of calmness and
peace pervaded the scene, producing a most soothing effect
upon our minds. D.
NO. 57] With D. D. Home 19U
We had supper in the hall upon our return. While
talking, a curious rushing or rumbUng noise was heard
that we could not account for, and my father felt his
chair vibrating. Home went into a trance, and told us
to follow him into the gallery. We did so, and at his
request stood near the piano, while he sat down at the
instrument. The piano vibrated strongly. Home played
a powerful and impressive chant, and then commenced
speaking of the joys and sorrows of our hfe, telling us
how they (the spirits) sympathized with us. He described
what he was speaking of on the piano, playing discords
for the sorrows and trials of hfe,^ and harmony for the
joys. He said, " There is a merry spirit here who rejoices
that you have done good," and he played a lively air. He
added, " They made that rushing noise you all heard down
stairs, to testify their happiness that you have all done a
good action in going to the Abbey to-night," (turning to
my father), " It was your father and your brother who
shook your chair in the hall." He then began speaking
about the immeasurable goodness and greatness of God,
and finally rose up, stood in the middle of the room, and
delivered a very beautiful prayer in the most impressive
and earnest manner. He then awoke. It was past three
o'clock. A.
No. 5S.—Sea7ice, March 5th [1869].
This evening, one of the ladies who had previously been
much interested in the subject of Spirituahsm, was seized
with a sudden and unaccountable idea that the whole
thing was either demoniacal in its origin or imposture,
and that it was her duty to denounce it. She did so in
such unmeasured terms that she succeeded in thoroughly
disquieting the minds of more than one of our party.
After dinner we had a seance in my room : present, INIrs.
and Miss Wynne, Major and Mrs. Blackburn, Charlie
Wynne, my father, Home and myself. We had scarcely
any physical manifestations, but shortly after sitting down
we received the following message :
—" The conditions are
200 •
Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
not so favourable this evening ;
" my father asked if the
conditions were affected by any one in the circle, the
answer was, " iVo." We soon after obtained the following
communication, having reference probably to a conversation
that had taken place that afternoon on Spirituahsm, and
its elfect upon religion :
—" We do not hid, or even wish,
you to have faith in us, we mily come to proclaim immor-
tality, and the reality and nearness of the spiritual world.'''
^
Home soon went into a trance, and walked about the
room, magnetizing it ; he stood by Mrs. Wynne, and said,
" Your brother Windham is near you and wishes to kiss
you, his mouth is close to your forehead, but you are
nervous and that prevents it ; he will come again presently
and will do it if he can." Home now sat down and
spoke somewhat as follows :
—" The conditions are not
affected by any one in particular in the circle, but by the
disturbed and agitated state of your minds ; a good many
unpleasant things have occurred to-day and have caused
this. The possibility of our communicating with you is
much affected by the condition of your minds ; a calm
and prayerful state is absolutely necessary for the approach
of a high spiritual influence, while in an unsettled and
irritated condition you become easy of access to the lower
and less pure influences.
" The human mind in its natural beauty is calm, and
casts a holy and peaceful influence on all near it ; it is
then like a lovely flower, not only beautiful to the eye,
but affecting all around with its delicious fragrance. But,
when disturbed and terrified by fears and doubts, the
beauty of the mind and its fragrance are destroyed, re-
sembling the same flower crushed and unable any longer
to shed abroad its sweet and natural odours. The present
disturbed condition of some among you has a much wider
effect than you would suppose ;
as, if you drop a stone
into the placid waters of a lake, the ripples will spread
out gradually widening and widening until they have passed
over a large portion of its surface ;
so, in like manner,
1 Some interruption occurred, which prevented the words after " t'w-
morUility ,
and,'' being written down ; the remainder is supplied from
memory, and is believed to be correct.
NO. 58] With D. D. Home 201
the waves emanating from your minds have a wide-spread
influence upon the atmosphere around you." Home spoke
to us for some time very beautifully in a soothing tone
of voice ; he deprecated the idea that spirits wished to
interfere in matters of reUgion. " Do we," he said,
" set ourselves up as teachers, or tell you to love God
less, or to be uncharitable 1 Do we interfere with the
every-day walk of hfe ?
" He spoke in this strain for
some httle time, then saying, " the conditions are getting
a little more favourable," he arose, went to the door,
opened it, and appearing to invite some one to enter, led
the person up to Mrs. Blackburn, saying to her as he did
so, " He cannot come fast." During the address Mrs.
Blackburn had become shghtly under influence ; Home took
no notice of it at the time, but he now stood by her
making passes, and calmed her. He spoke to her very
beautifully and earnestly on the subject of the power she
possessed of being developed as a medium. He entreated
her to have trust, not in them (the spirits) but in God ;
he begged her to repeat after him " Thy will be done,"
and he seemed much pleased when she did so. He said,
" Do you remember to whom these words apply ?
'
And
he did not many mighty works there because of their
unbehef !
' " " Yes," she said, " they refer to Christ."
" Then, if the highest and mightiest power had this difli-
culty to contend with, namely, their unbehef, how much
more must it affect us. Oh, have faith and trust." Home
then sat down and addressed us on the same subject of
mediumship, drawing a simile from an account my father
had been giving us of a fortnight he had spent in Quar-
antine, in a place just like a prison. He spoke somewhat
as follows :
" Dunraven has been telling you how he spent
some time shut up, deprived of the society of his friends.
Now if you were in prison, knowing that your friends were
without, separated from you only by a great impassable
wall, would you not yearn—oh, so earnestly—to send them
a few words of love ; then if you found some one who
was capable of carrying a message for you, would you not
think it a little hard if that person refused. Although
you might know that your message would be distorted and
I
202 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
confused by passing through the hands of a third person,
that you could not possibly say all that you would wish ;
still would you not be intensely anxious to send—if only
one word—to testify of your existence to your sorrowing
and weeping friends. It is so with us ; there is between
us and you a great barrier, through the portals of which
we have passed ; we yearn to send a few words of love
to the dear ones we have left beyond it, and when we
find some one who could carry that message, is it not
just a little hard that they should be unwilling to do so."
(Turning to Mrs. Blackburn), " Do you not love your
children ? Will you not ever love them, even when you
have passed away ? Think then of others—be not selfish
—God is not selfish in his love for us, trust in Him."
Home got up and whispered to my father, " You ought
to have taken some nourishing food to-day," (the day was
Friday). He then came to me and said, "Go to the
Castle to-night, we may not be able to make any mani-
festations, but it will do good ;
you will go to the Abbey
to-morrow night—ah, but it will rain !
" he went to the
window, looked out and said, " No, it will do, you will
go after twelve o'clock, do not have any seance Ijefore you
go ; the external influence is not very good for your
nerves." Home now walked about the room making a
sound as of kissing some one, he then sat down and
awoke. Suljsequently the manifestations were slight, and
we got the message :
" We think it better to reserve the
power till later.'' We then adjourned.
Soon after, we proceeded to the Castle, Home and I
walking a little in advance of the others. On the way
he became under influence. As we neared the Abbey I
saw a whitish shadow pass from the ruin into a clump of
trees. Home said, " That is the same spirit you saw there
the other night, you observe that he is much whiter."
Home ran forward on the road jumping apparently with
delight, and when he came back said, " I was made to do
that to shew you that he is much happier." When we
were about haK-way between the Abbey and the Castle,
Home said, " It all looks peopled, they are more real to
me than those," turning and pointing to the rest of the
NO. 58] With D. D. Home 203
party, who were a few yards behind. He now became
completely entranced, and said, " Spirits are sometimes
compelled to revisit places that they were much connected
with when on earth. It may not be exactly a punish-
ment ;
they may be occupied about many other things,
but at certain seasons they are drawn by an irresistible
impulse to revisit such places. Now, supposing you had
an estate, and the people on the neighbouring property
differed from you in opinions or behef, and you gathered
your people together and fought against them, destroying
property and even life ; that would be all very well for
a time, but then you know there comes the passing away,
and you see clearly all the evil you have done, and the
misery you have caused. Such a man was Oliver Crom-
well. Of course, where a man errs through ignorance, and
acts up to the best of his knowledge and abihty, it is a
different thing, but so many men are actuated by a desire
for renoM^n and singularity ; there is as much pride in
wishing to appear different from other men as there is
in being over anxious to conform exactly to them, the
Quaker, who puts on that pecuUar costume is in reality
as vain as the fop who dresses himself in the height of
fashion." We now entered the Castle, and Home led us
over the drawbridge into the inner court, being still in a
trance. He bandaged his eyes with a handkerchief, saying,
" There is too much hght." My father observed, " Yes,
it is brighter than it was at the Abbey." Home replied,
in rather a sharp tone of voice, " Oh, not that sort of
hght ; but there is too much for Daniel's eyes." He
walked about, and up and down the steep slope leading
to the vaults without any difficulty, and then went into
the vault, where it was quite dark. We heard a noise ;
I was at some distance from him, but my father, thinking
that he had tumbled down the steps, and hearing the
splash of something in the well, went forward to the door
feehng for him, and touched his hand. Home said, "You
think that Daniel fell and was hurt, oh, no ;
he would
not be hurt even were he to fall from the top of the
tower ;
they are here, and want to make themselves visible."
My father heard raps under his feet which I could not
204 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
hear, as I was several yards distant ; he also heard a
sound like drops of water falUng, and on two occasions
observing that three consecutive drops fell, sounding like
three raps, he said, " That is water." Home repUed, in
rather a contemptuous tone of voice, " No ; does water
answer questions." Charlie Wynne asked if Dr. ElUotson
was present ; and three heavy thumps were heard above,
as if on the ground over the vault. Home then came
out, climbed up on the parapet wall, and remained there
some time, being generally concealed from us by the ivy ;
when he returned, he led my father a little in advance of
us, saying, " He is trying to speak to you." My father
could neither see nor hear anything ; but I saw a faint
light against the wall, and heard indistinct sounds as of
some one trying to articulate. Charlie Wynne also saw
the light. Mrs. Blackburn asked Home if the spirit was
happy. " No," he said ;
" but unhappy in a way you
cannot understand, he is in a kind of way, happy in his
unhappiness ; he is not exactly going through a punish-
ment, but he has a great work to do—a work that he
can—(drawing himself up, and speaking in a proud deter-
mined tone of voice)—aye, and that he ivill accomplish ;
he says he wishes to like you, Dunraven, and to be of
service to you ; but he does not quite feel as if he was
worthy enough." Home now walked about the inner yard
and stamped upon the ground all about a particular spot,
then calling me and my father, he said, " There must be
a well here ; I sa.w a blueish light over it." We stamped
upon the place, and it had a hollow sound. Home having
awoke we left the Castle, he and I walking on before the
others ; we passed through the Abbey, but saw nothing.
Home went into a trance, and said, " You have been
thinking about the hchens on the trees, and you may draw
a parallel between the condition of those trees and that
of the human race. Those lichens resemble the pernicious
influences that check and retard the race from its natural
progress towards perfection, as a time comes when the
trees are thus afl^ected, so arc there ages of advance and
ages of retrogression among men. It does as you say
seem hard for those who live in a period of retrogression.
NO. 58] With D. D. Home 205
but God's ways are not our ways, and the progress though
it may be slow and checked, is yet inevitable, and sure
to prevail in time ;
nations may pass, and their civihzation
fade away, but it will be taken up elsewhere ;
the creation
is but in its infancy, man is very far removed from the
perfection to which he ought—aye, and to which he will
—arrive. These hchens do not appear to have been
caused by the excessive dampness of the seasons, they
seem to be a deep-rooted bhght that has not originated
even, on the earth, but has come over it in some sort of
cloud ; it is like a contagious disease : thinning, and giving
them air would do good. We think that in about two
years they will get long, and the wind will blow them
away to a great extent—we mean the white ones ;
the
green ones are flatter, and their roots sink deeper ;
some
of us seem to think that a belt of tar round the trees
might do good,—the experiment would be worth trying."
Home now awoke.
We had a httle supper after we got home, and then
Home proposed that we should go up to the gallery. We
all did so and sat at the large centre table, the room
being Ughted only by a ghmmer from the fire. Vibrations
commenced immediately. Home went into a trance, walked
to the piano, and played the same fine chant as on a
previous occasion. He called my father over, made him
stand near him, and said, " I wish one of you could note
down this chant ; do you hear the harp V We all heard
the chords very delicately and faintly swept, the harp
being covered at the time ; Home then removed the cover
and my father heard some noise or movement about the
harp and Home added, " They are trying to tune it ;
"
they then returned to the table, and Home awoke. We
had strong vibrations and raps, and Charhe Wynne asked
whether Dr. Elhotson was present. This was answered by
three very loud raps. Miss Wynne said to my father,
" Did you know him 1
" " Yes,'' was answered in the
same manner. The alphabet was then called for, and the
following message, evidently referring to my father's mes-
meric experiences, was given. "Be as true in this cause
as you were in bye-gone days for another great truth, John
206 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
EUiotson.'" After this, raps of different kinds were heard,
and soon the following message was given by very loud
ones. " / do not ask you to promise, but expect you
to be earnest in toorking for God." Some one remarked,
" Who is this message for ?
" " / speak to you,'' was
answered. " But, who do you mean by '
you '
1
" was
asked. " They mean me," my father said, " for I was
touched three times on the knee." Charlie Wynne having
brought the accordion, it was played in Home's hand in
a different style from the previous evening. My father
held the accordion, and it was pulled about and played
faintly. Home again took it, and the alphabet being asked
for by five notes, the following was given—the letters
being indicated by notes :
" We will give you a hymn of
praised A slow measured sort of air was played. My
father was talking about Dr. Elliotson, and observed that
he had been very kind to him. This message was im-
mediately given :
" You mean you tvere kind to me." A
sofa was now moved near the table, the table also moving
towards it, but evidently with much difficulty ; which is
not to be wondered at as it was very heavy and standing
on a thick Turkey carpet. My father's chair was moved
nearer to Home, who said, " I can see Dr. Elliotson stand-
ing behind your chair, he has both his hands upon the
back of it, and is causing it to vibrate." My father's
chair was in effect vibrating at the time ; he inquired if
Dr. Elhotson had been at the Castle. " Yes " was ans-
wered by three raps or rather thuds exactly similar to
those he had heard at the Castle. Soon after this message
came, " We must go soon." My father asked, " Will Mes-
merism make progress 1 it appears to be rather in abey-
ance at present." " Yes " was loudly answered ; he added
" I should like to ask Elhotson some questions about Mes-
merism," and this message was given, " By the sea I will
come," alluding I suppose to our projected visit to Gar-
inish, on the coast of Kerry. In one of these messages
the letters were indicated by touching my father strongly
on the knee. Mrs. Blackburn was also touched on the
knee. Soon, " Noiv, God. bless you all," was given, the
letters being indicated by most beautiful chords upon the
NO. 58] With D. D. Home 207
accordion—the name of God being, as it always is, spelled
most softly and reverently. This sentence was then given,
" You will sleep all the ftiore peacefully for hiowing that you
have done good.'' The raps were much gentler and fainter,
apparently made by quite a different spirit. My father
said "What does this message refer to?" Mrs. Black-
burn remarked, " I suppose to what happened at the
Castle." " yes " was answered. Nothing more occurring
we left the room. The raps made by Dr. ElUotson
sounded as loud as if they had been caused by some one
under the table striking it with a hammer. A.
No. 5^.—March 6th [1869].
Adare dined in Limerick : after the ladies left the room
Major Blackburn, JMr. Home and I commenced talking of
the seances which had been held here last winter. I
remarked that probably L was connected with the
unsatisfactory occurrences that happened, and that I should
be very glad if the matter could in any way be cleared
up. We heard raps at the north side of the room, and
Mr. Home went over to a side table near where the raps
had sounded, and sitting down said, " I wish, dear spirit,
you would tell us about it." " iVo," was answered. He
added, ''
Lord Dunraven would be gratified if you would
tell." The alphabet was called for, and this message was
given, " Don't ask." Raps were then heard near the table
in the bay window ; Mr. Home sat down at this table,
calUng us to join him, which we did. On the table were
three flower pots or vases with flowers, in one was a good-
sized azalea ; the table vibrated so strongly that the azalea
shook most visibly. We soon received this message :
" Place the flowers under the table, near John.'' We put
down, as directed, one of the flower pots which contained
cyclamens. Raps were heard upon the table. I said to
Blackburn, " Get under the table and hold Mi\ Home s
feet." He did so, and we heard the raps distinctly over
his head. Mr. Home suddenly said, "Oh, look at the
208 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
hand near me holding a flower !
" Twice he said that he
saw the hand. I, somehow, instinctively, put my hand
under the table, and immediately felt a flower placed very
gently in it. The following was then given :
—" The flower
is from Augusta, ivith fond love.'" Then another sentence
was begun, which I could not well make out, and then
"a. (Z." No more raps occurring after this we left the
table. On bringing the paper to the candles on the dining
table I found that the word I had not recognized was
(as written) " Augutsta." I had made a mistake, inserting
a t. The a. d. were, I presume, initials.
In accordance with what we were told last night, we
had no seance this evening, but, as directed, we went to
the Abbey. Soon after arriving there, Adare joined us on
his return from Limerick. Mr. Home was very lively, and
not at all impressed. He remarked that the influence was
qviite different to-night. He shortly took Adare and me
to the kitchen, and after a few turns up and down, he
went into a trance. I walked with him, holding his hands.
He said he was being touched, and so was I several times,
very palpably on the back. He said that there were no
spirits belonging to the place present, only those connected
with us ; we soon turned our steps homewards. Mr. Home
and Adare walked together, and before awaking, Mr. Home
spoke something to this effect, " You remarked how different
everything felt in the Abbey to-night, to what it did the
last time we were there. To-night, although the elements
were disturbed, and the wind blowing, everything was
quiet ; no birds were flying about ; the whole place seemed
peaceful, whereas the other night, although it was per-
fectly calm and still, yet the birds, not night birds only,
but seemingly others, were flitting about, and the whole
place seemed filled with an unquiet influence. It is
changed now ; he (referring to the monk) is in a happier
state, he can speak to those about you ; he has no ob-
jection to your mentioning what occurred in your room
when he first came. Oh, he does not the least mind
now."
We were sitting in the hall after taking a little supper,
when Mr. Home went to the piano and played, and asked
NO. 59] With D. D. Home 209
Adare to come and sit by him. Adare now called me to
join them. Mr. Home remarked that the piano had been
off the ground, which Adare affirmed, stating that he had
passed his hand under the castors ; I felt it vibrating very
strongly. His playing became fainter and fainter, and he
went into a trance. He got up, said to Adare, " Bring
Emily," and taking me by the hand led me quickly down
the dark passage to Lady D's. sitting room, the others
following. He placed chairs for us all, drew over a little
table, and sat down. It was pitch dark. Immediately a
hand was laid on the back of my head. He said, " They
will touch you with flowers." Both Mrs. Wynne and I
felt them. He said to Mrs. Wynne, " It was John who
touched you." We heard at a little distance the soimd
of flowers being stirred and broken, and immediately some
were placed in our hands. Mr. Home said, " Take Daniel's
hands, dear Emily, we want you to be able to tell others
that you held his hands, and felt his feet." While Mr.
Home's hands and feet were thus in contact with Mrs.
Wynne's, we all simultaneously felt flowers waved across
our faces, heads, and hands. Mrs. Wynne put up her
hand to try and grasp them, but failed. Mr. Home
laughed, and said, " No, Emily, you cannot catch it—we
do not wish you to yet." Flowers were then given to
us all ; Adare received a white azalea with this message,
through Mr. Home, " For Florence." Then another flower
was given us, with the message, " This for Augusta, and
leaves or a flower for all the dear ones—for all the
children. We wish to say one word if you will call the
alphabet, Adare." He did so, and " Love " was given, by
a flower placed in my hand, the stalk being pulled for
each letter. I tried to feel the hand, but the flower was
drawn back by the stem, till my arm was stretched out.
We all then observed a light, resembling a httle star, near
the chimney piece, moving to and fro ; it then disappeared.
Mr. Home said, " Ask them in the name of the Father,
the Son, and the Holy Ghost, if this is the work of God."
I repeated the words very earnestly ; the light shone out,
making three little flashes, each one about a foot higher
above the floor than the preceding. Mr. Home said,
Q
210 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
" We are able to make it brighter and stronger, because
you asked solemnly, and in the name of God." We then
heard a sound of something moving, and a shower of
flowers fell upon us. Loud raps announced the presence,
as we supposed, of Dr. Elliotson. Mr. Home (or Dr. Elliot-
son speaking through him), uttered a short and beautiful
address, which, unfortunately we cannot recall ; but he
made use of a simile ending with the words,
—" As the
sand on the shore." I felt a little heap of sand laid
upon the back of my hand. In his address he said, "You
have been baptized in the name of the Father, the Son,
and the Holy Ghost ; be now baptized as a truth seeker."
I then felt a drop of some liquid fall on my head. Mr.
Home then said, " Emily, would you like to feel the sand 1
"
Mrs. Wynne rephed, " Yes ;
" and a small quantity was
placed on the back of her hand. He then said, " Emily,
you will feel a kiss on the brow, and also on the lips."
She felt something, which she afterwards described as more
resembling two moist fingers than an ordinary kiss. I asked,
" What spirits are here ?
" Mr. Home answered, " Augusta,
Emily's father, mother, and brother ; also others." Mrs.
Wynne seemed grieved at the absence of one very dear to
her : Mr. Home in a subsequent seance, at Garinish, (p. 212)
alluded to this. He then addressed us and those dearest
to us in very afi^ectionate terms, and seemed very happy ;
he ended by saying, " We have been so pleased at being
able to make these manifestations. You did not witness
much at the Abbey, nor did we promise that you would ;
what we wanted was to keep you up late enough for
this, and it has happened as we wished. And now, dar-
lings, you will return to the hall, and sit by Daniel at
the piano ; Daniel's power is becoming exhausted ; there
will probably be no manifestations to-morrow evening, but
we will let him know ; he is not very well, but he does
not like saying so." We then got up, went back to the
hall, and sat down as directed at the piano ; Mr. Home
awoke almost immediately. It was half-past three o'clock.
I took a candle and returned to the room we had been
in ; I found the little table and the ground about it
strewed with flowers. The table on which the flower pots
NO. 59] With D. D. Home 211
stood was about eight feet distant from the other ; there
was a good deal of sand in the flower pots. Adare and
I went up to Mr. Home's room, and smoked a cigarette ;
Mr. Home was in bed. We began talking about Spirit-
ualism, and I said, " I am quite sure that L was
concerned in what went on last winter here." ^ " Yes
"
was suddenly said by three distinct raps in a distant part
of the room. I made other remarks, which were similarly
joined in by raps ; but I was very tired, and cannot
sufficiently recall them to insert them here. D.
No. m.—QarinisJi, March 9th [1869].
While my father. Home, and I were at dinner, we all
felt a current of cold air, and the table vibrated. This
occurred two or three times, and seemed to be interrupted
by the servants coming in and out. At about ten o'clock.
Home joined me m the dining room, where I was writing
alone, lie seemed uneasy and I asked him if he was not
feehng well. "Oh, yes," he said, "I am quite well ; but there
is a strange influence about that I do not know." Shortly
after, raps came upon the table, and the following messages
were given. " Oiving to conditions, ive fear ive shall not be
able before Thursday ; but we will try to-morroiv. Humphrey
May:' " Use this table." " Tell Uncle (word confused)
not to be over anxious.'' I took the messages to my father,
and he joined us in the dining room, observing how curious
it was that Humphrey May should come, that he had
never been with us before, that he had never been at
Garinish, and that he could not understand why he came.
" There is one," he said, " that I should have supposed
would have come here before all others, and I should also
have thought Dr. Elhotson would have made some com-
munication, because he told us the other night at Adare
that he would do so." We began talldng about some
seances that were held at Adare, without Home, alluding
particularly to one, the written account of which Home
1 I subseqviently found that the occurrences to whicli I alhided, chiefly
took place before L arrived at Adare.
212 Experiences in S'piritualism [seance
happened to be holding in his hand. The alphabet was
called for, and this message given :
" The wriiing that you
hold in your hand is all nonsense." Soon after, Home
went into a trance ; he got up and said, " The light is
too strong for Dan." I blew the candles out, leaving a
good fire-light m the room, and began searching for a
pencil to take notes. He said, " The hght will do nicely
now, never mind about taking notes, you will be able to
record what Dan says better without doing so ; we will
endeavour to impress you with it to-morrow, and you will
remember the substance, if not the exact words ;
by trusting
entirely to us, we shall be able to assist you more than
if you took notes, and trusted to them ; what I am going
to say now is important, you must try and remember it.
Certain conditions are necessary for us to be able to make
any manifestations ;
by conditions, I mean not only the
state of the external atmosphere, but also the state of
your minds and bodies ; certain electrical conditions are
necessary. Now, it often happens that some spirit—though
possibly a perfect stranger to all of yow—is possessed of
the particular quahty that is necessary to supply a de-
ficiency and make the conditions favourable, he would then
be called in. Sometimes three or four of them club
together, and by that means supply something that is
wanting, or take away some quality that is in -excess,
and equahze the atmosphere so as to be able to make
manifestations. Those spirits that love you best, that are
most anxious to communicate, that would naturally be
nearest and dearest to you, may not have the peculiar
quahty that is necessary to harmonize with the condition
of yourselves, and of the external atmosphere on any par-
ticular day, and they cannot then make communications ;
it is impossible, for it is all a matter of physical conditions ;
they are then obliged to comrniinicate through other spirits
who harmonize with the existing conditions. That is one
reason why Humphrey May came to-night. You often
wonder why those you love best do not come to you, it
is simply because the conditions are such that they cannot
make themselves known. Now the other night the spirit
that Emily was anxious about was standing outside the
NO. 60] With D. D. Home 213
circle, Emily thought it most strange that she did not say
anything to her, but if she had entered the circle it would
have entirely destroyed the arrangements, and there could
have been no more manifestations ; it is svxrely better to
have any communications than none at all. This explains
also why it is generally a bad plan to ask questions ;
after things have been arranged, some spirit steps into the
cu'cle to answer a question, and not being in harmony,
the whole thing is thrown out of gear. It is hke making
dehcate experiments in electricity ; or like photography
—
to go no further than that, if, when you are mixing your
chemicals in a dark room, one single ray of hght enters,
all is destroyed ; so it is where a spirit enters the circle
whose physical condition does not harmonize with the
state of the atmosphere, and of your minds and bodies.
The conditions are very bad to-night ;
you saw what
difficulty we had in giving those messages, the raps were
feeble and uncertain (we had observed this), the word
'
Uncle '
ought to have been '
Dunraven '
; we spelled out
'
dun,' and then the letters became all confused, we could
not indicate the right ones. You heard those raps that
came afterwards—you would scarcely believe that they
were made by Dr. Elhotson, so different were they from
those he usually makes ;
yet so it was. Oh ! there has
been a curious influence here all the afternoon—an old
man, his name is Thomas—Thomas Trench ; he has a
bald head—a large bald head." My father asked if he
had come with Towny Trench. " Yes, he came with him ;
he belongs to him. Dr. Elhotson says, that if the con-
ditions are favourable, he wants to make some experiments
on Thursday ; he is so anxious about it, he wants to
invent some more perfect means of keeping up a constant
communication ; it is very doubtful if he will ever succeed.
He knows your mind, Dunraven, and he would like to
make his experiments with you ; he is very much
interested in the matter, and so will you be also when
you join us ;
you will take a great pleasure in experi-
mentahzing." Home then went to the door of the drawing
room, made a gesture of disapproval, and said, pushing
the door open as he spoke, " No, you must not do that,
214 Experiences vit, Spiritualism, [seance
please." We heard a dull sound in the drawing room.
Home laughed and said, " That is Thomas, he does not
approve of your investigations, and he thought he would
make a very terrible noise in there, that would frighten
you and put a stop to it all and destroy the conditions ;
but he cannot do so." I said, " Why on earth does he
disapprove ; do you not mean Henry Thomas ?
" " Oh
dear no, he is a great experimentalizer in electricity ;
no,
I mean the Thomas I told you of, Thomas Trench."
I said, " Why does he object ?
" " Oh, it is entirely
against his principles, and ho thought he would make a
very weird horrible noise and frighten you, and stop it."
My father said, " Will he then seek to influence Towny
against Spirituahsm ?
" " Most decidedly he will ;
oh,
most decidedly. There is another reason besides that
which I have already mentioned, why Humphrey May
came to us to-night. It is true that he was never here ;
but his brother Arthur has been, and will be here again.
Arthur has, or rather had, no real reUgious opinions ; he
was not accustomed to pray ; his heart was not softened
and lifted to God in prayer. When he hears what
occurred to-night, it will have an effect upon him. He
knows that Dan, I mean Dan Home, could never have
heard of Humphrey, that Humphrey was never here, and
was probably the last person in the world that any of
you were thinlsing of ; and the fact of his coming will
strike Arthur the more forcibly ; it will be hke a little
test to him. Besides this, he was very fond of you,
Duiu-aven, and also of Adare." After this, Home sat by
the fire making passes, and magnetizing his wrist. He
said, " Daniel's wrist is swelling, and hurts him." He
then walked over towards the window, and stretching out
his arm, we heard a sound as of some one's fingers snap-
ping near it. He said, " That is Dr. Elhotson magnetizing
Dan's hand." Home placed his hand upon my head,
but immediately said, " No, your father will do better,"
and placed it on his head. He said, " Listen " ; and my
father heard rajis upon the hand. Home took the sheet
on which the seance before mentioned was written, and
asked us to hold it by the corners with him ; we did so.
NO. 60] With D. D. Home 215
and raps came upon it ; then lifting up the sheet of
paper, he said, "It is all black now ; there is a good
deal that is not right here, there is more in it than you
see. Now, do you thinly that if a person were to parti-
cipate and help in doing something wi'ong, and, when the
others were suspected, were to keep silence, and let them
bear all the blame, do you think that person would be
right ?
" My father rephed, " No, I think they would be
very wrong." " And so do we," Home said, and throwing
the paper down, added, " You see where we have thrown
it 1
" " On the floor," I said. " Yes, just in front of
the fu'e." I was going to put the paper in the fire,
but my father thought we had better keep it. Home
said, " Oh, certainly, keep it ; it is interesting if only as
a psychological study ;
you will, however, lose it some
day." Soon after this. Home awoke. Although I had
blown out the candles when Home went into the trance ;
the room was well lighted all the time by the fire.
A.
No. Ql.—Seance, March Uth [1869j.
This evening while Mrs. Blackburn, Home, and myself
were sitting reading in the drawing room, raps came upon
the table. Soon after, we, that is Major and Mi's. Black-
burn, my father, Home, and myself, at Home's suggestion
sat round the table that we had been told on Tuesday
night to use. We had slight physical manifestations, the
table was made hght and heavy at request, and was
tilted three times towards each of us. The spirits occa-
sionally answered our remarks as to what they were doing,
whether they were endeavouring to concentrate the power,
&c., &c., by affirmative or negative tilts. Mrs. Blackburn
beconung slightly under influence, and a good deal agitated.
Home asked if the spirits would take it from her ? The
answer was by two raps meaning " perhaps " or presently.'''
He afterwards placed his hands upon hers, and the
shaking left her, and was communicated to him. Home
now went into one of those strange trances in which he
216 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
is unable to speak ; he bandaged his eyes with a hand-
kerchief, walked about the room a little, tlien brought the
candle, two sheets of paper and a pencil, and placing
them on our table, sat down ; then spreading open one
of the sheets he commenced writing the alphabet on it
in large capital letters. He proceeded with a firm bold
touch as far as the letter F, when his hand became
violently tremulous, he went on to the letter L, the shak-
ing of his fingers gradually increasing, when he made a
gesture as if he could not proceed, and handed the paper
and pencil to me. I finished the alphabet. He then,
following the lines that I had made, traced over the
letters R, S, T, U, V, W, with the same tremulous motion
of his hand, and proceeded to decorate with leaves and
flowers the letters A, G, S, T, U. He drew a cross in
the letter U, a heart pendant on T, a star or double
cross in 8, an anchor in G, sometlung resembling a bird
in A, and marked the letters A and U with the figure 2.
He then got up and fetched a pen, handed me a fresh
sheet of paper and the pencil, turned the alphabet towards
my father, sat down and gave us the following messages,
by indicating the letters with the pen. "We hope to have
great power, God being our helper." " You see ivhat ones
they are." None of us could understand what the last
sentence " You see ivhat ones they are " referred to.
Home spelled out " The ones ive have decorated." We
then, on looking at the alphabet, found that the decorated
letters spelled " Augusta," the letters A and U, which
occur twice in the word, being marked twice in the word,
being marked on the alphabet by the numeral 2. Home
got up and went into the dining room, where we had
been smoking after dinner, but returned immediately,
much affected—as we supposed, by the tobacco smoke ;
he appeared to have difficulty in breathing, was much
distressed, and groped about as if he could not see :
^ he
caught hold of my hand and sat dow^n. I observed that
he was affected by something, and consequently the
spirits had lost perfect control over him ; Home nodded,
^ The effect of the tobacco smoke m partially obstructing the clair-
voyant power was very curious to witness.
—
D.
NO. 61] With D. D. Home 217
as much as to say, that is the case. He got up, went
into the open air for a few minutes and returned quite
right. He then made us leave our places, moved the
table close to the -window, placed the accordion on the
window shelf, and spelt out by the written alphabet,
" Bring in the doth.'' I accordingly brought the cloth
from the dining room, covered our table with it, and sat
down. On my father remarking that he had not spoken
in the trance, Home made him and Mrs. Blackburn feel
his jaws : they were locked and perfectly rigid ; he then
sat down, and shortly after awoke. We had a series of
curious but not very powerful manifestations ;
the window
curtains were drawn partially across the window, and in
answer to the suggestion of one of us that perhaps the
spirits did this to cover the accordion on which possibly
they might be about to try and play, " Yes " was rapped
out. Home saw on tliree or four occasions, and my
father saw once, httle flashes of light plajdng over the
keys of the accordion. We heard that a small table
behind Home was moving, and after the semice, we found
it had been lifted on to the sofa. The table was now
raised in that peculiar manner which we had remarked at
Adare, by successive lifts (five or six of them), to the
height of about two feet, and then gently set down ;
after which, " Take the instrnment " was spelled. My
father remarked that we might expect music, as this
action of the table—imitating so curiously that of the
bellows of the organ when being filled, usually preceded
it.i Home took the accordion, and it played for a short
time, chiefly harmonies. He then placed it on the ground,
when a few chords and notes were played. We heard
raps on the table, floor, walls, and outside the window ;
and the spirits occasionally joined in our conversation by
rapping, " Yes " or " No." At one time we were specu-
lating as to how Mr. Mahony would treat the subject of
SpirituaUsm, and some one said that he would not judge
of it fairly, for that he would condemn it at once with-
out an}' investigation ; the following message was immedi-
1 That this was the object aimed at by this peculiar motion of the
table was afterwards told us.
218 Experienced in Spiritualimi. [seance
ately given :
" Jndge not lest ye be judged." I observed
that the manifestations were weak ; and that there
appeared to be some obstruction, when this was given :
" Be prayerfid." We recognized Dr. Elhotson's presence
by his pecuhar raps. Mrs. Blackburn remarked that they
were not so loud as they had been in the gallery at
Adare. He spelled out the word, " servants," implying
probably that if he were to rap as forcibly here as he
had done at Adare, the servants might hear him, being
in a room nearly under us. Home again became en-
tranced ; he got up, and put out the candle, so that
the room was lighted only by a bright tire. My father
said to me, "It is curious that we have not had stronger
manifestations, because the first message we received was
to the effect that they would have great power." Home
said, " You are mistaken, we said '
we hope to have great
power ' ; we have to harmonize and arrange the room,
we shall ])e able to do more another night. Dunraven,
you were remarking that when Dan ,was in a trance no
physical manifestations ever occurred ; do you and Maria
(Mrs. Blackburn) come here." He made them stand by
a small heavy table in the centre of the room. My
father said, " I thought Dr. Elliotson wished to try some
experiments with me." Home answered, " Yes, this is
one of the experiments ; he is very anxious also to be
able to communicate with you when you are quite alone,
he does not know whether he can, but he will try and
develop you sufficiently for that." They then had a
series of the usual manifestations, raps, and vibrations,
the table tilting in different directions, and being twice
raised shghtly off the ground. Home was very particular
in making them observe closely the position of his hands
and feet, in order, as he said, " That you may be able
to assure others that Dan could not possibly have done
all this." Suddenly the small table rose quickly into the
air to such a height, that Mi's. Blackburn and my father
could no longer keep their hands upon it ; it rose so
suddenly that Mrs. Blackburn gave a start. The table
beginning to fall. Home said, " Take it, or it will fall."
When they had placed it on the ground, Home observed,
KO. 61] With D. D. Home 219
" That was badly managed, it is a great pity but it is
our fault ; Dr. ElUotson says he ought to have told you
what he was going to do, Maria was startled and you
both let go, and therefore the table fell ; if he had
warned you, and you had allowed your hands to shp
down the legs as it rose, so as not to break the con-
tinuity suddenly, it would probably have left your hands,
and risen without contact with you until it touched the
ceihng.^ We will try and do it again ; Adare and John,
come here." We joined them, and Home told us all to
place our fingers lightly under the edge of the table in
order that we might let them shde down the legs with-
out ever quite taking them off it. The table rose to a
height of about three feet, but came to the ground again
directly, and fell over on its side ; Home told us not to
move it, but presently he said " Yes, put it on its legs,
we have not power now ; the influence has returned to
the large table, go back to your places." We did so,
and the Major not finding a chair near him, and the
Hght being by this time faint, Home put one into his
hand. The Major was going to sit down upon nothing,
as he had by mistake placed the chair with the seat
turned away from him ; Home stopped him saying, " No,
no. Major, you are going to sit on the wrong side of the
chair." We all laughed and Home joined in, " That
was very funny, was it not ? very funny to see John
trjdng to sit down at the back of the chair." Home
then took his seat, and said, "Dr. EEiotson was anxious
to try the experiment, and to see whether he could make
manifestations when Dan was in a trance, and he suc-
ceeded ;
you had all the usual phenomena, the levitation
of the table, raps, tiltings, and vibrations, but it required
a great effort to do it ; it is much more difficult, because
the greater part of the influence is centred upon Dan
while he is mesmerised. We are just as anxious as you
are, Dumraven, to pass through the present phase of
manifestations, but we must do our appointed work, and
you will find that ultimately it is all for the best. It
would be much pleasanter to converse with you and
^ The room is about ten or eleven feet high.
220 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
answer yovir questions ; but then, however well we might
answer them, people would account for that, by all sorts
of theories, such as mind-reading, &c., &.c. Now, no
amount of clairvoyance or mind-reading would suffice to
raise a table in the air higher than your heads. We
must fulfil our appointed duties and you will know some
day that it is all for the best." Home began to laugh
and said, " It was very funny John's turning the chair
the wrong way ;
your godmother (speaking to Mrs.
Blackburn) is laughing so about it, it recalls another
incident. You know John's mother has answered his
letter, but she has not answered his question about
Isabella ; she and John's sist«r purposely would not do
so, because they said, " it will never do to have John
turning everything upside down in this sort of way." It
amused Dr. Elliotson very much, that did ; he was there
when thej said so. Dr. Elhotson is fond of you. Major
(taking the Major's hand and shaking it cordially) ; he
hkes you very much ; he says you are so steadfast, and
an honest, brave man. Dan is going to awake now."
After Home awoke, we had some slight manifestations,
which gradually died away. Home said he felt that the
influence had entirely gone, and that he was fatigued.
In speaking about the answer to the letter. Home referred
to his having at Adare, when in a trance, told Major
Blackburn to ask his mother about Isabella, and about
Margaret Henderson {vide p. 190). No one had told Home
that an answer had been received, or even that the Major
had written. A.
No. G2.—Seance, March 12th [1869].
About half-past nine o'clock, Home proposed a seance.
We placed the table by the window, in the position to
which it had been moved the previous night, and covered
it with a cloth. The party consisted of Major and IMrs.
Blackburn, my father. Home, and myself. We had no
manifestations whatever ; and after sitting for half-an-
hour xny father said he thought there was no use in
NO. 62] With D. D. Home 221
waiting any longer, having for a certain reason a strong
feeling that nothing would occur. Home said that
although he had often known seances to fail as regards
manifestations, yet in all his experience he never remembered
a room to feel so entirely devoid of any spiritual presence.
At his suggestion, we all, with the exception of Mrs.
Blackburn, took a walk out of doors for about a quarter
of an hour. On our return we again sat round the table,
but Mrs. Blackburn, not feeling very well, did not join
us. We had no manifestations whatever ; and after
waiting a short time gave it up in despair. My father
and Mrs. Blackburn went into the dining room ; the
Major, Home, and I remained and sat at a small table,
to see if we could get any message. Almost immediately
faint raps came ujDon the table, and the word " Impossible
"
was spelled out. We joined the others, and told them
what had occurred. Mrs. Blackburn went to bed, and
we were sitting round the supper table talking, when
I suddenly felt a current of cold air. Home also per-
ceived it, and said, " There is a strong influence about
me." We heard raps on the table and fvu'niture. Presently,
at Home's suggestion, we returned to the next room, and
again sat round the small table. We had faint physical
manifestations ; Home became under influence, and his
hands were much agitated. He had been complaining
during the evening of a feehng of great depression ; he
now said that he felt all right. He got up, and acting
imder an uncontrollable impulse, walked about the room,
his hands and arms being strangely waved about and
agitated ; he made mesmeric passes over us all, and said
(referring more especially to my father), Your brains are
overworked, you have had your thoughts too much con-
centrated on one subject, and have been writing too
much. (We had been engaged in recording the seances
at Adare.) The atmosphere that sijirits utiUze in making
manifestations emanates from the head, and in consequence
of your brains being overworked, there is absolutely none
flowing from you." He made passes for some time over
my father's forehead, the back of his head, and behind
his ears, occasionally going to the table at which we had
222 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
previously been seated, and extending his fingers over it
as though withdrawing some influence from it. While
walking about he suddenly stopped in the middle of a
sentence with a violent gasp, and sinking on his knees
went into a trance. He got up, walked about, apparently
conversing with some one, and then, taking each of us in
turn by the hand, led us to the other table, placed chairs
for us, and signed to us to sit down. My father requested
me to bring paper and a pencil ; but Home shook his
head, and afterwards brought them himseK. He then
commenced arranging the furniture in the most minute
detail, consulting apparently all the time with some one.
He placed the small round table near us and behind my
father, and moved a chair up to it ; he altered the
position of several of the chairs in different parts of
the room, placed the miniature portrait of his wife on
the small round table, and the case containing little
Dannie Cox's photograph on the large table behind me,
then going to the bookcase he took out several books,
looked into them and replaced them ; at length he
appeared to find what he wanted, for he took out a
volume, folded his hands across it on his breast, and
after standing for a few seconds in a most reverential
attitude, sank down upon his knees and appeared to
pray earnestly ; then rising to his full height he held the
book as high as he could above his head and placed it
upon our table. On looking at the volume afterwards we
found it to be, " Jesus Christ ; His Times, Life, and
Work," by E. de Pressense. He again commenced mak-
ing mesmeric passes about the room. Coming to me he
passed his hand sharply across my shoulders from left to
right, did the same to Major Blackburn, then to my
father, and finally to himself ; then reversing the action,
he commenced with himself making the pass from right
to left, and went over us all in the same way ; this
curious movement he repeated three times. He now put
out the candle, leaving us with no other fight but that
of the fire, rubbed his hands, smiled, and nodded when
I remarked that I thought we should have some mani-
festations as he seemed to be contented. Having taken
NO. 62] With D. D. Home 223
his seat he altered the position of two vases of flowers
on the table in such a way as to make, with the book,
which he placed back upwards transversely between them,
the form of a cross. The accompanying diagram shews
the arrangement of the various articles. They are marked
by capital letters in their original jjositions, while the
altered places of those that were moved, are indicated by
small letters.
Home awoke, and we had all the usual physical pheno-
mena ;
very strong currents of cold air, vibrations of the
table, &c., &c. On two occasions during the seance, the
table was raised about a foot in the air and remained
there poised for some time, oscillating gently from side to
side. We now all heard a movement about vase N, and
Home and I both saw a hand upon it ; I said that the
vase was moving ; Home insisted that it was not, and
requested me to place my hand upon it ; I did so, and
found that it was moving slowty round, but the sound
we heard was caused by the hand rubljing against the
side of the vase ; I saw the hand all the time. We
now heard a rusthng among the flowers, and Home said,
" The fingers have closed over a flower and taken it
away." I did not see the flower taken, but the hand at
that moment disappeared. Home and I both observed a
hand rise above the edge of the table near the window,
and place a flower upon it ; I then lost sight of the hand,
but Home said he saw it carry the flower across the
table, and place it near my father ;
my father saw the
flower all the time moving as it were of itself, for he
could not distinguish the hand that conveyed it. He
took the flower, and asked if it was for him. The
following was speUed out :
" Yes and tve ivill give you
another soon.'" My father remarking that he was very
anxious to see a hand, the following messages were given :
" Place your hand over the floivers.'' He did so over
vase N, and we all heard—and my father, Home, and I,
saw, a hand moving among the flowers. " Noio an them."
He did so, and the hand became much more distinctly
visible to him. I said to my father, " I su^jpose you
were told to place your hand there in order that they
224 Exjyeriences in Spiritualism [seance
might draw some power from you to enable them to make
the hand sufficiently material for you to see it distinctly."
" Yes,'' was answered by three loud raps. Sacha's
(Home's wife's) miniature was now carried from table B,
and placed upon our table ; none of us saw anything
supporting it, but we observed it placed quietly upon
Home's hands, and then gliding off them it moved across
the table vmtil it remained stationary on the corner near
the wdndow. The case was closed when Home put it
upon table B, at the commencement of the seance ; it
was open when laid upon our table. Home and I now
distinctly saw a hand place little Dannie Cox's photo-
graph (I) on the edge of our table next the window, and
then push it a little further on to the table. It will be
remembered that this photograph was placed by Home at
the commencement of the seance on table D. Home
and I perceived a whole arm and hand between our
table and the window, it was slightly lummous, and
appeared whiter than the white tablecloth. The hand
pushed the accordion, F, along the shelf S, and then
grasping it, took it off ; the accordion fell, but not
heavily, to the ground. All saw and heard the accordion
moved. Home said, " I am sure that was little Dannie,
because I saw a small figure ; his shoulders were plainly
visible ;
apparently he had not power sufficient to enable
him to carry the mstrument gently to the ground." This
was spelled out, " Yes, it was Dannie.'" Previous to the
accordion moving, the muslin curtains were drawn out so
as partially to hide it ; this required some force to effect,
as the curtain rings did not run easily on the hne. A
very pretty manifestation now occurred ; Home called my
father's attention to the fact, that the reflection of a
hand was visible on the glass, covering his wife's minia-
ture. My father also saw it, but was not sure whether it
was the reflection or the actual hand ; he placed his own
hand just above the glass, and still saw in it the reflection
of a small hand, moving backwards and forwards. He
said, "I see it distinctly, the fingers are small and
delicate." He asked whose hand it was, and the follow-
ing was spelled out, "The fingers are those of Caroline."
226 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
The accordion was carried under the table to Home ; he
took it, and a short, but very beautiful harmony was
played. Home replaced it on the floor, and chords were
heard, when no one was touching it. In some of the
messages also the letters were indicated, by notes played
on the accordion. The following was now given. " Seek
rather to know tlie qyresent condition of the immortal soul (the
word soul being emphasized) than," here the message
broke off abruptl}^ Home repeated the alphabet twice,
and nothing occurred ; but while saying it over the third
time, a hand placed a book on the table ; the message
then continued, " In good time, and with God's j:)ermission,
the one loill elucidate the other." On looking at the book,
we found it to be " Primeval Man," by the Duke of
Argyle. The message would therefore appear to mean,
" Seek rather to know the present condition of the immortal
soul, tliayi to specvilate about that of primeval man ; in
good time, and. with God's permission, the one will elucidate
the other." The book, " Primeval Man " was at the
commencement of the seance lying on a table in the centre
of the room, at a distance of six or eight feet from us.
The second flower that was promised to my father was
now placed on the table near his hand ; none of us saw
anything supporting it, bvit Home perceived the flower
moving in the air. A flower came from the direction of
where Home was sitting towards me ; it dropped on the
edge of the table close to me, and fell on the floor : I
saw it in the air. Home and I perceived a hand place
something on the shelf under the window, and we saw a
hand with a flower raised above the side of the table
next the window ; Home stretched out his hand towards
it, and the flower dropped on the floor. Both my father
and Home were repeatedly touched ; I also, on four
occasions, was most palpably touched by a hand patting
my knee. Some one remarked that Major Blackburn had
not been touched, soon after he declared that he felt a
hand touch his knee ; he asked who it was, and the
name " John " was spelled. I said, " Do you know who
John is?" he rephed, "My father's name was John, but
I do not know whether it was he that touched me."
NO. 62] With D. D. Home 227
The words, " Yes, your father,'''' were spelled ; and then,
" We ivish John also to see the hand ; place your hand
above, and then on, the floivers." Major Blackburn did so ;
we all heard the flowers rustling, and Home and I saw
the hand doing it. The Major saw nothing while his
hand was over the flowers ; but when he touched them, he
also saw the hand, though indistinctly. We now heard
loud raps upon the small table C, and looking round,
found that it had been hfted up and placed upon the
sofa E at c ; so quietly was it done that we should not
have noticed it, had the spirits not called our attention
by rapping upon it. My father asked if they had moved
it in the same way last night ; the answer was, " Yes."
The chair G was moved up to g, and the table B was
moved close to it. The table B was then raised in the
air (no one touching it), and placed gently, but without
hesitation, upon our table A. The table B has four
legs, like a camp stool ;
they rested where the four dots
are marked, close to the vases, books and portraits, -with-
out touching any of them. We now felt very strong
vibrations in our table ; it was tilted from side to side,
and so strongly towards my father's side, that he put out
his hand expecting the small table B to fall over upon
him ; but nothing moved. About this time we heard
curious sounds in the air ; Home said, Do you hear
their voices ? I will talk, never mind what I say ; the
more I talk the plainer you will hear them." He went
on speaking for two or three minutes, during which time
we heard strange noises Uke high-pitched voices at a little
distance, the louder he spoke the louder the sounds
became, they were most peculiar ; we could not hear
any articulate words. Mrs. Blackburn, who had retired
to bed in the room under that in which we were sitting,
told us next day that she had heard strange sounds ; and
she imitated them so well, that we at once recognized
that she really had heard the voices. Home then went
into a trance, and said, " We are so very glad to have
been able to effect what has been done for you ; hut the
state of the external atmosphere, and the fact of Dan
being ill, are very mucli against us , we have not been
228 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
able to do by any means all that we intended. Dr.
Elliotson was most anxious that you should have some
manifestations to-night, he hopes circumstances may be
more favourable to-morrow ; he would hke to come to
you Dunraven, and talk to you, and enter upon serious
subjects. Dan will awake now ; when he does you will
stay where you are, and Adare will get a candle, that
you may note down accurately the position of every-
thing. We must now go. May God Almighty, in His
infinite goodness, for ever lead and guide you nearer and
nearer to Him." Home having awoke, I brought in a
candle, and we noted down the position in which we
found the different articles that had been moved. Some
doubt was expressed as to whether a chair in the middle
of the room had been stirred ; a spirit rapped three times
to say " Yes,'' that it had. A.
No. GS.Sea7ice, March ISth [1869.]
Present : My father, Home, and myself. Home and
I had been a good deal affected and depressed to-day by
the weather—a strong, drying east wind had been blowing
for two or three days. After dinner when seated in the
drawing room wo heard raps upon the furniture, and
Home soon suggested that we should sit round the table.
I went to my bed room to put on a dressing gown,
placing my snuff box (the same heavy silver one men-
tioned at page 80 in the account of some v^onderful
manifestations at Mr. Jones's house, at Norwood) in my
waistcoat pocket. On returmng to the drawing room,
I laid the snuff box (why, I do not know) on a bookcase
standing against the wall at the side of the room opposite
to the window where stood the table at which my father
and Home were already seated. We had shght physical
manifestations, and then Home went into a trance. As
usual, he began by arranging the furniture ; he placed
the small round table between his chair and my father's,
NO. 63] With D. D. Home 229
and about a foot from our table, laid his wife's miniature
upon it, and arranged the two vases of flowers in the
same positions they had occupied the previous evening.
He went over to the bookcase, sat down on the ground,
and ojjened several books, as if looking for one in par-
ticular. He brought over a small prayer book with a
cross on it, which he placed on the flowers in the vase
near me. He then sat down on the sofa, {vide diagram
of the room, in last night's seance), and almost immedi-
ately put his hand on the window shelf, touching a book
which was lying there. He gave a shght start, grasped
the book, felt it all over, and then with great reverence
kneeled down, placed the book against his forehead and
on the top of his head, apparently praying earnestly ; he
then slowly rose up, and holding the book he extended
his arm at full length, and appeared to be raised in the
air several inches. The table hid his legs and feet, but
I think it was a case of elevation not elongation, for he
appeared to be moved a httle forwards, and in becoming
shorter, he seemed to alight on the floor. He then placed
the book on the table in exactly the same position as on
the previous evening. I guessed, by the effect the book
produced—so similar to what happened last night, that it
was the same, viz. Pressense's " Life of Clurist," which
turned out to be the case. He now took a large railway
plaid of mine, and placing it over his head and gatlieruig
it in at the waist so as to resemble a monk's cowl or
habit, he commenced walking about the room. He stood
betvi^een us and the bookcase with his back to us, and
was apparently elongated, but only slightly. He then
bowed himself repeatedly to the ground ; and was occupied
for a Uttle while about his dress, and doing something
with his hands which we could not well see as he had
his back turned to us ; it appeared as if he were going
through some religious ceremony. The plaid began slip-
ping gradually off him, but was replaced upon his
shoulders. (Home said afterwards before he awoke that
the plaid had been replaced by spirits, I did not notice
at the time whether he touched it himself or not, and can-
not therefore vouch for the fact.) A second time it began
230 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
to slij), and fell to tlie gi'ound ; Home appeared to be
very unhappy, and taking the plaid, he placed it on the
floor, and seating himself at the end of the sofa, he
retreated along the edge by starts, his countenance show-
ing indications of great pain, his look being fixed all the
time upon the plaid ; then leaning his head upon his
hand, he rocked himself from side to side. His distress
was most painful to witness ; he groaned and sobbed as
it in despair. After a while he took the " Life of Christ,"
and kneeling down appeared to pray fervently, pressing
the book to his forehead. He then sat down and began
to speak somewhat as follows :
" The same spirit is here
that visited Adare in his room, and that was in the
Abbey ; he was very anxious to come to you once more,
and took this opportunity because you are alone. What
Dan has been doing is intended as an allegory, he (the
spirit) wished to shew you that when he first took the
monkish habit, it raised and elevated him, and the grace
of God was in him ;
then, if you remember, Dan was
elevated in the air ; afterwards he became less worthy of
it, and the habit nearly fell off Dan, but was replaced by
the spirits ; Dan did not do it himself. But he com-
mitted a great crime—a grievous sin against God and
man—and he became altogether unworthy of the habit,
and it fell from him ; then you saw the misery and
remorse he felt in thinking of what he had done, and
how he had fallen from his former position, and had lost
all the blessings he ought to have gained ;
you saw also
the comfort that prayer and the contemplation of the
" Life of Christ " were to him. He was so anxious to
come to you again, for he wishes to thank you ; he is
not happy, but he is very different to what he was ; then
all was dark, now he sees a httle gUmnier of the hght of
hope like a star leading him on. You have prayed for
him, you have prayed for all unhappy spirits in the like
condition as himself, and it is a comfort to him ; he is
very thankful and declares that he will do all he can to
be of service to you. He says, '
I pray you, thanks '
;
he does not talk hke the others, he does not speak Enghsh
as they do. He is going now and says again, '
I pray
NO. 63] With D. D. Home 231
you, thanks'." Home repeated the words, 'I pray you,
thanks,' two or three times, his voice becoming gradually
fainter and fainter, as if to signify that the spirit was
slowly leaving us. He then spoke about our last visit
to the Abbey at Adare, and our going to Desmond Castle.
He said something of this sort :
" You made a mistake
in taking the females to the ruins ; we told you not to
take them {vide p. 178) ; and you would have had more
manifestations had you not done so. It did not so much
signify at the Castle, where the influence is quite different
from that at the Abbey. The influence of rehgion does
not exist there, it was a place of warfare, blood was shed
upon the ground, but the blooi has long since passed by
chemical operations into various forms, and has dis-
appeared ; all the associations are gone, there was no
abiding influence about that place ; even the chapel was
not the same as the Abbey, for it was only in times of
danger that rehgious services were conducted there. The
Abbey is very different, there the ground is hallowed and
consecrated by rehgion and prayer, and it will for ever
bear their impress ; that influence can never be lost, it
appeals to your souls and deeply affects you ;
you all
felt the difference because in the Abbey, in the con-
secrated ground, there is an indestructible influence whereas
in the Castle all is passed, changed, and gone." Soon
after this, Home awoke. We had shght physical mani-
festations, which gave me the impression that owing to
adverse circumstances, the spirits were unable to do what
they intended. Home suddenly said, " I saw something
bright move across the floor this minute." My father
said he also saw it. Directly after, we all heard sounds,
as if some metalhc substance was being lifted up and
thrown down again on the floor under the table, and the
following message was given :
" This is the last tiine that
we will rejyrove you about a habit that can do you no
possible good.'" Neither my father nor Mr. Home could
at all understand this ; but the meaning struck me at
once, and I said, " The message is for me, and it refers
to my taking snuff." " Yes," was the reply. I said,
" Do you wish me to give it up entirely." " Don't take
232 Experiences in Sjnritualism [seance
too much," was rapped out. I said, " I think they have
brought my snuff-box across the room from where I left
it, and that is what we heard under the table." " Yes,"
was again rapped. I asked if they wished to give me the
box, the answer was, " Yes." I said, " Shall I put my
hand down for it ?
" " No," was answered. Shortly
after I saw quite distinctly an arm and hand holding the
snuff-box open, rise from under the table, and movirjg to
the shelf under the window, tilt the box over slightly,
and then shake out a quantity of snuff upon some papers
that happened to be there ; the arm and hand then with-
drew, still retaining the box. The hand was more distinct
than the arm, and appeared very white, and slightly
luminous. I could see the fingers quite plainly, and also
the manner in which they grasped the box ; Home also
saw the hand, arm, and box, my father could not, owing
to the position in which he was sitting, but on standing
up he saw a dark heap lying on the paper. I felt the
box touch my knee, and asked if I should put my hand
down for it. " Yes," was answered, by tapping my knee
three times with it. I put my hand under the table,
and the box was placed in it by a hand ; I felt the tips
of the fingers, and the inside part of the thumb quite
distinctly ; the skin felt quite natural, but somewhat
wrinkled, conveying the idea of an aged hand. I said
" Are the snuff-box and the message given me by my
grandfather ?
" The following message was given :
" Your
father saio it 'passing, so did Dan. It is from your grand-
father." I asked, " Grandfather Goold ?
" " Yes, Goold."
My father then expressed a desire to know what spirit
had written out the ornamental alphabet last night. The
following was given : "It was directed by the same one
that directed the music ; the name was indicated by the
decorated letters." After a pause, the words " Take instru-
ment " were spelled out. Home took the accordion, and
it was beautifully played with tremolo effects. My father
said something about wishing that it could be played in
his hand. Home said he thought they would do so, and
shortly after his chair was pushed back from the table,
which I supposed was done in order to pass the accordion
NO. 63] With D. D. Home 233
to my father ; it was not however given to him. We
now saw a hand approach the vase nearest me, and take
a flower from it, and presently the flower was placed
upon the edge of the table, and moved across it in little
jerks, as though it were flipped by a finger ; we could
see no hand or anything supporting it. The flower was
taken off the table, and the following message was given :
" We will give you the leaf you saw leave the table."
Directly after my father was touched on the Imee, and
putting his hand down, he felt first the flower and then
the fingers touch him ; he then expressed a wish to feel
the whole hand. Home said. " I am sure they will try,
they generally are able at first to make only the fingers
apparent to you." A spirit assented. He kept liis hand
down for some little time, but at length took the leaf,
not succeeding in feeling more than the fingers ;
this
however occurred two or three times. The small table
then moved of itself, close up between my father and
Home, and Sacha's portrait was taken from it, and placed
upon OUT table. On two or three different occasions
during the evening, we heard curious sounds ; once my
father and Home heard, as it were, some one whisthng ;
I could not perceive it at all. At another time, we all
heard a sound as of some one tr;ying to articulate near
the door ; this also ended in a w^histhng. On another
occasion, we heard some one trying to make their voice
audible to us, apparently outside the window. Home
now went into a trance ; wlule waiting for him to com-
mence speaking, my father and I were talking about the
absence of tests ; he appeared rather pamoyed, saying,
that there had been in fact no real tests of identity given,
and that everybody was remarking the same thing. I
mentioned the great difficulty of giving really satisfactory
tests, and reminded him that one striking effect had been
given ;
(referring to the imitation of the organ bellows
and tremolo) and asked why he did not try and question
them in some way that would serve as a test, it being as
easy for him to recollect some past event or conversation,
as it was for them to recall one, that he also remembered.
Home began speaking about the extreme difficulty they
234 Experietices in Spiritualism [seance
liad experienced in making any manifestations. " The
state of the external atmosphere is such,"' he said, " as
to render it all but impossible. We act by using certain
emanations from you, floAving through your brains ;
now,
the state of the weather, this east wind, has dried all
that up, we have next to nothing to work with. It
affects you all, more especially Dan, but you can all feel
it, and complained to-day of being depressed and irritated ;
under better circumstances you would have seen the hand
that carried Sacha's portrait, and the hand that held the
flower. You observed also that we could not carry the
flower over the table steadily, but were obhged to push
it along the surface." He then changed the subject to
that of tests ;
speaking to my father, he said, " Do not
be impatient, all will come right in time, you shall have
tests given you, you have aheady had some ; remember
that what you might think an excellent test to-day, on
reflection, you might consider to be worth nothing. Would
you have us recall a past conversation ? That might be
done by mind-reading, and would not be at all a good
test. We are the best judges of what we do ; we work
for others as well as for you who are here. We have a
certain appointed work, and it must be done ; we have
not really been able to do half enough yet in the way of
physical manifestations ; circumstances have been so much
against us, that we have failed in nearly all we wished to
effect. We know all the difficulties and trials that sur-
round you ; but you do not see the cUfficulties that we
have to contend against. Physical manifestations are very
necessary ; be patient and some day you may arrive at
other things. We do not ask you to have faith in us ;
we only ask that you will be jiJ^tient and prayerful in
investigating." Home had apparently great difficulty in
speaking ; he now called me over to him, and bidding
me sit down, said, " You understand all about this, we
cannot impress Dan properly with what we want him to
say ; circumstances are so adverse that we have scarcely
any control over him. Ah, I see the entrance at Adare ;
your mother is standing there, she appears to be giving
directions about planning the garden and walks." My
NO. 63] With D. D. Home 235
father said, " Do you mean the lodge gate ?
" " No, no ;
I mean the httle gate where the notice is put up, '
These
grounds are strictly private '
; she is standing there between
the two clumps of shrubs ;
ah, it is all confused, I can-
not make it out. Your father intends going to the Abbey
some night by himself, he wants to find out about those
birds ; he will see a sort of bright luminous cloud ;
your
mother will be there." My father said, " But I never
had any intention of going to the Abbey." Home
appeared much astonished ;
" Are you sure ?
" he said.
"Yes," said my father, "quite sure." "Well," said
Home, " that is very strange, the idea must have been
in your mind, and you have forgotten it, for some of us
had arranged what to do the night that you went ;
one
spirit was going to make the same whisthng sound hke
a bird, and you were to see the luminous cloud." I
asked, " Were they then not real birds that we
heard whisthng?" "No, they were not birds." Home
then threw himself back, and taking my hand, said, " We
cannot influence Dan properly, your father had better ask
questions." My father said, " I thought Elhotson was
going to have made some experiments." " Yes, he was
anxious to, and tried, but he could not succeed ;
he
attempted to make his voice heard by the door, and
instead of being hke a voice, it sounded to you hke a
whistle ; the conditions are very bad, we have been able
to do scarcely anything to-night, besides your minds are
not favourable—they are disturbed, and out of harmony."
My father dechned to put any questions, so I asked about
a certain disputed answer of Dr. ElUotson's that had been
given us in the gallery at Adare. Home said, " Your
father was right : he did say '
Yes '
;
afterwards he said
he would come by the sea ;
you were mistaken." After
a pause, he said " Your grandfather is really anxious
about your taking so much snuff ; he did not hke to put
it any stronger than he did in saying that it could do you
no possible good ; but he is anxious about it, because he
thinks it will harm your nervous system. He says, if
you Hke to take an occasional pinch, that will not hurt
you ; but he does not like to see you take as much as
236 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
you do at present. (Turning to my lather) Dr. Elliotson
is here and has brought a girl with him : her name is
Dawson, she is short and appears so stooping as to be
ahnost deformed ; I cannot make out lier Christian name.
Harriet,—Harriet ;
no, that is not it : she will not tell
me—how very odd !
" My father said : "I have a very
vague recollection of a mesmeric patient of the name of
Dawson ; but I don't think her name was Harriet." ^
Home now said, " Dan must awake, Adare, go back to
your place." Home being exhausted, we went at once
into the dining room to supper. During the whole time
that I was sitting by Home, I could see the shadowy
form of a figure appearing white and shghtly luminous,
standing close to my father. He perceived nothing. In
moving to my place, I could not avoid passing right
through the figure, but as I approached it, it disappeared.
Soon after we had gone into the dining room, my father
being at the table, and Home sitting on the floor, near
the fireplace, with his hand resting against the wall, he
suddenly said : " Adare, I hear raps for the alphabet "
;
and the following was given :
" Elleji Daw " " Oh,
Dawson," my father said. " Yes," was rajjped out. Home
said, " Ellen Dawson, Ellen Dawson ; Who on earth is
she ? I never heard of such a person." " Oh," my
father replied, "It is the Christian name of a mesmeric
patient which you could not make out in your trance."
Now this is a curious fact. The name Ellen having been
in my father's mind for a moment, had Home mentioned
it in his trance, it might have been attributed to ordinary
clairvoyance or mind-reading on his part ; but coming as
it did through raps, it could not be accounted for in that
way. My father had said to me in the course of the
evening, " I have not the same confidence in what is said
in a trance ; it may be accounted for by mind-reading or
clairvoyance ; but if a name or a message be given
through raps, even if it be read from my mind, it must
be attributed to some intelligence other than that of the
^ My fatlier says that he had a notion Ellen was the name ; however,
he did not mention this aloud.
KO. 63] With D. D. Home 237
medium, or any one in the room.^ Directly after the
seance, I poured the snuff back into my box, from the
paper on the ledge under the window where we had seen
it deposited. After supper, my father said, " Let us go
and see if the snuff is there." I said that I had already
removed it ; but we went and found remnants of snuff
still on and among the papers, quite sufficient to prove
that it had been there.—A.
[The following occurrences were witnessed and recorded by
me after Mr. Home's return to London.]
No. 64.
—
Seance, Ashletj House, March 29th, 1869.
Present : —Mr. Rudall, IVIr. McKenzie, Mr. Jencken,
Home, and myself. After a short time we experienced
sMght physical manifestations, raps, vibrations, &c., &c.
The table was raised about one foot off the ground ; it
was raised a second time about two feet, and after
remaining stationary in the air for some seconds, it rose
to the height of at least five feet, rolhng and swaying
with a movement like that of a ship at sea ; it descended
slowly with a strong vibratory motion, accompanied by a
sound resembhng that of a railway train. I asked if
these pecuhar movements had any definite meaning ; the
answer was " Yes." By asking several questions
which were answered " Yes " or " No," it appeared that
the movements had reference to me, and that I ought to
understand the meaning. Flowers and fern leaves were
brought from the chimney piece and given to us. We
now, at Mr. RudaU's suggestion, shut the folding doors,
thereby excluding all fight save that entering by the
window. Home went into a trance. He clapped his
hands (the sign adopted by Adah Menken to signify her
presence), and going to the window, folded the curtains
^ On reference to the Zoist, Ellen Dawson appears as a patient of
Mr. Hind's, and a clairvoyant. My father recollects her at Dr. Elliot
-
son's. She is mentioned in seance No. 14, p. 90, in connection with
Mrs. Hennings and Dr. Elliotson.
238 Experie7ices in Spiritualism [seance
round him, leaving only his head clear. We all saw a
very curious appearance form itself above his head ; it
looked at first like a lace handkerchief, held out by a
stick or support of some sort ; soon however it became
more distinct and appeared to be a shadowy human form
enveloped in drapery ; it was about two feet in length.
Some one present remarked that it exceedingly resembled
a " vignette " heading one of Adah Menken's poems.
Home said (speaking as Menken) " Yes, that is it, that is
what I wish to imitate ; I will try and make my form
visible to you." The surface of the waU to Home's right
became illuminated three or four times ; the light appar-
ently radiating from a bright spot in the centre. Across
the portion of wall thus illuminated we repeatedly saw a
dark shadow pass ; it appeared to me to be rather the
shadow cast by a sohd substance than the actual form
itself. Home's collar stud dropped on the floor, and a
spirit brought it and placed it on my head, touching my
brow while doing so ; Home remarked that it was shining
like a little star upon my forehead, he told me to take
care of it until Dan should awake. After Home awoke
we had some more physical manifestations, flowers were
again brought to us, we were all touched, Mr. Rudall
received several messages, apparently from his father, the
clock was made to strike in answer to some question, we
heard a heavy step in the passage and the folding doors
were opened and shut, a sofa was moved from the wall
to our table, and a chair was carried across the room.
No. 65.
—
Seance, Ashley House, April 3rd [1869].
Present : —Mrs. Gregory, Miss Douglas, Mr. Charles
Blackburn, Mr. Fuller, the Master of Lindsay, Home, and
myself. We had tolerably strong physical manifestations,
lasting for a short time, after which Home went into a
trance. He walked about and was elongated in the
usual manner. He then stood still before us, and stretch-
ing out his arms to their full length, a palpable elongation
took place in them. I said, " Can you manage that we
NO. 65] With D. D. Home 239
may test that in some way ;
may I stand just in front
of you, or will you place yourself against the wall ?
"
Home replied, " Yes, certainly, we will do both." I
accordingly placed myself just in front of him, with my
arms extended along and touching his ; his arms were
elongated four or five inches, the others could judge of
the extent pretty well by comparison with mine. While
his arms appeared to be increasing in length, his chest
became greatly expanded, and he said to me, " You see
how it is, the extension is from the chest." He then
placed himself against the wall, and extended his arms to
their full natural length ; I made a pencil mark at the
tips of his fingers. His left arm was then elongated, I
held the pencil against the wall, suffering it to be pushed
along by his fingers, until he told me to make another
mark. His right arm was then elongated, and I marked
the movement in the same manner. The total elongation
as ascertained by this means, amounted to 9J inches.
Home now stood by Miss Douglas, and talked to her for
a considerable time, mentioning the spirits who were
about her, recalhng past circumstances of her life, and
impressing upon her, that it was in her power to be of
very great service to the cause of Spiritualism ; he spoke
also a good deal to Mrs. Gregory. Walking over to the
fire-place, he took from thence, with his hand, a red-hot
glowing ember, about the size of a small orange. Mrs.
Gregory became nervous, fearing that he would request
her to take it, he however went to Miss Douglas and
said, " Now if you have sufificient faith, let me place this
coal in your hand " ; she replied, " I have faith, but I
cannot overcome the physical dread, pray do not ask me
to take it." Upon this, Home said, " If you would only
allow me to place it in your hand it would not burn
you ; it does not burn Dan ; it would not harm him "
(pointing to Lindsay). He then placed the coal which
had by this time become black, on Lindsay's head, but
almost immediately took it off, and saying, " That is not
•of much use as an experiment, for the natural heat has
almost left the coal," he crumbled it in his hand and then
threw it in the fireplace. Presently he took another red-
240 Experie7ices in Spiritualism [seance
hot ember from the fire, and holding it in his hand, spoke
a few words to Miss Douglas on the subject of faith.
She held out her hand, and he placed the coal in it.
Miss Douglas was not in the least burned, and said that
it felt rather cold, like marble. After allowing it to
remain there a few seconds, Home took the coal and
requested Miss Douglas to touch it ; she placed her fingers
near it, but withdrew them immediately, saying that it
burned her.^ He then placed it in Mr. Blackburn's
hand, previously asking if he had any faith, who replied
that he had. After he had held it for a short time he
said it became hotter. Home then took the ember,
threw it away, smiled, and seemed pleased at the success
of the experiment. He now sat down and turning to
Lindsay, said, " Ah, what a pity it was that those httle
seances that you held here in the winter were broken up
(referring to two or three occasions on which Lindsay,
Captain Smith, Home, and I had sat together). We
told you that we wished to speak on some very interest-
ing subjects, and we would have done so ; we were
anxious also to have entered upon the subject of the
origin of certain of the ceremonies of your Church. We
have such difficulties to contend with ; we had got the
conditions so very favourable at that time, the party was
harmonious and we could have done so much ; but then,
you see, when we had arranged everything on the spiritual
side, it is all broken up on the material,—on your side."
Turning to one of those present, he said, " That arrange-
ment of seven with which we impressed Fred (Fuller).
Oh ! if that could have been managed it would have been
of such use. We could and would have conducted a
series of experiments so wonderful, so clearly proved, and
so easy to record, that it would have been impossible to
doubt them." (This had reference to an impression that
seven were to form themselves into a society for the
study of occult science.) In reply to Fuller, he said,
1 I am informed by Miss Douglas and the Master of Lindsay that
Lord Adare has omitted to state that Mr. Home put this coal between
his coat and shirt under the arm, and that no mark of singeing or
burning was visible on the shirt. —D.
NO. 65] With D. D, Home 241
" We still have hopes about that arrangement ; we think
there may possibly be a future for it." Home now spoke
in a totally different tone of voice, addressing us in the
same style and dehvery as in the portions of seances
recorded in pages 158, 159, and 167. He said something to
this effect :
" You think that baptism is a thing of to-day,
a ceremony instituted but 1,800 years ago ! Come with
me away to the banks of the distant Ganges, travel with
me far back in the annals of time, and I will shew you.
races of men dwelling there who worshipped senseless
gods of wood and stone—and yet not much more sense-
less than the god that some among you worship now
—
and who had the same ceremony of baptism, which was
obhgatory for them before an infant could be admitted
to the benefits of their church and rehgion. Will you
travel still further back with me into ages long anterior
to this, and see the altars dripping with blood—aye, with
human blood—and the priest decked with flowers standing
in his place, and the people bowing down, and the sacri-
fices offered. Blood I see on every page—-blood ! blood !
blood ! True it is, that in later years it was that of
bulls and of goats, of doves and pigeons. And what is
your religion now to many of you but blood ; still the
same—blood to appease a God ! Ah, it is fearful—it is
too horrible, blood and sacrifice to propitiate your God,
your Maker, your Father, the infinitely perfect and loving
Creator of all things." Home spoke at great length on
these subjects ; but I cannot recall to mind the exact
language he made use of. After he awoke we had some
curious manifestations. A small camp chair was raised
off the floor and carried round the table, touching each
of us in turn, and finally was placed on the centre of the
table, where it remained. The sofa was moved up to us.
We received no messages during the seance.
No. 66.
—
Ashley House.
On the 4th or 5th of the month [April, 1869], in the
evening, I was seated at the table in Home's room at
Q
242 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
Ashley House writing ; he was seated at the opposite
side, reading ; we heard raps upon the door ; Home
said " Your grandfather has come in, do you not see
him sitting in that chair yonder ?
" "I see no one,"
I answered ;
" Which grandfather do you mean ?
" " Your
father's father; you will at any rate hear him." I
heard a sovmd as if some one sitting on the chair he
had mentioned had put his foot on the ground. Home,
while speaking, went into a trance. The chair moved
very slowly up to the table (no one touching it) a distance
of eight feet eleven inches. " He is moving the chair,"
Home said. " He is pleased to be able to do that, he
says you never saw a much prettier manifestation than
that ; Ah ! he has gone over there now." Another chair
moved close up to me, a distance of about a foot. Home
said " He is sitting in that chair near you ; he has
come because he wishes to speak to you ;
you are rather
in difficulties he thinks." He then spoke to me about
certain private matters. Presently Home said :
" Your
mother does not wish you to think that she forgot you
because she said so little about your marriage ; she could
not say more then, and after all, what could she do
more than pray God's blessing upon you in this as she
would in everything that you undertake, honestly, and
with a desire to do that which is right. She has much
more to say on the subject, but not now."
No. 67.
—
Ashley House.
On the night of the 6th [April, 1869] I got home
about eleven o'clock. I found Home aheady in bed.
He told me that he was very unwell ; that he had
left the house on his way to Gower Street ; that he
had suddenly lost consciousness on turning out of Ashley
Place, and that he remembered nothing more until he
found himself in bed. Home soon went to sleep and
began to talk and mutter ; after what he had said I
attributed it to bodily illness, and did not pay much
attention, however I soon found that he was in a trance.
NO. 67] With D. D. Home 243
The first distinct words he uttered were " But I am
not an Hindoo." The room shook for some minutes
very violently as if people were dancing on the floor
below. Home said, " Oh, do stop that dancing, they
must not do it, it is not kind." The shaking of the
floor almost immediately ceased ; I asked if people had
been dancing below, but received no answer. Home
turned to me and speaking in a firm loud voice, said,
" Ah, dear me, the poor Httle dog has gone !
" " What
dog ?
" I asked. " Why, little white- sister ^
—she has
gone just now. Are you not sorry, Adare 1 They will
be so grieved about it. She has passed from earth ;
but she is not destroyed, she is like a httle spark of
electricity, now a small globe of fight, it is moving on,
in time it will come m contact with some other substance
and be absorbed." " Absorbed into what ?
" I asked.
" Oh, into some higher form of animal hfe. Some spirits
could catch it, for although I said it was fike a little
globe of light, still you know on leaving the body it had
the appearance of the fittle dog, and some spirits might
capture it and keep it for a time, but eventually it would
be absorbed, for that is the law of nature, and they could
not overrule it. It has no sensation or consciousness
now ; its condition of being, its organization, was not
sufliciently high to permit of its retaining its individuafity."
" But," I said, " are there not animals in the other
world ?
" " Oh dear yes, God in his goodness has made
variety in the spirit world, as he has in your world
;
there would be no beauty without variety ; there are
dogs and horses and many animals. The Red Indians
were not wrong in their ideas of the '
happy hunting
ground,' their Seers saw these things in visions, and they
really exist." " But," I observed, " although they might
hunt they could never kill the animals." " Oh no, of
course they could not shed their blood, but they could
conquer them ; it is difficult for you to understand, but
' A little dog belonging to Mrs. S. C. Hall. Home, I believe, knew
that the dog was ill ; but could not have heard of its death, which took
place between 10 and 11 o'clock. I had no idea that the dog was
even ill.
244 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
you know yourself that the real charm of all hunting
consists rather in shoAving your superiority over the
animal, in overcoming it, than in the mere shedding of
blood and killing." " But," I asked, " if some animals
retain their individuality, and continue to exist in the
next world under the same form that they had here, and
others are as you say absorbed, where is the line drawn 1
What is it that causes one to be absorbed, while another
retains its individuahty ?
" " Oh, I do not say that the
animals in the next world ever existed on earth, it does
not seem to me that they did, I only know that they are
there, and I see that the life of animals upon earth is
eventually absorbed into other forms. I do not know that
your animals ever continue to exist in the spirit-world."
" You heard those Hindoos dancing just now ?
"
"Yes," I answered, "I heard what I thought were people
dancing on the floor below us." " Oh, it was not caused
by mortals, there is no one living on that floor now ;
they were spirits—Hindoos." " What on earth do they
want here," I asked. " Well, they are very anxious about
their Trinity." " But why should that bring them here ?
"
" They do not seem to have any special object in being
here, but they are occupied with that subject, and that
is why they are on earth ;
they are very advanced
Hindoos, and they want to prove that their Trinity is
not different from your Trinity as you suppose ; there is
a good deal going on now in the world in the way of
investigating these subjects. These Hindoos are anxious
about this ;
they say there is not so much difference as
you think ; for instance, they assert that their second
person Christna was incarnated as your second person
Christ was." Question :
" Had they a personal devil ?
"
" Yes ; and they say that Christna was tempted of the
devil in the same way as Christ." The substance of
Home's conversation after this I forget ; it led somehow
to his saying, " When this zone shall have become torrid,
of course the forms of animals and vegetable life will
be much changed." Question :
" Do you mean that the
temperature is changing ?
" " Oh, yes, these will be the
torrid zones, and the torrid zones will become cooler
;
NO. 67] With D. D. Home 245
there is a very marked change taking pkice now."
Question : "I suppose the change will be so gradual, that
life will not be affected ?
" " Life will not be affected,
the change is gradual, but it is quite apparent to us."
Question :
" Has the heat of the two last seasons any-
thing to do with this, or was it quite abnormal ?
"
" No, it was not entirely abnormal, it had to do with
the great change that is taking place." Question :
" Then will the frigid zones round the poles become
warmer 1
" " Oh yes, certainly ; do you know it is true
that there is land to the North beyond where explorers
have yet penetrated, and there are tribes of men hving
there, and they yet retain the traces of a by-gone civiliza-
tion. They are of the old Semitic or original Hebrew
race." Question :
" But how could they ever get there ;
it could not have been in historic times ?
" In answer
to this question, I distinctly heard a voice quite different
to Home's say, " Oh dear, no.'' Home said, " Did you
hear him !
" " Yes," I answered, " I heard him quite
plain." " I am glad you did ; he said '
Oh dear, no.'
He is rather difficult to understand, this spirit ; he seems
a little confused, but he declares he has seen these people,
and that he could bring the spirit of one of them with
him. He says there are distinct traces of Hebrew to be
found in their language. You know there are traces of
the old original Hebrew in the language of the Brahmins.
The ancient Hebraic tribes were a most migratory people,
always wandering and fighting ; their idea even of God
was a warlike, bloodthirsty being, and they were always
fighting and quarrelling among themselves and their neigh-
bours, and doing so in the name of the Lord. They
have wandered all over the earth, and have left their
marks in many places. There are signs of a civilization
that you know nothing of, in North America ; it was
derived from the same source. Historians have con-
jectured that they crossed the narrow channel of a few
miles in breadth ; and they are correct. As to those
people I spoke of in the North, they penetrated there
long before history ;
oh, there were hons and tigers in
these latitudes at that time. The Hebrews were very
246 Experiences in Spiritnalism [seance
bad historians ;
they kept no records ; tradition served
as history for them, even in very mucli later times ;
they
were very careless, and kept their records very badly."
I remarked, " What an interesting thing it would be to
reach these people if they exist." " This spirit declares
that it will be done ; he says there is an expedition
fitting out now, and he thinks it will be successful."
" Fitting out in England ?
" I asked. " No in America ;
it seems that this spirit is interested in it, and that is
the reason why he is on earth." " Have I ever known
him 1
" I enquired. " Oh dear no, he has left the earth
long ago." " How interesting it would be," I remarked,
"to go on such an expedition." Home laughed at me
and said, " Yes, you look very hke going on that sort of
an expedition just now ; look and feel very strong don't
you, just at present ;
quite fit to go through that awful
bitter cold ?
" Home reverted to the Hindoos, and then
began speaking about Spiritualism in general. " Oh !
" he
said, " what a blessing it is to know that the world will
one day be spiritualised, that mortal man in the flesh
will walk and talk face to face with his brother, who
has left the body." " Well," I observed, " I do not see
much hkeliliood of that time coming soon ; if it were so,
death would no longer have any terrors, it would not be
even a separation." " Yovi cannot see it, but I can ;
what I say will inevitably come true. Death ought not
to be considered a separation, death is a development,
and should have no terrors ; was it not part of Christ's
mission to take away the sting and terror of death ?
"
I began speculating as to the probability of the popula-
tion ever becoming excessive over the whole earth.
Home said, " No, that will not be the case ; when
countries become much over populated, the people are
carried off by epidemics, by emigration and other causes."
" But emigration," I said, " only relieves one country at
the expense of another. If population increases as it
does at present, the time must come when there will be
no outlet for emigrants ; and surely it cannot be natural
or right that people should be carried off by plagues and
famines," " Epidemics and famines are quite in the
NO. 67] With D. D. Home 247
natural order of things ; and. the misery resulting from
them may seem much greater to you than it in reahty
is." " But still," I insisted, " such things do cause great
distress." " Yes, to a certain extent you are of course
right ; and there are other causes that will eventually
act to check the increase of the human race. Cannot
you understand that men, by cultivating the intellectual
quahties, the higher organs contained in the upper portion
of the brain will arrive at such a condition, that their
sole gratification and pleasure will be in the pursuit of all
that is beautiful, harmonious, and good ? —the upper por-
tions of the brain will become more fully developed, the
lower parts being neglected will become less and less, the
animal nature weaker, and man will no longer find the
same pleasure in the gratification of his lusts and
passions ; man will become spirituahsed, and will be very
different to what he is now." Soon after this. Home
awoke. He spoke for such a length of time, that a great
deal of what he said has entirely escaped my memory.
Allan Kardec died on Sunday the 4th. On the Wednes-
day or Thursday following, as Home and I were in the
dressing room, at about 11 o'clock in the morning, we
heard loud raps on the floor between us. The alphabet
was asked for and the following message given :
" Bon
jour, mon ami Daniel, je crois que je me suis trompe un peu
la has en fait d'identite. Allan Kardec.'''' Home asked a
few questions which were answered by raps.
No. 68.—Ashley House, April lOth [18G9].
Last night JVIr. J
—
— and I walked to Ashley House
with Home from Fitzroy Square. Home complained of
feehng nervous, as is usually the case after an unsuc-
cessful seance. He sat down at the piano, and com-
menced playing ; while so engaged he went into a trance.
248 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
I extinguished one of the candles, and placed the other
on the floor. We heard sounds as of some one walking
up and down the passage, and raps upon the door and
walls. Mr. J felt, during the whole evening, a strong
current of very cold air blowing about him. Home
walked about the room apparently in great distress ; he
moaned and sat down on the floor and seemed to mourn
over something. Suddenly the character of the influence
changed. Home came over to where I was sitting on the
sofa, and made me lie at full length upon it ;
by the
attitude he assumed I recognized the spirit he calls " the
nameless doctor." He stood beside me apparently lost
in thought for a minute or two, then kneeling down,
made me unbutton my waistcoat, began sounding my
chest as doctors do ; he then rubbed and patted over
the chest, loins, and legs, occasionally turning round as if
to ask advice from some one ; his efforts were principally
directed to my right side, he frequently pointed to it and
turned his head as if to call some one's attention to that
particular spot. He placed his mouth to my right side
and exhaled a deep breath ; the heat I felt was something
extraordinary. When he had finished. Home seemed
pleased with what he had done, smiled and rubbed his
hands as if delighted. The first influence now seemed to
return ; he sat down on the floor evidently in great dis-
tress ; then lay flat on his back and extended his arms
in the form of a cross. His body became rigid and he
was palpably elongated, and was almost raised off the
ground ; he may have been completely off, but I think
not ; it was evident, however, by the swaying vibratory
motion of his body that it was not resting naturally on
the ground. While this was taking place two chairs
moved slightly of themselves. Home got up, knelt upon
one knee, and simulated a man endeavouring to raise a
heavy body. He appeared to fail once or twice ; at last
he raised it, and supporting it on his knee, carried it
with great difficulty to a chair near at hand, where he
placed it and sat down on the floor, apparently much
exhausted. He beckoned to me, and when I approached
told me in French to bring a chair, and sit near him ;
NO. 68] With D. D. Home 249
I did so, and lie spoke in French somewhat to the follow-
ing effect. " What we have been trying to represent to
you by acting, is the condition of Allan Kardec. The
body that was extended on the ground in the form of a
cross, and that was elongated, was his ; he suffered a
good deal for truth ; and in symbolism as you know,
the cross signifies truth ; but then he was not enlightened ;
he refused the light, he was obstinate, and would not
enlighten himself upon it, and that makes him unhappy
now ; it seems to weigh upon him, he cannot raise him-
self above his former ideas and prejudices. We tried to
represent that by the difficulty of raising the heavy body.
He is sitting here in this chair ; he does not move ; he
would not come into the room at first, you heard him
walking in the passage. There are many spirits here of
his '
entourage.' Of his followers, and he had many of
them, some of the spirits will not come into the room,
I know not why ;
you hear them in the passage ; there
are two just behind here that I do not like at all."'
Presently Home gave a cry almost amounting to a scream,
and shuddering pointed to the opposite side of the room
and said in English, " Who are those fearful looking men ?
Oh, what are they doing ? They are eastern, their feet
are bare, as also their legs up to the knees, they will not
show their faces, they cover them with a sort of cloak
;
oh this is horrible, they are hiding and lying in wait for
something. They are so totally undeveloped, so earthy
and material, they could shed blood, they could take
man's life." " Do you mean," I said, " to tell me that
these spirits could kill a man 1
" " Oh yes," he answered,
" they could, but they can do no harm here at all ; it
was in a city where the sun cast broad alternate bands
of light and shadow ; I can see them among the ohve
trees gUding in and out ;
they are so fearfully undeveloped,
so material ;
they could harm a man if he had not power
over them ; that must come by prayer." I asked Mr.
J if he had any idea what all this meant. He
rephed, " Yes, I think I know." Home got up, took a
striped rug off the sofa, and covering his shoulders, head,
and face with it, began walking about the room in a
250 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
stealthy manner, hiding behind the furniture, and crawl-
ing about flat upon the ground, apparently lying in wait
for some one. Suddenly he put his hand upon the
candle, and left us in almost total darkness. I could
just distinguish him gliding about the room, and crawUng
on the floor. At one time he stood up and was elongated
;
he came close to me and said, " What did they do to
his brother ?
" " Whose brother ?
" said Mr. J .
" Why, yours." " Oh, good gracious," cried Mr. J ;
" How strange " ; and so saying he sank back into his
chair. Home added, " He is not dead ; he is quite safe."
I spoke two or three times to Mr. J after this, but
received no answer. Home said, " He is under influence."
Presently, Home sat down on the floor beside me and
said, "He is under influence; the tall strong man who
is influencing him will move something." A chair behind
me moved of itself. Home leaned his head against my
knee ; it appeared most extraordinarily heavy. I placed
my hand upon it, and the weight was removed. " Did
you feel," he said, " the weight on Dan's head ? That
was the influence of only one of those men ;
they are so
strong, so very material." Mr. J became much
affected ; he sobbed violently, seemed in great distress,
spoke in Arabic with great rapidity, and said, " Oh,
S S " (his brother's name), and then " Chahni
!
chalini !
" which means " Leave me ! leave me !
" I began
asking Home about what had puzzled me very much,
namely, his having asserted that spirits could do bodily
harm to man. He said, " Yes, they can ; I will tell you
later. Dan must awake to take the influence off J ."
Home suddenly awoke, and asked what was going on.
I told him that Mr. J was under influence, upon
which he took his hands, and he immediately awoke, and
was much astonished at finding that he had been crying
violently.
I slept in Home's room ; after we had gone to bed he
went into a trance and said " Of course not ;
why of
course they could not, Adare." " Could not do what ?
"
I asked. " Why, could not do harm here." " You are
referring to those spirits," I said. " I never thought
NO. 68] With D. D. Home 251
they could do harm here ; but could they hurt a man
under any circumstances ? " " Yes, they could ;
you see
his brother had been mixed up in some magical incanta-
tions, where sacrifices were offered. Now, if a man sold
himself to such spirits as those, if he gave himself to them
for any purpose, they could do as they hked with him."
" But," I asked, " could they take his life ? Could they
for instance strike him with a knife ?
" " Certainly, why
not ? you have seen tables, chairs and heavy objects moved
by a spirit, why not a knife also." " But that would
not be fair play, he could not strike them back," I said.
" No, he could not ; but they could not touch him unless
he was wilUng. You see it would be necessary that he
should have allowed them to gain power over him, if for
any purpose he did that, they could then so use their
influence as to make him do whatever they chose. They
did not hurt his brother, they carried him off, it was as
if he had fallen among bandits.^ There is more truth
than you suppose in the stories of the old magicians, and
the precautions they adopted to protect themselves from
the undeveloped and material influences with which they
surrounded themselves. Your mother stood just behind
you when Dan's head became so heavy against your
knee ; she influenced you to put your hand on his head,
she was anxious a little about Dan, a httle fearful that
he might be hurt. Of course you know no harm could
come to him." Home now awoke, he had a distinct
impression of the sort of influence that had been about
him, and said " I feel very strange, so dreadfully crafty
and sly, if I were to give way to my feelings I should
do all sorts of curious things, I should hide behind the
curtains, and go to Mr. J 's room and try to frighten
him." I told Home a little of what had occurred so as
to account for these strange feehngs.
^ I am not certain whether this sentence conveys Home's meanLns;
quite correctly.
252 Experie^ices in Spiritualism [seance
No. (id.
[The following account of what occurred to Mr. J
during the night, was related to me by him two or
three days afterwards. He said] :
—
" I went to bed in the spare room, but did not immedi-
ately put out the candle. I was lying with my face
turned towards the wall, when suddenly the bed-clothes
were pulled so violently as nearly to uncover me. I
jumped up in bed, and the movement ceased. After
watching a few minutes I lay down and the clothes were
again sharply pulled. This was repeated three times ;
I could not detect anything touching the clothes, in fact
the moment I sat up to watch all movement ceased.
While this was going on I heard distinct raps all about
the room. I now turned round and saw a number of
figures near the window, moving about, apparently con-
versing ;
they were of a grey or whitish colour, the
features in profile were very distinct, and the hands
especially so ; but I could not see how they rested on
the floor, as the lower extremities finished in vapour or
cloud. I used every means in my power to induce them
to look at me and answer my questions, by raps or other-
wise, but in vain. I begged them to speak, and exercised
my will as forcibly as I could to make them do so, but
they would not take the shghtest notice of me ; I accord-
ingly got out of bed and slowly approached them. When
I was within about three paces of them they divided in
two rows on each side of the window, as if to allow me
to pass, and turning round, bent their heads and looked
down towards me ; at the next step they all separated,
and I experienced a feeling of intense cold ; when close
upon them they disappeared. I walked slowly back-
wards, and when I had retreated three or four yards,
the forms became visible. I went to bed but never
closed my eyes ; the figures remained near the window
moving about as if in conversation, until a quarter to
seven when they disappeared. After going towards them
the first time, in order to make sure that I was thoroughly
KO. 69] With D. D. Home 253
awake, I went to a cupboard, opened it, and found a box
of brown biscuits of which I ate two ; I also found a
Highland sporran, and read the monogram on the hilts
of the knives. After dressing in the morning, I examined
the cupboard, found the box of biscuits, and ascertained
that I had read the monograms correctly ; I also walked
all over the house during the night in search of Home's
room, but could not find it. I spoke to the figures
repeatedly in Enghsh, not in Arabic."
No. 70.
[The following strange story was also related to me on
the same occasion by Mr. J . As it evidently bears
upon the occurrences related in p. 249, I have deter-
mined to break through the rule hitherto adhered to of
relating only what took place in my own presence.
I had the story direct from Mr. J , who received it
from his brother. Mr. J at my request wrote to
his brother in the East, to enquire if anything had
happened to him on the Friday when the strange occur-
rences mentioned in pp. 249, 250, took place, but no
answer has as yet been received.]
" About three years ago, my brother S. was residing in
my father's house, in the town of , in the East,
studying '
Nahawi,' that is the grammatical Arabic, the
language of the '
Koran '
—quite a different tongue from
the vernacular. One day he was much astonished at
receiving an answer in '
Nahawi ' from a poor labouring
man, to whom he had addressed some question ; he
entered into conversation, and found that this man was
well educated, and he also noticed that in the evening he
was dressed in a style quite incompatible with his rank
of life ; in fact he appeared much superior to the class
to which he belonged. One day, soon after their first
meeting, this labourer, whom I will call '
the native '
as
I cannot mention his name, told my brother that lie had
254 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
something of importance to communicate if he would
promise secrecy. He then informed him that in a field
outside the town, belonging to his father, there was some-
thing buried that he was determined to obtain by means
of what in the East is called '
magic '
; he said that he
had already tried but had failed, that he was determined
to succeed even at the risk of his life, but that it was
necessary for him to obtain the co-operation of some
member of the family ; if my brother would assist him,
he promised to give up anything of value that might be
found, bargaining only to be allowed to keep a certain
scroll or parchment. My brother agreed, and on the
following Friday they commenced operations. I may men-
tion here that in Mahomedan countries it is supposed that
Friday is the only day on which magic can be successfully
practised. S. and the native left the town just before
the gates were shut, at sunset, and proceeded to the field
in question ;
arrived there they sat down cross-legged on
the ground, at right angles to each other, and about four
or five yards apart, the native warning S. not to mind
him, and on no account to scream, as that would involve
considerable danger to both. The native commenced
burning incense and repeating invocations or prayers,
bowing his head to the ground ;
very soon loud thrusts
or blows were heard on the ground and several forms
became visible, issuing apparently out of the earth. These
figures commenced walking round the two men. On
passing S. each figure stooped down and threw a handful
of dust into his face ; his clothes were covered with dust
afterwards. On passing the native, each figure struck
him on the head ;
he, however, took no notice whatever
of them, merely bowing his head down, adding fresh
incense, and mumbhng something to himself. After a
time the figures disappeared into the ground, and the
native said that all was over for that night.
" On the second Friday the same ceremonies were gone
through, except that the incense was of a different kind,
with hke results ; the forms appeared, but suddenly a
tremendous shower of dry bones fell over them. S. could
not tell where they came from, but they appeared to come
NO. 70] With D. D. Home 255
from behind him so as to be directed against the native.
The native jumped up and said that something had
occurred to interrupt the arrangements, and that they
must immediately go.
" On the third Friday the usual invocations and incense
burning were gone through, and the figures appeared and
commenced walking round, and throwing dust as on the
first occasion. Suddenly the figure of a- gigantic black
man appeared out of the ground, armed with a great
stick or club, with which he belaboured the native in the
most fearful manner ; while a great commotion took
place among the other figures—instead of moving slowly
round, they were all rushing about as if in a state of
great agitation. The native took no notice at first of
the black man, merely crouching himself closer to the
ground, increasing the ardour of his incantations, and
adding fresh incense. At length, however, he said in
Arabic, '
Well, well, be it so ; if you must have it, you
shall.' After this, all was quiet.
" On the following Friday they again went out ; but
this time the native carried with him a five lamb con-
cealed under his burnous which, after they were seated
on the ground, he proceeded to kill and skin. They went
through the usual incense burning, &c., &c. ; and first the
figures appeared, and then the black man rose from out
of the ground, and advanced in a menacing attitude
towards the native, preparing to strike him with his club.
The native held up the lamb to him, and the figure took it
and disappeared again into the earth. S. declares that the
earth hterally opened, and that the black figure descended,
bearing the lamb through the aperture. In a few minutes
the black figure reappeared, and a conversation ensued
between him and the native ; the latter seemed very
angry, declared that he had compHed with all their
requests, that the black man was not the spirit that he
wanted at all, and that he had been duped. The alterca-
tion was suddenly interrupted by a shower of dry bones
upon which the figure disappeared ; and the native jumped
up, seized S.'s arm and hurried him away, saying that
they were watched.
256 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
" It appears that my father noticed that S. absented
himself from home every Friday, and becoming uneasy he
set some one to watch him. He was seen to leave the
city at smiset in company with this native ; but none
would follow them, as they did not like the idea of
spending the night outside. On the last Friday, however,
one bolder than the rest followed them, and concealing
himself behind a rock, witnessed their proceedings. On
the Saturday following a formal complaint was laid before
the Governor of the town, the native was banished for
life, and S. came over to England. After an absence of
two years, my brother returned to the town, and a few
weeks afterwards I received a letter from him, saying
:
'
Imagine my intense surprise, the same native is here, but
no one recognizes him, he says he is determined to go on
with his project if I will assist him ; I can see no dif-
ference whatever in his appearance, he is not disguised in
any way, and yet not a soul in the town has the slightest
notion that he is the man who was banished three years
ago.'
"
No. 71.
—
Ashley House.
On the 10th [April, 1869], Home went into a trance,
and said, " Allan Kardec,—apoplexy." " Did he die
suddenly ?
" I asked. " Of apoplexy—fell down stairs.
You must not sleep in the same room with Dan at
present, it is not good for either of you, your magnetism
is mutually injurious, you take strength from each other ;
your nerves are in an excited state, I can see them
emitting a phosphorescent light, they are stretched to
the extreme verge of tension." " They are then in an
unhealthy state," I said. " Yes, in a condition that
must be checked, it is exactly as if you had taken too
much stimulant. In the daytime it does not matter
how much you are together, it is at night when
you are asleep that the injury is done ;
you are not
well ; if you slept in the same room with a healthy
man it would do you good." " I have been thinking,"
I said, " that mesmerism might be of service to me,
NO. 71] With D. D. Home 257
what is your opinion ?
" " The magnetism of a strong
healthy man would do you much good, the mesmeriser
should be a fair man, a few passes every day not sufficient
to induce sleep would be of use to you, it would be
good for Dan also." " I think change would do me
good," I remarked. " Travelling is very good for you."
I asked, after a long pause, " Do you think it would
also suit Florence's constitution 1
" Home said, " Oh
yes it would not hurt her, but she has a talent that
must not be neglected." " What is that—music 1
" I
enquired. " Composition, the composition of music." I
said, " You would not like that to be neglected ?
" "It
must not be neglected." " That is rather awkward,"
I added. " No, it need not be ; she would have great
facihty in learning stringed instruments ; for instance the
viohn ; of course they would all laugh at first, but you
need not mind that. Dear me, how curious ! Oh no
certainly not, L
—
— ought not to pass away." " L
M do you mean 1
" I asked. " No, L N ,
she had more influence almost than any of them over
0 ; her magnetism kept him in check, she has lost
it in a great measure now ; he is all hoity toity fly-away.
What a curious habit he has got into of tossing his head
back in that way ; dear me, he is very excited, there is
something all wrong about it, when I go there it all
seems confused, I cannot make it out well !
" Allan Kardec says that spirits very soon forget events
that happened on earth, they have no way of computing
time ;
they even forget their birthdays ; if they want to
get a date they often have to go and look for it." " But
why," I said, " should they take the trouble to look for
dates ? what can it matter to them." " Oh, they are
obhged to do so sometimes for tests and things of that
sort." Home then awoke.
No. 72.
—
Ashley House.
On, I think, the 15th [April, 1869], IVIr. Ward Cheeney
and Mr. Arnold, two Americans, friends of Home came
R
258 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
to see him. Soon after they had gone, I heard raps
upon the table at which I was seated. Home was walk-
ing about the room at the time. I called his attention
to the raps, and he came and sat down near me. The
alphabet was called for, and the name " Carry " was
spelled out. Home said to me " That is Mrs. Cheeney "
;
then addressing her :
—
" I am so glad, dear, that you have come to me again,
is Julia with you often ?
"
" Yes," was answered.
" Why does she not speak to me ? Does she not like
me ?
"
" Oh yes, she is the same as ever, but your missio7i does
not always consist of love messages being given you. When
tve U'O'uld do so, we are sometimes unable by reason of your
exhaustion ; but you, knoiv, so long as you are true to God,
your mission, and, yourself, that we love you."
Home, pointing to me, said, " He is going to America."
Two raps were made signifying uncertainty ; Home added,
"I hope you will like him."
" Yes," was said, and then, " / hope that you may be
my earthly habitatio7i uhen yoii are there, in order that I
may welcoine you."
Home continued, " He is going to be married ; I hope
you will hke his wife."
" I don't know her. What is her name ?
"
" Miss Florence Kerr. Will you go and see her ?
"
Two raps were given, signifying perhaps. " Adare will
be dining there to-night ; will you go with him ?
"
" Yes ; I shall call her Florence. Do you not find this
to be a subject fraught with very vast iynportance ?
"
" Is that message to me ?
" I asked.
" Yes."
" Certainly, I consider it is a subject of great impor-
tance."
" Standing on the threshold, peering through the chinks."
" Of the other world ?
" I asked.
" Yes."
Home observed " That is just like her, there was a good
deal of poetry in her nature ; I have some very pretty
NO. 72] With D. D. Home 259
lines of hers." He was interrupted by the words " Such
doggerel," being spelled out ; after this the sounds became
gradually fainter, and we had no more messages.
No. 73.
—
Ashley House.
On Friday, the 16th [April, 1869], I was present at
a meeting of one of the sub-committees of the Dia-
lectical Society. The seance was not satisfactory. The
Master of Lindsay, Mr. Bergheim, Home, and myself,
afterwards adjourned to Lindsay's room, in Grosvenor
Square. We sat round a small table, and had some
physical manifestations. Home was in an excessively
nervous state. Presently he went into a trance, and
began to laugh ; he spoke to me for some time as
A B . Home then said " That same spirit is
here about W B . It is too late now to do
all he wanted ; he wished to have prevented all this
business about X ." " Oh," said Lindsay, " He
could have done nothing, for W could have no
influence over X ." " He says he could have suc-
ceeded." " I am sure he could not," continued Lindsay,
"for they are not even on speaking terms." "Well, he
says that W
—
— being susceptible, he would have got
such influence over him, that X^ •
would have noticed
it, and it would have had a good effect upon him ; how-
ever, it is too late now, still he wants W to meet
Dan. He will pass away before his natural time."
" Who 1
" said Lindsay, " W ?
" " Yes." " Is he
then ill ?
" I asked. " Oh, no ; not in that way ; it will
probably be in some wild frohc or row, or something of
that sort. This spirit used to howl at W when he
was at school." Lindsay remarked, " That is very
curious, I had not thought of it before, but now I re-
member that W told me of that. Did it frighten
him ?
" " Oh, yes ; he used to howl at him and frighten
him a good deal, so much so that one night he got up
and slept with one of the other fellows ; he was afraid
260 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
to be alone." Home turned to me and said, " You must
look out, boy, there seems to be a storm brewing for
you.'' " If you would tell me what it is," I said, " per-
haps I might avoid it." "It is of no great consequence ;
it will be but a storm in a coffee pot. Oh, Dan is very
weak, very weak indeed." Home sank back in his chair,
he was seized with a violent spasm in the chest, and was
in great pain. Presently he said, They are magnetizing
me." He fell into a natural sleep, and awoke in a short
time much better. Home went home, I remained some
time longer. Lindsay asked IVIr. Bergheim to mesmerise
him ; he did so, and soon put him to sleep. After he
had awoke him, Mr. Bergheim asked Lindsay to try upon
him, no one having as yet succeeded in mesmerising him.
After a few passes, he went off ; he became very uneasy,
placed his hand on his forehead and said, " It is all
wrong." Lindsay asked him whether there was too much
weight on his head ; whether he should take some off, or
put more on. He replied, " No, it is not that, but it is
all wrong, I am being cross-mesmerised." (This is curious,
as no one else was attempting to influence him.) As he
seemed so uneasy, Lindsay awoke him. He told us he
did not remember saying anything about cross-mesmerising,
but that the last thing he recollected was seeing a figure
or form of some sort standing beside Lindsay. He also
saw the figure. After some time, Lindsay mesmerised
him again ; as on the first occasion, be became very
restless and excited ; he extended his right arm, and kept
it in that position for fully half an hour ;
Lindsay could
not induce him to alter it. He spoke Arabic with great
rapidity in long sentences, and occasionally repeated
single words which I wrote down as well as I could. He
appeared to be, or to think himself to be, under some
influence more powerful than Lindsay. He said among
other things, " Mabidah ('she won't'). Oh, dear, she
won't come. Ta-aU, ta-ali (' come, come !
'
—word feminine
and applicable to a woman only). Rabat ! (' she is
gone '). Allah ! (God) Bedosh, or Behash (he won't, or
she won't), Haldl Inglese or Hekil Inglese, or Yikkil Inglese,
or Hakal, Inglese (EngUsh talk, or speak Enghsh, or
NO. 73] With D. D. Home 261
he speaks English, or he spoke Enghsh)." Lindsay
repeatedly tried to make him speak Enghsh, but he said,
" he won't let me." Lindsay endeavoured to influence
him to move, but he always replied, " he won't let me,
I would if I could, but he won't let me, he is so strong."
Presently he said, " Chahni ! chalini ! (leave me, leave me),
don't let him come near me." Lindsay walked round in
a circle, making passes, and said, " there, he cannot come
inside that." Mr. Bergheim said, " Ah, she has come,"
and appeared to stroke and caress some one's head and
hair. " He cannot speak Enghsh and won't let me."
" Ah, Ta-ah (oh, come) Chahni ! chahni ! (leave me, leave
me) Rah, (he is gone). Oh, he has gone, and she has
gone with him." He appeared so distressed that Lindsay
said, " I will awake him." He sat up and said, " You
cannot, he has gone, and you cannot awake me."
Lindsay began making upward passes, saying, " nonsense,
of course I can awake you." JMr. Bergheim shouted at
him, " You cannot, you cannot, he must come back or
I shall die, you cannot awake me ;
oh, bring him back."
Lindsay said, " All right, he shall come." I opened the
door and Lindsay added, " There, he has come." Mr.
Bergheim heaved a deep sigh, and said, " Oh, yes, he
has come back," he became quite quiet and soon awoke,
but was in a nervous state for some time.^
No. 14:.—Ashley House, April [1869].
Last night soon after we had gone to bed, we both
heard raps upon the wall. The alphabet was called for
and the following messages given, " Come come, Dan,
cheer up ! You have been overdoing it lately, ive intend
giving you a rest from the day after to-morrow till the 29th ;
your power will he taken from you.'' Home said, " I am
sorry for it." " We think it best,'" was answered. Home
went into a trance ; he said, " Your grandfather is here,
1 I mention the occurrences of this evening, as although outside the
present limits of "Spiritualism," they seem to bear a strong resemblance
to what took place at Ashley House, mentioned in pp. 249, 250.
262 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
he is not pleased." He spoke to me for a long time,
representing my grandfather, saying at the close of the
conversation, " You must be prepared, boy, for some
change ; it seems that something will soon occur to alter
your prospects." " Can you not tell what it is," I asked.
" No we cannot tell you. Oh ! it is nothing to do with
your marriage ;
no, it just seems that something will
occur to alter your plans, that is all." " I wish to ask
a cpiestion," I said. " Do so," he replied. " Dan sud-
denly asked me yesterday, shuddering, to take my hand
off the table where we were both writing ; when I asked
him some time after what his motive had been for doing
so, he told me that my thumb was all covered with
blood. Now, there was really no blood upon my thumb ;
was that merely a defect in Dan's vision, or the result of
his imagination, or was there anything more in it ?
"
After a pause Home answered, " We do not know what
that could have meant, it might have been a foreshadow-
ing of something, or merely the reflection of the red
table cloth, or some purely physical effect of Dan's brain,
or vision ; we do not remember the occurrence—Stop
!
wait a minute " (after a pause), " Ah ! Sacha says it was
not imagination or deception on Dan's part, he was in one
of those very curious conditions into which he sometimes
falls, and it was a foreshadowing of something that will
occur, blood will flow, you may perhaps cut your finger
or something of that sort, it does not follow that it will
be your thumb. Sacha sends all manner of love to Dan,
and wishes you to tell him that he must not be low-
spirited, more than he can help ; it is not right, he has
never wanted as yet, she says it is extremely unlikely
that he will be permitted to want now." I said, " I
want to ask your opinion about what occurred in Lind-
say's room." " We do not know exactly to what you
refer ; but we will tell you about it some time or other.
Dan is very weak and ill, we have been having a regular
council about him." " I hope you will be able to do him
good," I said. " Oh yes, we hope so, he is overworked ;
and he worries himself about leaving the house, and is
distressed about a lot of jewels and precious stones. It
NO. 74] With D. D. Home 263
is not I'iglit of him to give way so, lie sliould have more
faith. Poor httle L will we fear have a relapse, but
she must not be cast down ; she will get better again ;
she ought to be very careful not to do too much this
summer." " You mean in the way of society," I observed,
" seeing too many people ?
" " Yes, certainly. Your
mother seems anxious about you ; she says your position
is not a very easy one ;
you have a difficult path to
follow, and must be careful." I said, " It seems hard
that if I am in difficult circumstances I should have
lost the advantage of her advice ; there are so few people
with whom I can take counsel." " Ah, but that is just
what she does not want you to feel. She says you have
not lost the benefit of her advice ; she can influence you.
If you will, when in doubt as to what course to pursue,
pray earnestly to God for guidance, and sit down quietly
to think the matter over, she says you may be sure she
will be there, and will be enabled to help you to form a
right judgment. She smiles, and says, '
You may even
smoke your cigar you know, my boy, if you like ;
just
sit down quietly by yourself, desiring earnestly and
prayerfully to do what is right, and I am certain to be
with you, and will endeavovir to influence your mind so
that you may come to a right conclusion about Bergheim.'
You need never be nervous at anything of that sort ;
no harm could have come of it ; no spiritual influence
could or would hurt him. You might have known that ;
you know how sensitive Dan is, and that he is con-
tinually subjected to all sorts of influences, at all times,
even when walking in the streets ; and yet you know
they cannot harm him." " But," I said, " you spoke the
other night of spirits having power even to kill a man :
how do you mean then that no danger could ensue from
a man becoming under a strong influence as Bergheim
was, or as Dan often is." " Insomuch as the man is
willing, harm might come. As I told you the other
night, if anyone were voluntarily to agree to certain con-
ditions, were to submit themselves to a spiritual influence,
to obtain a certain end, harm might ensue from that,
but in no other way ;
Bergheim could not have been
264 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
hurt, he would have awoke all right, he is of a very
nervous excitable temperament, that was the cause of it.
Danger might arise in another way, a person might throw
himself into a deep trance. If Dan in his present very
weak condition were to will himself to go into a trance,
he might do so, and the result might be disastrous, we
are obliged to watch over him very closely. Dan wiU
not awake, he will fall into a natural sleep now."
TVo. 75.
—
Seance, Orafton Hotel, Albemarle Street, May 26fh
[1869].
At about 10 o'clock I went to the Comtesse de Pomar,
and found aheady assembled and seated round the table
the Comtesse de Pomar, Mrs. Crawford, Madame de Galiano,
Mrs. H. Senior, Mr. Bergheim, and Home ;
they had had
slight physical manifestations. One of the ladies was not
very well, and another was expecting to be obliged to
leave every minute—two circumstances which no doubt
acted unfavourably upon the harmony of the party.
Soon after my arrival Home went into a trance ; he was
apparently much distressed by the black crepe on Madame
de Pomar s dress. Getting up, he took a black shawl
that she had laid on a chair, and expressing by his coun-
tenance the greatest disgust, he opened the door of an
inner room and threw the shawl down. On coming back
he whispered as he passed me, " We do not like it at all
—there is too much black. You see there are four what
you call widows here ; we cannot bear mourning." He
stroked and patted my forehead ; and going round to
Mrs. "s son, he bent over him, looked into his face
and caressed his hair. He took a small round table
that was standing in the corner of the room, and said,
still in a whisper, " Paula and Marie must not have too
much confidence in this, it is an undeveloped influence
that communicates with them, and they are not fully
developed as mediums, they must not place implicit
rehance on what is told them, but use their own sense
NO. 75] With D. D. Home 265
about it." Oil returning to his chair—as he passed me
—
he clapped liis hands (Adah Menken's sign), and
whispered, " I hope you are very happy. It was not far
from here that I met you." iVIr. Bergheim and I were
talking in a very low tone, about crystals, mirrors, and
eastern magic in general, and the strange things that had
occurred at Ashley House in connection with Mr. J 's
brother. Home became much agitated, gasped occa-
sionally for breath, had difficulty in speaking, and made
passes before him as if waving something off. " Oh,"
he said, " you must not talk of that, you bring such a
fearful influence about you ; the moment your minds are
turned in that direction, the influence comes as it were
pouring in, I wish you could understand this, you would
see how necessary is prayer to bring a good influence
about you ; and if you wish for that which is bad, it
will inevitably come. Oh, it is very dangerous, we can-
not bear you to have anything with magic, that incense
of blood is fearful." I interrupted him saying, " I have
not used any incense." Home continued, " Oh, yes ;
I know, I know. You must not have anything to do with
it ;
you do not know how dangerous it is. Pray leave
that magic alone ; what is the use of it ? it is but
curiosity and can do you no good. Would you place
yourself in the power of the lowest men on earth ?
Would you bring the worst and most degraded of mortal
influence about you ? You would not ; then why do so
among spirits ? I tell you you do not know the danger ;
they are so fearfully low, the very lowest and most
material of all ;
you might almost call them '
accursed.'
They will get a power over you that you cannot break
through. Have nothing to do with it. Try and get a
good influence about you, one that will raise and elevate
you, not one to drag you down lower and lower. You
would be afraid of the worst and most brutal of your
fellow-men. You have more cause to fear those spirits
who correspond to them if you encourage and let them
gain power over you. No, he has not found it yet."
Bergheim said to me, " Have you told him the story ?
how does he know anything about this ?
" Home laughed,
266 Ex'periences in SjnriiuaUsm [seance
and speaking to Madame de Pomar said, " They are
wondering at Dan speaking about subjects with which he
is not acquainted, as if we did not know all about it."
Turning to us he continued, " No, he has not found it,
he has got your letter ;
yes I think he will answer it in
a little time, he does not quite know what to do. I say
again, have nothing to do with magic. Mind ! there is
a storm coming, if that box arrives, if the house is not
burned or smashed to pieces it wiU be a wonder. Seek
by prayer to repel evil influences, do not encourage them."
Soon after, Home awoke. We had tolerably strong
physical manifestations, but nothing remarkable occurred,
and afterwards the three following messages were given
through the alphabet, with short intervals between them :
" We find material hindrances impeding our manifestations.''
" The infliiences are too various." " We must, though
reluctantly, say '
good night.''
"
[The three following Seances are recorded by Lord
Dunraven].
No. 76.
—
Seance, No. 7, Buckingham Gate, June 25th [1869].
Present :
—Sir Robert Gore Booth, Augusta Gore Booth,
]\Irs. Honywood, Arthur Smith Barry, Miss A P ,
Miss C R ; Ml'. Home, and myself. In a very
short time vibrations and slight movements of the table
occurred. These were followed by raps on and about the
table. Augusta was Ij^ng on a low couch close to the
ground. The five raps for the alphabet being given, we
received the following message :
" The position of Augusta
absorbs our atmosphere ; raise her." We placed her couch
on a sofa, and brought it up to the table. The sofa
presently moved a few inches from the table, which was
shortly moved up to it. She mentioned that the couch
was shaken, and also that she was touched several times.
Being just then strongly touched on the knee, I asked,
" Has any one else been touched 1
" " You," was immedi-
ately rapped out. Mr. Home remarking that the influence
NO. 76] With D. D. Home 267
seemed chiefly on one side, we received the following
message: "We are obliged to keep to this side of the
table." This was on Augusta's side, opposite to that at
which the two young ladies sat. Mx. Home remarking,
that, if the white tablecloth was put on the table, hands
might visibly move under the cloth, we accordingly put
one on. He asked if there was an accordion in the
room. Arthur Barry fetched one from the side-board,
and placed it on the table. Some movements under the
cloth were seen about the edge of the table near Augusta,
and in other places. As no intimation was given about
the instrument, Mr. Home took it, holding it with one
hand as usual, at the under edge of the table. A sort
of prelude was played with slight tremolo effect. We
then had the following message, the letters being chiefly
indicated by notes on the instrument :
" There is spiritual
discord—we pray for harrno7iy." The word discord was
given by a horrid discord being played ; while harmony
was expressed by beautiful soft chords. While the play-
ing was going on, Arthur Barry and the two young ladies
were requested to look under the table to see how the
instrument was held and moved. Just after the last
message, we received the following : " An undeveloped
influence prevents our " here some shglit break
occurred, and then it went on, " but ivith prayer—earnest
prayer—we will dispel it.'' This was shortly followed by :
" We must dispel the discord ; Arthur, sit opposite.'''' He
removed to the chair opposite Mr. Home, changing places
with Sir Robert. Mrs. Honywood was next to Mr. Home,
and Sir Robert was next to her. Mi. Home's chair was
partly turned round, and shght movements of the table
and of Augusta's sofa took place. The alphabet being
called for, the following message, addressed to IMr. Home,
was given :
" You were surprised, Dan, that you ivere
turned round ; we wish to convince an undeveloped spirit
that you could 7wt trick, even if you wished to do so."
Mr. Home expressed the greatest wonder what this could
mean. " Convince a spirit," he said, " how very odd ;
an undeveloped spirit ; I cannot understand it at all."'
He then reminded me of the seance in which he employed
268 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
the fire test to satisfy spirits {No. 30). I said, " Ask if
any one else understands what this message signifies."
He pointed to each of us ;
and when his hand was
directed to me and to Mrs. Honywood, three raps were
given. Some rather undecided indications were heard
when opposite one of the young ladies. Soon after, this
message was sent : " Robert, change with Barbara " (Mrs.
Honywood). Slight movements were now seen under the
cloth near Augusta, and near Sir Robert. Augusta was
touched several times ; Mr. Home remarking that this
might be for some good purpose. We received the follow-
ing :
" It is with intent to heal, and with God's aid we
iviliy This was nearly all spelled out by notes on the
accordion ; each of the letters of the word " God " being
indicated by very soft chords, and the last two words by
very loud notes. This was followed by, " Patience,
darling." The accordion was now played with great
power, like a sort of jubilant hymn. It was pulled with
such force that Mr. Home was obhged to hold it with
both hands. At one time it was drawn away till Mr.
Home's arm was stretched out ; the instrument being
quite horizontal ; the arm and accordion bending round
the head of Augusta's couch. It also rested on the edge
of the couch, and was played there. Then it was brought
round across the table back to Mr. Home's body, and
carried under the table. This was a curious manifesta-
tion. He placed it on the ground, and it moved about
under the table, touching me and others. Soon after this,
as Mr. Home was talking, he was arrested in the middle
of a sentence—his words died away—his half outstretched
arm seemed to become rigid, and he passed into the
trance. He got up and walked about the room, ap-
parently in a very uncomfortable state. Going over to
the piano he played a few chords, but quickly left ofE,
seeming cold and distressed. He again walked about for
a little while, when, coming over to Augusta's sofa, he
knelt down as if in prayer ; then taking her hands he
patted them, and made passes down her arm. After this
he went behind Arthur Barry, and putting his hands on
his head he exclaimed, "It is much too cold here !
" He
NO. 76] With D. D. Home 269
next came and stood behind me for a few seconds, and
then nearly behind Miss C. R's. chair, when he dehvered
a short address, beautifully expressed ; but of which
unfortunately I retain but a slight recollection. Every
word was admirablj^ chosen, referring chiefly to this un-
developed spirit. He began something to this efiect :
That a home was once opened for the souls of men ; but
through sin it was closed and sealed. From the moment
a man is born, the door of heaven is closed against him ;
but he is given a golden key which unlocks the golden
gate by which he may enter in, and let out the golden
waters of the lake. That key is prayer, through which
our spirits force their way before the seat of God. That
SpirituaUsm is not a subject for idle curiosity, but for
steadfast pursuit. Then speaking of occupations, he said,
that even such amusements as music, drawing, &c., if
carried on too much, would lead you away from higher
pursuits, and ought to be resisted. He ended by saying,
" There is much we would see altered ;
you must pray ;
do not doubt ; it will be done ;
only pray, all will come
right." This was obviously addressed to the lady behind
whose chair he stood. Turning to Arthur Barry he said,
" You don't understand this now, but you will by-and-
bye "
;
alluding no doubt to what will be explained
further on. Approaching Mrs. Honywood, he said,
" Barbara, your father is here ;
you have been uneasy in
your mind lately, but never mind, all shall be made
smooth." Then putting his hand on Sir Robert's shoulder,
he said, " You were touched by two hands, belonging to
two very dear to you, one large, the other . smaller and
more delicate. Augusta, you felt a hand touching you,
and a small pointed finger put into your hand (which she
did) ; this was your grandmother ; she is very much
pleased ;
they would like to have done more, but they
could not." Rapidly approaching me, he said with
emphasis, " You knew well who was playing." After
this he sat down and awoke, remarking how very silent
we all were. No more manifestations occurred of any
interest ; one of the ladies left the room, and Mr. Home
soon after said he felt tired, and we broke up the seance.
270 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
At supper one remarked that a chair was being moved
to the table ; while our attention was called to this,
another chair moved rather quickly five or six feet to
within a foot of the table, near Mr. Home. This was
seen by all present. His chair was turned half round,
and he took his feet off the ground while being moved.
There were no further manifestations.
The occurrences which form the remarkable feature of
this seance require explanation. Some days ago I had
the opportunity of seeing Miss C R write, under
supposed spirit-influence, in my presence. I obtained
permission to put a few questions. Among them I asked,
" What do you think of Mr. Home ?
" Miss R
wrote instantly, " He has a certain degree of power, but
a vast amount of trickery." In answer to another ques-
tion was written, " He (Home) deceives people by pretend-
ing that he can call up the spirits of their friends, &c."
These and other answers made me think that this was
probably a deceitful spirit. The young lady being very
anxious to be present at a seance, I invited her to this
one, expecting that something curious would probably
occur. I mentioned the circumstances to Mrs. Honyvs^ood,
but neither she nor I had any communication with Mr.
Home on the subject. At the seance he had no idea
who she was. The reader will now perceive the remark-
able drift of what took place. The first message bearing
on the case was, " We are obhged to keep to this side of
the table," that is, the side opposite Miss C R .
The next was, " There is spiritual discord, &c." Then
followed that about the undeveloped influence ; and after-
wards in addition, the remarkable one addressed to
" Dan " (Mr. Home) where the very word " trick " is
employed which was written by Miss C R with
reference to Mr. Home. These messages were, so to say,
supplemented by the beautiful and pointed address uttered
by Mr. Home, when in a trance, standing behind Miss R's.
chair. Some days previous, I had mentioned to two
friends, very conversant with spirituahstic manifestations,
the character of several of the answers written through
Miss C R , and they both pronounced them to
NO. 76] With D. D. Home 271
proceed from an undeveloped or low spirit ; one of a
class which appears to be by no means uncommon, par-
ticularly with young or incipient mediums. These friends
were ignorant of ]\Iiss R.'s name, or that she was to be
at a seance with Mr. Home. They, it will be observed,
used the word " undeveloped,'' the same as was employed
in the messages this evening ; and they both recom-
mended the same remedy, as was iirged by Mr. Home in
the trance, namely earnest prayer. The table was lifted
off the ground, but only a few inches. The drawer of
the table on Augusta's side was suddenly opened.
No. 11.—Seance, No. 1, Buckingham Gate, July 1st [1869].
Present :
—The Dowager Duchess of St. Albans, Lady
, Mrs. Honywood, Mrs. Stopford, the Honourable
Mrs. , Arthur Smith Barry, Sir R. Gore Booth,
Augusta Gore Booth, Mr. Home, and myself. We sat
round the same table which we used on the last occasion,
the room being hghted as before by one lamp, with the
shade over it. We quickly had strong vibrations, and
raps of various kinds, some of them very loud. I said,
" I wonder if it is Dr. Elhotson ?
" " Yes,'' was answered
by three loud raps. The table was slightly moved in
different directions, and strongly tilted ; but I observed
that when inclined, objects sUpped down it. The Duchess
of St. Albans was touched, both audibly and visibly to
others. The Duchess's scarf was pulled so strongly that
she said had it not been for the brooch it would have
been pulled off. Mrs. , Mr. Home, and I were also
touched. The accordion was taken by Mr. Home, and
it commenced playing in the usual manner. Mr. Home
said, " If you will ask for some air they will perhaps play
it." The Duchess asked for " Home, sweet Home," which
was given at first by single notes and afterwards by
chords. The Duchess and Mrs. Stopford looked under the
table while the instrument was being played. It Avas
drawn about outside the table and back again. It was
272 Experiefices in Spiritualism [seance
placed in the Duchess's hands, and played when she alone
held it. It was then put down under the table, where it
moved about, touching different persons' feet. It came
up on my legs, and I took hold of it. I asked was it
the same spirit that played the other night, and was
answered by the alphabet, " A rude imitation only.'"
After a httle while we got the following : "All present
are loving frieyids and messengers from God." Part of this
message was given by the accordion ; the word God being
indicated by soft chords. I asked if they would play the
same air as they did at Adare. No reply was given.
Mrs. Honywood's handkerchief was taken from her. Mrs.
felt a hand placed in hers.
Some time after this, a little pencil with which I had
been writing dropped out of my hand, much to my sur-
prise, and fell at my feet. I tried to find it, but could
not. Shortly after, Mr. Home said, " I see a hand
moving about the Duchess's shoulder." She felt some-
thing coming down over her shoulder, and we then
perceived a slight object on the edge of the table cloth
in front of her. I saw it come down, or placed there.
Some one said, "It is a little pencil." " Oh," I said,
" I dare say it is mine," which on examination it proved
to be. We then got this message :
" We took it from
Dunraven for you ; take it." I gave the pencil to the
Duchess. A drawer that was exactly opposite Lady
D , shot out quite suddenly, so as to startle her ; this
happened several times. It was also shut. Once it was
opened so far, that althovigh they tried they could not
shut it. The cloth was moved as if by hands under it.
Mr. Home saw hands, as did Mrs. . She also saw
dark forms behind the screen and near the door.
Presently we received the following message, partly on
the accordion :
" God bless you. One ivho watches over
you " ; and then " Oft in the stilly night " was softly
played. This was the air I alluded to when I asked if
they would play the air they had played at Adare ; but
I was not the least thinking of it at this time. Soon
after, Mr. Home went gradually into a trance. He got
up, bandaged his eyes and walked about. He knelt down
NO. 77] With D. D. Hoyne 273
beside Augusta, and patted her arms sharply, and made
passes down them. He came round, and stood behind
several of us. When between Arthur Barry and me, he
spoke in a loud whisper, saying that Lady D might
become a medium if she wished it ; that she had decided
mediumistic powers. I said, " Will she succeed ?
" " That
depends," he rephed, "entirely on herself, not upon us."
He said that a beautiful spirit was standing near her,
and that her power would be good, and the manifesta-
tions dehcate in accordance with her nature, which is
pure ;
he added more to the same effect. He also said
to Smith Barry, "Arthur, the spirit that touched you
was from D 's influence." Then in a sort of side
whisper, he said to me, "You will explain to them that
Dan always calls people by their Christian names. A
spirit, Arthur, pressed on your knee with one hand, while
picking up the pencil with the other." He also said to
^I's. , "I see the spirit of Arthur (her husband?).
standing behind you." And he said something about
George, which was, I beheve, addressed to Mrs. Hony-
wood. He then returned to his chair, and soon awoke.
Scarcely the shghtest manifestation occurred after this,
and we left the table. At supper nothing took place.
I omitted to state that the table was raised on one occa-
sion at least 18 inches from the floor ; also that a very
curious manifestation occurred—an extraordinary rattling
inside the drawer, very strong and loud. Our chairs also
vibrated, and so did, once or twice, the floor. The
variety of raps, and the strength and frequency of the
vibrations at this seance were remarkable. The principal
object aimed at appeared to be to convince the Duchess
and Lady D ,
by the physical manifestations, of the
reaUty of some invisible power.
No. 78.~Sea7ice, 7, Buckingham Gate, July 1th [1869]
Present (in the order in which we sat) :
—The Dowager
Duchess of St. Albans, Mr. Home, Mrs. Stopford, Sir R.
274 Experiences in Spiritualism [seance
Gore Booth, Lady , Capt. G. Smith, myself, Miss
Gore Booth, and Mrs. Honywood. We sat at the same
table, and with the same light as before, but without the
tablecloth. For some time we had but shght manifesta-
tions : they were merely vibrations and faint cold currents.
I was touched twice, and hearing some one making a remark
about being touched, I said, " Who was touched ?
" The
alphabet was called for, and the word " Dunraven " was
spelled out. Mr. Home then went into a trance ; he
bandaged his ej^es ; then walked about a httle. After-
wards he appeared as if talking to a spirit, making a
good deal of pantomime, occasionally placing his hands
round the glass of the lamp, apparently to diminish the
light ; he then put it on the table. He sat down and
began forming an alphabet, as he did at Garinish ; after
making a few letters he pushed the paper over to Captain
Smith who completed it. He then gave us the following
message by pointing at the letters :
" We will do the best
we can, hut the conditions are not favorable." Then,
" Elizabeth " was spelled, which no one seemed to under-
stand. Mr. Home then put the Duchess's scarf over his
head and face, but^ soon removed it. He took her hand
and placed it to his jaws to shew that they were locked,
so that he could not speak. He then spelled out, " You
are too positive " ; and soon afterwards, " There is a
strange mixture of unbelief, not existing the last time we
met." I remarked, " I think I know what may account
for this difference "
;
alluding to my having in my pocket
a relic which a friend had particularly requested me to
wear. He pointed out this message :
" It matters but
little to us ; believe in God and love each other." Then
underhning some of the letters, he put numbers, 1, 2, 3,
&c., to several of them. He showed this to the Duchess,
not wishing, apparently, that we should see what he was
about ;
however, she did not seem to understand the
meaning of what he did. It occurred to me to try the
effect of putting away the rehc, so I got up, and walking
across the room, quietly placed it among some books on
the sideboard. Mr. Home then pointed out the word
''Talk."
NO. 78] With D. D. Home 275
Soon after he got up ; walked over to the sideboard,
and returned and sat down. Then taking a piece of
paper, he wrote in large letters, " Where did you put it ?
"
I rephed, " Can't you find it ?
" He went over again to
the sideboard and came back, and, sitting down, showed
me a cross which he wore, and which he partly drew out
from his shirt collar. After this he took the lamp and
placed it on the sideboard, and while there two of the
party saw something in, or rather on one of his hands,
when the hand was open. This must have been the
reUc. He afterwards returned to the chair and sat down.
Captain Smith saw the rehc on the table before Mr. Home
sat down. We saw it become visible just before he
placed his hands on each side of it. He then pushed it
across the table to me. The rehc is contained in a httle
circular box, about inches diameter. Soon after this
Mr. Home awoke.
We had vibrations of the table and raps. Mr. Home's
chair was turned round ; he took his feet off the ground,
and was either hfted up bodily several inches, or elongated
;
but subsided almost immediately. Mr. Home asked for
the accordion. He took it ; and some chords were played,
with a discord among them. We then received the follow-
ing :
" Slight want of harmony.''' Mr. Home asked if any
of us should change places ;
" Yes/' was rephed. Mr.
Home, by pointing to us consecutively, made out that the
Duchess was to change with him. The accordion was
moved all round Mr. Home, and played some notes, when
his arm was stretched out ; it was placed at the Duchess's
back, resting on her, and was played in that position.
It was then drawn under the table, Mr. Home holding it,
and was given to Lady , who took it, and held it
for a short time. Very faint sounds were heard ; after
which we got the message, " Dan, take it." It played
for a httle time, and he then placed it under the table.
Presently I felt a very sharp blow on the shin, and found
the accordion had struck me. Mrs. Stopford being obhged
to go, left the room. Mr. Home remarked that he was
sure we should have better manifestations now. We
almost directly received the following message by raps :
276 Experiences in Spirihialism [seance
" We told you that the infliiences were contending ; there is
a change for the better.'" Mrs. Stopford's chair now moved
up to the table. Captain Smith said he saw a form
move it, and then sit in it. Three notes, for " Fes,"
were sounded on the accordion. The table was then
slowly tilted to one side, and then the other, as if they
were trying to Mft it ; it then ascended more than a foot,
and with two or more lifts, something hke what was done
at Adare. After this the accordion was beautifully played
with tremolo effect at the end. It was then put under
the table. Sir Robert was touched by a hand that came
from under the table cloth. Captain Smith saw a spirit
form and hand coming from under the table. Mr. Home
also saw hands. Captain Smith asked who was sitting
at the other end of the room. The word " Father " was
spelled out ; also " William." This word was given by
Lady 's dress being pulled. Captain Smith said,
" There is a reason why the chair moved up to the table ;
will you tell us ?
" No answer. "Do I know it ?
"
" Yes " was rapped out. Then, " Sit at a small table four."
Mr. Home then pointed to us all to know who should
go, and the Duchess, Lady , Sir Robert, and he
were chosen by raps. The small table was tilted into
Mr. Home's lap. They then were told by raps, " Put a
bit of paper on the table." This they did. They took
the cloth off, and the table was raised above 45° on one
side, when the paper slipped. It was replaced. The
table was again inclined and the paper was slowly moved,
rather up, then in different directions. After this the
paper became luminous ; it was probably the hand hold-
ing it. The table was then inclined almost vertically,
but the paper did not move. The table was also made
to feel Ught or heavy according to the wish of the persons
present. This was done very strongly. They now sent
the following message by raps :
—" They do this to let you
see (a pause), now return to the large table." Very soon
we had the following :
—" We are called away nearer God,
good night." We then left the table, at which we had
been sitting for two hours and a half. At supper we
were talking about Lady 's glove being lost last
NO. 78] With D. D. Home 277
evening, and upon some one asking whether it had been
found, some one else said, " I wish the spirits would tell
us what became of it." Then we began talking about
Mr. Home looking for the relic, and how it was brought to
the table, whether by him or by a spirit. The subject
continuing we were sent the following :
—" He had it in
his hand at the side-hoard, hut ive placed it on the tahle."
These messages corroborated Captain Smith's opinion that
Home did not place it there. Raps were heard all about,
on the table, hear the ceihng, and in different places. We
received the following :
—" The reason he could not find it
was that another spirit had taken it and hrought it to the
table." Then immediately followed, " A^id we are very
good, are we not, Dan ? " Upon which Mr. Home laughed
immoderately, as did also Mrs. Honywood. It was all a
mystery to us, but afterwards he told us the meaning of
the message. It was about the prettiest manifestation of
the evening, but unfortunately I am precluded from giv-
ing any explanation. Mrs. Honywood knew the circum-
stances of the case, and what the spirits meant by their
forbearance in Dan's favour.
The cross which Mr. Home wore round his neck, and
which he exhibited to me when he gave me the relic,
was a Russian one, bearing this inscription, " In Thee
0 Lord have I placed my trust, hell and the powers
thereof may strive, but Thou art mighty and slialt
prevail." The relic is said to contain a portion of the
true cross.
The following interesting details were furnished to me
by Captain G. Smith. " It was quite at the beginning
of the seance that I saw an object without apparent form
move near you under the table, and approach Miss Gore
Booth. Home said, '
I think they are trying to form
hands.' The answer, '
Yes,' was faintly rapped out.
Previous to ]VIrs. Stopford leaving the room, indeed almost
from the commencement, I had seen a tall spirit some-
times standing against the window nearest the door, some-
times sitting in an arm chair between the window and
278 Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home
the door. When Mrs. Stopford arose to go, he arose
from his arm chair, and swept forward to the door. I
fancied he was going out with her, but he returned to
the chair. The impression made on my mind was that,
for some good reason, he was prevented from entering
the circle. When Mrs. Stopford left the room, the large
table in the centre covered with flowers and books moved
twice, each time nearer Mr. Home and the Duchess, and
on each occasion he moved his arm chair too ; I think
no one saw this latter movement but myself. It was
then as if to frustrate any further attempts on his part
to enter the circle, that Mrs. Stopford' s chair was taken
by a spirit (in appearance hke a pillar of cloud), and
moved up to the table. When the door was opened for
supper, the spirit in the arm chair passed out in front
of me."
ADDENDA.
No. 1.
Captain Gerard Smith has kindly furnished me with the
following notes relative to the seances at which he was
present :
—
On p. 165, the hand which brought the sprig of box
was distinctly visible as it pushed the curtains aside,
which partially overhung the window, and at our request
it was again subsequently shown on the table, close to
where Home was sitting.
P. 167, with regard to the footnote, I am able dis-
tinctly to state, that the only occasions upon which Home
left the room were to fetch the lemon, and at the con-
clusion of this particular manifestation, to replace it in
the spot he had taken it from.
No. 49, p. 171. When I entered the room Home was
walking about with the accordion held in his left hand
only, and it was playing ; not a distinct air, but a
plaintive kind of dirge, now loud, and then dying away
till it became inaudible. When the spirit moved from
Lord Adare's side it seemed to pass over the table with
a sound hke the rusthng of silver paper ; Home then
rose and stood at the window with his right arm extended,
and the spirit seemed to sweep down until it rested with
both hands on his outstretched arm, looking up into his
face. From the position in which I sat, the profile of
the face was perfectly visible to me, and when the two
faces approached each other to kiss, there was no apparent
difference in the degree of density of the two figures.
280 Experiences in Spiritualism
I have nothing further to add. The remainder of the
manifestations which occurred when I was present, have
been most accurately and truthfully described.
Gerard Smith,
Captain, Scots Fusilier Guards.
No. 2.
I have collected a few cases, illustrating some of the
most extraordinary of the phenomena, mentioned in the
preceding seances.
The following remarkable case of the fire test has been
kindly furnished me by Mrs. S. C. Hall :—
" 15, Ashley Place,
'
"July the 5th, 1869.
" Dear Lord Dunraven,—You have requested me to
recall the circumstances of a seance that took place here
several weeks ago. I have much pleasure in doing so,
but I never take notes. I am, however, certain of the
facts ;
though I shall not be able to place them in the
order in which they occurred.
" We were nine (a greater number than Mr. Home
likes) ; we were seated round the table as usual, in the
small drawing room, which communicates with a much
larger room ; the folding doors were pushed back into
the wall, and the portiers unclosed. I think there was
one lamp burning over the table, but a very large fire
was blazing away in the large room—I know there was a
great deal of light. The Master of Lindsay, the Rev.
Mr. Y——, and his wife, Mr. Hall and myself, Mr. Home,
and the Msses Bertolacci were present. We sat for some
little time before the tremulous motion that so frequently
indicates stronger manifestations commenced, but it was
quickly followed by raps, not only on the table, but in
With D. D. Home 281
different parts of the room ; the table was moved up
and down,—lifted perfectly off the ground—made '
light
'
and '
heavy '
at the request of one or two of the gentle-
men present ; and after the lapse of, I suppose, nearly
an hour, Mr. Home went into a trance. Presently he
pushed his chair, or his chair was pushed away—quite
away from the table. He got up ; walked about the
room in his usual manner ; went to the fire-place ; half
knelt on the fender stool ; took up the poker and poked
the fire, which was like a red-hot furnace, so as to increase
the heat ; held his hands over the fire for some time,
and finally drew out of the fire, with his hand, a huge
lump of live burning coal, so large that he held it in
both hands, as he came from the fire-place in the large
room into the small room ;
where, seated round the table,
we were all watching his movements. Mr. Hall was
seated nearly opposite to where I sat ; and I saw Mr.
Home, after standing for about half a minute at the back
of Mr. Hall's chair, dehberately place the lump of burning
coal on his head ! I have often since wondered that
I was not frightened ; but I was not ; I had perfect
faith that he would not be injured. Some one said
—
'
Is it not hot ?
'
Mr. Hall answered
—' Warm, but not
hot !
'
Mr. Home had moved a little away, but returned,
still in a trance ; he smiled and seemed quite pleased ;
and then proceeded to draw up Mr. Hall's white hair
over the red coal. The white hair had the appearance
of silver threads, over the red coal. Mr. Home drew the
hair into a sort of pyramid, the coal still red, showing
beneath the hair ;
then, after, I think, four or five
minutes, Mr. Home pushed the hair back, and, taking
the coal off Mr. Hall's head, he said (in the peculiar low
voice in which, when in a trance, he always speaks),
addressing Mrs. Y ,
'
Will you have it ?
'
She drew
back ; and I heard him murmur, '
Little faith—little
faith.' Two or three attempted to touch it, but it burnt
their fingers. I said, '
Daniel, bring it to me ; I do not
fear to take it.' It was not red all over, as when Mr
Home put it on Mr. Hall's head, but it was still red in
parts. ]\Ir. Home came and knelt by my side ; I put
282 Experiences in Spiritualism
out my right hand, but he murmured, ',No, not that ;
the other hand.' He then placed it in my left hand,
where it remained more than a minute. I felt it, as my
husband had said, '
warm '
;
yet when I stooped down to
examine the coal, my face felt the heat so much that I
was obliged to withdraw it. After that Mrs. Y took
it, and said she felt no inconvenience. When Mr. Hall
brushed his hair at night he found a quantity of cinder
dust. Mr. Home was elongated, and all the manifesta-
tions that evening were very remarkable ;
but I beheve
your Lordship requested me to relate only what I remember
of the coal test.
" Dear Lord Dunraven, sincerely yours,
" Anna Maria Hall."
(Mrs. S. C. Hall.)
No. 3. '
The following is an additional case of the fire test
witnessed at a seance held at Lady Louisa 's, at
Brighton, furnished me by the Countess M. de Pomar,
Lady Gomni has permitted me to make use of her name
in corroboration of the statement about the red-hot coal
being placed in her hand.
" Mr. Home went into a trance ;
he walked about the
room ;
played the piano ; stood behind Mr. Douglas's
chair, who also went into a sleep or trance ;
and Mr.
Home appeared to be speaking with some one about him,
and to magnetize him ; he said it was for his good, and
would remove his headache finally. Mr. Home went to
the fire and took out a large red-hot mass of coal, which
he held in his extended hands, and blew up to keep it
ahght. He walked up and down the room with it, then
went to Lady Louisa and wanted to put it in her hands,
but she drew back. He then said, 'No, you must not
have it, for if you have no faith, it will burn you.'
With D. D. Home 283
Lady Gomm extended her hands, saying, '
I will take it
without fear, for I have faith.' Mr. Home then placed
the burning mass in her hands, and she did not feel it at
all, although she held it for at least one minute. It was
afterwards put on a sheet of paper which directly began
to blaze and had a great hole burned in it."
CLASSIFICATION OF PHENOMENA i
Animals, future state of, 167.
Accordion played, no one touching it, 193, 226.
supported, without human hands, 59, 193.
Arrow brought through the air, 189.
Abbey, Adare, strange scene at, 195-99.
Alphabet, drawn and decorated, 216.
Brandy, glass of, emptied and filled, 147.
essence extracted from, 148.
(See also below, Flowers and Lemon.)
Elongation of Home, 63, 76, 97, 109, 155, 161, 178, 238,
248, 249.
Fire test, 133, 135, 239, 280-83.
Flowers, scent withdrawn from, 136, 165.
brought through the air and given to persons, 69,
123, 124, 165, 166, 169, 183, 189, 207-9, 223,
226, 237, 238.
Harp, chords of, played, 205.
Identity tests, 90, 193, 236.
Levitation of Home, 147, 149, 155, 161.178, 197, 275.
passing from one window to another, 155.
Lights, visible, 64, 95, 115, 124, 132, 146, 157, 163, 165, 196, 209.
Lemon, taste, essence, &c., extracted from, 166, 173.
Luminosity of objects, 94, 100, 276.
of Home's head or hands, 68, 161, 195.
^ So far as poss'ble the Classification of Phenomena given in the original
edition has been kept, but for convenience of reference a few changes have
been made
.
Classification of Phenomena 285
Musio heard, 79, 91.
Objects moving by themselves, 54, 92, 99, 276.
Pentecost, phenomena of, imitated, 157.
Piano raised off the ground, 64, 209.
Raps, stream of, like electric sparks, 53, 187.
Second sight, case of, 102.
Sign of the Cross made by table, 59, 183.
Sounds, 51, 55, 162, 195, 198, 233, 235.
Spirit forms visible, 49, 79, 83, 92, 107, 115, 132, 146, 153,
154, 157, 165, 170, 173, 196, 198, 202, 238, 252, 272,
276, 277, 278.
Spirit hands visible, 79, 100, 139, 169, 170, 192, 223, 224, 226,
233, 272, 276, 278.
persons touched by, 74, 79, 122, 124, 132, 164, 165,
169, 170, 182, 185, 190, 193, 194, 206, 226, 266, 268, 274.
Spirit-laughter, 51, 170.
Spirit-voices, 55, 91, 94, 146, 163, 176, 204, 227, 233.
Table raised in the air, 53, 74, 80, 169, 181,183, 185, 190, 193,
194, 217, 218, 227, 237, 271, 276.
Theological views, allusions to, 72, 89, 95, 116-20, 126, 130, 141,
143, 151, 158, 173, 200, 204, 209
Window, Home passes from one to another, 155
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BV ROBEKT MACl.EHOSE AND 00. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, OI.ASrJOW
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE ,
Society for Psychical Research
PART XCIV.
AN INTRODUCTORY STUDY OF HYPNAGOGIC
PHENOMENA.
By F. E. Leaning.
' la le muet Silence un efcadron conduit
De fantofmes ballans dellous Faueugle nuict.
PONTUS DE TyABD.
I. Introductory.
In F. W. H. Myers' Glossary of technical terms he defines as
" hypnagogic " "the vivid illusions of sight or sound which
sometimes accompany the oncoming of sleep," and similarly
as " hypnopompic " those which accompany its departure.
These phenomena variously named " Phantasmata," " Ealhi-
cinations Hypnagogiques" and "Faces in the Dark," are
a^ variety properly included by Dr. Wm. McDougall in
his table of hallucinations as among those observed by
the sane and the healthy under more or less abnormal
conditions. The abnormality is so shght as to amount to
no more than a certain degree of drowsiness, a twilight
condition of consciousness in which pseudo-hallucinations,
which are neither waking visions nor dreams, can occur.
Both the latter have received a full measure of attention
from psychic researchers, but the hypnagogic variety has
to some extent fallen between two stools. They were ex-
cluded from the census of hallucinations taken by the
Society for Psychical Research i
and from Dr. Head's
1 Proc. S.P.B., Vol. X. p. 78.
290 F. E. Leaning. [part
enquiry in 1901,^ and in none of the International In-
quiries following on Psychological Congresses have they
had any place. ^ Yet the fact of their being entitled hal-
lucinations implies that they do not belong to the fully
recognised and normal subject matter of psychology ;
they
belong to the middle ground between it and physiology,
which is largely the proper field of psychic research.
It is v/ith a view to calling attention to this little-
cultivated area, which is yet rich in interest and illumina-
tion for psychic science, that the following notes have
been put together, and in the hope of paving the way, by
a careful collection and comparison of the evidence up to
the present, for further advance.
It is necessary, to begin with, to know what the facts
are, and secondly, what interpretations of them have been
proposed, and how far those proposed theories fit into the
four corners of the facts. We want to know, before
theory can be entered upon at all, as much as is possible
of the conditions of occurrence, the relation to health,
temperament, the conscious and the unconscious make-up
of the persons concerned, their sex, age, peculiarities,
powers of sight, will, imagination, and so on ; and Avhat
the characteristics of the visions comprise which may
relate them instructively to other departments of which
we have fuller knowledge.
II. The Data and Bibliography.
It is proper at this point to state as nearly as circum-
stances allow, the extent of our resources for dealing with
all these points. Briefly, the result of stocktaking is that
we have on the one side some seventy to eighty published
accounts, including a few at second-hand, by the seers of the
visions, and on the other the reports of a small number of
scientists and scholars who have collected and discussed the
descriptions, many having added their own experiences to
the rest. The actual descriptions range from the bare
statement that the writer has had the experience in ques-
1 Proc. ^.P.B., Vol. XIX. p. 268.
2 Parish, E. Hallucinations and Illusions (1897).
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 291
tion, up to a sufficiency of detail for us to judge of it on
the ten or twelve counts which are involved in a typical
vision, and among them are a surprisingly large proportion
of people of eminence. It is evident, of course, that even
with this number of accounts, we have far too few to
generahze upon, and although it is probable that a more
widely extended search through literature and biography
would yield a number of others, and that they would
follow broadly the same lines as those already in hand,
yet we should still be in a position to do no more than
outline the laws of their production. Such totally different
conclusions are arrived at by minds envisaging exactly the
same facts, that only the accumulation of greater masses
of observation can effect a final result.
Putting aside the earliest descriptions by Cardano, a
reference by the Bishop of Chalons-sur-Saone, Pontus de
Tyard,^ and by Vairo, Bishop of Pozzuolo,^ all three of the
sixteenth century ; Simon Forman, astrologer,^ and Hobbes, ^
who could find " no particular name " for this " kind of
fancy " in the seventeenth, we come to the group of
eighteenth century physiologists, of whom the greatest was
Johann Miiller, friend and contemporary of Goethe. His
great work, filling over seventeen hundred pages in its
Enghsh translation, contains the first scientific treatment,
apart from descriptions only, until Baillarger ^ and later,
Maury, also gave the matter their distinguished attention.
The latter was writing on the subject under the name we
now know it by as early as 1848,^ though it was thirty
years later before his observations were complete.'' In
England Galton's Enquiry into Human Faculty (1881),
Gurney's discussion in Phantasms of the Living (1886),
James' Principles of Psychology (1890), and De Manaceine's
1 Marty-Laveaux, Pl^iade rran9oise. Sonnets d' Amour, vi. (1573).
^ De Fascino Libn Tres, Venice (1589), lib. ii.
3 Autobiography (1600), from MS. Ashmol. 208, fol. 136-142. Printed
1849.
* Leviathan, pt. i. ch. ii. (1651).
^ Ann. Med-Psychol., t. vi. pp. 1, 168 (1845).
« Ann. Med-Psychol. t. xi. p. 26 (1848).
' Le Sommeil et les Bives, ed. iv. (1878).
292 F. E. Leaning [part
Sleep (1897) were the chief landmarks ; and the present
century has seen no more scientific treatment than that in
Prof. Hartley Burr Alexander's fine analysis in the Pro-
ceedings of the American S.P.R., Vol. III. (1909), and the
much briefer contribution in Havelock EUis's World of
Dreams (1910). The scanty notice given by Walsh in the
Psychology of Dreams (1920), and the more sympathetic
treatment in Mrs. Arnold-Forster's charming Studies in Dreams
(1921) bring the roll down to the present day. With the ex-
ception of Maury and Frederick Greenwood in the last century,
and recently Monsieur R. Warcollier, who, however, have dealt
at length solely with their own visions, only one or two
of these writers have given more than a niche to their
consideration, and not one has referred to the fine series
of descriptions contributed from time to time to the
Journal of the S.P.R., or made a comparative study of all
the available material.
III. Diffusion.
This and other circumstances naturally make it ex-
tremely difficult to find out, even approximately, what
proportion of people are affected. We can be quite sure
of the one negative fact that the visions are not universal,
as sleep is, and as dreams almost are. Maury, for
instance, a life-long and inveterate subject, tells us that
his mother never saw anything of the kind ;
^ and Mrs. de
Morgan never did, although her father had only to shut
his eyes to see a stream of " houses, trees, temples,
and other objects " passing under his eyelids. ^ Miiller ^
attempted to get some definite results by questioning the
students who came up annually in fresh batches to attend
his classes at the University of Berlin. His conclusion was
that the visions were a phenomenon known to compara-
tively few, for he sometimes found among one hundred
only two or three, and occasionally only one. In spite of
this he considers the rarity " more apparent than real,"
lie Sommeil et lea Reves, p. 68 (1878).
^ Three score Years and Ten, p. 66.
^ Eletnenta of Physiology, vol. ii. p. 1394 (trans, by Wm. Baly, 1837).
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 293
and was himself a subject. Andrew Lang remarks in
his Introduction to Thomas's Crystal Gazing (p. xxix.) :
" Hypnagogic illusions appear to be matters of less common
experience than a person familiar with them, like myself,
might suppose." Galton ^ again, a pioneer of the " ques-
tionnaire " method, though extending his enquiries in
several directions and obtaining a very interesting collec-
tion thereby, says nothing about the actual numbers whom
he reached. Yet most of the writers on the subject agree
that the experience is " common." The correspondence in
the St. James's Gazette,^ produced by Galton's article in
the Fortnightly ^ of the previous summer, shows that the
writers considered the matter so usual as to be surprised
at its being the subject of enquiry by a scientific man.
Aristotle,* to take the most ancient witness we have,
says " anyone may convince himself if he attends to and
tries to remember the affections we experience when sink-
ing into slumber." Taine ^ speaks of it as " no rare ex-
perience," " many cases " having been reported to him
directly. Sir John Herschel ^ says " no very uncommon
thing," and Walsh refers to " most adults." Against all
this must be set the fact that only four out of the many
hundreds of answers sent in under the S.P.R. census had
to be rejected ^ as being of this class of hallucination, and
although to those who experience and those who investi-
gate, the occurrence seems natural and therefore common
and familiar, yet outside these two classes it is so Uttle
recognised as to cause alarm and speculation when it
unexpectedly arises. The only point on which definite
knowledge seems to have been arrived at on all hands is
that children are much more frequent seers of the pictures
''Enquiries into Human Faculty, pp. 158-166 (1883). He gives five cases
in full, but refers to eight others knowTi to huii.
2 Feb. 10, 15, 20 (1882).
3 Vol. 35, p. 729 (1881).
* Parva Naturalia (trans, by J. I. Beare, Oxford, 1908), p. 462. De
Somniis, ch. iii.
^ De VIntelligence, i. 58; cited by James, Princ. of Psychol., ii. 126.
'^Familiar Lectures on Scientific Subjects (1866), lect. ix.
' Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. pp. 36, 78.
294 F. E. Leaning. [part
than the grown-up world. Here we have, beside many
general statements ^ such as those quoted above, a basis
of statistical worth at last, in the valuable enquiry carried
out and reported in the Pedagogical Seyninary, April, 1898
(vol. V. p. 473), in which 826 children ranging from 3 to
16 years of age were canvassed, results rising at the age of
10 to 65%, and falling between the years of 13 and 16
to 58-5. Taking into account the statements of many
adults who have continued to see the visions from child-
hood onward, but also allowing for many who do not, we
may perhaps surmise that " most adults " number reaUy
one-third of the total. The respective sexes of the children
are not stated ; but in the whole list of witnesses available
to the writer, the men outnumber the women by almost
2 to 1. This may be, of course, because men have written
more largely than women,^ both in books and scientific
periodicals, and so would be quite misleading as an indi-
cation of their actual predominance.
The census above alluded to showed the proportion of
women seeing hallucinations as, generally, three to two of
the men ; but if we should turn out to be dealing with a
different faculty—creative imagination, for instance—we
must not too readily transfer conclusions drawn from
another class of experience. It may be of interest here to
state that at a lecture on the subject to an audience of
about 150 members of the London Spiritualist Alhance, a
show of hands at the close gave about 30 per cent, as
seers of the visions. At the private meeting of the Society
for Psychical Research the proportion was found to be 27
out of 65, or nearly 40 per cent. Allowing for the pre-
dominance of a certain type, in the circumstances, this
would bring us to the 33 per cent, surmised above.
The point in itself may not be considered of great im-
'^E.g., H. Ellis, "nearly all jjersons, when children"; De Quincey,
" Many children, perhaps most " ; de Manac^ine, " very common among
children " ; Miiller, " frequently to children," etc., etc. See also Proc.
S.P.R., Vol. X. 149, remarks on the relative frequency of hallucinations
among children.
^ The only two outstanding women writers are Marie de Manac^ine
and Mrs. H. O. Arnold -Forster.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 295
portance, but it becomes so when we wish to find out
what faculty it is that separates off a certain proportion
of mankind by such a characteristic, and why it should
not be a yet more common heritage than it apparently
seems to be.
IV. Frequency of the Visions.
This varies within the widest possible range, from a
single occurrence in a lifetime up to the habitual seeing
by day, whenever the eyes are closed, and by night with
the eyes open or shut. Thus in the collection as a whole
there are a few cases where the visions occurred once only.
The following description is given by an Associate of the
S.P.R.i
" I had gone to bed after a long journey, but was
too tired to sleep, when suddenly the j)ortion of the room
opposite my bed seemed to be flooded with light. This light
gradually assumed the form of a circle about two or three
yards in diameter, and then I saw distinctly a colotired
landscape with a cottage and some trees. I was wide
awake at the time and very much surprised and interested.
I had often heard of hypnagogic illusions and had read of
an instance in the Daily Graphic not long before, but I
imagined that they were only seen by persons who were
habitually subject to halliicmations. I had heard that
these visions were generally a reproduction of something
previously seen, but I could not remember having seen
any landscape exactly like this one, although it is quite
possible that I might have done so and forgotten it.
When the vision gradually faded away I tried to produce
another by an effort of will, and succeeded, but the result
was very feeble compared with the first."
Another instance of a \inique occurrence is related by
the late W. T. Stead in More Ghost Stories,^ the sequel of
the Christmas Number of the Review of Reviews, 1891.
" There was no light in the room, and it was perfectly
dark ; I had my eyes shut also. But notwithstanding the
^Jour. S.P.B., Vol. VIII. 171 (1897). ^
p. 26.
296 F. E. Leaning. [part
darkness, I was suddenly conscious of looking at a scene
of singular beauty. It was as if I saw a living miniature
about the size of a magic lantern slide. At this moment
I can recall the scene as if I saw it again. It was a sea-
side piece. The moon was shining upon the water, which
rippled slowly on to the beach. Right before me a long
mole ran out into the water. On either side of the mole
iiTegular rocks stood up above the sea level. On the
shore stood several houses, square and rude, which re-
sembled nothing that I had ever seen in house architecture.
No one was stirring, but the moon was there, and the sea
and the gleam of the moonlight on the rijjpiing waters was
just as if I had been looking out upon the actual scene.
It was so beautiful that I remembered thinking that if it
continued I should be so interested in looking at it that
I should never go to sleep.
I was wide awake, and at the same time that I saw the
scene I distinctly heard the dripping of the rain outside
the window. Then suddenly, without any apparent object
or reason, the scene changed. The moonlit sea vanished,
and in its place I was looking right into the interior of a
reading-room. It seemed as if it had been used as a
school-room in the daytime, and was employed as a read-
ing-room in the evening. I remember seeing one reader,
who had a curious resemblance to Tim Harrington, although
it was not he, hold up a magazine or book in his hand
and laugh. It was not a picture ... it was there. The
scene was just as if you M'ere looking through an opera
glass ;
you saw the play of the muscles, the gleaming of
the eye, every movement of the unknown persons in the
unnamed place into which you were gazing."
These, and a few other examples, are given in full here,
partly to facilitate reference in discussing them later, and
partly by way of relieving the subject by actual illustra-
tion. Next to these cases come two which are probably
representative of a much larger number, in which the
visions occur over a very short period, about two or three
nights in each case It is amusing to note the vigour of
expression, as of a man rather surprised and indignant.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 297
with which the old Scotsman, Dr. Robert McNish de-
scribes ^ how in March 1829, during an attack of fever,
he experienced " illusions of a very peculiar kind." The
fact that they only appeared in darkness was one of the
most distressing accompaniments, since he could not bear
much Hght. " I had the consciousness," he says, " of
shining and hideous faces grinnmg at me in the midst of
profound darkness, from which they glared forth in horrid
and diabohcal relief. They were never stationary, but
kept moving in the gloomy background. . . . They would
frequently break into fragments, which after floating about
would unite—portions of one face coalescing with those of
another, and thus forming still more uncouth and abom-
inable images." On the night on which his illness cul-
minated, durmg five hours of severe headache, another
typical phase superseded that of the faces. To the
accompaniment of a grand orchestral march, executed
with tremendous energy and more loudly than he had ever
heard it before, " I had a splendid vision of a theatre, in
the arena of which Ducrow, the celebrated equestrian was
performing. On this occasion I had no consciousness of
a dark background hke that on which the monstrous
images floated ; but everything was gay, bright and beauti-
ful. I was broad awake, my eyes were closed, and yet
I saw with perfect distinctness the whole scene going on m
the theatre—Ducrow performing his wonders of horseman-
ship—and the assembled multitude, among whom I recog-
nised several intimate friends."
Bostock ^ describes a similar short period during fever,
but free from delirium, and a more modern and very
picturesque account is given by an Associate of the
American S.P.R.^ Next to these come the cases of which
the standard example is Nicolai of Berhn, though he
barely comes within our range, since his visions of busy
men and women, people on horseback, dogs, and birds,
were seen with open eyes and only sometimes with them
1 The Philosophy of Sleep, ed. iii. p. 274 (1836).
^Elementary System of Physiology, vol. iii. p. 204 (1824).
^Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 270.
298 F. E. Leaning. [part
closed.^ In his case they lasted two months, and yielded
to purely physical treatment. It will be observed that
this is a feature of the short-period class. Scanty or
infrequent experience of the visions divides the percipients
into three groups. The first is constituted of several
cases in which some scene has been vividly impressed on
the senses, or some object has engaged concentrated atten-
tion during the day, and an absolute reproduction takes
place spontaneously against the background of darkness.
Examples of this kind are Flournoy's vision of the chess-
board, the anatomical dissection on the first day of his
introduction to the study, and so on. He calls these
hypnagogic, and speaks of having seen ten or twelve.
^
Hobbes' geometrical figures, Miiller's microscopical prepara-
tion, ^ Ferriar's interesting sights such as "a romantic
ruin, a fine seat, or a review of a body of troops " which
he would see at once on going into a dark room in the
evening,* are all of this class. Further cases are given by
Dr. D. G. Stoney,^ Prof. Vignoli," and others.
In Volume XI. of Proceedings S.P.R. p. 360, a good
typical vision of this kind is described, received by Dr.
Hyslop from a student in New York. He had left college
early on the afternoon of March 17th, 1893, and on reach-
ing Fifth Avenue he says, " I saw part of the parade of
the loyal sons of St. Patrick, with their green sashes,
banners with harps surmounted by fools' caps, and all the
other paraphernaha." After attending to his afiCairs and
on returning home, "as I was going up my front stairs,
which are quite dark, I got a distinct picture of the
paraders, green sashes, banners and all—seemingly projected
* The fiill account was given by Nicolai in a Memoir read before the
Royal Society of Berlin, Feb. 28, 1799. Translations may be found in
Hibbert ;
Jung-Stilling's Theory of Pneuniatology, note 4 ; Ferriar's Theory
oj Apparitions, p. 45 ; Clarke's Visions, p. 32, etc.
- Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. 463. Communicated to Myers.
^Op. cit., p. 1393.
^ Ferriar, Theory of Apparitions, p. 17 (1813).
5 Phil. Mag. March 1894, quoted in Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. 141.
6 Nature, Oct. 5, 1893, quoted in Proc. S.P.R. Vol. X. 141.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 299
on the dark wall-paper with which the hall is covered."
Myers classes this as a cerebral after-image. It is placed
here because the narrator, although not drowsy, was in
darkness when the scene reproduced itself. Warcollier
also had visions of a test-tube, ^ and of a mineral substance
which he had been studying in his laboratory, the latter
on his pillow, and strongly lighted.
The subjects in all of these instances except the last
either have them only occasiona^Uy, or they belong to the
second group, where the faculty ceases with childhood or
adolescence. Thus Havelock Ellis ^ remembers only his
visions at seven years shared with a little cousin of the
same age ; Mrs. Haweis ^ in describing the drift of great
pink fragrant roses which she saw as a child of nine, says
that they became " annually smaller, swifter, farther off,"
until by the time she was grown up they had become a
mere speck. Dr. Stoney, referred to above, says " often,
as a lad," and various others give testimony to the same
effect. Between these two groups, in which the visions
are either few enough to be counted, or ceased altogether
with maturity, come those where apparently they begin in
later life and their development can be given a definite date.
When they have once begun, it is evident that the expres-
sions " the last six years," " eighteen months ago " and
so on, are of very relative value in a table of " Fre-
quency " except as affording a starting point for further
enquiry as to the probable cause. It would be of interest
to know whether there is in such cases a recrudescence of
youthful faculty, which became submerged at the thres-
hold of adult life, or an actual birth of it, and if so, why
the hour for it arrived when it did. It is to be noted
that in cases of late development the visions are inter-
mittent and not continuous. Periods of vacant weeks or
months will elapse, and then " rushes " will occur.
We now reach a line of demarcation after which the
accounts all refer to, or imply, long periods of years and
such expressions as " generally," " usually," " for a long
^ La Telepathie, pp. 53, 58. ^ World of Dreams, p. 30 (1911).
^ Galton, op. cit., p. 165.
300 F. E. Leaning. [part
time," " frequently," are found. There is a great increase
in numbers, and the class merges into that in which per-
cipients say " all my life," or " as long as I can remem-
ber." These form quite the majority of the total avail-
able for study, and it is fortunate that this is so, for it
enables us to go a little more into types and tempera-
ments, and many other matters bearing on the subject,
which the scantier records do not admit of. Maury is
perhaps the example par excellence of the extreme type,
since he could not close his eyes even for an inappreciable
second during reading aloud without having a vision.^
It may be in place here also to note that a tendency for
the visions to decrease either in size or in frequency some-
times occurs, and that changes in the subject-matter are
observed, as for instance, when Sir John Herschel told
Mrs. de Morgan that late in hie he saw " more faces and
fewer landscapes than previously," ^ but Maury, on the con-
trary, saw fewer faces and figures, and more of natural
scenery.^ It is possible that just as in childhood there
are certain ages which mark culminating points, so adult
life also may have its periodical summits, but since to
estabhsh this it would be necessary to know the ages of
the percipients in all the cases examined, that is at
present unattainable.
V. Health.
The very first question which common sense puts upon
discovering the existence of the phenomena, is as to the
physical conditions under which they are observed. Already
we have noticed several mentions of fever, as in the cases
of McNish and Bostock. To these can be added that of
the American Associate referred to, who notes that he had
never seen the visions at any other time, that they ex-
hibited great rapidity, remarkable variety in colour, scenery
and movement, were sharply defined, but became fainter
and less frequent as the temperature came down in the
course of three or four days. Another contributor to the
1 Maury, op. cit., p. 61.
3 Op. cit., p. 91.
2 De Morgan, op. cit., p. 70.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 301
same volume ^ who says he sees constantly, but in good
health ignores the visions unless he turns his attention to
them, yet " when feverish cannot but see the kaleidoscopic
views." In another case ^ a lady, who with her mother
had always seen the " dream faces," found when in fever
that a painful degeneration took place. The faces became
horrible and grotesque, and a blood-red veil seemed over
them. Nicolai's phantoms also faded, and became at last
invisible as the day of his treatment wore on. Maury,
who had a chronic tendency to cephalagia, cerebral con-
gestion, and all manner of " douleurs," bears witness to
his hallucinations being more numerous, and above all
more vivid, whenever he had especially taxed his powers,
as in the notable instance of his two-days' struggle with a
long and difficult Greek passage. The visions came then
with such intolerable rapidity that he was obliged to sit
up in bed to dissipate them.^ Baillarger also quotes
Marc as referring to indigestion, nervous disturbance, or
shock, as commonly productive of "figures les plus gro-
tesques, souvent les plus effrayantes " at bed-time. His
collection of thirty cases, mostly patients at the Salpet-
riere, naturally illustrates this point of view. Hyslop
again speaks of his having the experience " quite frequently
during my tendencies to nervous prostration." * Walsh ^
considers the hypnagogic condition favourable to nightmare,
especially to persons over-fatigued or in poor general
health, and remarks (p. 222) that children in good health
are not generally troubled by them. To him the visions
are evidently a correlate of a nervous, impressionable
temperament, or of eyestrain and fatigue. The latter
cause is in evidence in the first instance used in illustra-
tion, where the subject was " too tired to sleep." In
W. T. Stead's case following that, he was in a similar
condition, having been working late for several nights over
the Review of Reviews, and in two or three other instances
the fact of being " very tired " is mentioned.
iJowr. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 158. ^ Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IV. p. 276.
= Maury, op. cit., p. 58. * Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. II. p. 389.
5 Walsh, op. cit., p. 197.
302 F. E. Leaning. [part
From all this it would appear that the condition of the
body generaJly, and the brain and optic nerve in par-
ticular, have a definite bearing on the phenomena, seeming
to be directly responsible in some cases and a strongly
modifying factor in others in their production. But that
this is not the only conclusion may be seen from a com-
parison of many other witnesses. It is by no means only
the nervous, the weary, and the sick who see the visions.
On the contrary, the great majority, who do not mention
their physical condition at all, may thereby be considered
to be normal, and Galton remarks,^ in his discussion of
" visionaries," on the surprisingly large number of sane
and healthy people whom his enquiries brought to light as
belonging to that class. The constant seer and gifted
literary man, James Greenwood, who was no doubt one of
those " five editors of influential newspapers " to whom
Galton refers, expressly speaks ^ of tired or disordered
eyesight as " the most natural explanation " and then
adds :
" yet on no occasion, for my part, has there been
any consciousness of either." He is quite definite that
they do not vary with the health. A lady of Gurney's
acquaintance also denies any connection with health ;
^ a
young man of twenty-two states that his health was
always good;'' Sir John Herschel speaks of his impressions
" in health and under no kind of excitement " ;
^ and
another lady sees them " when at my best physically." ^
Among the writer's correspondents delicate health is only
mentioned once ; a lady who sees habitually replies that
she cannot trace any connection with health, and that she
sees when tired and at other times when exhilarated, while
another refers to a break of several months caused by a
long illness. Burdach expressly states that the visions
are not morbid, but occur to those in full health and
^ Galton, Of. cit., p. 91.
^ Greenwood, Imagination in Dreams, p. 24.
^Phantasms, i. p. 492. * Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 82.
« Herschel, op. cit., p. 404. « Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 76.
' Die Physiologic, bd. iii. s. 490 :
" sie sind endlich nichts Krank-
haftes, sondem erscheinen bei Vollkomraer Gesundheit und ganzlicher
Nuchtemheit."
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 303
quite calm.^ It may also be added that the Surgeon-
General's Index Catalogue to Medical Periodicals, filhng
thirty-three vohimes to the present date, contains no other
references than are to be found in the present paper.
It is logical to conclude that hypnagogic hallucinations,
though affected in some circumstances by ill-health, are in
most cases perfectly compatible with, and found in, per-
sons enjoying normal and wholesome conditions of life.
That the older writers—Abercrombie, Hibbert, Ferriar,
Wigan, etc.—prepossessed with the idea that aU seeing of
visions was in itself a symptom of existing or oncoming
illness, should characterise them as e.g. Ferriar does, as
" this disease," is nothing to the point. Doctors naturally
know more of their patients than of the far greater multi-
tude who are not patients.
VI. Natural Vision and Hypnagogic Visions.
The next question that arises is whether any connection
is traceable between the quahty of the physical sight, the
powers of observation, and that power of reproducing
clear mental images of things seen, which we term visual-
isation, and the seeing of visions. As far as the merely
physical equipment goes, it does not appear that short,
poor, or weak sight is any hindrance. Thus the lady
above referred to as seeing " dream-faces " when awake,
says that all are distinct "as no real face ever is to my
short-sighted eyes." ^ Another refers to weak sight, pre-
venting further study of painting,^ but not preventing
either crystal visions or the coming of faces whenever the
eyes were closed, by day or night. Maury also suffered
with his eyes the greater part of his Life.* A correspondent
of the Occult Review^ says: "I see these things much more
clearly and delicately than I could in the ordinary way,
though I have very good sight." Both observation and
visualising power must be to some extent dependent on
iSee table, p. 375 infra. ^ Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IV. p. 276
'Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 170. 'Maury, op. cit., p. 51.
s " S. M. B." Vol. XV., p. 229 Ap. (1912).
u
304 F. E. Leaning. [part
the physical sight, but here also natural deficiencies appar-
ently have no effect.
When Galton made his special visualisation canvass of
one hundred persons, all of them more or less eminent in
Art, Letters, or Science, he arranged the results in a
table showing good, moderate, and poor powers. And
we find nearly as many of the last as of the first class in
our own data, always bearing in mind that we are not
only severely restricted in number, but further restricted
to that small proportion of our total in which information
on the point happens to be volunteered. Galton himself
says " I visualise with effort," and in another place ^
cites two very poor visuahsers. Lang ^ remarks that " bad
visuahsers, like the writer, who think in words, not in
pictures, see bright and distinct hypnagogic illusions."
Myers ^ speaks of " other bad visuahsers besides myself
derivmg from hypnagogic illusions some notion of the good
visuahser's habitual capacity." Flournoy,* again, describes
himself as a " very bad visuahser," whose memory images
are " weak, fragmentary, indistinct," and in sharp contrast
therefore to the vivid, concrete, and precise characters of
the others. Maury ^ makes the same comparison when he
saw a visionary view of Rotterdam with a clearness
which he says he could never have attained by any volun-
tary inward representation. Taine,^ whose internal images
were feeble and rapid while awake, found them become
" intense, distinct, coloured, steady and lasting " as sleep
approached. Margaret Deland,' who " does not visualise
easily," says the images are " strikingly different from any
deliberate visualisation." So also a writer in the American
Proceedings ^ :
" My visual images are so indistinct or weak
that I used to think I had none," but " when I am half
asleep, I often see visual images, clear and vivid."
1 Galton, op. cit., pp. 91, 158.
^ Lang, A., Cock-Lane and Common Sense, p. 214 (1894).
3 Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VII. p. 315. « Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 453.
^ Maviry, op. cit., p. 91. * De VIntelligence, bk. ii. chap. i.
' Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 269.
» Proe. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. VII. p. 359.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 305
But if the bad visualiser is not thereby handicapped, it
may be thought that, a fortiori, one who can describe
herseK as "a very keen visualiser," ^ and who can say
" The faces I see are usually more vivid than nature,"
must still have some advantage. And all the more must
this be so when the seer is, as Miss Goodrich-Freer was,
a good crystal-gazer. But the advantage is not evident
in the descriptions. There is a marked uniformity in them
in respect of the point of distinctness, and some hypna-
gogic subjects labour this in a way that suggests a super-
distinctness, as it were, a microscopic clearness of detail,
which is characteristic of the visions and independent of
the native equipment for seeing. Thus S. M. B. says : "I
see into the material without its being made coarser, as it
would appear through a magnifying glass " ; and a corres-
pondent says of the definition of the faces : "so sharp I
could see the grain of the skin." There is also no neces-
sary connection between these and crystal visions, for some
subjects say that they have tried hard, or have frequently
tried to see in the crystal without effect, and another
percipient who is " traiaed in minute observation " " never
sees visions " other than the hypnagogic variety.^ Prof.
James remarks^ that the "pseudo-hallucinations" "differ
from ordinary images of memory and fancy in being
much more vivid, minute, detailed ..." But if the good
visuahser is not better off as respects the quahty of his
seeing, he is in another way, and that is by his ability to
compare and distinguish between the (apparently) different
kinds of vision brought into play. A writer in the
Journal * previously referred to, for instance, can place his
images of remembered known faces side by side with the
strange unknown ones, and says that the latter kind,
which he calls his " inward vision," is something quite
different. He sees both at the same time—one in the
brain, the other in the eye. Another writer, in the
St. James's Gazette ^ distinguishes two effects as "in the
iJowr. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 295. -Jour. S.P.R., Vol. XX. p. 256.
» James, op. cit., vol. ii. p. 117. * Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 158.
6 Feb. 15 (1882).
306 F. E. Leaning. [part
brain," that of voluntary visualisation, and that which
results from prolonged attention (which we may call the
Flournoy type), but he maintains that the hypnagogic
effects are distinctly neither of these.
A certain confusion has arisen in the discussion of this
subject by the use of " after-image " in two different
senses. The true after-image is the sensation produced on
the retina by gazing at any brightly coloured object,
which will then reproduce itself against a dull background
in the natural, or complementary, colour, or both alter-
nately, and is known as a " positive " or " negative
"
after-image as the case may be. It is the unavoidable
result of all such seeing. But the spontaneous (not volun-
tary) re-seeing of a scene, such as the student's Irish pro-
cession on St. Patrick's Day, or Flournoy's chess-board, is
not the same thing. It may or may not be due to what
Prof. Alexander calls " the hypnagogic agent," but it is
not due merely to such partial fatigue of the retina, as
is universally experienced under given conditions. Myers'
" cerebral after-image " is the more appropriate name for
these reproduced scenes, leaving the use of the positive and
negative after-image for the well-defined optical effect only.
Prof. Alexander does in fact distinguish them thus when he
says :
" they {i.e. hypnagogic visions) can be introspectively
distinguished in spatial quality from after-images, positive
and negative, a fact which argues against their retinal
locus." 1
In Margaret Deland's account ^ she also remarks that
the hypnagogic images are not only " strikingly different
from any dehberate visuahsation " but also from remem-
bered things, which are as a rule motionless and complete,
whereas her visions display movement and are largely
fragmentary, such as two fingers of a hand, half a face, a
foot moving across a threshold, and so on.
The question of visualisation connects with that extreme
form of it which has been called projection. It is referred
to as rare, but it is the ability to control which is so
^Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 622. . ;
^Jow. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 269. •
' •
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenmnena 307
rather than the power itself, and hence the same few
examples are constantly cited. They are Jerome Cardan/
Goethe,^ Blake, the artist known to Wigan,'^ and to these
may be added another patient of Wigan's, " a very in-
telligent and amiable man who had the power of thus
placing before his eyes himself.^'' There are besides a case
given by Dr. E. H. Clarke * of a man of scientific attain-
ments and careful intellectual training, who could produce
visions of statues by fixing his imagination strongly upon
the memory of what he had seen, or what had occurred
to him as a good subject for groups ; a lady of Gurney's
acquaintance who could " evoke figures at any time by
looking intently before her " ;
^ and a group of cases given
by Dr. Daniel Hack Tuke,^ of which the first is of Dr.
Lombard of Norwood. Baillarger contributes one example,
Martia,' and Dr. Michea another.^
We note that in this group several reproduce only such
things as they have actually seen, and these are therefore
in the nature of positive after-images. Thus Goethe sees
again the pictures which he had greatly admired ;
Wigan's
artist sees the sitter whom he had attentively studied
;
Dr. Lombard sees the girl's face and head which he had
been gazing at, but transferred to a background of summer
sea. All see with open eyes, and some in broad dayfight,
and all are broad awake. They resemble hypnagogic visions,
but differ from them in several sahent particulars, of
which the chief are the absence of drowsiness and darkness
(except in Goethe's case), and the part played by conscious
memory and imagination. In this respect they more
closely approach our normal powers, and form a link for
1 De Varietate Rerum, p. 314 (Basle 1557); lib. viii. c. 43, p. 410 (Ludg.).
^ Goethe, Dichiung und Wahrheit, bk. viii.
2 Wigan, Duality of the Mind, pp. 123-26.
* Clarke, Visions, p. 216.
^ Phantasms, vol. i. p. 492.
^ Brain, vol. xi. p. 449, article on " Hallucinations and the Subjective
Sensations of the Sane."
' Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Midecine, t. xii. p. 332.
* Mem. de I'Acad. Roy. de Midecine, t. xii. p. 250. For further references
see Phantasms oj the Living, i. p. 479.
308 F. E. Leaning. [part
examination between ordinary inward visualisation and the
hjrpiiagogic images proper.
The investigation should not be very difficult, for though
Miiller speaks of the rare power of projection of images at
will/ and Dr. Clarke says " few possess " any such power,
^
yet Wigan says " I have known numerous examples," ^
and Dr. Lombard not only discovered his own powers but
found that they were equally possessed by the other persons
with whom he was in converse at the time. A correspon-
dent of my own tells me that he had met at intervals three
other men who could do the same thing, and the mention
of it had arisen casually, none being particularly interested
in the question. It may not be so uncommon, therefore,
and affords some support to the tendency rather freely to
attribute it to all who see apparitions, and are assumed to
" conjure up " what they see, under some telepathic or
other stimulus (as, for example, in Phantasms, i. p. 469,
footnote).
The evidence adduced in this division of the subject
leads to the conclusion that hypnagogic visions are un-
affected by either bad physical sight or poor visualisation,
and that in those who suffer from neither deficiency there
is agreement as to a certain difference of quality, inclining
to marked superiority over the natural product of the
brain. - . .
VII. Subject-Matter of the Visions. '
It is desirable at this point to attempt a closer study of
the visions themselves, in order to have ample data before
reviewing the different theories brought forward to account
for them. At first sight they present in tlie mass a feast
for the imagination, in their almost endless variety, which
makes systematic examination difficult, but there is no
department of nature which does not offer this confusing
and ramifying element, until by patiently pulling out strand
by strand we get something like order into our ideas of it.
There seems in this case a kind of rough cleavage into
1 Miiller, op. cit., p. 1397. = Clarke, op. cit., p. 216.
^ Wigan, op. cit., p. 126.
xciv.] Introductory Studij of Hypnagogic Phenomena 309
species, beginning with the formless, continuing with faces,
then geometrical designs, objects, landscapes, and moving
scenes, though there is no logical reason why we should
not take them in the opposite order and begin with those
that show the highest degree of reality and fullness of
definition first. After the actual subject-matter comes the
consideration of shape, size, spatial relationship and peculi-
arities of view in various ways ; colour and illumination ;
multiphcity and internal movement ;
recognition or the
absence of it, in connection with the part that memory
plays ; and finally the question of control, or relation to the
will. When all this has been considered, we are fairly
at the threshold of the problem.
(1) Formless.—Most people, as has been remarked by
several writers, suppose that when their eyes are closed,
and particularly in the dark, they see nothing, but
this impression is due to the habitual and inconspicuous
nature of the phenomena, and is an error. When pressed
to- pay attention to it, they will find, according to Ladd,
for instance, that the darkness is a black wall with a
multitude of yellow spots. ^ Galton says that before he
thought of carefully trying " I should have emphatically
declared that my field of vision in the dark was essentially
of a uniform black, subject to an occasional Mght-purple
cloudiness and other small variations. Now, however, . . .
I have found out that this is by no means the case, but
that a kaleidoscopic change of patterns and forms is con-
tinually going on." ^ Miiller refers to the " fight which
sometimes appears to the closed eyes at that time." ^
Meyer, whose experiments on himself will be referred to
later, also speaks of pure colours without objects filling the
entire field of vision.* Greenwood remarks that " perhaps
many persons have noticed that when they lie with closed
eyes at night in a dark room, fight-charged clouds seem to
float between eye and eyefid," and that the darkness in
^ Ladd, G. T., " Contribution to the Psychology of Visual Dreams."
—
Mind, vol. i., n.s. p. 299 (1892).
2 Galton, F., op. cit., p. 158. ^ ]y[uUei.^ ^ p 1394
* Quoted by James, op. cit., p. 67.
310 F. E. Leaning. [PABT
the dome of the lid is much less black than the darkness
without.^ This is borne out by the chief writer on entoptic
research, Sir W. F. Barrett, who refers to the " streams
and patches of what seems to be a light flocculent matter
"
which can be seen quickly moving on a dark purple back-
ground for half a minute or so, if a candle be suddenly
lighted at night, and adds :
" It is possible that this pheno-
menon, which does not appear to be mentioned by any
writer on physiological optics, may be connected with the
presence of the visual purple on the retina." ^ One of my
correspondents also says :
" Once or twice, when wakened
suddenly, clouds of brilhant light seemed to roll and fade
away before my closed eyes." Vairo ^ describes how,
lying in bed with liis head and whole body covered, and
every sensation removed, he saw " colores coeruleos, virides,
rubros, albos, nigros, et quoscunque ..." The seeing of
" wave after wave of purple " and " always seeing purple
"
as well as the cloud and mist effects, and the " dim mosaic
of the dark," all mentioned by correspondents, shoM^ that
we have here the zero, so to speak, from which to start.
The cloud-effect is so constantly spoken of as preceding
some more definite picture that it seems to bear the sort
of relation to it that the calyx does to the flower. Like
the visions in the crystal, which form a very instructive
parallel study, the clouds roll off and disclose a view, or
in the case of the faces, the clouds form the stuff out of
which they define themselves.
(2) Faces.—-The proportion which faces bear to other
subjects of the visions, and the readmg of many descrip-
tions, almost suggest that there is a special face-seeing
propensitj^ in the mind. We know how artists can pro-
vide faces to all sorts of inanimate things—furniture, trees,
gate-posts, and so on, how simple an outUne can convey
1 Greenwood, op. c't , p. 21.
^ Scientific Proc. of the Royal Dublin Society, vol. xi. p. 129. " On
Entoptic Vision" (1906). But "even in optic atrophy and after the ex-
tirpation of the eye, the so-called intrinsic light [of the retina] remains."
—C. S. Myers, Textbook of Experimental Psychol., p. 100 (1911). And
compare note on the seeing by the blind, sec. xviii. p. 398 infra.
^ De Fascino, lib. ii. p. 112.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 311
a profile and almost any three points a fnll-face in wall-
paper, an open fire, or a child's slate. In one of the
illustrations to Prof. Alexander's paper the flowers have
faces and expressions, and are putting out their tongues
at the Puritan beside them. In Hawthorne's Journal for
October 1851, he writes :
" Going to the village yesterday
afternoon, I saw the face of a beautiful woman gazing at
me from a cloud. It was the fuU face, not the bust. It
had a sort of mantle on the head, and a pleasant expres-
sion of countenance. The vision lasted while I took a
few steps, and then vanished. I never before saw nearly
so distinct a cloud-picture, or rather sculpture, for it came
out in alto-relievo on the body of the cloud."
A similar and marked tendency is described of himself
by Dr. C. C. Carter in the Journal of the American S.P.R.,
Vol. XV. p. 351 (July 1921), and Mr. Stamton Moses'
hand " left to itself " drew an extraordinary mass of faces
once, shown in Plate X. of A. W. Trethewy's Controls of
Stainton Moses, p. 170.
One of Baillarger's " alienes " had only to look fixedly
at any object, when it seemed to develop a head, the
eyes gazing at her. Poor Lelorgne de Savigny ^ used to
waken under a vast vault of contemptuous and spiteful
faces ; others have seen the stairs and the walls paved
with them. It is not surprising that considermg how
great a part faces play in life, they should come into the
hypnagogic gallery early and in large numbers. In the
children's census, however, nearly twice as many speak of
stars and colours as of people and faces.
We may note three characteristics of the faces as a
whole : the formation, the aesthetic quality, and the
behaviour.
[a) As to the first, it has already been noted that they
are the result of a process. In two of the best printed
descriptions, that by Greenwood and one by Mrs. Mac-
donald in Phantasms of the Living, the former says :
^
" something which for one moment looks like a smoke-
wreath or cloud-wreath takes form the next . . . there
^ Ann. Med. Psy., t. iv. p. 314 (1844). ^ Greenwood, op. cit., p. 21.
312 F. E. Leaning. [part
before you is a face in the dark." The second narrator
says :
^ " They seem to come up out of the darkness, as a
mist, and rapidly develop into sharp delineation, assuming
roundness, vividness, and living reality." Another ^ has
not unfrequently observed them " forming in the vague
light impressions which float before one's closed eyelids
and mass together and turn into a face." Compare also
Maury's account of his watching the passage of a luminous
image into a definite face of which it was possible to
follow the formation, during several seconds,^ and Lang's :
" I can, when half asleep, watch one of these specks or
blotches growing in an infinitesimal space of time into a
face, or other recognisable form of any sort." The frag-
mentary nature of the faces has been noticed by several,
not only in fever as McNish's (p. 297), previously described,
but by such observers as Prof. Alexander and Margaret
Deland. A correspondent speaks of one face forming
through another, giving the effect of four eyes, on one
occasion, although it seems a more usual experience for
one to fade away before another begins to come.
This is not the only way in which " faces " begin.
There is a second method, which might better be described
as dehneation, and possibly it is more native to people of
artistic gifts. Mrs. Alaric Watts in giving an account of
the beginning of her automatic drawing * refers to the
visions seen of human figures in outlines of white or grey
on a dark background. It is interesting and instructive
to compare this with two other descriptions. One is
Greenwood's :
" Though they seem living enough and not
mere pictures or reflections, they look through the dark-
ness as though traced in chalks on a black ground . . .
the fines waver, fade, and return as if drawn with a pencil
of phosphorus . . . but there is no phosphoric appearance
about them." We turn to Meyer's account of his
1 Phantasms, i. p. 474. ^ Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 295.
^ Maury, op. cit., p. 79 ; Thomas, Crystal Gazing, Introd. p. xxx,
* Light, vol. ix. pp. 176, 203 (1889). Compare also Griinbaum's
" spectre " in Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXVII. p. 402 : " it was only the
flat drawing of a spectre. It was drawn in blue smoky outlines, all
vibrating."
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 313
own self-induced visions/ fifty years earlier : "In later
experiments I saw the objects dark with bright outlines,
or rather I saw outline drawings of them, bright on a
dark ground. I can compare these drawings less to chalk
drawings on a blackboard than to drawings made with
phosphorus on a dark wall at night." Miiller also speaks
of the faces seen by children as "in outline and devoid of
colour and light," ^ and a friend of the writer describes
the faces as always in intense black and white, with the
variation that the whole surface and not only the outhne
y is bright ; that is, the face is white, the eyes and han
being black. Thus also " S. M. B." writes of some of her
visions that they were " never coloured but in shadowy
black and white." Lang and others have mentioned cases
of this " blackboard " type of hallucination. He speaks
of printed letters black on white, and legible, so arising.
Apart from these two types, correspondents mention a
variety of other modes in which they have observed the
inception of the faces. One of them, using the initials
"A. G. A.," whose account is to be found at length in
Lights says : "A dim disc of light would suddenly appear
and as suddenly brighten. There would be a whirUng
motion in the light which, with astonishing rapidity de-
veloped into moving figures, which invariably came towards
me." Another :
" They appear gradually, and are quite
silvery. . . . An eye will appear, then part of a face."
A third says :
" They evolve out of a circle of either blue
or green, which unfolds itself in a lovely golden centre, and
pass very rapidly. . . . Sometimes they are fragmentary,
only the teeth, eyes, chin or nose being seen." A fourth
says :
" The faces both come and go gradually, the eyes
being generally the first to be observed, coming dimly as
in a mist, till the whole face is clear and ahve, then will
fade, the eyes watching to the last." A fifth : "I can
actually see the faces in process of forming. If I am too
keen (so it seems) there is a silent explosion."
^ Quoted by James, Princ. of Psychol., ii. 66, from Meyer, G. H.,
Untersuchungen ub. d. Physiol, d. Nervenfaser, pp. 238-241 (1843).
''Miiller, op. cit., p. 1393. ^ Feb. 24, 1923, p. 117.
314 F. E. Leaning. [part
This formative process is not invariably a matter of
conscious observation, for sometimes the faces are said to
be " flashed on and flashed out again " suddenly, but it is
evident that growth is a much more frequent experience.
And it is confined to the " faces " ; we do not hear
of any other objects or scenes appearing in a fragmen-
tary way or building themselves up. A house, for
example, is a complete house, and does not show its
chimneys or its windows first, and then add on the
rest, forming itself out of cloud or showing in phos-
phorescent lines.
(&) Aesthetic Quality of the Faces.—Perhaps this fact
emphasises (if such an expression can be used of anything
so obvious) the difference between the organic nature of
the faces and the " still life " of other things. A face is
alwaj^s, in symbol, a person ; an expression of a thmking
or feeling being. And the faces having " come," by
whatever means, we now turn to ask what sort of faces
are they ? The adjectives used, gathered from many
sources, can be arranged in a sort of aesthetic spectrum.
But one quahty is common to the whole, and accompanies
almost all the others. That is the sense of reality,
of life-likeness. We shall return to this in considering
what I have called (for lack of a better word) their
behaviour.
The impression that prevails of predominant ughness in
the faces is not more correct than it would be to ascribe
moral goodness or badness to people in general. If we
take as a median fine or average, the expression used by
a correspondent, " never very ugly or very beautiful," we
shall find as many degrees above it as below it. This
refers to constant seers ; but if we include the general
statements about children who are hable to fears and
persons in ill-health, whose visions are subject to degener-
acy or otherwise obviously affected by it, there would then
be a majority for ugly faces.
Here follow, then, a score of delineations which show
the range, those taken from published accounts being
mingled with others privately received. It should be
understood that none of them are of recognised persons.
xciv.] Introdvctory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 315
" A face more lovely than any painting I have ever seen." ^
" Out there came on the darkness a grand face—worth
anyone's toil to transfer to canvas." (After reading and
thinking of Brynhilda.)^
" Often very beautiful, and gave me a sense of serene joy."
" I have seen faces in the dark for years, but never an
ugly one . . , lovely female faces, some asleep, others bright
and happy, but all are beautiful."
" Begins in transcendent beauty." ^
" More often than not beautiful or of strong character."
" Beautiful, smiling."
" Very sweet and cameo-like in size."
" Always pleasing, never strikingly beautiful." *
" Never very ugly or very beautiful."
" None are ugly, none very old, all have kindly looks,
seemingly well pleased with themselves."
" Unpleasing, though not hideous, expressive of no
violent emotions." ^
" Often look very ugly." ^
" As a child, and up to twenty years, I frequently saw
large hideous faces a foot long, mouthing."
" May be grotesque, but always possess vividness of
expression." '
" Some odd, grotesque fragments of faces . . . half faces,
whole faces, heads, figures . . . not necessarily of human
beings, nor indeed of any recognisable creature." ^
" Some grotesque, others beautiful." ^
" Hideous and terrifying."
" Weirdly grotesque animals, faces and figures."
" Tortured with horrid faces glaring at her."
1 Galton, op. cit., p. 164. ^ p^oc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 80.
^ St. James's Gazette, Feb. 15, 1882.
* Galton, op. cit., p. 166. ' Herschel, op. cit.
«Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 170. ' Jowr. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 295.
s Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 624.
»Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IX. p. 121.
1" Burdach, cited by de Manaceine, p. 239.
" Occult Review (April 1912), p. 229.
^^Phren. Jour., v. 319, cited by McNish, p. 267.
316 F. E. Leaning. [part
To these must be added some outstanding descriptions,
such as that of Mrs. Macdonald, akeady referred to,^ in
which the feature of transition from the one extreme of
the scale to the other is more marked than in any other
case known to me. She says :
Formerly the faces were wonderfully ugly. They were
human, but resembling animals, yet such animals as have
no fellows in the creation, diabolical-looking things. So
ciiriously and monstrously frightful were they that I cannot
conceive whence they could have come if not from the
infernal world. I could not, certainly, at other times, by
any voluntary effort of imagination, conjure up anything
even remotely approaching their frightfulness. Latterly the
faces have become exquisitely beautiful. Forms and fea-
tures of faultless perfection now succeed each other in
infinite variety and number.
Beside this should be placed Greenwood's masterly
description, almost unequalled in the Uterature of the
subject, of those " strikingly distinctive " faces in which
he discerned so much morally impressive significance. His
comparison of his visions of the " awful family " which
visited him, with Blake's " wonderful, dreadful drawing,
'
The Ghost of a Flea '
"—an embodiment of blood-lust
which none who have seen it will forget—includes nothing
to relieve their sombre sternness except a " few, expressive
of nobility and serenity," which were quite a minority.
It is difficult not to feel, as one studies this aspect,
that possibly the character of the faces has some relation
to the dominant thought-tone of the persons seeing them,
and may be a transcription in symbol of the unconscious
morality and instinctive emotional reaction to life which
lies under the surface of the conscious and the controlled.
This is suggested also by the fact that in the children's
census, where " being pleased " and " being frightened
"
were the categories corresponding to our " beautiful " and
" hideous," 146 were " pleased " by " people," of whom 17
were " angels " ; and of the 156 who were " frightened " hke-
^ Phantasms, i. 474 (footnote).
xciv.] Introductory Stvdy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 317
wise, the number includes 27 " ghosts "—whatever we are
to understand by that. If we take visions of animals
alone, only 18 children were pleased, as against 75 who
were frightened. Probably this large number represents
and includes the frequently-mentioned "grotesque" animal-
human or human-animal visions of the adult, who has more
language at command with which to distinguish his species.
(c) The Behaviour of the Faces.—Quite apart from the
beauty or ugliness of the faces, which is practically a fixed
quahty which we need not stop to analyse now, is that
which is strikingly often characterised as life-likeness. The
faces are sometimes only faintly coloured and would seem
then to approximate more to pictures ; but even in such
cases the percipients specify that they have this living
effect and are " not mere pictures "
;
they have as a rule
solidity and colour. Even when the whole process is
visible, the " fleecy white cloud " or " smoke-wreath " of
the beginning ends in a result " vivid and intense." ^ So
also the seer of the Brynhilda face previously referred to
says, "generally extremely vivid"; Margaret Deland says,
" always the feeling of life about them " ;
^ another goes
even further, testifying that " The faces I see are usually
more vivid than nature . . . absolutely full of life and move-
ment . . . always possess vividness of expression." It is a
quality so frequently mentioned as to be evidently the
normal one ;
only one other witness therefore need be
cited here—Prof. Alexander's " life-likeness and vividness
of the visions," and their " peculiarly vivid sensational
feel." 3 Where the face is " flashed on and flashed off,"
and neither comes nor goes, this vital quality is naturally
signahsed, but in the case of growth there is the hint of
an instant at which it begins to he. Thus Mrs. Macdonald,
as quoted already (p. 312), says " they . . . come up as a
mist, and rapidly develop . . . assuming roundness, vividness
and living reaUty." * In one other instance only is there
^ St. James's Gazette, Feb. 15 D " /82).
^Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 269.
, ^Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. pp. 625, 630.
" Phantasms, vol. i. p. 474.
318 F. E. Leaning. [part
a remark bearing on this " moment," made by a careful
observer.^ " It has been curious," he says, " to watch the
moment at which they became definite impressions on my
retina, instead of mere suggestions of my conscious
imagination," and speaks further on of " the fact of
their thus quickening."
When this " quickening " has taken place, it is evident
that the face will depend largely for its force on the eyes,
for the eyes, as sculptors have found, make the difference
between a dead, sleeping, or sightless face and a living
one. Mr. Northcote Thomas, who saw the visions on one
occasion only, saw nothing but eyes, " a long procession
of eyes—lions' eyes, crocodiles' eyes, snakes' eyes, all
sorts of eyes—and that in a state of perfect health, so far
as I could judge." ^ And another peculiarity of the faces
under consideration is that they are so often looking at
the percipient, as well as being looked at themselves. One
witness remarks that they not only " seem very much
alive " but " make '
faces ' at me " !
^ Among the
accounts given by correspondents such phrases occur as
:
" often seem to be looking closely at me," " a bearded
man appears, looks at me intently, grins horribly, and
explodes," " a beautiful girl with large dark eyes peering
at me most intently," " looking directly at me," and so
on. This point has already been mentioned incidentally
in other examples. In addition the lips sometimes move,
or a hand is waved ; and one lady who invited the face,
if it were real, to come nearer her, found that it did so,
" with an earnest expression," and adds the significant
remark, " the curious part is that since that night all the
faces float towards me and don't wait to be asked."
A point remarked on by Prof. Alexander also receives
frequent illustration, and that is the tendency of the faces
to express violent emotion. Greenwood's discussion of his
" faces " as embodiments of moods or passions accords
with this, but his Hst, astonishing as it is in its range,
does not include two which seem fairly common—laughter
1 Jour. S.P.R. Vol. IV. p. 263. = Crystal Gazing, pp. 17, 18 (1905).
^Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 170.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena. 319
and anger. Take, for an example of the latter, these two
little scenes, the percipients being men. The first is from
a correspondent.
Another—same night. A man appeared and hastened
to the end of a long, white heavily-constructed table, and
slammed his fist down on the top thereof, as if in anger,
and disappeared. He was dressed in a sort of red jerkin.
Time—incredible speed, but most vivid.
The other is taken from A. G. A.'s interesting account in
Light.^
Out of the whirl of uncouth figures to which I was ac-
customed, a big stout man, in a grey suit and Homburg
hat, emerged, and came up (apparently) so close to me,
staring pointedly at me, that I expected him to touch me.
The movement and the figure were both so aggressive that
I mentioned it to my family the next morning.
The following is a woman's vision :
—
Two faces that stand out particularly in my memory
were two jolly-looking middle-aged men in deep converse
(profile to me). They suddenly became convulsed with
laughter. I could almost hear them. One of them, a grey-
haired man with grey moustache, opened his mouth so
wide that I could see his teeth sideways, and his eyes went
to slits with merriment.
" The last face I saw," writes Mr. rielding-Ould,^ " was
strongly lighted and highly coloured, that of a laughing
young man, turned half or three-quarters towards me."
" A delightful hob-goblin, swinging his legs and laughing
outrageously," is a third, contributed by a correspondent.
It is evident that we cannot, nor need we try to, draw
any hard and fast line between faces and figures, where
gestures and actions carry out the same idea. The figures,
as such, present themselves "in all the changing scenes of
life," but in the examples now being dealt with their
business is more the expression of an emotion than any-
thing else.
iFeb. 24th, 1923, p. 117. Light, Feb. 24th, 1923, p. 122.
X
320 F. E. Leaning. [part
Faces do not form an invariable element in the visions.
Some who see nearly every other variety, including figures,
make an exception of the faces even of these ;
e.g. Mrs.
Willert in Phantasms says :
^ "I can never distinguish the
faces." Mrs. Arnold-Forster says :
" The pictures that I
see are seldom faces." ^ Prof. Herrick says :
^ " Sometimes
the images were of faces." And a lady who had deliber-
ately cultivated the seeing faculty for several years * testifies
that " Faces do not come so easily, and vanish quickly."
The complete absence of faces, however, is not a common
idiosyncrasy. Towards the latter part of his life Sir
John Herschel, as already referred to, said ^ that he saw
" more faces and fewer landscapes," but " the faces, which
appeared in quick succession, were grey and colourless."
Warcollier, though he places the faces of friends and
strangers first in his list, gives only instances of articles of
furniture, objects, plants, and flowers, which were especially
frequent with him, in actual illustration.^
(3) Designs and Objects.—If faces are the most frequent
and living, geometrical designs are the most infrequent
and the most completely antithetical to them of the
visions. The best account is that of Sir John Herschel,''
who has described the patterns " of perfect symmetry and
geometrical regularity," both latticed, rhomboidal, and
circular, which he saw. Occasionally, but rarely, they were
complex and coloured patterns like those of a carpet, but
not of any he remembered, and changing from instant to
instant. Another seer, a lady in whose family decorative
engraving had been practised for several generations, gives
the following account of visions seen on awaking, but with
the eyes still closed.^ "In a brilliant yellow light will
appear the most beautiful decorative patterns, finials,
curves, spirals, leaves, blossoms, but aU black." Only two
^ Vol. i. p. 474 (footnote). ^ Studies in Dreams, p. 162.
^ Jour. Comp. Neur., July 1895, quoted in De Manac6ine, p. 240.
*Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 269. ,;
Mrs. de Morgan, Three Score Years and Ten, p. 70.
8 La TdUpathie, p. 67. ' Op. cit., p. 408.
8 Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 269.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 321
other contributors to the Journal speak of seeing geomet-
rical forms or lines/ so that the class is evidently a small
one. Lang once saw " a very remarkable wall pattern in
crimson, which I could not, when wide awake, invent or
design." The following are taken from the letters of
correspondents. The first premises that her bedroom wall-
paper is quite plain, the window screened with a green
blind and heavily curtained, no patterned surface being
present even in the light. She sees with open eyes,
usually on waking in the night, and writes in answer to an
enquiry :
" Then the designs. Personally I should call
them conventional designs. You know the designs of
fancy work, dress braiding, etc. Well, these designs appear
like a thin gauzy pattern hung through the room.
Beautiful scrolls and twists. Two designs I remember
quite well. One was a big wheel pattern, with scrolls
between, and the wheels appeared as if they were studded
with coloured jewels. Another had a conventional rose
design."
A second correspondent writes :
" Another night ... I
saw my window outlined with a decoration of amber and
blue stones, with blue nuggets swinging to and fro. This
lasted about five minutes." On another occasion she saw,
also over the window, " a swathe of red and yellow flowers
in large round bud." My correspondent Lady Berkeley,
who kindly allows me to use her name, has favoured me
with an interesting collection of drawings in colour, made
as soon as possible after the vanishing of the figures.
They are complex and brilliant in colouring, and most
difficult to describe in words. Many have spoken of then-
attempts at reproducing their visions, so as to preserve a
record of them, but I know at present of no one else who
has actually done so, and in colour. They possess, there-
fore, a quite special interest in this connection.
The writer in the Occult Review, previously referred to,
gives a very interesting description of patterned visions,
which evidently constitute in this case a larger proportion
than is usual in the varied assortment. " I see," she
1 See Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IV. p. 278, and Vol. VIII. p. 158.
322 F. E. Leaning [part
writes (I conclude the writer to be a woman, from the
nature of the things seen), " gorgeously coloured and
woven patterns or sometimes a plain material such as
corded silk, gathered and tucked and stitched in all sorts
of ornamental devices. ... I saw some lovely lace a short
time ago of most elaborate pattern. As I watched it, it
changed gradually into a case full of pierced silver spoons
and forks and other things of that kind. These in turn
slowly became silver needlework, which then faded away."
This little series, of only nine cases in all, may be con-
cluded by " Goethe's rose," which he could see at pleasure
upon closing his eyes. It was not, to be accurate, a rose
so much as a conventional rosette, which continually put
forth welUng petals from the centre. " The same thing
occurred," he says,^ " when I figured to myself a varie-
gated disk. The coloured figures upon it underwent con-
stant changes . . . from the centre to the periphery, exactly
like the changes in the modern kaleidoscope." Miiller,
comparing notes with Goethe, decides that the differences
in their respective seeing were proper to their respective
mental endowments.
The lace, and silver needlework, of the vision quoted
above, form a natural transition to the seeing of objects,
either singly or in multitude. But two points are to be
noticed about them : first, they appear as complete and
not fragmentary ; and secondly, there is no instance known
to me of any distinct object being seen which was incom-
prehensible in itself. They are things which can be named
always ; and to the best of my belief the same can be
said of crystal visions. Not that there is a complete
dearth of evidence that clairvoyants have occasionally
seen objects which they could describe, but could not
name or understand the use of, but it is rare.^ And it
does not seem to occur in the hypnagogic visions, unless
we except those animals described as grotesque, so often.
1 Goethe, Zur Morphologic und Wissenechaft, quoted by Miiller, op.
cit., p. 1397.
^ See on this point Dr. Wiltse'a sensitive and the piano, Proo. S.P.R.,
Vol. VII. p. 74 ; and the Welsh medium Olwen and the Thibetan mar-
mots. Spirit Psychometry, p. 58.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 323
As images of living things, animals should hold the first
place among single objects. They rarely act or move
or express emotion. Sometimes only the head is seen,
especially if of a dog. One correspondent speaks of seeing
three heads of white Pomeranians withm a ckcle, two of
which she recognised as friends. Another saw a shaggy
chestnut pony with a white blaze advancing along a lane
towards her in a friendly way (the only vision of this sort
she ever had). A third writes of seeing a large black cat
with yeUow eyes, which she describes as " a prussian," and
the same also saw a snake and a tiger at other times.
Maury once saw a hon which he had travelled with in the
East many years before,^ and Dr. Clarke recalls with
pleasure the racing horses of his childhood, and that last
remnant of the visionary power in manhood, when after
an unusual dose of laudanum " I have seen a horse's head,
with ears erect, peering at me through the darkness." ^
One who sees animals " very often " says they are " more
like the monsters of fairy tales " ^ ; a few others merely
mention animals without further specifying them ; and Ladd
quotes Miiller as seeing " fantastic figures of men, animals,
and what not, such as he never saw before." * Prof.
Alexander has a gorilla's head in his list.
A correspondent in South Africa, however, sends me
the following interesting example, partly to illustrate his
impression that " in some mysterious way these so-caUed
illusions possess an awareness of our presence, especially so
in the case of animals. A short time ago," he continues,
I was resting on the sofa after dinner, with my eyes
shut in the full glare of the electric Hght, when a picture
was presented to me of a young cow, chestnut coloured,
with white points and wonderfully fine and symmetrical
horns. She seemed to be grazing in the full sunlight, on
the very luxm'iant grass growing on the bank of a railway
cutting. At the top of the bank was a row of young
horse-chestnut trees. Behind the cow a small calf was
1 Maury, op. cit., p. 68. 2 Clarke, E. H., Visions, p. 19.
^Jour. S.P.B., Vol. VIII. p. 170.
^Miiller, PJiantastische Oesichtserscheinungen, 1826.
324 F. E. Leaning. [part
standing. The cow seemed to sense my presence, and un-
mistakably adopted a protective attitude. Though I have
been associated with cattle nearly all my life, I am quite
positive I had never seen that cow before.
Another vision I had was that of a small species of
duck unknown to me. The sun was shining on the green
sheen of its neck, and it seemed to turn its head up
towards me with an intelligent expression of enquiry and
interest in its little black eye. By the power of will I was
able to retain the picture for approximately two minutes,
and all the time it appeared to me as though I might by
stretching out grasp the duck in my hand.
A better description than this is not to be found.
Besides animals, there is a large majority of other
objects, houses, temples, rooms, interiors, furniture, trees, and
so on, which would be tedious to enumerate. They are
mingled with more complex scenes, and occasionally follow
in classes or groups of simihar things, such as flowers,^ or
as in the case of the Rev. George Henslow, illustrated by
Galton,2 they may follow a " cycle." Here single objects,
the arrow, star, and snowflake, led up to the " weU-known
rectory, fish-ponds, walls, etc., all covered with snow," the
bed of red tulips in the brilliant sun of a spring morning,
and so back to a single tulip, and finally the rather non-
descript other single objects of this set. A succession of
units, however, is far from being the rule, for the " hyp-
nagogic agent " dehghts in an endless and multitudinous
variety. The main interest here does not He in the things
seen, but in the conditions and quaUty of the seeing,
which will be dealt with in the next section.
(4) Landscapes.—These form a very large class of the
visions of adults, and come midway between the inanimate
and the much livelier scenes peopled with moving figures
which will conclude the outline survey of the subject-
matter. Landscapes do not figure at all in the children's
census. Next to people come " things," then animals,
colours, and scenes, the latter quite in a minority. The
^ See, for instance. Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IV. p. 277 (Solovoy).
2 Galton, op. cil., p. 160.
xciv.] Introdiictory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 325
power to enjoy landscape and natural beauty is not one
which develops early, and many years pass before the
distant and the extended claims nearly as much attention
as the near at hand.
In the study of landscape visions there are very few
detailed descriptions of what is actually seen ; but it is
clear that they contrast with the " faces " in being com-
plete and entire from the first, and that they agree with
them in having a cloud-accompaniment. There is this
difference, however, that in the case of landscapes the
clouds roll aside and have the effect of reveahng some-
thing already there, as in the following description
by a correspondent : "I also see places, houses, moun-
tains, and very often cloud formations, which break and
give a view of distant valleys or scenery in great bright-
ness." Compare also Mrs. Arnold-Forster :
" always as
though it were seen through a gap in a curtain of misty
cloud, which is partly drawn aside "
(p. 163, op. cit.).
Almost the same description is given by a writer in Light :
" The last one {i.e. a scene) I remember was a bird's-eye
view of a large city, viewed fi'om a higher point, seen as
lying in a slack or a dip in the surface area, with out-
standing buildings of unusual construction in the centre.
On these buildings a bright light was moving hke a search-
light, causing them to be more illuminated than the others."
The landscapes are usually spoken of in terms of admira-
tion :
" fine landscapes," ^ " vivid and charming landscapes
in natural colours," ^ " highly picturesque and pleasing " ^
" glorious," * " architecture, landscapes, moving figures,
pass slowly by and sometimes remain, with incomparable
clearness of form and fullness of being." ^ Stead's moonlit
sea, and the cottage in the circle might be added {v. p.
295 supra).
(5) Scenes.—If beauty characterises the landscapes, Hfe
and movement in every variety are the chief features
which distinguish the " scenes " from them. Sometimes we
have a Httle scene with a single figure : as of "a stout
^ Galton, op. cit., p. 164. ^ Herrick. ^ Herschel.
*Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IV. p. 276. ^ Taine.
326 F. E. Leaning. [part
old woman in a blue dress, hanging some clothes out on a
hne, on a flat roof-top apparently, who turned her head
and laughed." In another there are two figures, a girl
and a young man, with a bicycle, she leaning on it, he
kneeling at her feet. At the moment he is putting on
his cap.^ Or there is a high stone wall ; at the foot of it
two or three men in knee-breeches and lounge coats
" playing about," when one of them disappears at full
speed down the road. Neither the beginning nor the end
of these tiny dramas is given. Scenes involving many
people, engaged in different activities, predominate. In
some the idea of the scene as a picture seems apparent,
as in a lady's vision of a number of roofs and turrets of
buildings enclosed by a high wall. From a great gateway
in this wall issued a throng of happy people, clad in gay
clothes, and on the left was a long shady sun-flecked avenue
of green trees. Or take this, from the correspondent who
saw the cow and the duck :
" Another pretty scene im-
pressed upon my memory was that of three young Kaffir
women dressed in native costume. They were sitting on
the slope of a grassy hill rising out of a deep valley,
talking interestedly to one another whilst engaged in mak-
ing bead ornaments ; the glow of the setting sun was
reflected by the dark bronze of their bodies. Below, in
the valley, now in the shade, the smoke from several
kraals was rising through the mimosa trees, the whole forming
a delightful and natural picture, perfect in every detail."
But in many of the visions an ordinary but busy street-
scene is sufficient, as in the following :
^
" Another scene represented a street-scene in winter, the
ground covered with snow, a street-car with men standing
on the rear platform in heavy ulsters, the conductor
assisting a lady to alight, pedestrians passing back and
forth."
It is to be remarked that the scenes almost invainably
portray the lighter and pleasanter aspects of life. They
are hardly ever—one might almost say never, of tragic or
iProc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 625. •
^Jour. S.P.R , Vol. VIII. p. 271.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 327
painful import ^ ; there are no funerals, fights, torture-scenes,
or terrible accidents, though they may be serious and
interesting, as in the following from a correspondent.
" Facing me there suddenly appeared a brilhantly lighted
panel through which (or in which) I saw a room with
three Enghsh officers bending over a map spread out on a
table, and evidently planning an attack or movement of
troops. The officers were moving as they conversed and
pointed out places on the map ;
they had their backs to
me, and I was panic-stricken lest they should turn and
see me. . . . This vision lasted for quite five minutes. I
could see it with my eyes open or closed. The room was
a large one with bosses of plasterwork at intervals on the
walls, and large windows down to the ground. I believed
it to be a room in an old chateau in France."
The unity and intelligibihty of such scenes distinguish
them from those of delirium and insanity, and from the
hallucinations of hysteria in which " visions of animals,
pictures of corpses, phantastic processions in which dead
persons, devils, and ghosts swarm." ^ Nicolai's Httle figures
acted as in a marketing scene, and a similar and interest-
ing modern account exists which, though taking place in
the daytime and seen with open eyes, yet belongs to the
same order as the true hypnagogic visions. In this the
percipient, an aged patient of the doctor reporting the
case, 2 though mentally exceedingly clear in every other
respect, would describe to him most vividly pictures of
hosts of very Httle people, employing miniature wagons
and horses about the work of hauhng timber and stone for
building operations. There were hundreds of them, and she
would enter into details about their dress and harnessing.
VIII. Features of the Visions.
A general view of the subject-matter of the hypnagogic
hallucinations has rendered obvious the first and most
^ An exception is referred to on p. 336.
2 Jung, C. G., Analytical Psychology, p. 7 (1916); trans, by Dr. C. E.
Long.
3 Brit. Med. Jour., Nov. 18, 1922, p. 999. ,
'
. .
328 F. E. Leaning. [part
constantly mentioned point about them—that is, their
almost boundless variety. It is unnecessary to emphasise
this point, for the study itself makes it quite unavoidable.
This variety varies very much in the proportion of its
elements, some seeing many of one kind, others of another,
and so on. Thus WarcoUier often sees flowers and objects,
but his friend, Mme. C, never sees either ; he never sees
anything dramatic or sensational, but she sees pictures of
miniature size of httle mediaeval personages, of beautiful
babies, young girls, and so on {op. cit., pp. 57, 67).
But while a comparison of many hsts will show, perhaps,
individual idiosyncrasies such as those mentioned, yet so
large a body of common material also exists that the
visions admit, as we have seen, of being roughly classified
into groups.
(1) Variety and Change.—The fact of this variety has
the closest possible connection with the second point most
frequently mentioned, and indeed depends on it. This
is change, without which obviously there could be no
variety. This is such a " constant " of the visions that
its absence marks, probably, a particular experience as of
another tj^pe. In the first example, given above p. 295, the
cottage in the circle, there was no change ; but in Stead's two
visions which follow it, there was as much contrast as was
possible in so limited a number. Here and there are signs of
some underlying principle, such as is seen in a succession of
designs, or of faces producing faces, or a following of a line of
association, such as the Rev. George Henslow thought he
traced in his arrow, snowflake, snow scene and so on. Prof.
Alexander has remarked :
" There is frequently a limited
sequence of forms in what I may term the '
hfe-history
'
of an individual image ; it undergoes transformation before
the eyes and in spite of any efforts I may make to pre-
serve it unchanged." ^ Meyer gives a similar testimony :
" Some time after the pictures have arisen they vanish
or change into others without my being able to prevent
it." ^ Two frequently-quoted illustrations of this kind of
1 Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 624.
^ Meyer, G., quoted by James, op. cit., p. 67.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 329
sequential recurring vision are Greenwood's " spangles and
sheep " case and Mrs. Haweis's roses and gold blocks.
" As I lay abed in the dark" says the former,^ "I used to
see a little cloud of bright golden sparks, which first
became larger and more scintillating and then turned into
a flock of sheep rapidly running downhill into the general
darkness below. A few moments after the sheep had
disappeared the spangles would come forth again, and
again the transformation would ensue, and this would be
repeated a dozen times perhaps." Mrs. Haweis's experi-
ence was as follows. Both were the visions of childhood,
hers being life -long, but diminishmg with years : "It is a
flight of pink roses floating in a mass from left to right,
and this cloud or mass of roses is presently effaced by a
flight of '
sparks '
or gold speckles across them. The
sparks are Kke tiny blocks, half gold, half black, rather
symmetrically placed behind each other. . . . The roses . . .
would stay a long time before the sparks came, and they
occupied a large area in black space. Then the sparks
came slowly flying, and generally, not always, effaced the
roses at once, and every effort to retain the roses failed." -
These instances are hints of what may occur (Uke the
recurring dreams some people have), though recurrence is
not habitual and normal. In fact, Alexander says : "if
there be such a thing as irrelevance, these images show it."
But this is a point on which there is but a very small
group of studies or records to help us ; the general im-
pression one gets is that incoherence and the absence of
association rather prevails. This will be considered further
under experiments in control (Sec. XII.).
(2) Duration and Speed.—The rate of change and the
length of time for which a picture wiU remain to please
the beholder are matters on which we have a little more
evidence. Change there must be : no picture can be
" held " indeflnitely, and as a rule no picture ever appears
twice. The exceptions are the result of effort and inten-
tion ; and occasionally, as we have just seen, the result of
some cause still obscure to us, but are not in the nature
1 Greenwood, op. cit., p. 16. " Galton, op. cit., p. 165.
330 F. E. Leaning. [part
of the visions themselves. There is a diversity of experi-
ence as to their duration. The drowsy-time for normal
people is itself brief ;
they are courting sleep and not
taking note of the time, and the time itself is " rounded
by a sleep " ;
only in the case of conditions prevailing
that prevent sleep is there any prolongation of this period.
The visions do not begin immediately on the closing of
the eyes, but, when a certain half-consciousness is reached,
soon after. But there is undeniably a connection between
the rate of change and the condition of the circulation in
the brain. Fatigue, anxiety, excitement, cerebral agitation,
reflect themselves readily in the speed with which the
visions come and go. A case which may be regarded as
a maximum, though produced by a drug, is given by
Prof. James. ^ The experimenter, mth a pulse at 135 beats
a minute, saw a vast variety of whirling images, " a thou-
sand different objects in ten minutes "—hands, spoons,
wheels, tin soldiers, lamp-posts, etc. Maury's crowding
images, after his two days at Greek, have already been
referred to. Miiller refers to the " rapidly changing
forms " ; Henslow says the " extreme restlessness " of his
visual objects, oscillating and rotating, and changing
character made examination almost impossible ; Mrs. Mac-
donald speaks of the " surprising rapidity " and infinite
variety and number of her images. Whether all these
percipients were m a state of excitement all the time we
can only surmise : it does not seem Hkely. But the few
whose seeing was confined to a few days in a lifetime were
feverish or over-tired at the time, and yet the number of visions
seen by these people was as great as the number seen by
other percipients during much more prolonged periods.
If we find these at one end of the scale, we find at the
other those whose pictures do not hasten away. Mrs.
Haweis says that her gold blocks came slowly flying, after
the roses had floated by for some time. The lady of the
lace and silver needlework also says they change slowly.
It is noticeable that Taine ^ speaks of the images becoming
steady and lasting, passing slowly by and sometimes re-
1 James, Princ. oj Psychol., ii. 121. On InieUtigence, i. 60.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 331
maining. This curious movement across the field of vision
seems an alternative to the fading out and re-manifesting,
or the actual change of form while being looked at. It
takes place sometimes from left to right, as with Mrs.
Haweis and Herschel, but sometimes in the opposite direc-
tion, as with Cardan, " moving in a circular direction,
upwards, from right to left, slowly " ;
^ and in a case given
by Hyslop ^ where the subject, waking in the night, sees
on his bedroom wall " wonderful moving sceneries, valleys,
lakes, mountains, etc. What impresses me so, " he adds,
" is the great quickness of movement ; but I can take in
all details, and the movement is from right to left,
goes away from me."
It may be mentioned that of these four examples only
the first is hypnagogic ; Herschel's was a day-vision (at the
breakfast table), ^ and the other two are hypnopompic. So
is the following, in which " Invariably the pictures are a
moving landscape . . . exactly as if seen from a train, etc.,
foreground swiftly, background slowly. The swift left to
right moving panorama of ordinary agricultural land, with
cottages, etc., the motion stopping gradually as it faded."
This instance, communicated first in 1922 ^ by M. Gheury
de Bray, has since been followed up by a very curious
modification in which two architectural series moving with
extreme rapidity in converging directions were seen, an
obfique line of division separating them.
(3) Shape and Scale.—TlievQ is a peculiarity connected
with the visions which is to be noticed here, and that is
the tendency to take a circular form. The majority of
them are seen as things in the natural world are, where
the hmits of the field of vision alone prevent us seeing
more at once than we do. But several instances have
1 Cardano, see App. A. 2 p.^g^ Amer. S.P.R., Vol. XIII. p. 487.
^ Of a fortification. Dr. Mary Scharlieb in Change of Life, p. 28, says
that women may see " the battlements of a fortress " as an hallucination
accompanying attacks of headache ; and it is significant that a lady
friend of Herschel's often saw this appearance and suffered from head-
ache, neither of them evidently knowing that it was a symptom of dis-
turbance at the menopause.
* See Jour. S.P.R., Vol. XX. p. 250, and Vol. XXI. p. 71.
332 F. E. Leaning. [part
already been given, in which the picture is seen within a
circle. In the case of the " cottage in a circle " first
quoted/ the spectator says the light " assumed the form
of a circle two or three yards in diameter," but in Stead's
" moonlit sea " it was " a living miniature about the size
of a magic lantern slide." So also Mrs. Willert says " they
seem to be very much like the constantly changing slides
of a magic lantern, and I should say of the same size." ^
When Bostock speaks of the human faces or figures on a
small scale which he saw during his attack of fever, he
notes that " they were all of the same size and appeared to
be all situated at the same distance from the face." They
" were gradually removed like a succession of medaUions."
This expression is not used by chance, for such words as
" cameo " and " medalhon " often occur in verbal and
other accounts of the present day. An analogous example
is that of Dr. Gibotteau's vision in the night of a round
luminous tract on the wall of his bedroom, in the midst
of which appeared a brilliant object which he did not
recognise, but which was a lantern. This was the result
of Nurse Berthe's experiment in impressing him from a
distance, but he remarks that " that part of the room was
illuminated as it would have been by a powerful lamp." ^
Prof. Gruber's subject, who illustrates coloured audition,
or " chromatisms " for certain words in the form of
patches of light, also had them as circles capable of
definite measurement ; and Mr. F. Gottschalk saw the
vision of two hands opening an envelope within a circle
{Phantasms, ii. 31 and 34, where other instances are
given). " C. B. M." * gives a graphic description of the
" globe pictures " which she saw, of busy scenes, both by
night and day. The wheels, stars, and various curvilinear
designs illustrate the same tendency. We rarely meet
with a square-enclosed vision unless the expression " like a
1 See p. 295 supra. ^ Phantasms, i. 474.
3 Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. pp. 466, 457.
^ Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 76. Unless Cardano's visions were also of this
sort, as the rather obscure Latin seems to imply, this ease is unique.
The scenes seem to be within a sphere, but transparent, like a soap-
bubble.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 333
framed picture " used by one or two percipients, and re-
ported of Nicolai also, is to be taken as implying definite
enclosing lines and angles, and that of the panel scene of
the three officers given on p. 327 is unusual in this respect.
Goethe's pictures were projected memories of things actu-
ally seen, but his visionary flower, often called a rose
because of its red petals and green leaves, was round. In
the series of coloured sketches made by Lady Berkeley,
already referred to (seep. 321) of her own visions, there is
a great variety of designs, but except the well-known
symbol of the double triangles, few rectangular ones.
" Curved is the line of beauty."
It is in variations of size that another peculiarity is
met with. McNish draws attention to it, giving examples
from various sources, of how one saw " entire human
figures, but they were always as minute as pins or even
pin heads " ; and with another, " Colossal figures are her
frequent visiters (sic)." ^ These are from cases of illness, but
they can be matched among the hypnagogic images of the
healthy. And it is a more frequent feature to meet with
miniature pictures than with those of a larger scale than
nature. Nicolai's phantoms were half the natural size ;
Maury's were at first always " petites,'' but as years
passed on they became larger, and nearly life-size, while
landscapes were reduced almost to miniatures.^ Prof.
Alexander remarks that " all such images seem small " ;
the writer in the Occult Review says : "At other times I see
beautiful little clear living pictures, with tiny people
generally occupied about the most ordinary incidents of
everyday life." A correspondent describes among her
visions " tiny gardens, complete with terraces, vases,
stone walls, etc." Another says " mostly small, very vivid
pictures, like those seen in the '
finder '
of a camera."
1 McNish, op. cit., p. 267. Compare also " C. C. O." in St. James's
Gazette, of a woman seeing crowds of " grotesquely colossal and writhing
figures."
2 Mauiy, op. cit., p. 88 and footnote. See on this point an able article
by Raoul Leroy on " The Syndrome of Lilliputian Hallucinations " in Jour,
of Nervous and Mental Diseases, October 1922, pp. 325-333 ; epitomised
in Brit. Med. Jour., Nov. 4, 1922, p. 61 (Epitome).
334 F. E. Leaning. [PABT
Several observers have come to the conchision that there
is a radical difference between these perfect " ready-made "
little scenes and some other of their visions, particularly
faces. It is therefore in place here to consider next what
might be called
(4) The Point of View.—-The spectator is conscious of a
considerable range in the apparent distance of his visions,
and this does not seem to be entirely based on the un-
conscious mental interpretation which we give to objects
of known size, when they appear larger or smaller accord-
ing to their distance from us. The miniatures spoken of
are not taken to be very far off because they are small
;
they are sometimes stated to be at a distance of only a
foot or two. They lose nothing in distinctness, however
small the scale, but seem like a landscape close at hand
seen through an artist's " diminishing glass." With figures
also, one narrator speaks of them as carte-de-visite size,
full-length, and faces only as cabinet vignette, but
now and then life-size.^ Another says (of faces),
" life-size and very close to my eyes." ^ Galton's friend
speaks of the waking visions as " quite close, filling, as it
were, the whole head." ^ They appear and vanish in an
instant. His relative also, especially when not well,
found them " almost suffocatingly close." Greenwood's
wonderful faces, however, were five or six feet off, but his
sheep and spangles within his closed eyehds. A corres-
pondent also says something illuminating about his images,
which I do not find so clearly expressed anywhere else.
After describing a " perfectly round, intensely bright yellow
light, precisely (so I thought) the same diameter as the
iris " which " floated within my closed vision exactly as
some of the vague '
faces in the dark,' " he adds " the
mere faces apparently float withui the scope of the eye
itself. The eye is not looking out at them—they are within
it. But the '
scenic elusions '
appear to be of a higher
type, for these are clear, real and without boundary. The
eye is looking out at them." But when, as in Mr. Field-
1 Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 295. ^ jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 269.
2 Galton, op. cit., pp. 164, 166. •..
^
xciv.] Introductory Stvdy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 335
ing-Ould's description,^ he speaks of the faces being " ap-
parently about two feet away from the eye " and bursting
into view, complete in every way, we have an example of
something which the eye does " look out at " ; if it be the
eye which is concerned. This is getting into the region of
theory, which is pi'emature, but if differing theories are to
be fairly dealt with, all the data alike miist be considered,
and the impressions of those whose evidence is at first
hand are entitled to be heard.
The last-named witness, in his account, draws attention
to yet another peculiar feature of the " point of view." It
is not only the detail, in itself, but the kind of detail
which would not normally be observed at all. " The
'
landscapes,' " he remarks, " may be merely a stretch of
road on which every pebble is distinct even to obtrusive-
ness." A correspondent further illustrates this, and en-
larges on it :
" One such picture was the edge of a stretch
of turf bordering a gravel walk. The turf edge, about four
inches deep, was exactly on the level of the vision,
every rootlet and grain of soil sharply defined. To see it
actually so, one would have had to lie very flat on the
gravel walk, with one's face close to the turf. Again, I
have seen, at very close range, stone mouldings and
crockets of some church tower, high up on that church
tower, and noted the design and sharp lights and
shadows before the whole picture was gone." Again, I
have had described to me as a thing seen a section
through earth, sea, and air, the sm-face of the sea with
ships on it, then a wall of waters, and then the earth's
globe, like an orange cut down. M. Gheury de Bray's
experience of seeing the landscape as from an aeroplane,
though not a reminiscence of any such actual event,
is somewhat similar to this. And Warcolher has a
variant of his own, for he says : "I have observed that
they frequently have the appearance of being localised in
one of the two eyes." In an instance of a vision (of his
dining-room table with the cloth thrown back, a cup and
saucer, etc.) he saw it small but very clear with the left
1 Ught, Feb. 24, 1923, p. 122.
y
336 F. E. Leaning. [part
eye, whilst an image (he does not say whether the same
or not) dimly (" sans nettete ") appeared in the right eye
(p. 58).
There is finally an experience, exceedingly rare in the
annals of Psychical Research, which has twice been men-
tioned to me by correspondents. It is that of seeing with,
or from, the back of the head. Thus one says :
" One
or two have been at the back of my head, but I see them
quite distinctly " ; the other uses almost the same words :
" as if my eyes were at the back of my head."
(5) Illumination.—One of the very commonest features of
the visions, which, in fact, cannot be missed by anyone
who reads or hears of even a few, is the diffusion of
bright light in which everything is seen. Mr. Henslow's
bed of red tulips in a " spring morning, briUiant sun," for
instance, or Myers' " wet hedge in the sun," ^ the sohtary
example he has given us, are illustrations. It is almost
always sunlight that is mentioned ; Stead's is the only
moonlight picture I have met with, and that possesses a
feature which in itself gives its kinship to the rest. (Ex-
amples of scenes in evening Hght are to be found on pp.
326 and 338, the Kaffir women and the Indian soldier
visions.)
An extraordinarily sombre vision is given in Light,^ in
which a scene of a darkly-garbed woman in a dimly
lighted room, stabbed by a man also in antique dress,
forms an exception to the rule. Even in this the woman's
white stomacher, and the flash of the man's weapon,
brings out the " bright point " ; but see the companion
vision (the desert scene) as quoted on p. 340 infra, which
is a complete contrast. It is possible that the vividness
and the clearness, which most narrators lay so much stress
on, are due to this diffusion of light, though careful reading
shows them not to be wholly so ; the distinctness is the result
of a penetrative quality in the seeing, apparently, which
the strongest light would not quite account for.
Next to the prevalence of an illuminated field of view
comes that of objects which are of native brilliance, such
^ Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 370. ^ Light, 1920, p. 112.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 337
as gold, silver, diamonds, all things that sparkle and
gleam. If Myers' hedge had not been ivet, with dew or
rain-drops, it would have lost the suggestion of a glittering
greenness. Mr. Henslow's dynasty of bright objects,
" frequently of great beauty and highly brilliant," included
cut glass, and highly chased gold and silver fihgree orna-
ments ;
Meyer's silver stirrup was so vivid as to leave an
after-image ;
^ the gold blocks that effaced the roses, and
the spangles that turned to sheep, are the least " of that
bright band," unless the sparkhng and rippluag of waves
should be given that place. Where the brilliancy fails
of actual flame or flash, it is there as some element of
whiteness—a white patch of snow on the emerald moor-
land, ^ the white collar of an Eton boy gazing across his
desk, the gleaming of the eye in Stead's second vision, the
clothes hanging on the line, the man advancing to a white
table, and so on. According to C. S. Myers,^ " Any colour
stimulus, if sufficiently intense, is seen as white. In-
tense spectral reds and orange, and greens up to a wave-
length of 517 mUKonth parts of a millimetre, acquire a
yellow hue before they in this way become colourless."
But this would not account for the white patches being
always in the right place.
(6) Colour.—If the hjrpnagogic agent is an artist, whose
first law is " Let there be Kght," the second is that in
that hght there shall be living coloiir. If we begin with
those outlines of white on black, and the sometimes very
faintly coloured faces, such as Greenwood's, which depend
on form primarily for their significance, there would appear
to be a strange gap between them and the completely
coloured visions. It is not nature's way to omit grada-
tions, and yet evidence was lacking of an intermediate
class until a lady in Edinburgh supphed an interesting
example. The " illusions " visited her for the first time
in February 1923, during a brief attack of ilhiess, and the
account is based on notes made at once. " During the
^ James, Princ. of Psychol., ii. 67.
'^St. James's Gazette, Feb. 15, 1882.
'. ^Experimental Psychology, p. 73 (1911).
338 F. E. Leaning. '
v> [part
night 3rd to 4th February," she writes, " I had the first
clear photographic scenes hke snap-shots from good nega-
tives. They were nearly all of lofty stone walls with
httle windows and loop-holes ; the outer side of dock-sheds ;
a stone face of a woman lying in waste ground ; ruined
churches, chiefly doors ; and one, the only recognisable
one, of the outside of the smaller caves of Ellora, those
wonderful cave temples of the Deccan, India. I had
often visited the larger ones, but only seen these at a
distance. All these were clear, without colour. The last
I can remember was on a larger scale, as though taken
from the top of an Eastern Fort gateway—a group of
mounted soldiers in tin helmets waiting admittance, while
down a slope at the foot of which a pool, shaped like a
star full of reflected light as of sunset, lay, and up on an
eminence was another group of similar soldiers waiting."
In a second letter, in reply to enquiries, she says again
that the pictures were as " little photo prints, good prints
from perfect negatives, except in the case of the soldiers,
when it appeared as if the light had been bad for the
exposure—evening light, I should say, after a wet day. . . .
None was of the nature of a sketch at aU." On the
second night, Feb. 4-5, she again saw small distinct
pictures, but coloured this time, " soft in outhne, exquisite
in colour, and also miniature in size." Among them were
" beautiful caverns, snow-white, opening to a sky with
stars ; sometimes the cavern would be dark, opening to a
lovely calm sea, with an island or land beyond. Bands
of coloured patterns as on chma, brilliant colours mostly,
a curved band." I have, since writing this, found a
parallel case described in much detail by " Mrs. W." in
the Spiritual Magazine (1861), p. 165. The comparison is
very interesting. The uncoloured visions lasted for six
months.
We find in the " brilliant colours " the characteristic note
of the awakening to colour in every variety, which we
expect to find in the visions. So many have remarked on
this that there is no doubt it is the normal thing, not
only to see all things in their natural colours, but to see
them in the highest degree of vividness, and in fact sur-
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 339
passing in their richness and glow the facts of visual
experience. Thus Henslow sees " elaborate coloured pat-
terns of carpets in brilliant tints"; S. M. B. sees '"gorge-
ously coloured and woven patterns " ;
^ so Miiller, " highly
illumined and coloured images "
;
Lelorgne's visions are
" vivement colorees " ; Taine's are " intense . . . coloured "
;
Herrick's landscapes are " vivid "
;
again, " colours especi-
ally in endless variety " ;
^ and the words vivid, intense,
and brilhant are constantly met with in the descriptions.
In fact, Brewster speaks of theu' vividness as their only
characteristic,^ and Galton's friend speaks of it as " start-
ling."
Such a consensus as this shows that Prof. Ladd was not
speaking for himself alone when he stated that " By far
the purest, most brilliant, and most beautiful colours I
have ever seen, and the most astonishing artistic combina-
tions of such colours, have appeared with closed eyes in a
dark room." * " The yellow colour in my drawings," says
Lady Berkeley, " is really not yellow, but hquid fire," ^
and elsewhere she refers to the " strange luminosity quite
impossible to reproduce." But if the artist's brush cannot
do justice to the visions, the medium of language is still
more strained. Yet those who have enjoyed Dr. Weir
Mitchell's magnificent description of his visions under
mescal will remember the splendour of the colour, and the
" miles on miles of rippled purple of ineffable beauty
"
with which—too soon !
—one of them ended.
^
One of the colours specifically mentioned, purple, as has
been previously remarked, is one most often met with.
It is seen as covering the field, but sometimes as "a
purple star," and a correspondent speaks of " a purple bar
against sunset clouds." In the former case the seeing of
" wave on wave of purple " brought a great sense of rest,
^Occult Review, xv. 227. -Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 270.
'Brewster, Sir D., Letters on Nat. Magic, p. 51 (1832).
^Mind, vol. i. n.s. p. 299 (1892).
^ " Yellow is the region of maximal '
brightness value.' Brightness is
a psychical character which is distinct from intensity and saturation."
C. S. Myers, op. cit.
"Brit. Med. Jour., Dec. 5, 189G. Also in De Manaeeine, p. 247.
340 F. E. Leaning. [part
" like an elixir." ^ But every element in the rainbow
conies into play, although perhaps with certain individuals
certain colours predominate. Maury seems to have fre-
quently seen a blue or bluish light, and on one occasion it
developed into the vista of a lighted street in a town under
the shadowy blue of night skies. ^ He even saw blue in the
cheeks of his figures, and the women of his later years
wore sombre garments. But occasionally, as on the
journey into Switzerland by coach, he saw a crowd of
brilhant Httle personages in scarlet, chattering and moving
incessantly. It is obvious that since colour plays so large
a part in the visions, and they are not confined to such
things as can be any colour at choice, such as carpets and
clothes, that the subjects of them must be often the result of
selection on the part of the producing agency. That is,
they must consist of articles or scenes in which colour is
an inevitable and prominent feature. Prof. Alexander
mentions, for instance, among a list of over a dozen, a
bunch of red berries amid green leaves, a striped necktie,
and so on. Warcolher, during an experiment with phos-
phorescent glasses, saw a flame-coloured nasturtium with
green leaves. A correspondent sends me the following,
which well illustrates the pomt : "a cock in brilhant
plumage in full sunshine, flapped his wings, neck out-
stretched and curved, as in crowing." It may be noted
in connection with this that cerebral after-images of
scenes witnessed during the day, such as the manoeuvres
of scarlet-coated soldiers in a park, or the student's pro-
cession of St. Patrick, are also of a highly-coloured kind
and seen in the sunshine.
By permission of the editor of Light I take the follow-
ing beautiful scene ^ which, except for the absence of
change, is typical of the sun-hghted visions. The narrative
says that rarely more than one presents itself in the same
evening ; that they are vivid, of too short duration to be
minutely inspected, and occur only at the moment when
sleep is coming on. " A desert scene : a ghmpse of yeUow-
iJottr. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 243.
^ Light (1920), Ap. 3, p. 112.
"Maury, op. cit., pp. 81, 88.
xciv.] Introductory Stvdy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 341
brown sand beneath a bui-ning sun. There is a structure
consisting of a long, peaked roof, supported by several
tall columns. Underneath each of the arches so formed
is standing a horse. They are beautiful creatures, with
flowing manes and tails ; then trappings give the impres-
sion of gorgeousness. In each saddle is seated the mag-
nificent upright figure of a Spahi, clad in rich raiment and
wearing a turban. In front of the structure, whose ia-
terior is in deep shadow, rises a small pyramid, gleaming
white in the rays of the sun."
(7) Emotional Reaction.—It is in place here to say a few
words as to the effect which the seeing of the visions has
on the different percipients. All are not affected to the
same degree, and still less in the same way ; and it is
difficult to determine whether the diversity lies in indi-
vidual tastes or in the quality of the visions themselves.
It would seem rather as though there were a more or less
constant element at work in the presentation, and a more
or less capricious temper in the audience. According to
Dr. Walsh, ui most adults the little stage displays " are
unnoticed or excite no particular interest " ;
^ and in sup-
port of this may be cited Prof. Alexander, who says :
" my
own state at the time is almost untinged by feehng
—
perhaps a languid interest in watching the images, or
amusement at their absurdities. Doubtless the interest
tends to prolong the hypnagogic period and so multiply
the number of the images, but it does not affect their
character." ^ Even Mrs. Arnold-Forster, who begins by
sajdng "Of all our borderland experiences perhaps none
are more attractive," ends by saying that " no special
interest attaches to them, and apart from moments of
pleasure that they give us, they might not be worth even
a passing reference."
As an intellectual verdict pronounced by these authori-
ties, two of whom at least speak with first-hand knowledge,
this would seem to dispose of the matter at a low rating.
But yet it is not one in which the majority of our wit-
nesses agree. There are at least three effects which
1 Walsh, op. oit., p. 16. ^ p^oc. Arner. S.P.B., Vol. III. p. 624.
342 F. E. Leaning. [part
differ widely from mere indifierence. As lias been pre-
viously remarked, children are often frightened as well as
pleased, in almost equal proportions as regards their
numbers, judging by the children's census, though the
popular idea is that they are much more frequently
frightened. Havelock Ellis, citing the French author E.
Guyon,^ says " he believes that childi'en always find them
terrifjdng," and comments " That, however, is far from
being the case." When we consider what various authors
have told us about their sufferings as children, even
without any hypnagogic visions, it is surprising that fear
is not more universal than it is. See, for example, the
young Richter's story of the terrible two hours that
always elapsed between his own bedtime and the coming
of his father ^
; Charles Lamb's Witches and Other Night
Fears ; and J. A. Symonds' really pitiable ordeals of the
same sort,^ as he feelingly relates them. Nor is fear
confined to children. Maury's old servant kept her light
burning as a preventive of " les vilaines figures," and the
patient cited by McNish was " tortured " by her visions.
All who describe their images in such forcible terms as
" hideous," " monstrous," etc., if not frightened, are dis-
tressed and disturbed by them. This, then, is one of the
emotional effects produced.
Another which is less frequently mentioned, but evi-
dently does occur, is that of surprise, a remarkable thing
if we consider it. The appearance of the pictures, accord-
ing to Mrs. Arnold-Forster, " is always rather a surprise,
and I am totally unable to guess when or in what form
they will come, or what the '
picture on the screen ' will
change into." ^ So also the lady who saw the " cottage
in the circle " was " very much surprised and interested
"
(see p. 295 supra). Galton was " astonished at their
variety," ^ his friend's " often appear with startling vivid-
1 Ellis, The World of Dreams, p. 29 ; and Guyon, Sur les Hallucinations
Hypnagogiques, Paris (1903).
^Autobiography, in the Life by Eliza Lee (1849).
^ Horatio Brovv-n, Biog. of J. A. Symonds, i. 6-9.
Arnold-Forster, op. cit., p. 163. ^ Galton, op. cit., p. 159.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 343
ness." The element of the unexpected seems answerable
tor this, combined with the sense of complete detachment.
James refers to the " abrupt and spontaneous " character
of the pseudo-hallucmations, " in the sense that all feehng
of our own activity in producing them is lacking." ^
Surprise, however, in the nature of the case cannot
be continuous ; it must yield to something else. And it
is on the succeeding interest that the greater number of
persons dwell. Thus Mrs. Deland mentions " much interest
and amusement " derived from the faces and scenes ;
^
a doctor is " much interested and entertained " by the
panorama, " entirely outside of (his) mental action " ;
^
Greenwood after many years stUl found the faces " very
interestmg indeed " ; Herrick received " great pleasure
"
in his childhood (as did Dr. Clarke), and in later years
rehef from insomnia ;
* and if we add to these the enjoy-
ment and admiration imphed in the terms used in speaking
of landscapes, etc., (see Section VII.), the fact that such men
as Greenwood could say " no words and no skill in using
them can describe an intensity of meaning which is
sometimes too vivid, too invading, too terribly convincing
to be borne " ; or again, Dr. Weir Mitchell :
" I find it
hopeless to describe in language, the beauty and splendour
of what I saw," it is evident that the experience runs up
far beyond what we can call interesting, even at its highest.
In the case of the last writer referred to, he says that he
was " critically attentive, interested, and curious," and it
may be noted that curiosity is another emotion produced
by the visions. It leads often to attempts to control,
which wiU be considered in the proper place (see
Section XII.).
IX. Companion Phenomena.
Although hitherto only visual hypnagogic hallucinations
have been considered, the study is not complete without
taking into account those other sensory forms which occur
1 James, op. cit., ii. 117. 'Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 269.
3 Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IX. p. 121.
* Quoted in De Manaceine, op. cit., p. 240.
344 F. E. Leaning. [part
alternatively, or as accompaniments of them. These are
impressions of hearing, smell, and sensation, in the order
of their frequency, or perhaps it would be safer to say,
in the order of their frequency of mention. There is a
much smaller mass of data available for this further
study, but enough to show that a parallelism exists. An
analysis of Baillarger's thirty cases, ^ which formed his
own origmal contribution to the study of the then un-
named " etat intermediaire a la veille et au sommeil,"
shows that ten subjects both saw and heard, while fifteen
in all saw and twenty-two heard, two smelt, and five
experienced hallucinations of touch. The sexes were ten
men, eighteen women, and two not specified. If this
table were any indication, it would certainly point to
cases of hearing, either alone or in conjunction with other
sensory hallucinations, being quite in the majority. But
it cannot be altogether considered as on the same footing
with the experiences of the sane ; for persons who were
sane all their lives never became patients for a longer
or shorter time at the Salpetriere. Those who were
temporarily there, owing to shock (as of a workwoman, who
witnessed a murder) and others who began by having
hypnagogic visions for two or three years, and then
suddenly developed continuous or periodical hallucinations,
are instructive, because they form the link between the
quite sane typical hypnagogist and the quite insane
" hallucine." One old employe, who was not a patient,
gives his own account, and it resembles the ordinary
experiences in every point. It included voices as weU
as visions.
(1) Hypnagogic Sounds.—The question of auditory pheno-
mena has been discussed by Prof. Alexander, ^ and by
another author ^ who says his imagination is of the
auditory type. " Last night," he relates, under date
November 3, 1914, "I saw several persons standing
close together and heard them talking. The persons,
^ Mini, de VAcad. Roy. de MHecine, t. xii. pp. 476-516 (1846); pre-
viously in Ann. Mid.-Psy., t. vi. pp. 1, 168 (1845).
^Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 632.
3 Jolui Watson, Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. VII. p. 359.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 345
especially the faces, were indistinct, and probably the
words." Most of his experiences were after sleep. Have-
lock Ellis relates that " It has occasionally happened to
me that as I have begun to lose waking consciousness,
a procession of images has drifted before my vision, and
suddenly one of the figures I see has spoken," and he
was thereby startled into complete wakefulness.^ It is
not proposed to attempt anything like a complete outline
of this part of the subject, partly because it is too large
and merges into the general study of auditory hallucina-
tions as a whole. IVIr. J. Barker Smith has given ample
material out of his own experience for an analytical study
of voices, 2 though it would be necessary to distinguish
the hypnagogic from his other instances. The impression
conveyed is that there is something about them which
corresponds to the colour, perspective, etc., of the visual
images, and probably with sufficient data we might find
every point paralleled. In the meantime I will only add
here two examples from correspondents, which are more
clear-cut and mteresting than the foregoing, as com-
bining vision and voice. The first is from a professional
man, who, though often seeing, found this a " unique
"
vision. He writes :
" There was quite a company of
people about me, young women I beheve, who looked
towards me and passed on. One of them spoke. I heard
the voice distinctly, soft and clear. It said '
He isn't
asleep.' That is aU . . . I am certain I am not confusing
this with a dream." He had previously said that he
was prompted to turn up the fight and make a note of
this, but as the night was cold, and a keen wind blowing
through the open window, he did not. The account was
written a few days later. The second is from a lady
who sent me the description within a few hours of the
occurrence. It took place after a period of wakefulness
in the night, when she had just closed her eyes with
the desire to sleep.
1 Ellis, op. cit., p. 33.
* See his series of 17 articles on Clairaudience in the General Prac-
titioner, May 26-Sept. 22, 1900, and Medical Times, 1920-1923 (April).
346 F. E. Leaning. [part
Immediately on doing so the bows of a ship appeared
on the left hand side of the bed. A rather blurred light
fastened on the extreme point in front, under the ])ow-
sprit, lit the vessel up and made her look white, though I
thought she might not liave been. It was like moonlight.
She cut through the water, making little waves that broke
into foam. Twice the picture came, but only for a second
or two, and only the fore-part of the ship. I said it was
not so strange, as a friend had left a few days before for
a long voyage, and others were arriving, when quite clearly
and authoritatively a voice spoke on my right a little be-
hind my pillows :
" There's no occasion to warn her.
We've got one ship olf already." It was the voice of a
working man of the better class. •
These cases are in interesting contrast with a small
number which powerfully suggest sound, though sound
there comes none. For example, the lips that move as
though forming a word, the crowing cock, Cardano's
trumpeters marching with trumpets, as it were, in full
blast but soundlessly, the laughing men, and so on.
A curious but marked limitation of some sort is manifested
here. Those who combine the auditory power with the visual
have a richer content in their experiences, though Lelorgne
could have well dispensed with the vast chanting choruses
which tormented him.
With .
regard to music being heard in the hypnagogic
period, this is rarer than voices. Lady Berkeley mentions
the hearing of splendid organ music occasionally. Her
account is as follows, and presents several points of
interest :
I not infrequently hear bells (or something like bells)
mostly at night, and have often got out of bed, opened all
windows, etc., to ascertain whether they really were ring-
ing, only to be met by complete silence outside. (We live
on a hill, in extensive grounds and dominate the town of
Nice, having no near neighbours.) On returning to bed,
putting balls of wax in the ears and shutting all sounds
out with pillows, I hear again these grand organ-hke vi-
brations, which then often end by rocking me to sleep (so
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 347
to speak). In the same way I have at times heard musical
harmonies which I was able (if I hurried) to play, and
then write down. These harmonies always come in frag-
ments, and hitherto the missing bit has not been supplied
from " beyond," though a lady I know—and to whom I
played them—declares they are the same as have been
played to her complete by a musical medium she knows.
This medium (a man) doesn't know one note from the
other in his normal state, and can only play when under
the influence of one of his " guides." I have not heard
him, however, and shall not be sure the music is the same
till I have done so. One must make sure in all these
things. {Letter of March 29th, 1923.)
Apart from this interesting case the published instances
are of an exact auditory parallel to the cerebral after-
images of the eye. McMsh, for instance, heard a well-
known march ;
Maury has two cases of a similar sort.^
In the first, he had been visiting Paul Delaroche, an
artist at whose house Ambroise Thomas had given an
improvisation. Lying long sleepless that night, he dozed
and heard as in the distance several long and beautiful
passages, which he says his poor musical memory would
never have permitted of his recalling in the waking state.
On a second occasion, lying on the deck of a steamer
bound for Staffa, his eyes closed, he re-heard the air
which the blind piper had performed on the bagpipes
on the previous evening. There is possibly here some
connection with the fact that most people are famiKar
with, of the tyranny of a rhythm or tune over the
mental machinery, with the difference that the one is
re-heard, while the other is, though involuntarily, recalled.
This division, though very slight, would not be complete
without a mention of Dr. Hodgson's case, given by
Myers,^ and illustrating in his work " the heightening
of sensory faculty in dream." The dream-music, however,
persisted into the waking consciousness for as long as
a quarter of an hour, and was therefore truly hypno-
pompic. It was " very rich, very sweet," coming in the
1 Maury, op. cit., p. 90. ^ Human Personality, i. 369.
348 F. E. Leaning. [part
auroral hour, and dying away as the hght grew. " No
pleasure that I have ever had in hearing music before
or since," says Hodgson, " was at all comparable with
the exquisite peaceful joy which flooded me as I listened
to that music then."
(2) Hypnagogic Smells.—Mrs. Haweis's flight of great
pink roses was accompanied by a scent which was " over-
powering " ; and in the extreme rarity of this hallucination
her case is unfortunately all but unique. There is only
one other (on record at present) of a nice scent. This
occurs among ]\Irs. Tweedale's beautiful little series of
complex hjrpnagogic experiences, as they evidently are,
though not apparently recognised as such by her. Speak-
ing of her childhood she says :
^
On hot velvety nights in Jmie a curious scent of smoke
would come to me, the measured hollow beating of bells,
and a tremulous far-away piping. Years after, I stood
alone one evening on the slopes of Etna, amid the pale
asphodels and the desolation of tumbling lava-fields, and I
heard the pipes of Pan, the reed pipe of the herd boy, and
linked the past with the present. Again, passing through
a region where the smoke rose from the charcoal burners'
fires, the scent of an ancient memory came vapouring up,
the unfamihar scent that puzzled my childhood. . . .
The bells she explains as the ring of camel bells when a
caravan broke camp at dawn. These two kinds of sensory
hallucination, though separate, are given together here
for the sake of unity. It is remarkable that the memory
of a scent should have endured for so many years, but
it conforms to the greater strength of impressions in
childhood, frequently implied in adult accounts.
Maury's old servant who often smelt burning ^ (of which
she had a dread), his old countryman who smelt a horrible
stench which he said might be the smell of the Devil,
considering the kind of faces that it accompanied, and
Lelorgne's " odeur fetide," make up a group which would
be the better of some sweetening. Several of Baillarger's
^Ghosts I hMve Seen, p. 14 (1920). ^ Maury, op. cit., pp. 66, 98.
xoiv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena. 349
cases included smelling, but none were agreeable. In
Mr. Griinbaum's auto-suggested phenomena ^ when he had
asked for the perfume as well as the sight of flowers,
it win be remembered that the flowers were in coloured
cotton wool, on the toes of sUppers, and " then all at
once I get the most fearful stink in my nose, as I never
had before. I puU myself out of it with a start." But
eleven days later, when a hand holding a rose on a long
stem is shown, he says : "I smell during the time of
one inhalation a very intense smell of beautiful roses.
It smelt much nicer than ever a real rose could smeU."
And he adds in a note :
" Still a while afterwards I had
that dehcious smell in my nose." Yet another possible
example is that of the late Vincent Turvey, the author
of Beginniyigs of Seership (p. 86). He had had a theo-
logical contretemps with a seller of Christian Evidence
literature in the morning, who had left some unpleasant
impressions behind, for " On lying down in the after-
noon," says Mr. Turvey, " I suddenly saw three or four
'
devils '
in the room—typical orthodox fiends. Men with
goats' legs, cloven hoofs, little horns just over their ears,
tails, and claw-hke hands. In colour they were entirely
brown, like ordinary brown paper. I sat up to see if
I were dreaming ..." When a few minutes afterwards
they disintegrated or dissolved, " the reader must imagine,"
he adds, " a cloud of steam, laden with fine dust made
from cardboard, for that was the colour and the smell,
as nearly as I can describe them, of these creations of a
mind which believed (etc.)."
(3) Sensations.—Logically this subsection should present
examples of tactile hallucinations which would compare
with those of seeing, hearing, and smelling ; but this is
not proposed for the reason that no such examples can
be found. The only approach to them is in INIr. Griin-
baum's self-induced sensations, as of his bed tilting and
rocking, 2 and some of Baillarger's cases already referred
to. 3 Five of these experienced touch, it is true, either as
iProc. S.P.R., Vol. XXVII. pp. 395-6.
2 Proc. S.P.B., Vol. XXVII. p. 404. See Section IX. (p. 344).
350 '
F. E. Leaning. [part
a feeling of being slowly immersed in water, dragged
round the neck, etc. (Case XXI., from Casauvielh), or a
painful torment, on lying down, of pricks, cuts, pinches
(Case XXVI.), or a sense of cold water poured over the
head (Case IV.), or the Devil holding a woman by the
feet (Case XVII.), and so on. But none of these people
was in the normal condition which our hypnagogic subjects
have been in so far, without exception. And though it
is true, as Dr. Michea pithily remarks ^ that " L'hallucine
n'est pas fou " (and he had made a study of 123 cases),
yet it is well to keep quite on the far side of the line
that separates the hallucinations of the insane, even if
only partially and temporarily so, from those of the
undoubtedly healthy-minded. :
For this reason " sensations " are here limited to those
physical feelings which accompany the exercise of seeing
or hearing hypnagogic phenomena, and which are internal,
not simulating any such as would be caused by an
objective stimulus. One of these was the result
(apparently) of exercising indirect control over the subject
of the pictures seen. The experiment is given in full
in the Section on Control (see p. 367 infra).
But next morning I was very tired, and had an odd
feeling in the very middle of my head, as of coldness, that
extended down the forehead to between the eyes. I have
not been able to induce these conditions again. Thought
forms were moulded and produced by the act of wishing
them to be. It was a curious experience, and an ex-
hausting one, for some reason.
This instance has the merit of being entirely spon-
taneous ; the following is in contrast with it, being the
account given me by a lady following the spirituaHstic
advice to " sit for development." She writes :
My sensations as I sit may interest you. They are alto-
gether very remarkable, and I attribute them to spirit
agency as developing my psychic power. Sometimes I get
very hot, hands and face, and my cheeks feel as if being
1 Mem. de VAcad. Roy. de Mddecine, t. xii. p, 267.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 351
kneaded like dough. Then I am conscious of a working
in my brain, and sometimes I am left with a kind of ner-
vous headache, which quickly dissipates. Another time I
get deadly cold. I feel the cold creep upwards until my
internal organs seem like ice, and my arms and back feel
as if a breeze is blowing over them. Then ... I get a
sensation of plunging upwards. . . . My lips keep twitching,
but I am fully conscious, and it is not altogether unpleas-
ant. I have the same leaping in my brain, and as I am
writing have felt it three or four times.
No such sensations are described as accompaniments
by the observers of the " faces in the dark " generally,
however, nor by clairvoyants, although it is interesting
to find Dr. Barker Smith speaking of " surging pressures,
benumbing sensations of metallic coldness at the forehead,
pressures sufficient to cause cerebral haemorrhage," as
the accompaniments of auditory hallucinations.^ All these
" sensations " should be taken in conjunction with the
data alluded to in Sec. XVIII. (Interior Vision).
X. The Hypnopompic Vabiety. ;
The use of this term has been criticised by two of
our authorities, in ways which are in opposition to each
other, and which more or less ignore the source and
meaning of the name. Havelock Ellis, ^ considering only
that the state of semi-consciousness is similar, whether
before or after sleep, says that it is " pedantic and not
necessary " to use two terms for it ; and if the aim
were merely to characterise a condition of consciousness,
that might be true. Prof. Alexander,^ however, says that
in his own case he detects no similarity between the
phenomena of the hypnagogic and hypnopompic periods,
implying that they are supposed to be identical in type,
but that he does not find them so ; and we shall see
on examining them in bulk that this is true of a certain
^Medical Times, April 1923, p. 61. 1
2 " A Note on Hypnagogic Paramnesia," in Mind, vol. vi. p. 284
(footnote 2) (1897).
^ Proo. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 032. .v. n r. -j \- i ;
z
352 F. E. Leaning [part
group. There are certain broad differences, which are
easily distinguishable.
But Myers, when originating the term,^ practically
limited it to " pictures consisting generally in the per-
sistence of some dream-image into the first moments of
waldng," and emphasised the fact that these " originate
in sleep, while in illusions hypnagogiques the vividness
belongs to an intermediate phase." This distinction has
been lost sight of, or rather " hypnopompic " has been
used to characterise all after-sleep or half-waking hallucina-
tions, and cvistom has confused them with the distinct
species of the " intermediate phase." A separate word
was certainly w^anted to stand for the persisting dream-
imagery, as the number of examples shows. Thus Taine,
for instance, on waking up : "I have often seen, for a
passing moment, the image grow pale ... a fragment of
landscape or the skirt of a dress appear still to float
over the fire-irons." ^ Taine considered this a frequent
experience. Gurney, on the contrary, had come to the
conclusion that less than one per cent, of the population
will be found to exemplify it.^
After-Images Again.—Before passing to the consideration
of true hypnopompic images, within the Umits of Myers'
definition, we may notice that one of the features common
to the before- and after-sleep states is the seeing of
cerebral after-images. A number of such cases have
already been referred to in a previous section (see p. 307
supra). Prof. Vignoli's vision in the very early morning,
on the ceiling, of a trelhsed balcony with ivy and creepers
adorning the pillars and a swinging bird-cage in the
middle, which he had actually seen two days before,
may be added here. It could not be seen with closed
eyes, and it appeared in its natural colours. But almost
all the other cases are not of scenes in picture form,
1 Human Personality, vol. i. p. 125.
^ Taine, cited by James, op. cil., ii. 120. Cp. also Mtiller, p. 1394:
" on waking too, in a dark room, it sometimes happens that images
of landscapes and similar objects still float before the eyes."
3 Phantasms of the Livimj, i. 391 (footnote). He gives four cases
from his own collection.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 353
but of figures. Thus the narrator of one,^ dozing on a
hot summer afternoon, sees on waking (witliout a previous
dream) a fleeting view of a man on the opposite side
of the warehouse floor, a straw hat worn towards the
back of his head, standing regarding some papers in his
hand. He found that the man was accustomed to stand
so, in that place. The vision is regarded as " the clothing
of an emergent memory." Thus Dr. Bastian told Dr.
Hack Tuke of his waking after the first sleep and seeing,
as though he were still in his study, the figure of his
landlady's little fair-haired child standing by the door.^
Dr. Hack Tuke's own relative, who on three occasions
saw a recognised dream-figure after awaking, Burdach's
vision of his dead daughter in a similar way,^ Maurj^'s
of his maid-servant in her white apron,* the Rev. E. H.
Sugden's of a man whom he knew well and tried to
kick on awaking,^ all exemplify this point, and all have
the common feature of the figure being seen in normal
spatial connection with the surroundings. The fact of
recognition, whether begun in dream or not, also marks
them as belonging to the " cerebral after-image " group.
It will be convenient now to deal with hypnopompic
visions in two groups, the first being confined to per-
sisting dream-images, strictly according to Myers' rule,
and the second not having any marked connection with
dream, but resembling more the hypnagogic type. In this
way the distinction between the two will come out broadly.
(1) The Strict Type.—^The classical example of a hypno-
pompic hallucination is Spinoza's, given by himself in a
letter to Peter Balling, the translator of Spinoza's Prin-
ciples of Descartes' Philosophy. The translation is that
of his biographer, Sir Fredk. Pollock.®
One morning, as I woke oiit of a very heavy dream (it
being already day) the images which had come before me
in my dream remained before my eyes as livelj'' as if they
^ Jour. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 183. ^ Brain, xi. 449.
^ Die Physiologic, iii. 504 ; cited by de Manaceiine, p. 278.
* Maury, op. eil., p. 81 (footnote). ^ Phantasms, i. 390.
^Spinoza, His Life and Philosophy, ed. ii. p. 56 (1912).
354 F. E. Leaning. [part
had been the very things, and especially that of a scurvy
black Brazilian, whom I had never seen before. This image
vanished for the most part when, in order to divert my-
self with somewhat else, I cast my eyes on a book or any
other thing ; but so soon as I removed my eyes from
their object withoiit looking with attention any^vhere the
image of this same negro appeared as lively as before, and
that again and again, until it vanished even to the head.
To this category belong also de Manaceine's visions
of the image of Christ, crowned wdth thorns, of which
the change of expression, from profound sadness to "a
mild and joyous smile," continued when awake, in morning
light ; and her other vision of the Imperial Russian
Standard in the national colours, of which the details
(the eagle, two large golden tassels, etc.) were visible to
her in absolute darkness, but with open eyes,i on waking.
Striinipell's dream by a lady of a coffin with a mass
of blue flowers,2 Gruithuisen's of lightning, and the books
in a library, seen moving from left to right,^ both given
by this author, may be added to Gurney's examples *
of the undergraduate's green figure, the lady's blue watch-
face. Miss Bidder's nightmare demon, and Abercrombie's
baboon.^ In several of these it is explicitly stated that
they were seen with the eyes open, and this seems true
of hypnopompic visions as a class. In particular it
characterises that little group which is singled out by
the presentation of the image in its complementary colour.
Of such occurrences as spontaneous, in the dream and
after-dream, there are three good examples :
(a) Meyer's little yellow dog, which was light when
biting him in the dream, but dark in the waking state ;
^
1 Op. cit., p. 280.
2 Die Natur. u. Entstehung d. Traimic, pp. 125 et eeq. ; de Manaceine,
p. 329 (bib.); Si.illy, Illusions, p. 144. ... _
-,.
i Beit. z. Phys., p. 232.
« Phantasms, vol. i. pp. 390, 391 (footnote).
i Intellectual Poivers, ed. xxi. p. 278 (1882); quoted in De Boismont,
On Hallucinations, p. 170 (1859).
» Phys. d. Nerv., pp. 239 et seq. '
'•
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 355
(6) Gruithuisen's often-quoted " beautiful violet colour
produced by laying fluorspar on glowing coal," ^ from
which he woke "blinded as though by a ray of sun-
light," and which became gradually violet-black and
remained after opening his eyes ;
and
(c) Drummond's "two-handled vase of a beautiful
and classical pattern," which was green in the dream
drawmg-room where she saw it, but showed red on re-
closing her eyes after wakmg.^ Meyer (H. G.) and
Fere are often mentioned as the only examples of the
experimental production of this effect, Meyer obtaming
the negative of his silver stirrup, and Fere, with pro-
longed efiort and .
difficulty, the figure of a red cross,
becoming green. ^ This seems to be the work of the same
faculty, only evoked and trauied laboriously, which dwells
easUy and naturally in a far higher degree in those who
can perform the "voluntary projection" of images,
previously referred to (see p. 307 swpra).
(2) The Hypnagogic Type.—In the preceding group,
with perhaps the exception of the Hbrary books, none
of the twelve instances shows change, multipHcity of con-
tent, processional movement, miniature size, or picture-form,
as such; and for the rest, they contrast, as before men-
tioned, in being seen with open eyes, as spatially related
to the spectator's actual surroundings, and very commonly
in Ught. They are truly single persisting elements from
the dream state, and authorities differ as to the relation-
ship of the other visions to those of dreams. Dr. William
McDougall, for instance, in his classification of hallucina-
tions," admits the hypnagogic, but is doubtful if dreams
should have a place in the table at all, while Dr. van
Eeden definitely disallows the identity of the two, of
both of which he had ample personal experience (see
his " Study of Dreams," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXVI. p. 435).
Perhaps a criterion may roughly be found in the fact
iQp. cit., p. 256; quoted in Parish, Hallucinations and Illusions, p. 128.
Also in Ann. Mid.-Psy., vii. 9; and Maury, op. cit., p. 76, etc.
2 Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 146.
" Animal Magnetism, p. 254 (Int. Sci. Ser.).
* Encyclopedia Britannica, ed. xi., art. "Hallucinations."
356 F. E. Leaning. [part
tliat in dreams the dreamer is part of all the scenes and
doings, but in the hypnagogic state he is always a beholder
only, and knows that he is not in the scenery or the
view. As soon as he seems to be elsewhere than in Ms
own chaii' or bed, we may suspect that the border-Une
has been passed and actual dreaming has begun.
The second group, then, consists of a species of visions
approximating much more closely to those of the pre-
sleep stage than to those we have just been surveying.
A few have already been referred to in connection with
other points. Mrs. Alaric Watts (see p. 312 supra) often
saw on wakuig suddenly the strange symbohc figures,
with explanations of their meaning on scrolls or shields.
The second example given under the sub-division " Designs
and Objects " (p. 320 swpra),^ as well as three given to
illustrate movement (p. 331 supra), consisting of a panorama
of objects or landscapes, belong here. The young gentle-
man whose experience was as follows ^ had it frequently
from the age of twelve. " I have often," he says, " when
waking in middle of the night, found the room apparently
blazing with light, heard loud music, generally of a band,
and seen a number of men and women, generally dancing
or in rapid motion." This lasted some five to ten seconds,
and the room seen was a strange one, not his own, nor
could he ever recognise the dancers. Baillarger's thir-
teenth case is of a wine merchant who was wakened
towards midnight by black devils, large and small, and
by visionary men and women dancing in his cellar,
which lasted till nearly six in the morning and prevented
him from sleep. A pretty and typical instance is that
of a little boy who saw on the ceiling, as he lay in his
cot in his parents' bedroom, a procession of white cocks
with red wattles, which " glided backwards in single file
along the roof before my eyes, and disappeared one after
another, behind the curtain of my mother's bed without
making any motion, except that each cock, just before
it disappeared, went through all the motions of crowing,
1 This lady says she saw with closed eyes, but most frequently afier
sleep.
"Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 82.
xciv.] Introductory Stvdy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 357
but emitted no sound." He considers that they were
suggested by the toy cocks in stucco which he had seen
in a crockery shop ; some days afterwards, however, his visions
were of other toys, soldiers, horses, etc., but they were
" perfect in form, coloured hke nature, and moved natur-
ally. The horses trotted, the wheels turned round, the
men walked, and so on. These I contmued to see in
great numbers many days." ^
It is possible that the recognition of the source of
the last processions has been supphed by the elderly
narrator, rather than that it was a matter of experience
to him at the early age at which they appeared.
This sub-division may be completed by a reference to
Cardano's fine miscellany of hypnopompic pictures, which
included castles, houses, animals, horsemen, men in varied
garb, soldiers, crowds, groves, forests and many other
things, passing swiftly in circular form (see Appendix A
for original Latin). He was aged from four to seven years
when this occurred.
, j . .
• XI. Memory.
AU attempts at accounting for the existence of hypna-
gogic phenomena must begin by a consideration of any
normal and obvious causes ; and the most simple and
primary question that suggests itself is as to the familiarity
or otherwise of the subject-matter. As memory is the
most fundamental and constantly exercised faculty of
conscious being that we possess (since without it the
sense of personal identity itself becomes uncertain), we
naturally turn to it for an explanation, in part at least,
of the phenomena under consideration.
But one of the most striking and surprising facts
about our witnesses is the absence of what we should
expect to be most in evidence, the abihty to recognise
and " place " them in relation to the vast host of visual
recollections which even the most unobservant adult must
have accumulated. They not only are not placed, but
many expressly state that they have certainly never
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 151. By the Rev. A. H.
358 F. E. Leaning, ''
[part
seen the things presented at all, as the following collection
shows. . - ' .
• -. :.;
Sir John Herschel :
" No reference or resemblance to
any objects recently seen or even recently thought of."
Greenwood :
" strikingly distinctive, but never remem-
bered."
Bostock : "Not in a single instance any object with
which he had been previously acquainted."
Gurney's correspondent :
" always unknown faces."
Gurney's acquaintance : "on no single occasion ... a
known face." ^
" D " :
" like nothing I have ever seen in life or art." ^
Mrs. Willert :
" never recognised any place in many." ^
Galton's friend :
" no resemblance to any scenery I have
ever looked upon."
Stead: "houses . . .that resembled nothing that I had
ever seen in house architecture." (See in fidl, p. 296 supra.)
Galton's relative :
" no face ever resembled any ac-
quaintance."
Mrs. Haweis : (of the Rose vision) was never in the
country but once (during childhood) and might almost say
that she " had never seen a rose." * .
>j
Herrick ;
" These views rarely or never contained recog-
nisable elements, nor could there be traced any association
with real or imaginary places." ^
Alexander : "no discoverable connection between the
images and my concurrent reading, interests, or activities
"
(p. 624) ;
" not memories . . . not things seen or previously
imagined "
(p. 630).6
Mrs. Arnold-Forster :
" they represent places that I have
never seen, although they are sometimes more or less like
places that are known to me."
Spinoza :
" whom I had never before seen."
' He refers also to the writers in tlie St. James's Gazette, one of them
Greenwood, then writing anonymously.
^ St. James's Gazette, Feb. 15, 1882. ^Phantasms, i. 474.
^ Galton, op. cit., p. 166. . .•
.
•
^ Jour. Com.p. Near., July 1895; quoted by de Manac6itne, p. 240.
0 Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 359
From the narratives given in the Journal of the S.P.R.,
I take the following :
—
"Never the faces of friends or well-known people."^
" Cannot remember ever to have seen them (the
pictures) in reahty."
" Always faces of people miknown to me." ^
" Could not remember having seen any scenes exactly
like this." (See in full, p. 295 su-pra—-the Cottage in Circle
case.)
" Faces always those of persons unknown to me ;
the
scenes are unfamiliar but commonplace." ^
" Cannot say that I recognised any of the pictures or
persons." *
" Faces always new, never those of friends." ^
Next to these examples, given in full tale to emphasise
the majority which they form, come the far scantier
ones in which perhaps a single exception vitiates the
unqualified " never " or " always " which predominates in
the type as a whole. Thus Miiller says :
" They rarely
take the shape of recognisable realities." ^ A writer in
the Journal S.P.R. speaks of having only twice recognised
the faces as those of living friends, and says " memory
has nothing to do with it " {i.e. the seeing in general).'
Lang gives a single exception in his own list of seers. " I had
visited Carlisle Castle, and remarked the heraldic bearings
carved in miniature on the door lintels by prisoners of old.
Not long afterwards I saw them distinctly in a hypnagogic
illusion." ^
Among my correspondents several use such expressions
as " faces, known and unknown," " some recognised, some
not," " sometimes recognised," " sometimes friends," but
these are either professed spiritualists or persons who
have seen " the faces " since beginning the process called
" sitting for development " or sitting in a circle ; those
1 Vol. IV. p. 276. 2 Vol. VIII. p. 158.
^Yo\. VIII. p. 269. *Vol. VIII. p. 271.
=^
Vol. VIII. p. 295. ^ Phant. Gesicht., quoted by Ladd.
^ Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 170.
* Thomas, Crystal Oazinij, Intiod. p. xxx. -
360 F. E. Leaning. [part
who have always seen or do so without any exterior
suggestion or stimulus, like others, say they " never
recognise," or, as in the case of my Edinburgh corres-
pondent and the caves of Ellora, a solitary exception
may occur. This deviation from the normal rule in the
case of spiritualists is instructive as showing the influence
of expectation and belief, for it is the faces of the dead
whom they recognise, and not the living. In this con-
nection, however, even Maury belongs to " cette galere,"
for he says (p. 86) :
" Ainsi je vis naguere assez souvent
la figure de mon pere, que j'ai pourtant perdu depuis
bien des annees puisqu'il est mort en 1831.^ Ses traits
se presentaient a mon oeil clos avec cette meme vivacite
qu'ils ont to ajours eu dans les nombreux reves ou il
m'est apparu."
In spite of the fact that Maury must head the hst
of exceptions, since he claims so often to have recognised
the objects and places which he saw, yet he is obUged
to admit that he was also visited by crowds of " pure
fantaisie " and " figures fantastiques," and saw pictures
of things which he had seen unconsciously, — "a mon
insu "—and very strange altered reproductions of things
seen (p. 69). So that even with him, in spite of Ms
theory to the contrary, recollections were not " le cas le
plus habituel." I find, indeed, only one other witness, a
writer in the Journal S.P.R.,^ who was in the habit of
seeing at night things that had made an impression on
him during the day, such as dead leaves, after a long
day in the forest, strawberries, etc., and the faces of
friends and relatives very distinctly, but he tells of having
once seen, at the age of seven or eight, " an ugly old
woman " whom he connected with some childish mis-
behaviour ; and at the time of writing he had almost
ceased to see any visions.
The cases of cerebral after-images, already given in
previous sections (see supra, pp. 306 and 352), are of
course very definitely memory-images ;
they contrast with
all the rest by the exactitude of detail which they display
1 This was written at the earliest in 1848. ^ Vol. IV. p. 277.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 361
and which can be consciously corroborated. That they
occur during the hypnagogic period, and possibly by means
of the same mechanism, may be due to some other cause
than that which produces those phenomena themselves.
Because the general conclusion which we are invited by
the foregoing body of evidence to deduce, seems to be
that the known or the expected shall not form any part
of the visions ; and that, whatever their source, it is not
from the reserves of the conscious mind that they are
drawn. There seems, indeed, beyond tliis even, to be
some sort of recalcitrancy that meets us whenever a
particular desire is in question. For example : A. G. A.
describes how he had for many years cultivated a " picture
memory," training himself to make mental observation
of scenes to such an extent as to be able, with the
help of brief memoranda, to paint them from memory.
But the act of concentrating on such scenes at night
had the effect of bringing up the other kind. " The
remarkable thing was," he says, " that these pictures not
only never resembled the scenes I would have liked to
see, but they never resembled any people or faces that I
had ever seen." Again, a correspondent tells me that
she was undergoing " magnetic " treatment for insomnia,
and the practitioner would " suggest " various objects,
but she " invariably sees things that are entirely different
from what he suggests," and which it interests and
surprises him to hear about ! IMr. Griinbaum, also, in his
numerous auto-suggestions had bat a minimum of success.
Dr. Woolley summarizes the case thus :
" With the rarest
exceptions, the vision which Mr. Griinbaum actually
experienced was not the one that he wished for and
expected " (and frequently was helping by his own visual-
isation) and " sometimes, as in the smell of the carpet
shppers, it was just the reverse." ^ Again, when Prof.
Alexander was trying to form a distinct memory image
of an Academy picture by Henner, of a girl in a red hood,
the vision that came was the bicycle scene with two
young people (see supra, p. 326, Scenes). Lang offers yet
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XXVII. p. 399.
362 F. E. Leaning. [part
a further example in his own experience of hypnagogic
images. " Sometimes when they occur," lie says, " I try
to call up '
the face I shall not see,' or rather the faces,
now so many, of those whom we have lost awhile. But
this proves impossible. The unknown, the uncalled for,
the unexpected strange faces, fair or hideous, sweep past ;
never, never once, the faces of our desire." ^ This is
not the work of the " law of reversed effort " but what
one might almost call a " law of perversity," the first
cousin to that trick of memory which makes one forget
a well-known name or address upon being suddenly asked
for it. The angry exclamation of the Procktophantasmist ^
to Faust and the phantom crowd on Walpurgis Night,
who persist in ignoring him :
"That devil's crew, they pay no attention to rules,"
is very often appropriate to hypnagogic hallucinations.
XII. Control. . . ,-
The point just considered, of the response or absence
of response to the wish of the perceiver, connects very
closely with the question of control. We should review
here all that has been said about the suddenness, the
spontaneity, and independence of the visions, and how
they sometimes waken the drowsing consciousness with
a shock, as INIr. Fielding-Ould says. Many have testified
to the wilfulness which makes the phenomena entirely
unamenable. A correspondent, wishing to supply me with
the very latest and most recent data about his own
experience, writes in despair that the " furtive beings
"
which lurk in his brain-cells (as he dramatically puts it)
refuse to come out and play. " I have insisted and com-
manded, begged and pleaded," but without result. A
well-known author and member of the S.P.R., however,
told me recently that he had only to say to himself
that he would hke to see " the pictures " and they come ;
but this is exceptional. As a rule they will neither be
1 Thomas, Crystal Gazing, Introd. p. xxix.
^i.e. Nicolai ; see MiXller, op. cit., p. 1397. - :
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 363
commanded nor invited ; if watched, they " go out instant-
ly " ^ or whirl about so rapidly as to make observation
very hard.^ Observers learn a certain cunning. " Warned
by frequent experience," says Taine, " I know that sleep
is coming on, and that I must not disturb the rising
vision : I remain passive, and in a few minutes it is
complete."
Some writers speak of children as having an advantage ;
Dr. Clarke, for instance, goes as far as to write ^ " Many
children, especially very young children, possess the power,
when they have closed their eyes in the dark, of surround-
ing themselves, by a simple act of volition, with a pano-
rama of odd sights. . . . Most children who possess this
power like to exercise it and see the show which they
can call up in the darkness." He mentions a case known
to him where the (then elderly) man had done this " by
an act of vohtion," but as manhood approached, he adds,
" he lost the power, and although he has frequently tried
since childhood, to people the darkness in the old way,
he has never been able to do so." He himself speaks
of having " possessed the power of voluntarily summoning
such companions about me," but says again, " it was
only on rare occasions that I could do so by an act of
volition." He generally had to wait for the phantoms
to come of themselves, and after childhood had passed
never succeeded, even with frequent endeavours, in obtain-
ing any results. Perhaps here the fact that children are
more liable to the visions, as is known, has caused them
to be credited with powers which are really far more
hmited. De Quincey's child, for instance, could get them
to go when he told them, " but sometimes they come
when I don't tell them to come." Dr. Clarke's old lady
had suffered their coming when it was no pleasure to
her, and she was, unhke the boy, not able to " tell them
to go and they go." Whenever children are frightened
by their seeing, they would certainly use their volition
to protect themselves, if they could. Mrs. Haweis who
^ S. M. B. in Occult Review. ^ Prof. Henslow.
3 Visions : a Study of False Sight, p. 212. . -
"
364 F. E. Leaning. [part
was not frightened, but pleased, could not prevent the
smothering of her roses by the blocks, or the diminishing
of the vision as she grew older.
Other adult testimony is in line with this. Thus
Margaret Deland says she has no power to call up the
scenes, and Galton's friend's words are very emphatic :
" So far from depending on any voluntary effort of the
mind," he says, " they remain when I often wish them
very much to depart, and no effort of the imagination
can call them up." A doctor of Harvard says : "As I
nearly approach the condition of ordinary sleep, I reahse
that I have given up all voluntary control over the action
of my mind." ^ The lady of the "globe pictures," ^
testifies that she has never, by an effort of will, been
successful in summoning any apparition. " They come
a.nd go in their own way." "It is the essential nature
of these '
visions,' " says Mrs. Arnold-Forster,^ " that no
exertion of will can summon them at our pleasure, and
that, as far as we can tell, they are wholly independent
of our control." " They cannot," says Fielding- Ould, " be
conjured up at will . . . the thing vanishes, and refuses
to be reconstructed by the working mind for further
scrutiny." " I never could command them," says A. G. A.
" Cannot be controlled," says Dr. Weir Mitchell. Prof.
Henslow, who made the most determined efforts, says
that visual objects in the full career of the change " are
imperative in their refusal to be interfered with." Green-
wood concurs. Lang says, " I cannot command or modify
the forms."
These dozen or so of hypnagogists represent the entirely
negative aspect of the connection of the conscious will
with the visions. It is proper to see what can be said
on the other side, and to turn to such examples as we have
of control : for they do exist, though not in large numbers.
The simplest form is the repetition of a picture already
seen. This is difficult, but the seer of the " Cottage in
the Circle " (see supra p. 295) succeeded, though she
iJowr. S.P.R., Vol. IX. p. 121. ^ p^^c. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 76.
^ Op. cit., p. 164.
xciv.] Introductory Stvdy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 365
says, " the result was very feeble compared to the first."
A. G. A. speaks of never being able to get them to
recur " more than three or four times at most "—which
is exceptionally often, considering that the usual experience
is like that of Mrs. Willert :
^ (" can never recall the
same picture however much I try "). Another attempted
form of control is in the change of subject-matter; Burdach
is reported to have been able to change " hideous and
terrifying faces " to figures of kaleidoscopic character
by concentrating liis attention on architectural views.
^
Prof. M. relates ^ that after the first spontaneous appear-
ances (produced by the impression made by the Great
Exhibition of 1851) his will " used often to help them
on," although he could not always get them when he
wanted to. Sir John Herschel's landscapes were seen
" within Mmits variable at wUl," while one of the writers
in the Journal'^ says also, "I can dismiss these images
or change to a new series with a shght effort of will."
We may compare with this Mr. Deering's account, given
in full in the earlier edition of Phantasms of the Living,^
of his vision, while resting in the afternoon, of a scene
in a novel which his daughter was reading beside him.
He says that the " gardens, slopes, rivulets, and vai'ious
httle vistas," which he was accustomed to see in the
haK-waking stage could be dismissed at his bidding, and
immediately replaced by others, and remarks that his
control was " more immediate and more absolute " over
a change of figures than of scenes. On the occasion in
question after twice bidding the scene to go (as it con-
tained a coffin) and finding it persist, he decided to wake
fuUy, and so ended it.
The method of ending the vision by opening the eyes,
or by an involuntary return to full wakefulness, is a
form of " control," if it can be termed so, which is
more common than any other.
So far as direct voHtion goes, it evidently acts within
^Phantasms, i. 474. -De Manaceine, p. 239.
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 81. ^ Vol. VIII. p. 170.
5 Vol. i. p. 400. Not in the abridged edition, and inaccurately given
in Harrison's Spirits Before our Eyes, p. 84.
366 F. E. Leaning. [part
very circumscribed limits, if at all, with the majority.
The few persons who have deliberately induced the power
of seeing are in rather a different category. The artist
who saw decorative designs ^ carried on an educative
process for several years, beginning by willing to see letters
one by one, as if written in gold on a black ground ;
but this induced the true hjrpnagogic faculty, for she also
came to see faces, and frequently entire figures moving
in a landscape. Just the same thing happened with
Meyer, who after reaching the point at which he could
call before his eyes almost any object which he pleased,
and in its own natural colour and illumination, says
that some time after the pictures have arisen they vanish
or change into others " without my being able to prevent
it." ^ He also failed to see fancy objects " but familiar
ones came instead."
So far, all the examples adduced have been of direct
efforts made to affect the visions ; but we come now to
a little group in which more success is attained by the
indirect method of influencing the thoughts. The con-
clusion that this was the better way was arrived at by
Marie de Manaceine, who also illustrates it by the case
of a girl known to her, who by looking at a beautiful
picture before she went to bed managed to " drive away
the ugly faces " that otherwise would come.^ Maury
also has an example of the method of impressing a du'ec-
tion on the mind, when he saw a picture of Ingres'
" Odahsque " after thinking of the Marquis d'Hervey's
book (which occupied much of his attention) in which
odalisques are mentioned.* Prof. Alexander, who makes
the third salient feature of the visions the fact that they
are extraordinarily independent and unpredictable, and
that they come and go of themselves without apparent
interconnection, remarks :
^ " On occasion I have been
iJowr. S.P.R., Vol. Vm. p. 269.
- See his owii account quoted by James, Principles of Psychology, vol.
ii, p. 66.
3 Op. cit., p. 243. ^ Op. ci'., p. 81.
Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. HI. p. 022.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 367
able, not to influence wittingly, but to observe the in-
fluence of my thoughts upon the images : e.g. an image
appears, and I say to myself curiously '
That resembles
a frog (an alligator, or what not).' Forthwith the image
transforms itself into a frog." A very similar report is
given by Mr. Gheurj^ de Bray in his account,^ where he
also speaks of the things pictured as entirely beyond his
volition, as to the state that produces them, but partially
amenable to his volition when once begun. His type is
that of the continuous panoramic landscape, and this
could be modified, as from flat country to hilly, or adorned
with the blossoms of springtide fruit-trees, but the changes
were a natural development of what was already in
process. " If I '
willed '
an unUkely thing," he says, " it
did not come." But on the other hand, when he willed
to see a " crashed " aeroplane he did see it. Warcollier,
who tried an exactly similar experiment, failed. ^ Was
this because the one seemed to be in the air, and the
other, as normally, on the solid earth ?
A correspondent sends me a good illustration in detail
of just this " indirect " method, drawn from immediate
experience and unaffected by theory or the knowledge of
other people's methods. The type is different from the
panoramic, but resembles it in being of nature or still-
life, and occurring after the first sleep, but clearly not
a continuation of dream. One may note that the stopping
is as definite and unexpected as the beginning. In Mr.
de Bray's case the movement simply slows down and
so goes "pianissimo"; with this case it "vanishes"
and nothing further comes at all.
" The cnrious experience to which I alluded previously,
in which the will (or wish) was potent, I will now de-
scribe. It began by my being awakened suddenly from
sleep in the small hours by the barking of a neighbour's
dog ; when this happens, and not infrequently—the dog's
happiness and freedom being more considered than the
neighbours'—my night's sleep is shattered hke a pane
iJowr. S.P.R.. Vol. XX. p. 256, and Vol. XXI. p. 71.
2 La Telepathie, p. 191 (1921).
2 a
368 F. E. Leaning. [part
of glass, with no more hope of mendage, and nerves
go very much to pieces. This time I took myself severely
in hand, resolving to be calm, quite calm, and lay passive.
Presently I saw the big trunk of a tree, with mossy
roots, at the foot of the trees even several small indistinct
white objects. I wasn't sure what they were
—' Mush-
rooms, perhaps \
'
I thought—and they clearly became
mushrooms ! Then they shifted again—and '
No '
I thought
'
they are not mushrooms, they're Playing Caeds.' And
in a trice they became playing cards. I saw the black
and red pijjs on them ; then all gone. This was becoming
interesting and I waited for the next picture. It came
as a bank of dense plants, clumps like very large forget-
me-not plants—nothing else, only the leaves. I thought,
'
Now can I get these plants to blossom.' I had no sooner
formed the wish than I saw flowering stems and buds
pushing out from among the leaves ;
they grew by degree,
and unfolded. I was so thrilled I hardly dared to breathe.
A flower iinfolded of a kind quite unknown to me, yellow,
with some brown spots in the throat. About half a dozen
were in bloom and others in all stages, when it was
gone ! Most certainly I was not asleep. My mentality
was most keenly awake and absorbed in this quite new
development. '
If another comes,' I said to myself, '
I'll
try to get something alive.' Now this I think the most
interesting and inexplicable of all. There came a sort of
confusion and shaking in the darkness—indistinct bunches
that moved—then I saw hanging down several legs and
feet of game birds, the claws and scales on the legs
lifelike ; below them rose the head and forepart of a
little animal that looked like a rat, its head was turned
over, and the mouth open. I saw the pink tongue and
lips. Then all vanished. And I saw no more at all."
XIII. Significance.
This is to be taken as strictly limited to the inter-
pretation placed on the phenomena by the observers,
and not to the value of them in the abstract. The
significance is, in individual cases, of an entirely different
nature according as it is seen from the point of view of
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 369
personal relationships, or from that which it holds in
the estimation of the student, and quite possibly from
what it is in the natural order. Nothing more can be
claimed for it, than that the observer beheves or feels
or thinks that there is such and such a meaning in
the visions, and however valueless his or her opinion
may be, it is not a complete study that would ignore
or omit it altogether. For this reason, though there is
little to be said and that little is obscure owing to
the highly personal nature of the facts, yet it has its
place.
Thus one of my correspondents is convinced that the
scenes she sees are those of her own previous lives.
Where the belief in reincarnation already exists this is
very natural, and probably others share the idea, since
this is an age in which the ancient doctrine is not with-
out its followers. But the interest of the case lies in
the fact that a connected series of visions should occur,
since from all we have hitherto seen the opposite is
the rule. Upon enquiring how the subject knew the scenes
to have the connection ascribed to them, and whether
any sort of corroboration had been obtained, my in-
formant wrote that she was informed by her " guide
"
that the scenes were of her previous hves, that she
recognised the figure as herself in each picture in spite
of changes of dress, age, and surroundings, and that
no verification so far had been forthcoming. It is open
to debate whether this is a case of directive influence,
acting broadly, or not. Considering the countless series of
connected scenes which modern fiction, plays and films
provide, it is surprising that we do not get more of
such instances ; but it does not seem to be so.
Of a totally opposite sort is the conviction, of which
Mrs. Tweedale's is an example, that the scenes are pre-
monitory, and due to fall in the future at some time
If people 7nust somehow relate the visions to themselves
as having some kind of personal significance always,
and they cannot place them in their own previous ex-
perience, this is also a natural and reasonable point of
view. And the phenomena of premonitory dreams and
370 F. E. Leaning. '
[part
premonitory clairvoyance go so far to support the
possibility of visions of fut^^re surroundings taking place,
that no dogmatic negative can be pronounced on the
theory. At the same time common sense emphasises
the fact that as all such visions cannot reasonably be
brought under this explanation, and there is no test
but fulfilment to distinguish the true premonitory from
any others ; the belief ends where it begins, in private
personal opinion, and makes no contribution to our actual
knowledge.
Between the acceptance of hypnagogic visions as of
a possible past and a possible future, comes the third,
that of the actual present, and the extraordinary distinct-
ness and the living movement and detail of many of
the pictures give a reasonable basis for this idea, especially
in those who have heard more or less of clairvoyance
and have not made much study of hallucinations. Thus
Stead felt that what he saw " was not a picture—it was
there." The two scenes " simply came as if I had been
able to look through a glass at what was occurring
somewhere else in the v/orld. I had my peep and then
it passed." This would describe the impressions of many,
but the fleeting nature of the scenes, the impossibility
of proving definitely that what was seen was really
taking place, perhaps in some distant covmtry, makes
the obtaining of evidence insuperably hard. Since the
visions are usually at night, the day-time life of the globe
is removed many degrees from us, but as it never ceases,
that is no barrier to ghmpses of it reaching the minds
of those who are at the ultra-sensitive epoch of the
hypnagogic time.
The fact that this period is one of high suggestibility
is well estabhshed. Hudson ^ gives it a high place in his
method of mental therapeutics ; de Manaceine's experi-
ments, ^ and Baudouin's work on the principles of M.
Coue,^ illustrate it by practical examples. And visions
^ The Law o/ Psychic Phenomena, chap. xiv. (1893).
^ Sleep, pp. 199-218 (1897).
' Suggestion et Auto-suggestion, pt. ii. chap. ii. p. 106 et seq. (1921).
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 371
of recognised persons, in unknown conditions, also occur,
which, though they differ in this very particular (of
recognition) from the tjrpical hypnagogic hallucinations,
yet are thereby possible to prove as veridical. Three
such cases have been communicated to me ; in one a
lady says :
" Since writing to you last, one of my
sisters has been ill. I woke a few nights ago and saw
her and her bed, a facsimile, in my own room." In another
a mother saw her son, his eyes closed, leaning back in
a railway carriage, wearing a cap, all of which points
were contrary to his use and habit. But they turned
out to have been true of him at the time. A third case
I wiU give in full, by the kindness of my correspondent
in Edinburgh, whose uncoloured miniatures have already
been referred to (p. 338 supra). After the description of
these she continues :
" AU next day, Sunday 4th February, I saw two
roads, one behind a leafless beech-hedge, and great beech
trees beyond ; the other with snow everywhere, strange
trees and queer feathery bushes continually blowing
about, instead of the hedge. Into this latter scene came
a figure very Hke my husband, but the face was always
blurred. Also three men occasionally stood together, as
if to be photographed, but their faces were blurred.
There seemed often to be a vehicle moving along, but
I sensed it more than saw it. . . . I have written tliis
from my notes, but a curious thing has happened since.
My husband, who is in a lonely part of Northern British
Columbia, wrote and said he had a long and tedious
drive on a very rough sticky road on the Sunday, 4th
Feby." In reply to inquiries she wrote further : " I
am glad to be able to teU you I can absolutely verify
that it was in the snowy road I saw my husband's
figure coming towards me, also the three men. Tlu-ee
five in the next place to him, but their faces were blurred,
and though I know two of them, I had no feehng who
they were. I can also verify it was about three weeks
after that I heard from my husband that he drove home
that day. The roads being difficult, it took him a long
time. He has never mentioned driving to this place
372 F. E. Leaning. [part
before, but always going by train. The next letter men-
tioned willows, which I had never connected with the
place before, and the waving bushes might have been
willows." That the state of consciousness immediately
after sleep is one very favourable to telepathic impressions
received much illustration from the series of experiences
of this sort reported by Mr. Hubert Wales (in Proc. 8.P.R.
XXXI. 124 sq.). These scenes were strange to the
percipient, but recognised by Mr. Wales, e.g. his wood-
shed, garden, cat in the larder, etc., and many little
home intimacies quite unknown to Miss Samuels, who
saw and made notes of them " at all manner of un-
earthly hours, whenever she happened to wake." Note,
however, that attempts at definite thought-transference
failed (p. 127).
It would appear from such instances as these that
in the hypnagogic state pictures sometimes are those of
actual circumstances, though the proportion of such is
perhaps very small, and except by actual recognition
they cannot be distinguished from the melee which present
themselves.
A fourth pomt in the significance of the visions is
that they sometimes have a moral value for the percipient.
They might say, if they had a collective voice, " AU
for your dehght we are not here," but sometimes for
edification. Thus Mrs. Haweis connected the vision of
the roses with an " elevated spiritual state " ; Mrs.
Tweedale says of her childhood experiences, " Childish
days but sacred nights." Greenwood learned weighty
lessons from his "faces." Maury, as one might expect,
and others who think with him, attributes many visions
of the saints to this class. It is certainly the fact that
intimate spiritual lessons are conveyed to some in this
way ; but in the nature of the case they cannot be
made use of hke the rest. Sometimes a scene is allegorical
or a symbol ; such as (perhaps) the late Miss E. K.
Bates' vision of the swallows which she took to represent
a protective band of spirits,^ or Amanda Jones's of the
^ Seen and Unseen, pp. 45, 46, Pop. Ed. (1908). .
xciv.] Introductory Stvdy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 373
handsome cow with a foaming pail of milk, which typified
a cheque then on its way to her with needed financial
provision.^
In another instance,^ in which the appearance of a
black curtain sprinkled with minute red dots was seen
on five occasions, it served as a death omen for persons
(not relatives) in the neighbourhood or surroundings of
the beholder.^
XIV. Summary.
Out of the 120 instances described or referred to in
the foregoing, we may now place on one side, as of
subsidiary value, those few (ten at the most) which
illustrate the voluntary projection of mental images. They
are subsidiary because they employ definite volition
and the conscious use of imagination, and take place
usually in daylight and in full consciousness. AU these
points place them in contrast with the seeing of hypna-
gogic images. Next to these we may place on one side
a larger group of those who see (positive) cerebral after-
images of scenes or objects. The characteristics which
also separate these from hypnagogic visions are that,
first, they present exact and recognised details of some
recently-seen subject. In almost all the cases (17 in all)
the vision is of something that has made a marked
impression by means of its novelty or its requirement
of prolonged attention during the previous day. Secondly,
they are seen with open eyes, and in a few cases*
(Vignoli, Dr. Lombard) in daylight. Of these. Dr. Lombard
and the three persons with him were able to produce
the reproduction at will, and were certainly fully awake.
Psychic Autobiography, p. 221. The visions of Mrs. Alaric Watts
and " Mrs. W." (see pp. 356 and 338) were notably of this type.
^Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 244.
^ For an example of the readiness of some people to find " meanings "
for other people's visions, see Occult Review XI., 334 (" Dreamer ") and Ibid
XII., 51 (R. B. Span).
*That of Prof. Vignoli is quoted in Proc. S.P.R., Vol. X. p. 141, and Dr.
Lombard's is referred to on p. 307
374 F. E. Leaning. [part
The approximation to the hypnagogic pictures is chiefly
in those cases where the beholder was not only in the
dark but m bed, and therefore, in the nature of the
case, courting sleep ; but it has been remarked that
even then the subject-matter did not repeat itself on
subsequent nights, but only on the one occasion on which
the deepest, because the newest, impression, had been
made. ; ;
.
Next to the seeing (automatically) of after-images
should be reckoned all those cases which I have called
hypnopompic of the strict type. A person who has
once, or only on a few occasions, seen a dream-figure
prolong itself into the waking state, is not a subject
for studying hypnagogic phenomena from. These single,
usually motionless residua of dream, are seen with open
eyes, by daylight, and do not otherwise display the
marks of the other type, notably that of continual change,
and they are far briefer in duration.
Of the mass of typical cases which remain, an analysis
gives the following results as regards frequency.
Table of Frequency.
Per cent.
Once only ...... 6
A few nights ------ 5
Short period (weeks or months) - 3
Recently (since 1920) - . - . 5
In youth only (up to 20 years) 12
Occasionally ------ 5
Over a span of years - - . . 9
Frequently ------ 36
Life-long 16
At any time, on closing the eyes - 3
100
In this table none of Baillarger's cases have been in-
cluded, for reasons previously given, but the number
for " Short period " would then have been considerably
increased. Neither have the results of the children's
census been taken into account, because we cannot tell
what proportion of those children would cease to see
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 375
on reaching maturity. The distinction between " Fre-
quently " and " Life-long " is based on the statement
of each of the latter subjects that this was the case.
An analysis of the health conditions obtaining is given
below. In the majority of the cases no statement is
made, and the presumption is, therefore, that there was
no occasion for it. In eleven cases the witnesses have
mentioned that their health was good ;
Gurney's relative
was " very good " ; and several of my correspondents,
when not personally known to me, have yet given enough
internal evidence in their letters to enable them to be
placed with assurance. The small " delicate " class, who
are not ill and yet not robust, consists of Prof. M.
("in delicate health for a year ") ;
Herrick, who suffered
from insomnia ;
Maury, who suffered many iUs ; Dr. Clarke,
who gives enough internal evidence in his book to judge
by, and died of a luigering illness at the age of fifty-six ;
De Quincey and Lamb, who are both known to the
public fairly intimately. It will be noticed that they
are aU brain-workers of distinction.
Increased by Uluess ...... 1
Stopped by illness 1
When tired (3 " very tired ") - - - - 7
When " Not too tired " 1
When excited 1
In good health - - - - - - - 11
No coimection with health ----- 2
No statement : i.e. in good health - - - 62
As regards both physical sight and visuahsing power,
we are worse off for the purposes of enquiry than for
either frequency or health, since only 40 per cent, of our
cases give information on either point ; and it is less
permissible to take visuahsing abihty for granted in the
" Health Table.
Condition.
Delicate
Synchronising with illness
Per cent.
6
8
100
376 F. E. Leaning. [part
general average than to take health. So far as we have
data, however, the case stands as follows :
Sight and Visualisation.
Per cent.
Eyesight, good 27-5
,, bad (short, weak, almost gone) - - 12-5
Visualising power, good ..... 37-5
„ „ poor 22-5
100
If the proportions here indicated are any guide to the
remaining 60 per cent., both good sight and visualisation
predominate but are not indispensable.
The visions themselves form five main classes, beginning
with those of colour only, or a sense of diffused light,
and embracing all possible visual images. Those con-
sisting of scenes are often highly coloured, brilliantly
hghted, very distinct, miniature in size, and contain
numerous details, frequently of persons in movement,
especially towards the end of the hypnagogic period
when actual sleep supervenes. In the case of faces
alone, and fragments of the person, the process of form-
ing can be watched ; either as building up from cloudy
masses and bright spots, or as drawn in fiery or phos-
phorescent lines. In this they contrast with patterns,
landscapes, objects and complete figures, which are usually
presented entire. Change, with more or less rapidity, is
a mark of these pseudo-hallucinations. It is effected
either by transition from one figure to another, by fading
out and substitution, or by panoramic movement. They
are affected by any euttempt at conscious observation,
and then either disappear or become " impossible."
A small proportion, 12 per cent., have auditory hallu-
cinations, either accompanying the visual or predominating
over them ; still fewer have olfactory and tactile sensa-
tions. About 3 per cent, report internal sensations which
coincide with the seeing of the pictures.
The two points which offer the widest problem, and
on which there is most ground for at least stating the
case as to the significance and play of causes, are memory
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 311
and volition. The subject of memory, though 22 per
cent, of the accounts give no clue as to the recognition
or otherwise of the subject-matter, yet leaves a sufficiently
large number of those who do, to form some conclusions
upon. They admit of being analysed as follows :
Memory.
Per cent.
All matter quite unrecognised - - - 60-5
Unrecognised, with one, two or three ex-
ceptions ------- 5-215
Usually, or often recognised - - - - 20-25
Partially recognised and unrecognised - - 14-035
100
The above figures refer to the seers, and not to the
visions themselves. That is, only one-fifth, for instance, of
all who have described their visions have stated them to
be of recognised persons, places, or things, while three times
that number say that they never see the known or famiUar.
In respect of any command exercised by the wiU, it
is much more difficult to analyse the data than when
we are deahng with memory. A large number of people
(52 per cent.) do not indicate that they have ever
attempted in any way to control the hypnagogic visions ;
it has no more occurred to them than to try and alter
the course of a play on the stage or to rule their dreams.
And of the remainder, less than half have done so, either
with experimental intentions or otherwise. Those who have
tried must be divided into two classes : those in whom
the minimum of control is achieved, either by holding
the vision (usually only two minutes or so) or by getting
it repeated, which I call " shght control " ;
and those who by
self-training or temperamental facility can change the
subject-matter or " see " what they wish. A difficulty
arises by the casual use of " wiUing " where one suspects
wishing would be a more correct term. It may be very
difficult to draw the fine between the two, but nature
seems to do so when she grants success to the wish
and withholds it from the command. And with the majority
of those who have tried, neither is of any avail. Some
378 F. E. Leaning. [part
cases, too, are complex, beginning like De Quincey or
Meyer in a deliberate purpose but not being able to
check the mechanism when desired later on ;
or, as in
the case of McNish, being able by opening the eyes to
banish Ducrow and the whole audience, but not able by
any effort to change the music or soften it.
These things make any attempt at classification very
imperfect, and the smaUness of the number concerned
perhaps makes it futile, but for the sake of completeness
the proportions may be stated.
Per cent.
Persons with no control - - - - - 54-65
Control by will (shght) 20-8
„ (much) 14-45
,, ,, wish, or indirectly - - - - 10-1
100
XV. Crystal Vision : A Comparison.
Several authorities have observed that hypnagogic
visions and visions m the crystal have certain points
of resemblance ; and are so far cognate that the examina-
tion of the less known phenomena may make a comparison
of profit. Crystal visions have received a far larger share
of attention, and much has already been done towards
preparing the field for their study. There are at least
five good standard series, presented by observers of the
first class, apart from others as good in quahty but
fewer in number. These are Miss Goodrich-Freer's own
visions,^ those of Mrs. Verrall ^ and Miss A.^ given by
Myers, those of Miss Angus * given by Lang, and Mrs.
iln Proc. S.P.R., Vol. V. pp. 486-621 (1889); Vol. VIII. pp. 484-
492 (1892) ; and see Vol. X. p. 108. Also Essays in Psychical Research,
"On the Faculty of Crystal-Gazing" (1899); and Borderland, vol. i.
pp. 117, 529 (1894).
^ Myers, Human Personality, i. 586 ; Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. pp.
473-482 (1892).
^ Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. pp. 498-516.
* Lang, Andrew, The Making of Religion, chap. v. (1897) ; Introd. to
Thomas's Crystal Gazing, p. xxxv (1905).
xciv.] Introdtictory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena. 379
Peppier's ^ given by Hereward Carrington. A bibliography
of the subject may be found in Mr. Theodore Besterman's
work, Crystal Gazing [1924].
A careful examination of these along the same lines
as have already been followed as regards hypnagogic pheno-
mena shows no striking discrepancies between the two classes.
Taken in order, and omitting illustrative detail, the con-
clusions are as follow :
(1) Diffusion.—-The mtmber of persons able to see in
the crystal has been variously estimated as from 5 per
cent, at " a high estimate " (Thomas) to 20 per cent.
(Myers), while both Miss Goodrich-Freer and Lang certainly
suggest a higher proportion still by their references to
the numbers of cases personally known to them. These
differing opinions throw us back on a comparison of
units, and it then becomes clear that the two activities
are not always, or even often, found combined in the
same -subject. Two persons only report themselves as
belonging to both classes (Miss Goodrich-Freer and Miss
N. de Gernet, both life-long clairvoyants) ; while seven
hypnagogists tell us that they have tried without result
to get visions in the crystal. They include M. Gheury
de Bray, Andrew Lang, Prof. Ladd, and M. WarcoUier,
who attributes the greater diffusion of hypnagogic pheno-
mena among the English to the national habits of drink-
ing champagne, tea and coffee. ^ In his case the attempt
to use the crystal induced the hjrpnagogic visions ; but
such scanty evidence as we have does not show, as we
might expect it to, axij essential connection.
(2) Frequency and Health.—As regards both these character-
istics, the two classes of phenomena are analogous ; that is to say,
the gazing faculty is not constant, even in the best " scryers,"
but subject to longer or shorter periods of intermission ; and in
both, good health is conducive to its activity, while illness or
weariness interferes. The evidence on this point is good.^
''Modern Psychical Phenomena, pt. iii. pp. 301-327 (1919).
^ Op. cit., p. 79.
' See, for instance, Miss Goodrich-Freer in Borderland, vol. i. p. 127 ;
Thomas, Crystal Gazing, p. xlix (Lang's subjects) ; Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII.
p. 472 (Myers' subjects) ; Miss A., etc.
380 F. E. Leaning. [part
(3) Physical Sight and Visualising Power.—There is the
same admixture of good and poor quality as among
hj^nagogists, though it is perhaps less often in evidence.
The powerful visuahser like Miss Goodrich-Freer, the very
shortsighted Miss A., a very bad visualiser, and Mrs.
Verrall with unlike sight, preventing the simultaneous use
of both eyes at any time—all ahke saw well in the crystal,
while some use a dark " speculum," or see in the dark,
or use the crystal with the eyes shut (Miss N. de Gernet).^
This abihty seems to indicate a link between the visions
seen only in darkness and those seen only in Hght, by
the majority of seers of either kind.
(4) Subject-Matter and Features.—The pictures in the
crystal match in kind at every point with those under
study. The preliminary clouding is well known, though
it does not invariably take place ; faces are a less constant
feature in the descriptions as a whole, and figures more
so. " Fancy " pictures occur, perhaps, in less abundance,
and geometrical designs more seldom still. Other points
of similarity are (a) the building up of objects ^ as
well as their appearance " suddenly and completely " ;
(6) the coming of a number of pictures without inter-
connection ;
3 (c) the miniature scale, all usually being
seen within the limits of the field provided.* In
the case of crystals perhaps the circularity of form
invites the faculty into play, as some people see in this
way who do not see (or we do not hear of their doing
so) in other surfaces. Sometimes, however, the crystal
seems to disappear. ^ {d) The pictures are usually seen
in colour, although there is nothing like the prominence
1 See Thomas, p. xvi ;
Warcollier, p. 76 ; Proc. S.P.B., Vol. VIII. p. 500.
"Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 487.
^ Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 601; and compare Mrs. Verrall, p. 476.
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 476 (Mrs. Verrall), p. 487 (Miss G.-F.).
But see WarcoUier, p. 56.
6 Ibn Kaldoun, quoted by Thomas, p. 24 ; Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII.
p. 222 ; Warcollier's subject, Mile. T., " la boule disparait par instants,"
" la boule n'est plus petite, mais sans limite," pp. 69, 70 ; Mr. Keule-
mans, " picture and surroimdings go in a mist," Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII.
p. 519, etc.
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 381
given to brilliancy of colour such as the hypnagogic
accounts abound in ; and they occasionally lack colour,
" like photographs, showing Hght and shade only," ^ or
"sometimes black and white as in a pen-and-ink sketch." ^
(e) Multiphcity and interior movement are found, com-
biaed with the sense of reahty. Thus Miss A. " describes
things not as if she saw them in a picture, but as if
she were actually there." ^
(/) Crystal visions do not present
the uniformly high degree of illumination which the
other type seem to, but there is apparent a tendency
to select objects which are bright or striking. The dark
wall covered with white jasmine, seen by Miss Goodrich-
Freer, the lake landscape with two snowy peaks and
one sharply defined dark hill, seen by Mrs. Verrall, are
examples, (g) There is a more frequent mention of objects
not being very distinct in the crystal, in contrast to the
emphasis laid on distinctness in the other visions, (h) The
duration varies with individual circumstances, and lasts
from a few seconds to a few minutes, and from a few
minutes to over half an hour.* And whereas some gazers
lose the picture if the eyes are turned away, or the
attention wanders, others (Mrs. Peppier is the case in
point) can come and go, and find the scene unchanged
on their return, (i) There is an element of " perversity,"
as in the hypnagogic cases. Thus Miss A. says :
" If I
wish to see a particular person, I cannot do so, but
I probably see something quite different." ^ Mss Goodrich-
Freer, however, often saw what she wished to, or saw
her visuahsed mental image transferred to the crystal.^
Mrs. Verrall's experience was that often she saw nothing
in the crystal, but got a mental picture suggesting some-
thing she had forgotten to do. ' This last variation is not
one that is reported by hypnagogists.
1 Fr. V. Vay, " Visionen in Wasserglasse," see Proc. S.P.R., Vol. V. p. 504.
^Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 474.
3 Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. pp. 474, 500. See also The Dissociation of a
Personality, p. 79.
* Carrington, Mod. Psy. Phenomena, p. 316.
Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 500. « Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 491.
' Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 473.
382 F. E. Leaning. [part
In these nine respects we see that such differences
as exist are in degree only, and not in liind. The actual
sources of crystal-visions have been far more closely
scrutinised than is possible with the hypnagogic variety,
and the definite knowledge that certain distinct classes
exist, following on the other points of resemblance, goes
some way towards giving a clue by analogy, if nothing
more, to the real character of the latter.
The three most prominent elements reflected by crystal
visions are, next to scenes consciously recognised :
(1) Scenes and objects either quite forgotten, or un-
consciously observed ;
(2) Scenes in the mind, or having at some time been
so, of some person or persons present
;
(3) Actual scenes not known at the time to anyone in
the immediate entourage of the gazer, but verifiable.
The proportion which pictures of the first class, sub-
conscious memories, bears to the whole, not only differs
with individuals but depends on the pains taken by
the observer to ascertain their source. The best and
longest study of this kind is Miss Goodrich-Freer's. Out
of a total of seventy items she could account for all but
two or three.
The best example of the second class of crystal visions
is given us in Miss Angus. Lang made a special point
of persuading her, and other " scryers " when he came
across them to try and see in the crystal some scene
in the mind of himself or a third person present. Many
successes are recorded of her powers, and several of
her seeing something which was verified by those who
had no intention at all of so affecting her. They were
not only unconscious agents at the time, but the subject-
matter occasionally was unknown even to the living hnk
which made it possible. This forms the very furthest
limit to which telepathy can be assumed.
The third class of crystal visions, of veridical occur-
rences, either in the past (historical) or the present, is
exemplified in Miss A. The observers referred to, and
others, all speak of the " fancy pictures," not coming
under any of the three main heads just given, but there
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 383
seems no means of discovering in what general propor-
tions they occur. Mrs. Verrall, out of her thirty-three
cases, finds some raison d'etre for nine, but this leaves
twenty-four, or 72 per cent, unaccounted for. Mrs. Pep-
pier, whose memoranda must run to something between
100 and 200, has a small number which may be ascribed
to thought-transference from her husband, many which
have verisimihtude and might be happening somewhere,
and many " quite crazy." Even all of these, she says,
are " like a drop in the ocean " of the sum total seen.
Her contribution is concerned more with the mechanism
of the seeing than with the significance of the things
seen.
It is to be observed as a point of essential importance
that in all these classes alike, the sub-conscious memory,
the telepathic, the clairvoyant, and the imaginative, the
subject is at first sight strange and unrecognised, exactly
as the hypnagogic visions are so often reported to be.
The absence of any connection with the gazer's own
interests or thoughts is therefore marked, and the part
which conscious memory plays is reduced to as small
a section in the one case as in the other.
Finally, the exercise of control over the visions in the
crystal is perhaps rather greater, with practised gazers,
than it is found to be with hypnagogists ; but possibly
they are on a level. The power, whatever it is, exists
more strongly in some than in others : therefore they
can count on its coming into play more often. But
that is almost the hmit.
Regarding the Ukeness of crystal visions as a whole
to the hypnagogic, one would be inclined to see in the
latter a more elementary form of the former, and to
say that the chief difference is that while the hypnagogist
is dependent upon the spontaneous exercise of his faculty
in the dark or with closed eyes, and in a twilight state
of consciousness, the other can do so in full consciousness,
with open eyes, under the stimulus supplied by the crystal-
line or reflecting surface. And we might go on to reason
that since the subconscious contents of the mind con-
tribute memory-images, telepathic impacts, and clairvoyant
28
384 F. E. Leaning. •
, ,
[part
impressions to the crystal, these may also be reckoned
among the hypnagogic material, only allowing a somewhat
larger part to imagination in the last.
This conchision can only be adopted with caution and
provisionally, however, for the reason that both the
classes of seers concerned speak of differences now and
then between their experiences, and although it is very
difficult to understand in what the differences consist,
for us who know none of them except by hearsay, it
is evident that this corresponds to something which we
cannot ignore in trying to understand the phenomena.
Thus when a normal clairvoyant says that the hypnagogic
visions are different from what he sees otherwise but
yet not normally ; or when Mrs. Verrail describes a vision
which came while looking into the crystal but " not in any
way resembling a crystal-vision " ; and Myers speaks of
the pictures which came in a Cambridge undergraduate's
crystal but which " almost at once followed quite another
analogy—they became like very brilliant illusions hypna-
gogiques," it is clear that there is some distinctive
element at work. Whether that element concerns the
mechanism used in seeing, or some actual quality in
the nature of the thing seen itseK, is impossible to
discriminate without a much deeper scrutiny ; and it
can only be effected by a comparison of many witnesses,
and not on the strength of any one person's experience.
XVI. Theories and Explanations.
The general survey of the data has now been carried
far enough to give place to a view of the various theories
put forward to account for them. These range from a
modest and total denial of any kind of explanation, ^
through many speculative and questioning suggestions, up
to the most definite and dogmatic pronouncements. These
last, perhaps it is needless to say, do not agree with
each other, and are mutually exclusive often ;
yet all
iPjoc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. pp. 477, 478.
^ E.g. Galton :
" cannot guess in the remotest degree the cause of
them," .,
xciv.] Jntrodiictory Shidy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 385
of them come into touch with the facts at certain points,
and so justify themselves. Where weakness arises is from
assuming that all the effects are of a uniform order,
and therefore open to a like uniformity of cause. We
can admit that some of the effects have a physical
causation, some a mental, both arising from our own
unconscious activities ; that others come originally from
other minds than our own, either incarnate or discarnate ;
and yet others from no mediating mind, but simply as
the result of accepting the universe as our five senses
accept it. These five heads divide the whole field between
them without conflict ; the actual problems arise from
the difficulty of discriminating results, and the nature
of the faculty involved. If, as one result, the expression
we are famiUar with of " seeing with the mind's eye
"
should be proved less figurative than literal, and some
advance made in the comprehension of mental, or psychic,
sight, the study will be well justified.
Of the five solutions of hypnagogic perplexities given
above, the two first, or purely subjective, have received
most attention ; and of these two, that of physical
causation in the eye itself has the largest number of
supporters.
We will consider first then what is to be said on this point.
(1) The Apparatus of Physical Sight. —Entoptic Pheno-
mena.^—A description of the intricate structures with
which Nature has furnished the exterior end of the optic
nerve is to be found in any text-book of elementary
physiology, and it is not therefore necessary to go into
further detail here than to remind ourselves that the
retinal surface is formed to receive etheric (light) vibra-
tions of from 450 million million per second (red light)
to 750 milhon milHon (violet light). ^ Behind the trans-
parent window of the cornea, and the regulating curtain
of the iris, we find it furnished with an aqueous and
a vitreous humour at the front and back respectively
* Entoptic, lying within the eye itself.
^Crookes, Sir W., Rep. Brit. Assoc. (1898) ; also Proc. S.P.R., Vol, XII,
p. 350 ; but Ganot gives 496 to 728 million million,
386 F. E. Leaning, y -y^^^'t ^ . s [part
of the crystalline lens, and the fluid circulating in all
contains various bodies which can themselves become
visible under certain conditions.^ An exhaustive treatise,
embodying his own researches and the bibliography of
the subject, was produced by Sir W. F. Barrett, in
which the actual measurements of some of these are
given,^ that is, of the white corpuscles (one two-hundred-
and fifty-thousandth of an inch in diameter), their numbers
as is known, being one to the thousand of red corpuscles
(fasting) or one to four hundred after food. Beside these
there are " scintillating particles." Dr. Lindsay Johnson,*
watching them closely, found that they invariably followed
the same direction, always going towards or forming the
macula lutea (the central point of vision), turning round
at a sharp curve, and receding from it. Mr. Barker
Smith * calculates that the lens of the eye must have
a magnifying power of 400 to 500 diameters, by a com-
parison of his own " scintUlating particles " (seen " at any
time on a dark background ") with certain newly dis-
covered ^ bodies in the blood under a microscope. Among
these bodies are some seen in the " clear plasma spaces
between the red-cell masses, as, for the most part, brUliant
needle-points of light, carried along by the moving plasma
streams, but independently motile also." He cites several
other authors ^ on the existence in all animal cells of
1 Hyslop, T. B., Mental Physiology, p. 267 ; Cane, Francis E., " The
Physiology of Dreams," Lancet (1889), p. 1330. Both of these quoted
at length, with reference to many older authors, in Manac6me, Sleep,
pp. 235, 238.
2 Scientific Proceedings of the Royal Dublin Soc, vol. xi. (N.S.), Nos.
7, 8, 12, " On Entoptic Vision ; or, The Self-Examination of Objects
Within the Eye" (1906). Also published separately. A summary was
contributed to Light (1922) (Ap. 1).
^ Light (1922), p. 181. '^Medical Times (Mar. 1923), p. 37.
* CoUings, C. H., " On Certain Pathological Elements in Human Blood,"
Med. Times (Dec. 1922), p. 168. He describes nine kinds, none mentioned
in text-books, six of which he claims to be the discoverer of.
* Russo. Dr. Ph., "La Matiere Vivante," in Revue des Idies (1910).
Lumiere, Aug., R6le des Colloides chez lea Etres Vivants, p. 14 (1921).
Koppe, Leonard, Die Mikroskopie des Lebenden Augea, bd. i. (1920);
bd. ii. (1922). Sprenger, Berlin, UUra-und Polarisations—Mikroskopische
Erforachung des Lebenden Augea und ihre Ergebniase (1921), Leipzig.
XCiv.] Introductory Stvdy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 387
granules and granulins, scintillating and offering very
intense movements, proportionate to the molecular energy
of the surrounding fluid ; and in concluding refers to
the colloid clouds accompanying the bright particles,
and ruled or dispersed by them, " much as the wind
does the fleecy clouds of the sky."
It is here to be noted that all the foregoing information
depends on experiment and observation carried out in
hght, if not broad daylight or against a bright sky,
then with some strong illuminant. I find only one in-
vestigator who speaks of any entoptic phenomena as
visible also in the dark. Miss Beatrice Lindsay, after
three years work on the subject, at Girton, put her
conclusions into a paper read before the British Associa-
tion.^ Her first and second classes are differentiated partly by
this very question of darkness, the first dealing with pheno-
mena absent in complete darkness, the second with the en-
toptic images resulting from pressure, automatically (by closing
the Uds) or artificially appHed. These are distinguished by
their metallic lustre, by their colour, varying from pale
yellow through pale green to electric blue or purple, and
by their visibility in the dark. They comprise among
other things discs, dots, occasionally rings, and a grating
composed of sets of bright bars at right angles with
one another, indicating structure of some kind in the
fovea centralis. In a following paper, ^ she speaks of a
constant current of minimal points of light " invariably
present to the normal eye when trained to such
observations."
If in addition to all this we take into consideration
all that has been established concerning the self-luminous
qualities of organic matter and the eyes in particular,
it is evident that we are furnished forth with an abund-
ance of " intra-organic stimuH " which will account for
a certain proportion of the hypnagogic phenomena. Con-
sequently, writer after writer has dismissed them en bloc
as having no other source. Prof. Ladd may be taken
^ Rep. Brit. Assoc. (1887), p. 779. •
•
^ On "Optical Illusions of Motion."
388 . .-W F. M. Leaning, o v v ^ [parT
as the spokesman of many, having by his own experience
caught them in the act, as he considers—lines of printed
matter visibly changing into mere light and dark spots
as he passed into clear consciousness. He cites Miiller,
Gruithuisen, Purkinje, Radestock, Wundt, and Maury, as
supporters of this view, and others could be added,
including those who would identify dream phenomena with
them, and apply an entirely physiological explanation to
both. Thus we may take Cane's dogmatic statement as
representative when he says :
" All the phenomena of
dreams are fully accounted for by the auto-sensations
physiologically developed within the body . . . sometimes in-
creased . . . and modified by external impressions and stimuli."
These facts, of matter presenting the features of
brilliancy, rapidity of movement, various colours, cloudi-
ness, and a variety of shapes and sizes all dwelling in
the eye itself, and coming into prominence when all other
visual stimulation is withdrawn, do logicallj^ account for
those characteristics in the hypnagogic visions. The
circularity of form, produced perhaps by the iris or by
the discs, the impossibility of retaining a given com-
bination of elements (particularly if the circulation be
rapid) or of repeating it exactly, the frequency of bright
or fight points, and the multitudinous quality and incessant
change in the pictures, added to the occasionally frag-
mentary nature (as of a mouth, nose, or eye only) of
some, and the fact of a process of formation being some-
times observed, all point in this direction. And as to
the conditions of health, there is a common factor to
a state of over-fatigue, of exhilaration, and of fever, in
the velocity of the blood currents. So far as this ex-
planation agrees with the facts, its exponents have a
very strong case, and if it covered the whole field, we
should have to admit Sir David Brewster's dictum, that
" the mind's eye is the body's eye." An animal, then,
would bo just as liable to hypnagogic visions as a man,
since its eye is constructed in the same way ; the only
difference lying in the contents of the aforesaid minds
respectively. And everyone possessed of a normal eye
at all, that is, the vast majority of the race, should
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hyptiagogic Phenomena 389
be as familiar -ndth hjrpnagogic pictures and " faces in
the dark " as they are with the sights of the external world.
(2) The Mind's Eye.—It is not pretended, even by the
most convinced holders of the retinal genesis of the pheno-
mena, that the eye alone is sufficient, however richly provided
with picture-forming material, to account for the visions.
The foundation may be furnished by phosphenes and
corpuscles and so on, but the buUding requires another
factor for its construction : imagination. The materials
for this do not He in the eye-ball, which is only the
outer terminus of the optic nerve, but must come down
to it from some inner region. Thus Havelock Ellis says :
^
" The eye suppHes entoptic glimmerings, and the brain,
acting on the suggestions thus received, superposes mental
pictures to those ghmmermgs." Bergson has elaborated
this theory with respect to dream imagery, and Parish
was typical of the whole school in accepting such an
explanation on the ground that it was simpler than
any other, and conformed to the law of parsimony. " All
false perception," he saj^s {op. cit. pp. 144, 148), " is an
anomalous reaction of the brain to sensory stimuli."
What we popularly term imagination is in this view a
re-presentation of images, the mental concomitant of the
impulse affecting a cell-group, or groups. Each might in
this way give rise to another, following the usual laws
of association, and so bringing about a series of logically
connected pictures, though the Hnks between them might
not be apparent without a good deal of introspective
analysis. We should also expect in this case that memory
would be active and the scenes recognised, since they
would all be the calhng out of what had been actual
perceptions at some time. Both these characteristics are
markedly absent in the typical hypnagogic series.
But evidently the physiology of the brain ^ and of the
^ The World of Dreams, p. 31. . : . .
:
^ Writers who may be consulted on this subject are : Dr. E. H. Clarke,
Visions, pp. 52-135 ; Luys, The Brain and its Functions, pt. i. with
plates (Int. Sci. Ser.) ; Annals of Psychical Science, vol. viii. p. 534
(" The Physiological Limits of Visual Hallucination," by Dennis Taylor) ;
and Parish, Halbicinations and Illusions, an indispensable guide to the
literature of the subject (Cont. Sci. Ser. 1897).
390 F. E. Leaning.
optic nerve in particular here comes into contact with
the findings of psychology, and the simpler theories have
had to yield to more complicated ones under the pressure
of advancing research. It is not for an amateur like
myself to attempt an exposition of this intricate subject,
but Dr. C. S. Myers, whose Textbook of Experimental
Psychology has been referred to before, sums up the
present position clearly.^ " Evidence is gradually accumu-
lating that before a sensation reaches its full development,
it undergoes a process of compUcated elaboration, of the
details of which, however, we are as yet totally ignorant.
This elaboration doubtless takes place at different stages
and at different nervous levels in the cerebro-spinal system.
As psychologists we are by now far removed from the
crudities of the earlier physicists, who supposed that a
wave of given length on reaching the retina immediately
becomes transformed into a sensation of colour and that
psychical effects are identifiable with their external physical
causes. Nothing is more certain than that in addition
to the more peripheral processes, central processes are
also involved in elaborating visual sensations. But at
present we are powerless to separate the one from the
other ; we can only speak of changes in one vast un-
ravelled complex—the cerebro-spinal apparatus." Such an
admission as this, in relation to normal seeing, is signifi-
cant, and in strong contrast with the assurance of older
writers. It leads, by its mention of psychical effects,
directly into a field where the mind is more and more
and the body less. It is true that in the newly-recognised
" sub-conscious " there is a popular tendency to find
that as " simple " a way of accounting for things as
ever ; but the limit between definite knowledge and large
assumption has still to be mai'ked out.
(3) Another Vieiv.—The counter theory to the retinal
causation, not only of hypnagogic but of all hallucinations,
is one put forward by the leaders of psychical research,
few in number but cogent in presentation. It is that
of central initiation, the impulse coming primarily from
1 Pp. 99, 100.
Xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Pheriomena 391
within rather than from without, and Uable to originate
in the penumbra of being which surrounds the Hmited
field of consciousness. The material may still have been,
perhaps must have been, provided by the consciousness,
whether known or unknown to itself, but the finished
product, in its novelty, its inexhaustible numbers, its
caprice, its oddity, its refractoriness to control, its qualities
of various unexpectedness, its beauty and its unforeseen
reactions on the spectator, all point to the brain as the
last term, and to somewhat else as the " only begetter
"
of the visions. It is these quahties which lead one
person to say " an imaginative mind, working subcon-
sciously " makes the vision ^ while another says " no
possible approximation by imagination,"—that is, by the
conscious imagination as exercised voluntarily by the
beholder. 2
It was, as Myers has pointed out, greatly to the credit
of Sir John Herschel's penetrating mind that long before ^
any theory of a subliminal or subconscious stratum had
been formulated he should have felt his way, by means
of his hjrpnagogic experience alone, to this solution.
" What are these geometrical spectra ?
" he asks, and
replies, not dreams, for the mind is active ; not retinal
impressions, or memory images, for " memory does not
produce its effect by creating before the eyes a visible
picture of the object remembered " ; and goes on to
reason that since the conception of a regular geometrical
pattern implies the exercise of thought and intelligence,
we have evidence here of "a thought, an intelligence,
working within our own organisation distinct from that
of our own personality." Nearly thirty years on * Gurney
referred to the same experiences as showing " an immense
amount of high creative work—of what in psychical terms
1 S. M. B. in Occult Review.
'Mrs. Macdonald. Cp. also Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IX. p. 121: "not im-
agination at all, but entirely outside my mental action " ; Mr. Fielding-
Ould, " not images conceived by the imagination " ; Mrs. Amold-Forster,
" independent of any effort of imagination," etc.
^ In 1858, addressing the Philosophical Society of Leeds.
*Proc. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 185 (1886); and Phantasms, vol. i. 492.
392 J^. E. Leaning.
we should call paf excellence the work of the imagination."
In considering the theory of retinal causation he remarks
that where points, streaks and spangles occur, there is no
doubt about their source in the retina, but adds "it is
not equally safe to conclude that the process must be the
same for cases where the points, streaks, and spangles are
absent." ^ Myers attributes the specific quahties to the
general heightening of faculty which he finds evidence for
in dream-phenomena, of which the hypnagogic condition is,
so to speak, the broad threshold. In the passing over
there is an increase of susceptibility to those elements
which we possess but which do not find their way to con-
sciousness in the waking state ; elements of " high creative
work " which can be relatively compared to the inspired
moments of genius.- Greenwood's experience supports this
in a very high degree, and illustrates the theory he him-
self deduced from it, that all the mental faculties are
" lifted into a higher range of freedom," and that among
them imagination is the teaching and revealing power.
In his case it was exceptionally so, for no one else has
written of the countenances so forcibly, or has told us
that " no human face that ever was seen, I am sure,
displayed these emotions with a comparable fullness and
intensity." More than one other writer has felt impressed
with the importance of the " borderland " visions in con-
nection wdth studies of the secondary consciousness.'
Hyslop notes that he discovered by their disappearing
abruptly instead of through real sleep that various func-
tions of the mind may be associated and dissociated
in different degrees, self-consciousness remaining " when
other senses and centres were evidently asleep." *
H. B. Alexander, after a careful analysis of much self-
observed data, reaches three conclusions of value, which
agree with, biit extend beyond, the foregoing authorities.
The first is that though retinal stimulus may be a fur-
' Phantasms, vol. i. 390, 473.
- See Human Personality, cli. iii. (Cenius) and ch. iv. § 405 (vol. i.).
3 See Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 271 ; Mre. Arnold-Forster, chaps, xi.
and xii. op. cit.
*Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. II. p. 389. ;• ' , '. ' V . ,
»
XCIV.] introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 393
thering condition, the images are not of peripheral origin,
since " there is no discoverable, nor indeed conceivable,
relation between such stimulation and the objects per-
ceived," and when they are of auditory form, still less
does the eye arouse them. Secondly, that it is self-evident
that not being memories, nor things seen or previously
imagined, they are mental constructs ; and thirdly, that
they are the work of a highly differentiated mental com-
partment, without any apparent connection, emotional or
voMtional, with the aims, interests or feelings of the
person concerned. ^ ,. ,,.... „
XVII. The Application of Theory.
With this conclusion we evidently reach the opposite
extreme to the theory of entoptic causation. What
becomes obvious, on a consideration of the whole range of
hypnagogic phenomena is that they also present every
gradation between the two interpretations. As conscious-
ness passes from the fully waking to the fully sleeping
state, every step, every change in the accompanying
phenomena has been noted, some by one observer, some
by another, and placing them in series we can get an idea
of the process as a whole. In his analysis of visual
activities Myers ^ places upon the outward going line
(terminating in physical sight) the " entoptic glimmerings,"
and upon the inward going line (terminating in clairvoy-
ance) the hypnagogic visions, which he assigns as a
" marked and peculiar development " of imagination-
images, placing below them only the simplest type of
internal vision, memory-images, and above them sublmiinal
visualisations such as the crystal makes objective. The
emphatic way m which many hypnagogists distinguish
between memory-images (which may be taken as the
base-line familiar to us all) between imagination-images
or visualisations (in which some of them are weak),
and again between entoptic glimmerings as such (" ideo-
»Proc. Anier. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. G2'J.
*Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. pp. 528-533. Section xx. of the chapter -
on Sensory Automatism.
394 F. E. Leaning. '
[part
retinal lights," sparks, flashes, etc.) and the hypnagogic
pictures, well support the place which Myers gives them,
as does also the comparison with crystal-visions.
There is a second series of distinctions which observers
note. Mrs. Amold-Forster has drawn attention to the
earher and later features of " borderland " sensations. It
is clear that some people only know (or remember) the
earlier, while others either pass too rapidly over them or
are too much impressed by the later, to refer to them.
To this earlier stage we may attribute some of the
" process " pictures which can be watched forming, which
reproduce objects or scenes seen during the day, which
are incomplete, lack movement, are less iUumined, in some
cases not very distinct, and in particular have not the
feeling of reahty. People who say that they always knew
the pictures were subjective,^ or never mistook them for
reality," or who refer to suggestions of the conscious im-
agination hi connection with them,^ have to be taken as
speaking of this earlier stage only. So long as conscious-
ness is sufficiently in the ascendant to permit of the
beholder describing aloud what is passing, or actively
visualising known faces for purposes of comparison, and
he is able to say that hundreds of times he has
succeeded in seeing both at the same time, one in his eye,
the conjured-up one in his head,* it is clear from the
descriptions themselves that they are nearer the beginning
of the hypnagogic period, and are likely therefore to owe
botli form and quality more to the entoptic gUmmerings
and recent visual impressions than otherwise. The lowest
degree of internal sight, which precedes this and is over
the borderhne but only just over it, seems to be indicated
by a writer^ who says: "I have sometimes had the sen-
sation of imaginary faces, etc., visualised before me without
any corresponding impression on my eyes." That is, it is
still within the mind, unrelated to the eye or to space,
^Jour. <S'.P.i?., Vol. IV. p. 277 (No. 2).
'
"
^ Galton's relative, Maury, and many others.
5 Jour. S.P.R., Vol. IV. p. 263. * Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 159.
^Jour. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 295.
xciv,] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 395
and yet carrying something with it which indefinably
separates it from the memory and imagination images
which lie adjacent to it.
When the point has been insensibly reached which
divides the earher from the later stage, subliminal visuaHsa-
tion comes into full play. Memory still registers freely,
but too much attention is fatal ;
watching, we are often
told, makes the picture disappear, perhaps because it is
unconsciously productive of a slight muscular strain on the
eye which interferes with the necessary passivity. The
pictures are now markedly different and superior, so that
the various observers ^ have commented on the two kinds
that occur. They are seen as instantaneously complete,
vivid in light and colour, more abundant in detail, and
displaying movement within themselves (as distinct from
change of subject-matter, which goes on all the time).
One hypnagogist has remarked that movement never takes
place while he is sufficiently awake to remember it ; and
another, that the nearer to sleep the more vivid and
living the picture becomes. Most significant of all is a
difference of quahty in the seeing. It is possible that the
high illumination, the richness of colouring, and the life-
movement are inherent in the pictures themselves ; but
the extreme distinctness, coupled with the miniature scale
so often prevalent,'' lead by more than inference to the
conclusion that internal sight is superior to either the
physical or mental as known to ordinary consciousness.
The " highly differentiated mental compartment " whence
the pictures proceed is furnished with an eye of its own,
an eye which sees behind as well as before, and is other-
wise the fitting instrument for the enjoyment of that
"immense amount of high creative work" which Gurney
considered the hypnagogic experiences to bear witness to.
iMr. Fielding-Ould, Mr. J. W. Macdonald, Miss Ida Wild, S. M. B.,
and see footnote (5) supra, p. 394.
^ When this paper was read at a private meeting of the S.P.R., on
Oct. 24, 1923, a member present spoke of having seen whole regiments
of soldiers no larger than pins' heads, but that every button and detail
was distinct. For the pinhead comparison cf. Phrenological Journal, vol,
V, p. 319 ; quoted by McNish, p. 267, see p. 333,
396 7^. E. Leaning. [part
And whether we regard them as incipient materialisations,
as face-formation would suggest, or as clairvoyant faculty
in some degree, as the comparison with crystal visions
would suggest, we have in either case evidence of "a
thought, an intelligence, working within our own organisa-
tion, distinct from our own personality," but presenting us
with a means of studying it not to be despised.
XVIII. The Interior Vision : Its Mechanism.
We locate the sight of the eye in the retina, its trans-
lation into intelligible units of perception in the various
centres of the brain, visual concepts and their manipulation
in the highest cerebral areas, but where can we locate the
organ of vision beyond either of these ? It is of a third
order which is even less related to the physical than that
is to the mental, but the most the observer can do is
often only to state that he is using neither of these, but
that his inward vision " is quite different " from both.
Stead, for instance, after his two visions adds : "I saw all
that without opening my eyes, nor did my eyes have
anything to do with it. You see such things as these, as
it were, with another sense which is more inside your head
than in your eyes. This experience enabled me to under-
stand better how it was that clairvoyants see than any
amount of disquisition. The pictures . . . simply came as
if I had been able to look through a glass at what was
occurring somewhere else in the world." Another hypna-
gogist,! who had frequent but not regular experience,
after contrasting the results of voluntary imaginings and
prolonged attention, says that both these are in the brain,
but the others distinctly not so. Where people speak of
seeing under their eyelids, or in the closed eye, it is some-
times obviously a figure of speech, because they will at
the same time assign a given distance to the objects seen.
Greenwood, for example, uses the former expression, but
also says the faces were usually five or six feet away.
Another speaks of two feet of distance, or of their being
" suffocatingly close," or " Life-size and close to the eyes,"
I St. James s Gazette, Feb, 15, 1882,
xciv.] Introductory StwJy of Hypnagogic Phenomena 397
and so on, which can only mean that if they were seen as
objects in the external world they would occupy relatively
that space or position. Where -this is appUed to faces,
we may have an external objective basis for it, but other-
wise we have here the interpretation by the conscious mind
of a product of the subconscious, which, as far as given
in immediate experience, must be out of relation to any
spatial conditions ; an interpretation such as is continuously
apphed to the minute record by the retinae of the outer
world round us. Thus a careful hj^Dnagogic recorder ^
says that the landscapes she sees apparentlj^ mside her
head are not on the closed eyehds, and are " perceived by
something within," just as Stead says. And it seems that
this " something within " is not only to be taken as
"more inside your head," but within as related to con-
sciousness. J
The existence of a function impUes, if it does not
create, the organ whicli it uses, and the conception of
evolution implies a successive development of organs to
serve the widening response of the creature to its environ-
ment. Professor Arthur Keith has said recently ^ that
new human characters are foreshadowed in developmental
stages passed through by the yoang of anthropoid apes.
Whether young apes have hypnagogic visions we cannot
teU, but we see that our own young have them ; that
they are transitional, passing away with youth ; and that
in the smaU proportion who preserve the power, it acts
intermittentlj'. AU this is in accordance -^vith the gradual
development of a new characteristic. Evidence that some
such thing exists, some specifically visual form of crypt-
sesthesia, say, is recognised in all clairvoyant experience ; and
though this is not the place to enlarge upon that, it may
be permitted to indicate the directions in which a nucleus
of facts exists that bear upon the point.
We have then : (a) The physiological fact of a pineal
gland. ' the function of which, if it have any, is whoUy
unknown, but which, as the remains of a Cyclopean eye
iJowr. S.P.B., Vol. XXI. p. 74 (Apr. 1923).
2 On June 27th, 1923, in the Huxley Lecture, delivered at Charing
Cross Medical School. See Nature, Aug. 18, 1923 (Supplement).
398 F. E. Leaning. '
^ • ^ [pakt
possessed by some remote ancestor of the Vertebrata, has
lost none of its interest " says Huxley.^ {b) The fact that
certain persons born bhnd, or becoming so accidentally,
or blindfolded, can yet exercise some form of perceptivity,
and that both veridically and by way of vivid hallucina-
tions. ^ (c) The fact that in certain instances the seeing of
hallucinations by people not blind is accompanied by pain,
and that the pain is locaUsed in the frontal region, be-
tween the eyes, and over the brows. ^ The local sensations
of persons of psychic temperament are deserving of a
study in themselves. (d) To these may be added a few
instances of distressing sensations occasioned by crystal-
gazing, which although spontaneous is also partly experi-
mental. The cases are few, but their existence is signi-
ficant,* and we find the same region of the head affected.
(e) Lastly, for what it may be worth, I will give three
statements made by psychics, one the subject of an early
investigator of " Animal Magnetism," quoted by Du Prel,
one a correspondent of my own, and one a writer on
^Method and Results, pp. 189, 213 (1898); see also Huxley's Elemen-
tary Biology, p. 35 (1888).
2 McNish, op. cit., p. 255 ;
Miiller, vol. ii. p. 1396 ; James, W., Prin-
ciples of Psychology, vol. ii. p. 323 ;
Myers, F. W. H., Proc. S.P.R.,
Vol. VII. pp. 126-128; Honeyman, J., Proc. S.P.R., Vol. XVIII. p. 308
(ease in full) ; Villey, P., Le Monde des Aveugles ; Prof. Farigoule [i.e.
Jules Romains], Eyeless Sight (Putnams, 1923). See also Psyche, vol. iv.
pp. 191, 371 (criticism).
Myers, in Human Personality, vol. ii. p. 563 (934 A) gives the case
of the Rev. C. B. Sanders' clairvoyance attended by " excruciating
pain " and opening of the central sviture ;
McNish, op. cit., p. 267, gives
a group of cases, and cf. his own violent headache during the whole of
the theatre vision.
* Mrs. de Morgan, From Matter to Spirit, p. 110, finds a resemblance
to the effects which would be produced by a powerful mesmeriser, who
makes the area between the eyes a point of concentration ; Miss A's
eyes would stream with tears {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. VIII. p. 500) ; Mr. E.
Dawson Rogers's percipient gave up the attempt because of the " painful
sensation of pressure on the forehead " {Proc. S.P.R., Vol. V. p. 520,
footnote) ; Warcollier's subject had only a strong inclination to sleep.
These are, however, the only cases of the kind I can find. WarcoUier
himself {La Telipathie, p. 79) localises his illusions in the prefrontal
region, at the root of the nose, and the optjc thalamus (" a I'entrecroise-.
ment des nerfs opticjues "),
xciv.] Introductory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 399
occultism, showing the agreement between widely separated
witnesses. " A somnambule," says the first of these/ " on
being asked what she saw (i.e. of the internal parts of the
body) answered '
All that I will, except the stomach, and
part of the forehead above the nose, with which the ray of
perception proceeding from the stomach is in connection.'
"
My correspondent declares that she has " twice seen in
living human beings a third eye in the centre of the fore-
head " ; and Mr. Cyril Scott writes 2 that " Trained clair-
voyants are conscious of a certain activity . . . between the
eyes, just above the bridge of the nose."
These items may seem to form a somewhat miscellaneous
and bizarre group, but they admit of being synthesized,
in the direction of an organ of clairvoyance situated on
the median line,^ capricious in its action, not taking kindly
to the simultaneous activity of the physical eye (hence
tears, sense of pressure, etc.) perhaps on account of the
draw on nervous energy, less disturbed by mental visual-
isation, but at its best when brain and eye and mind are
most quiescent, and capable of being excited or developed
by conscious practices directed towards that end. So far,
its appearance in the hypnagogic state ; but if a wider
view, embracing mesmeric and hypnotic phenomena, natural
somnambuHsm, and vision-producing drugs, were taken into
consideration, possibly much more could be adduced.
XIX. Sources Discussed.
We have considered so far two of the main aspects
presented by hypnagogic phenomena : that is, what people
see, which is easy and for which we have a fair amount
of data, and how they see, which is more problematical
and for which we have conflicting and scanty data only.
A third question is, whence come the things they see ? and
^ Du Prel, Dr. C, Philosophy of Mysticism, vol. i. p. 227, quoting
Kieser in Archiv fur den Thierischen Magnetismus, vol. iv. pp. 2, 272.
2 Occult Review (May 1916), p. 269.
^ See Baraduc, H., Les Vibrations de la Vitalite Hmnaine (Paris, 1904),
Plates VII., XIII., XXI., etc., and Prof. Alrutz's experiments in Proc,
S^^P.fi., Vol, XXXII. p. 159.
400 F. E. Leaning: '
v. -' - [part
this is but little more satisfactory than the second. Almost
the only light we have on the subject is by the analogous
but more developed phenomena of the crystal visions,
which have a probably wider range than the personal life
of the scryer alone would provide. That range includes
the mental images in other minds, and the only corres-
ponding hj^nagogic experiences (which are the result of
experimental methods) have been contributed by M. War-
collier. All other experiments had been in the direction
of volitional control, or else auto-suggestion, the percipient
acting practically as his own agent. But it occurred to
M. WarcoUier to enlist someone else as agent, when he
himself was in the suggestible hypnagogic condition. There
were difficulties and drawbacks, such as, in some cases, an
ill-chosen hour, or a pressure of affairs, or the weariness
and even illness of one or other of the persons concerned.
Yet with praiseworthy perseverance he continued over a
period of some three years, not always with the same
agent, and tabulated and analysed the results. Obviously
this was a species of thought-transference ; and it had the
disadvantages which always accompany such experiments ;
that is, it involved dehberate action at a fixed hour and
corresponding expectation. Wherever conscious direction
of the mental faculties takes place there is a gain in
precision and a loss in richness of content ; the " high
creative work " in which the unshackled subliminal
imagination freely indulges suffers serious limitation and
impoverishment. But true telepathy, in the form of spon-
taneous impressions, sometimes managed to mingle with
the intended messages ; its presence was proved in the
form of that " perversity " which has previously been
referred to. Thus M. B., acting as agent, had the curious
idea of trying to transmit attitudes simultaneously with
ideas, and on a Sunday morning ^ placed himself at the
appointed time, 7.0 a.m., in a position of devotion in an
arm chair, concentrating his mind on the word prayer.
But what his friend received was the picture of a curtain
^ La Telepathie, p. 222. The whole of chap, vii., as well as part of
chap, iii., deals expressly with the hypnagogic period, but the author
admits that the results of his experience are mediocre (p. 191).
xciv.] Iniroduciory Study of Hypnagogic Phenomena 401
in heavy dark material, red predominating, and caught
back by a tie ; also the number 14, as though written on
a blackboard. Now there was just such a curtain in a
doorway in M. B.'s room, and the number of the room
was 14. M. B. was certainly not thinldng of this at the
time, nor regarding the curtain, for his eyes were cast up
" au del.'" In the series in which this took place (the
fifth) there were twelve trials, and the proportion of suc-
cesses was twenty per cent. ;
in the second series there
were twenty-two trials and no results at all. This in-
equality with different agents makes a general percentage
on the whole very misleading ;
and, in any case, however
large a proportion of successes or coincidences might occur,
it does not prove that where there is a vision there is an
unknown agent producing it. On the other hand, we
know that the susceptible subconscious mind can pick up
visual images of all sorts from the mental atmosphere of
its neighbours, and that the remotest link is sometimes
sufficient to enable it to do so. Thus some of the unre-
cognised scenes, at least, may have such a source ; al-
though the amount of detail and the supreme distinctness
with which they are seen seem less likely to admit of
their being merely derived from some one else's mental
images than of their being derived from the actual
scenes themselves. And the panoramic type of moving
picture is most of all like reahty. IVIr. de Bray has
propoimded the idea that everyone's brain is producing
a stream of pictures all the time, which become visible in
the hypnagogic state ; but this reasoning rests on the
rather slender ground that some people—one in three, if
our calculation be correct—sometimes see the pictures, and
that only at undefined periods and not continuously ; and
yet all men everywhere are certainly drowsy at least once
a day. A very large number of visions, either of this
sort or as a series of detached objects, must certainly be
put down to subconscious memory, partly in view of the
fact that at every waking hour since our birth scenes of
some sort have been in progress before us, and with the
power to comprehend pictures (in books and elsewhere)
^nd later on, to visualise the thousand descriptive scenes
402 F. E. Leaning. [part
in fiction, travels, and so on, the number is increased
possibly to millions. Where these records are—whether as
older physiologists think they are somehow packed up in
the cells of the brain, or whether that is not, on any
computation, an inadequate hypothesis, as some think ^
—
we cannot prove. But wherever the mental workshop is,
there the mental warehouse must be from which the
materials are drawn, and there also is the unknown work-
man who selects the brilliant, the pleasing, or the surpris-
ing elements which entertain the every-day consciousness
of the owner. •
^ .-.
It is surely the same source whence proceed the artistic,
or literary, or intellectual inspirations which are reported
to have occurred in dreams occasionally. The only instance
which can fairly be ranked with these as definitely hypna-
gogic is that of Kekule's vision of the dance of the atoms,
^
as he rode home late at night from Islington to Clapham
on the top of an omnibus. He says that he fell into a
reverie and saw the atoms gambolling before his eyes.
On a second occasion he was sitting dozing by his study
fire and tells iis that his mental eye, rendered more acute
by repeated visions of the kind, could now distinguish
larger structures ; and in this condition he beheld further
and more elaborate combinations, long rows turning and
twisting Avith snake-like motion, and the comprehension of
a further theory of molecular construction struck him so
forcibly that he says " as if by a flash of lightning I
awoke." It is the hypnagogic rather than the actual
dream state that is indicated by this sudden return to
consciousness under the impact of an idea. But it must
be admitted that in the case of a scientist whose mind was
continually occupied with the problems proper to it, as in
this instance we know it to have been, a good deal of
subconscious incubation inust have taken place, and the
recognition of the residts is rather to be attributed to that
than to anything in the nature of clairvoyance.
* See on this subject a penetrating article by H. F. Saltmarsh, " Neuro-
grams and Specific Response," in Psyche, vol. iii. (n.s.), p. .328 (April 1923).
^ Kekiile Memorial Lecture, Jour. Chem.. Soc, Feb. 1898 ; but the inci-
dent is quoted in Proc. Amer. S.P.R., Vol. III. p. 672 (footnote).
xciv. I
Inlrodudory Study uf Hypmigogic PheiioUiena 4o3
In all discussiona uf these phenomena by persons who
examme and illustrate them from their own experience,
the theory held by them must be taken into account.
They will inevitably tend to remember and emphasise
those elements which support the theorj^ and to accept
such in the experience of others, while passively ignoring
others which do not lend themselves to a certain inter-
pretation. And for this reason it is better to make a study
of all those accounts provided by people who have no
theory at all, but merely describe carefully what they see.
If, as I conclude, there is in hypnagogic experiences a
complex interplay of physical, psychological, and psychic
factors combined, their study is an open door to all of
these alike, but more particularly the last, as having
received so much less attention hitherto.
My acknowledgements are due to the Council of the
S.P.R. for permission to quote certain passages from the
Journal, and to all those members of the Society who have
given me assistance and advice ; also to the Editor of
Light, to numerous readers and private correspondents, and
to Miss Estelle Stead.
XX. A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF HYPNAGOGIC PHENOMENA.
A. E. [i.e. George Russell]. The Candle of Vision, p. 28. 1919
A. G. A. " Faces in the Dark." A Case of Picture
Memory. Light, Feb. 24, 1923, p. 117.
Aberceombie, J., M.D. Enquiries Concerning the Intel-
lectual Powers, pt. iii. final section. Spectral Il-
lusions. 1830
Alexander, H. B. The Subconscious in the Light of
Dream Imagery and Imaginative Expression. Proc.
Amer. S.P.E., III. 623-634. 1909
Aristotle. De Somniis, c. iii. Trans, by J. I. Beare,
Parva Naturalia, p. 462 (Oxford). 1908
Arnold-Forster, Mrs. H. O. Studies in Dreams, ch. xii. 1921
Baillarger, M. J. De I'lnfluence de I'etat intermediaire
a la veille et au Sommeil sur la Production et la
Marche des Hallucinations. Ann. Med-Psych. du Syst.
New., t. vi. pp. 1-29, 168-195 ; included in Mem.
de rAcad.- Roy. de Medecine, t. xii. pp. 476-516,
Des Hallucinations. 1846
Binet, a. La Psychologic du Raisonnement, p. 48. 1886
AND Fjj;re, Charles. Animal Magnetism, p. 254
(Voluntary Projection). Ed. iii. 1891
Bltjmroder. Ueber Einschlafen, Traum, Schlaf, etc.
Friedrich's Magazin, iii. p. 87. 1830
BosTOCK, J. An Elementary System of Physiology,
vol. iii. p. 204. 1824-27
Brewster, Sir D. Letters on Natural Magic, ii., iii.
pp. 19, 20, 21, 50, 51. 1832
Burdach, K. F. Die Physiologic, b. ix. § 600 in
bd. iii. p. 489 (Leipzig). In Jourdan's trans, t. v.
p. 205 (Paris). 1839
Cane, Dr. Francis E. The Physiology of Dreams. The
Lancet (Dec. 28, 1889), p. 1330.
Cardano, H. De Vita Propria, c. 37. Written 1576
(Paris). 1643
De Varictate Rerum, lib. viii. c. 43 (Basle). 1557
404
XCIV.] Bibliography. 405
"Clakke, E. H., M.D. Visions : A Studv of False Sight,
pp. 212-216. Ed. V. (Boston). " 1885
Delagb, Yves. Sur le Siege et la Nature des images
hjrpnagogiques. Comj^tes Rendus de VAcad. des
Sciences, vol. cxxxvi. p. 731. 1903
De Morgan, Mrs. E. S., wife of Augustus de Morgan.
Three Score Years and Ten, p. 65. 1895
De Quincey, Thoivias. Confessions of an English Opium- • '
•
Eater. The Pains of Opium, Mem. 3, p. 258 (Edin-
burgh edition), 1862. (Original), 1821
Ellis, Havelock. The World of Dreams, pp. 29-31. 1911
A Note on Hypnagogic Paramnesia. Mind, n.s. vi.
p. 284, footnote (2). 1897
On the Phenomena of Mescal Intoxication. Lancet
(June 5, 1897), p. 1541. . ^ :
'
-m.-.
Febriab, J., M.D. An Essay towards a Theory of
Apparitions, p. 16 (London). 1813
Fielding-Ould, Rev. F. Light. (Feb. 24, 1923), p. 122.
Flournoy, Th. Des Indes a la Planete Mars, pp. 18, 19.
From India to the Planet Mars, p. 21. 1900
FoRMAN, Dr. Simon. The Autobiography and Personal
Diary of, p. 3. Ed. by J. 0. Halliwell from MS.
Ashm. 208 (Orig. 1600). (London). 1849
Galton, Francis. Inquiries into Human Faculty, pp.
158-166. 1883
Goethe, J. W. Wahrheit, und Dichtung, Bk. viii. (Orig.)
1812-1831.
Beitrage zur Morphologic und Naturwissenschaft,
bd. xiv. p. 427. (Orig.) 1817-1824.
Goodbich-Freeb, Miss A. Proc. S.P.K., VIII. 488. 1892
Greenwood, F. Imaguiation in Dreams, pp. 14-20. 1894
Orig. in St. James's Gazette, Feb. 10, 1882; and see
refs. to in Proc. S.P.R., III. 174; Phantasms, i. 473,
479 ; De Manaceine 241.
Griesinger,. Wilhelm. Die Pathologie und Therapie der
Psychischen Krankheiten, p. 78 (Stuttgart). 1845. Trans.
by Robertson and Rutherford, 1867, Mental Pathology
and Therapeutics, p. 94.
Grondahl, I. C. [Auditory phen., meanmgless] Psychic
Science, vol. iii. p. 60, 61. Apr. 1924
Gruithuisen, F. p. Beitrage zur Physiognosie, pp. 232,
256, etc. (Miinchen), 1812. Quoted in Parish, p. 128;
de Man. p. 279 ; also given in Ami. Med.-Psy., vii. 9. .
406 F. E. Leaning. [PAET
GuRNEY, E., Myers, F. W. H., and Podmore, F., Phan-
tasms of the Living, i. 390, 400 (Deering case), 473,
474 (Willert and Macdonald cases), 476, 479, 492
(1886) ;
abridged edition, p. 300 (1918).
GuYON, E. Sur les Hallucinations Hypnagogiques (Paris), 1903
HadDON, John. Scintillating Particles. Med, Times, pp.
81-83. June 1924
Hall, Stanley. A Study of Fears. Amer. Jour, of
Psychol, p. 186. 1897
Heeeick, C. L. Hallucinations of Vision in Children.
Jour, of Comp. Neurology. July 1895
Herschel, Sib John. Familiar Lectures on Scientitic
Subjects, p. 400. (On Sensorial Vision). 1866
HiBBERT, Dr. Samuel. Sketches on the Philosophy of
Apparitions. Ed. ii. pp. 8, 89 (Nicolai). 1825
HoBBES, T. Leviathan, pt. i. ch. ii. 1651
Holland, Sir H. Chapters on Mental Physiology, p. 47
(Voluntary projection). 1852
Holt, Henry. Hypnagogic Dreams. Unpartizan Review,
XV. p. 203.
'
1921
Hyslop, Jas. H. Introduction to " A Further Record of
Experiments." Proc. Amer. S.P.R., II. 389 ; and see
Ibid. XIII. 487 (case). 1919. 1908
James, Prof. Wm. Principles of Psychology, vol. ii.
pp. 66, 84, 126. 1890
Jung, C. G. Papers on Analytical Psychology, pp. 61-64. 1916
Kekule, F. a. Memorial Lecture on, by Prof. Japp.
Jour. Chem. Soc, Feb. 1898.
Ladd, G. T. a Contribution to the Psychology of
Visual Dreams. Mind, n.s. vol. i. p. 299. 1892
Lamb, Charles. Essays of Elia : Witches and Other
Night Fears. 1823
Lang, A. Introduction to Thomas's Crystal-Gazing,
p. xxix. (1905), and Cock lane and Common Sense,
p. 213. 1894
Leroy, Raoul. The Syndi'ome of Lilliputian Hallucina-
tions. Jour, of Nerv. and Ment. Disea,ses, Oct. 1922,
p. 235 ; summarised in B.M.J. (Epitome) Nov. 4,
1922, p. 61.
M. M. Vision Pictures. Light, Ap. 3, 1920, p. 112.
MacDonald. J. W. Light, Feb. 24, 1923, p. 122.
MacDougall, Dr. Wm. Art. Hallucinations, Encyclopcedia
Britannica, ed. xi.
XCIV.] Bibliography. 407
MacNish, R., M.D. The Philosophy of Sleep, ed. iii.
ch. xiv. 1836
Manaceine, Marie de. Sleep : its . . . Psychology, pp.
195-223, 233-247 (Cont. Sci. Series, vol. xxxiv.). 1897
Maury, Alfred. Le Sommeil et les Reves, ch. iii (1861),
ed. iv. (1878). Includes Les Hallucinations Hypnago-
giques, Ann. Med.-Psy., xi. 26-40 (Jan. 1848), and De
Certains Faits observes entre la veille et le Sommeil,
ihid. (Apr. 1857).
Mee, Arthur. Light, Mar. 10, 1923, p. 149.
Meyer, G. H. Untersuchungen iiber d. Physiol, d. Nerv.,
pp. 238-241, 309. 1843
MiCHEA, M. Des Hallucinations. Mem. Acad. Roy., t. xii.
pp. 250-267. 1846
Mitchell, Dr. S. Weir. Remarks on the Effect of An-
helonium Lewinii (The Mescal Button). Brit. Med.
Jour., Dec. 5, 1896, p. 1625.
Morrison, Mrs. M. Little Incidents Along the Way of
Development. International Psychic Gazette, p. 91. Mar. 1924
Myers, F. W. H. Proc. S.P.R., VIII. 369, 528. Human
Personality, i. 124, 125. 1901
MuLLEB, J. Ueber die Phantastische Gesichtserscheinungen,
p. 21 (Coblentz/. 1826
Elements of Physiology, 2 vols. Trans, by W. Baly.
Pp. 945, 1392-1397 (London). 1857
NicoLAi, Friedbich. Berliner Monatschrift, May, 1799 ;
Beispiel einer Erscheinung mehrerer Phantasmen
(Berhn). 1799
Occult Review, xiv. 282 ; xv. 227 (S. M. B.) Apr. 1912
Partridge, G. E. " Reverie." Pedagogical Seminary.
Apr. 1898
Parish, E. Hallucinations and Illusions. See Index of
Subjects (Cont. Sci. Series, xxxii.). 1897
Pollock, Sir F. Spinoza, p. 56, Ed. ii. (London). 1912
Rowland, Dr. R. Lilliputian Hallucinations. Brit. Med.
Jour., Nov. 18, 1922, p. 999.
Sanctis, Sante di. I Sogni e il Sonno, p. 337. 1899
St. James's Gazette, Feb. 10, 15, 20 (4 contributors). 1882
Savigny, Lelorgne de. Ann. Med.-Psy. iv. 314. (See
App. B.). 1844
SiDis, Boris. Normal and Abnormal Psychology, p. 153. 1914
Slight, David, M.B., Ch.B. Hypnagogic Phenomena. Jour.
Abnormal Psychol. > Oct. -Dec. 1924
408 F. E. Leaning. [part
Smith, J. Barker, L.R.C.P. General Practitioner (1900).
Med. Times, Aug. 1920-Ap. 1923 (Auditory).
Soc. FOR Psychical Research. Journal, iv. 263, 276,
277, 278 ; viii. 158, 170, 171, 243, 244, 269, 270,
295 ; ix. 121 ; x. 183 ; xi. 95 ; xx. 256 ; xxi. 71-75, 95.
Proceedings, iii. 171, 174, 185 ; vii. 315 ; viii. 346,
369, 370, 453 (Flournoy), 479 (Wundt), 488 ; x. 76,
80, 81, 82, 140, 141 ; xi. 360 ; xii. 281 ; xviii. 308 ;
xxvi. 435.
Spiritual Magazine. " Sensorial Vision " and Vision
through the Spiritual Eye. Two cases. Vol. ii. p. 163. 1861
Stead, W. T. More Ghost Stories, p. 26. 1891
Stockinger, Anna. Incidents. Jour. Amer. S.P.E., X.
p. 287. 1916
Stone^, Dr. D. G. Phil. Mag. • March 1894
Sully, J. Illusions, pp. 143, 184. 1881
Taine, H. a. De I'lntelligence, t. i. pp. 101-103 ; hk.
ii. ch. i. (Paris), 1870
Thomas, Northcote W. Crystal Gazmg, pp. 17, 18. 1905
TuKE, Dr. Daniel Hack. Hallucinations and the Sub-
jective Sensations of the Sane. Brain, vol. xi. p. 449.
Tweedale, Violet. Ghosts I have Seen, pp. 14, 15. 1921
TuRVEY, Vincent. Beginnings of Seership, pp. 86. 1909
Vairus, Leonardus. De Fascino, lib. i. cap. ii. p. 112
(Venice). 1589
Van Eeden, F. A Study of Dreams. Proc. S.P.R., XXVI.
435. 1912-13
Valentin, G. Lehrbuch der Phys. d. Menschens, bd.
ii. pt. ii. p. 584 (Brunswick). 1848
ViGNOLi, Prof. Remarkable Case of Resuscitation of an
Optical Image. Nature, October 5, 1893, p. 545.
Walsh, W. S. The Psychology of Dreams, pp. 16, 173,
222, etc. 1920
Warcollier, R. La Telepathic, ch. iii. p. 56 ; ch. vii.
entire (Paris). 1921
Watson, J. An Analysis of Some Personal DreamS;
Proc. Amer. S.P.E., VII. 359, 361. 1913
Watts, Mrs. A. (Mrs. Howitt Watts). Light, vol. ix.
176, 203 (1889); Jour. S.P.E., XI. 95 (1904).
Pioneers of the Spiritual Reformation (Case of William
Howitt, 1824), p. 196. ,,,, 1883
Weygandt, W. Entstehung d. Traume, p. 43. 1893
WiGAN, Dr. a. L. The Duality of the Mind, pp. 123-126. 1844
XCIV.] bibliographij
.
409
WooLLEY, Dr. v. J. Some Auto^Suggested Visions as
Illustrating Dream-Formation. Proc. XXVII. 390 ;
see
also p. 401, Miss A. Johnson's study of the same
case.
WuNDT, W. Grundziige der Phys. Psych., ed. iii. bd.
ii. p 432. Trans, by E. B. Titchener (1904), Prin-
ciples of Physiological Psychology.
APPENDIX A. r i- ,r
Illcronymi C'ardani Mediolanensis de Propria Vita liber. Paris :
MDCXLIII (1643). Cap. XXXVII. P. 160.
" Videbam ergo imagines diversas quasi corporum aereorum.
(Constare enim videbantur ex annulis minimis, quales sunt
loricarum, cum tamen loricas nunquam eousque vidissem) ab
imo lecti angulo dextro ascendentes per semicirculum, lente &
in sinistrum occidentes, ut prorsus non apparerent : Arcium
domorum, animalium, equorum cum equitibus, herbarum, arborum,
instrumentorum miisicorinu, Theatrorum, hominura diversorum
habituum, vestiumque variarum, tubicines praecipue cum tubis
quasi sonantibus, nulla tamen vox aut sonus exaudiebatur :
praeterea milites, populos, arva, formasque corporum, usque ad
banc diem mihi invisas : lucos, & sylvas, aliaque quorum non
memini, quandoque multarum rerum congeriem simul irruen-
tium, non tamen ut se confunderent, sed ut properarent. Erant
autem perspicua ilia, sed non ita ut proinde esset, ac si non
adessent, nec densa ut oculo pervia non essent. Sed ipsi
circuli opaci erant spatia prorsus perspicua. Delectabar autem
non parum, & spectabam intentus haec miraoula, unde mater-
tera mea semel me interrogavit an aliquid viderem 1 Ego
quamvis adeo puer, mecum cogitabam, si satebor indignabitur
quicquid causam praebet hujus ponpae, subtrahetque hoc fes-
trum : aderant enim etiam flores varii, & quadrupedia, & volu-
cres cujuscunque generis, sed omnibus tam belle fabricatis
deerat color, nam erant aerea : itaque ego qui nec juvenis,
nec senex mentiri solitus sum, diu steti antequam dicerem :
Tum ilia, quid ergo fill tam intente respicis ? Non memini quid
responderim ipsi, existimo autem nihil respondisse."
410
APPENDIX B.
M. Lelorgne de Savigny, Member of the Academy of Sciences,
wrote the following during the last period of the " fatal neu-
rosis " which had shown its first signs in 1817. It was Avritten
in 1824, printed in the Journal des Debuts, June 14, 1844, and
reprinted in Ann. Med. -Psychol, t. iv., 1844, p. 314. He was
unable to endure the light, but expressed the pathetic hope
that a record of his suffering might be of value to medical
science.
" Dans I'obscurite toujours plus profonde ou elle me forgait de
me tenir, elle faisait briUer une foule d'images vivement colorees,
dont les emissions successives, reiterees a I'infini, me fatiguaient,
m'obsedaient sans cesse. Bientot des phenomenes impetueux,
lumineux, ardents, immenses, remplissant nuit et jour tout
Fe.space sous mille aspects divers, provoquerent les crises les
plus intenses. D'autres phenomenes, distingues des precedents
moins par leur formes et leurs couleurs que par leur redoutable
influence, vinrent periodiquement en accroitre, en aggraver les
effets. Aux sensations propres a la vue s'unirent un entraine-
ment rapide en haut, en bas, en tons sens ; une odeur fetide ;
des sifflements aigus, des sons harmonieux ou discordants ; des
voix humaines chantant ou parlant, declamant, et d'autres
bruits [non moins otrange. Le sommeil suspendait rarement
ces detestables illusions, sans qu'ils se produisit au reveil des
visions mena9antes, bizarres, incomprehensibles. Je eiterai,
comme une des plus frequentes, la voiite spacieuse, formee
d'innombrables faces humaines, toutes egalement expressives,
prenant je ne sais quel air inflexible, et fixant sur moi des
regards sinistres,"
i
f^i'!i-;i ::
Mi: .
. ; .
SIR W. F. BARRETT, F.R.S.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART XCV.
IN MEMORY OF
SIR WILLIAM FLETCHER BARRETT, F.R.S.
In the death of Sir WiEiam Barrett, which occurred
quite suddenly on May 26th, at the age of 81, our Society
has to mourn the loss of one of its past presidents and
the last remaining member of its original Council. He was,
moreover, not only a member of the first Council but
very definitely a founder of the Society—^one may say the
founder, for I believe the first idea of founding a Society
at aU was his. It was the stimulating efi^ect of his zeal
and energy that largely influenced Sidgwick, Myers and
Gumey to renewed interest in investigations in which
they, like himself, had done a considerable amount of
work in previous years, though often with disappointing
results. I remember his coming to Cambridge and reading
to us a large budget of cases, experimental and spontan-
eous, collected by himself (largely by means of appeals
through the press) and pointing to what we now call
telepathy.^ This must, I think, have been in the autumn
of 1881 and the visit was, I suspect, the occasion of
Sidgwick's writing to a friend on Sept. 4th, 1881, " The
great event that has occurred to me is that my interest
in Spiritualism has been revived." The formation of a
^ He had appealed for "trustworthy evidence ... of cases of the direct
action of one mind upon another giving rise to an apparent transfusion
of thought or feeling ... or of cases where . . . perception may seeiu
to occur independent of the ordinary channels of sensation,"
414 Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick. [part
Society was under consideration that autumn and winter,
and Professor Barrett, as he then was, was engaged in
stirring up interest in the idea in various quarters. It
was he who enhsted in its favour Professor Balfour
Stewart and, directly or indirectly, other distinguished
early members, as well as some of the leading Spiritualists
of the time. As Professor Balfour Stewart said in his
Presidential address m 1885 when givmg a brief survey
of the growth of the Society, " A prelimmary conference
was convened by Professor Barrett (whom we honour as
our founder) on the 5th and 6th of January 1882 . . .
The Society was next formally constituted on the 20th of
February." Though it was decided that Professor Sidg-
wick should be the first President, Sir William Barrett
was naturally made a Vice-President, and it was he who,
in the capacity of honorary secretary to the committee
on Thought Readmg, read at the first general meeting
the first paper contributed to the Society and published
in its Proceedings.
His interest has continued unabated ever since. He
has been a diligent attendant at meetings of the Council,
notwithstanding the distance he had to travel when
Professor of Physics at the Royal College of Science for
Dublin—a position he held from 1873 to 1910—and
notwithstandmg the strain which his increasing deafness
must of late years have put on him in discussions ; and
he has been the moving spirit m various developments of
the Society's work and organisation. Thus in February
1884, the Journal was started on his proposal as a means
of communication between the Council and the members
and associates of the Society, as well as of members with
each other ; and for the first year of its existence he
acted as editor.
In the same year Professor Barrett, drawn to America
by the meeting of the British Association at Montreal,
was able to interest important men of science m the
United States in psychical research and to give the im-
petus required for the foundation of a Society for Psychical
Research there. It was estabhshed in January 1885 with
Professor Simon Newcomb as its first President. Sir
xcv.] Sir William Fletcher Barrett. 415
William Barrett's own account of the work he did so
successfully in actively interesting people sufficiently to
bring about this result may be found in the first volume
of our Journal (pp. 172-6). He mamtamed his interest
in the work on the other side of the Atlantic to the
end of his life, corresponding on the subject with friends
and fellow workers both in the United States and in
Canada. Recently he has taken a keen personal interest
in the foundation and prospects of the new Boston
Society.
His never-failing desire to stimulate interest in psychical
research and promote associations for collective inquiry
was manifested on the very day he died by his taking
the chair at a group meeting in the Society's rooms,
arranged by Mr. Trethewy, with a view to " collecting
information about the practice of Spiritualism in foreign
countries."
In earlier days, before the foundation of the Society,
it was this same desire to interest the world in the
subject of our inquiry and to draw other workers into
this field of investigation, which prompted him to read a
paper about it before the British Association at Glasgow
in 1876, in which he urged the formation of a committee
of the Association to examine the evidence for the reality
of the alleged phenomena. It annoyed some men of
science a good deal at the time, and excited somewhat
violent controversy in the Press. But it undoubtedly had
a considerable effect in promoting the interest in psychical
research which its author desired to create.
There can be no doubt that Sir William Barrett had
in a remarkable degree a power of stirring up in others
interest in subjects which interested himself. Both in
conversation and as a lecturer he was very successful
in this, not only in psychical research, but also, I
believe, in experimental physics, the subject with which
he was professionally engaged during the greater part of
his life. He had considerable power of exposition, both
as a lecturer and as a writer. His style in writing is
lucid and pleasant, and his arrangement of his matter
clear and instructive. His little book on Psychical
416 Eleanor Mildred Sidgivick. [part
Research, in the Home University Library, though neces-
sarily somewhat out of date now, is a model for brief
but clear and popular treatment of a complicated subject,
and he produced several other books connected with our
work.^
But I think what most gave him force as a kind of
prophet was his great eagerness to stimulate enquiry and
to interest people, with an instinctive perception of what
would generally interest them. Eagerness such as his had,
of course, its drawbacks, and may have sometimes caused
him to bring forward interesting cases before they had
been fully investigated and made as complete evidentially
as possible. But, on the other hand, his keenness brought
him into touch with cases which we might not otherwise
have heard of, and enabled him to stimulate and en-
courage friends to carry out experiments which might not
otherwise have taken place. It was, for instance, partly
due to his encouragement that Miss Ramsden and Miss
Miles carried out their valuable experiments in telepathy
at a distance.
I am not attempting to give any history of Sir William's
interest in Psychical Research or of the work in it done
by him, for he himself told us about it in the paper he
read to the Society less than a year ago—ia June 1924
—
on " Some Reminiscences of Fifty Years of Psychical
Research," ^ and what I should have to say would be
largely repetition. But a few words should be said of
his scientific work unconnected with psychical research.
He was, as he in fact tells us in the paper just referred
to, Tyndall's assistant for several years (1862-1867), and
it was in Tjudall's laboratory at the Royal Institution
that his well-known observations on sensitive flames were
first made. Later in his own laboratory at Dublin he
made other investigations and discoveries. Among them
were discoveries of alloys of iron, at least one of which
has proved of great value. He also made observations
on the curious behaviour of iron near the critical magnetic
1 On the Threshold of a New World of Thought, 1908 ; On Creative
Thought, 1910 ; A Study of Swedenhorg, 1912.
^ Proceedingn , vol. xxxiv. p. 275
xcv.] Sir William Fletcher Barrett. 417
point and investigations into entoptic vision. He was
elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1899.
Sir William's contributions to our Proceedings and
Journal have been numerous, and deal with many, indeed
most, departments of psychical research. Hypnotism,
Telepathy and Telergy, the physical phenomena of Spirit-
ualism, Poltergeists, " Reichenbach phenomena " with the
possibility of a magnetic sense, supernormal communication
through motor automatism, all claimed his attention.
His longest and probably most important papers in Pro-
ceedings are the two On the so called Divining Bod,
published in Volumes XIII. and XV. They constitute a
treatise on the subject and have made him an authority
on it. In 1900 his provisional conclusion from these in-
vestigations (expressed in Vol. XV., p. 311) was that the
dowser's success arises " from some kind of transcendental
discernment possessed by his subconscious self
"—from
clairvoyance in fact—which through subliminal suggestion
causes the automatic muscular contractions that move the
dowsing rod. This provisional conclusion seems to have
developed through further reflection into a firm conviction ;
and last year, in the " Reminiscences " already referred
to, he says " I believe that it [i.e. dowsing] affords the
easiest and most conclusive evidence that a supernormal
perceptive power—akin to clairvoyance—exists." We under-
stand, however, that search is still bemg made in Germany
for normal physical or physiological explanations of the
phenomena of dowsing.
On May 6th, at the last meeting of the Society before
his death, Sir WiUiam was the reader of a paper " On
an Enquiry into a Remarkable Case," and the Journal
for May which appeared almost on the day of his death
contains an obituary notice of Dr. Sydney Alrutz of Upsala,
in whose work in hypnotism he took great interest. He
died, therefore, as he would have wished, very much in
harness—working for psychical research to the last.
In his private life Sir William Barrett was a man of
warm and enduring friendships. He had a devoted sister
who kept house for him for many years, and his latest
years were rendered very happy by his marriage in 1916
418 Eleanor Mildred Sidgwich. [part
to Mrs. Florence Willie, M.D., the distinguished surgeon
and gynecologist.
In conclusion, it only remains to say, that those of us
who, like myself, believe that our Society has been and
is a valuable instrument in promoting investigation in
fields neglected by orthodox science cannot but feel much
gratitude to Sir WiUiam Barrett to whom its existence
is so largelj^ due, and who also began " the accumula-
tion of evidence which bids fair sooner or later to place
telepathy among the established truths of science." When
that forecast, quoted from his Presidential address to the
Society in 1904,'^ comes true, as I cannot doubt it will,
Sir William Barrett will undoubtedly and deservedly be
regarded as a courageous pioneer in jDerhaps the most im-
portant branch of human discovery.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
'
Proceedingf!, vol. xviii., pp. 241-2.
xcv.] Monsieur Camille Flammanon. 419
IN MEMORY OF
MONSIEUR CAMILLE FLAMMARION.
We have to record with great regret the loss of another
former President of the Society, also a well-known man
of science, in the death of Monsieiir Camille Flammarion,
which occurred at Juvisy on June 4, 1925, at the age of
eighty-three. In the forty-three years of its existence
the Society has had four Presidents who were distinguished
citizens of foreign countries ; one American, William James,
and three Frenchmen, Professor Charles Richet, Professor
Henri Bergson, and lastly Camille Flammarion, whom we
welcomed not only for his own sake, but as strengthening
the ties that already bound us to our fellow-workers in
France.
Monsieur Flammarion has already described in his
Presidential Address {Proc, S.P.R., Vol. XXXIV., p. 1)
how it was in 1861, sixty-four years ago, that his interest
in psychical research was first stimulated by seeing on
a Paris book-stall Alan Kardec's Le Livre des Esprits.
From that time till the end of his life Ms interest never
flagged and he became the author of several widely-read
books on the subject. It was, however, to the study of
astronomy that his life was mainly devoted. He excelled
especially in setting forth the results of astronomical
research in a lucid and attractive style, intelligible to
those who have little or no technical knowledge of the
subject. The writer of the Obituary Notice in the
Times said of him :
" He was indeed aptly named '
The
Poet of the Heavens,' and was regarded with real affection
by immense numbers of readers, both in France and
England, who owed to him aU their knowledge of the
wonders of astronomy." Something of his power of
bringing within the vision of the ordinary man the
420 Monsieur Camille Flammarion. [pabT
immense vistas which astronomy opens out may be felt in
his Presidential Address to this Society. An English
translation of the Address was, as many of our members
will recollect, read at a General Meeting of the Society
on June 26, 1923, by Sir William Barrett, who had been
for many years on terms of personal friendship with
Monsieur Flammarion.
To the Society's Journal for March, 1923 (Vol. XXI.,
p. 45), shortly after the election of Monsieur Flammarion
as President, Sir William Barrett contributed an account
of his work, from which the following passages may be
quoted here :
In spite of his great age, he will be 82 years old in a
few weeks, his intellectual activity is undiminished. Few,
if an}', scientific men have written so many books, each
characterised by great and wide learning and that wonder-
ful lucidity in which French savants excel. His last
treatise, now in course of publication, is on psychical
research, and entitled La Mort et son Mystere, and is
divided into three volumes, viz. 1. Avant la Mort ; 2.
Atitour de la Mort ; and 3. Apres la Mort . . .
On the fly-leaf of Apres la Mort is given a list of some
of the many psychical works M. Flammarion has published.
His best-known book is Ulnconnu et les problemes psychi-
ques, . . . But although M. Flammarion has been studying
psychical phenomena for fifty years his life work has been
astronomy, and his papers and books on this subject have
had an immense circulation ;
e.g. his small volume entitled
Lumen has reached a circulation of 70,000, and his Reves
£toiles no less than 142,000. Besides these he has pub-
lished at least twenty works on astronomy, most of which
are intended to bring the wonders of the heavens and the
results of modern astronomical research within the com-
prehension of the general public. In addition he has
published sixteen books on general science, of which his
UAtmosphere, a popular treatise on meteorology, is the
best laiown. Then he has written at least half-a-dozen
books on speculative science and philosophy, such as La
pluralite des mondes habites, La fin du monde, etc.
xcv.] Monsieur Camille Flarufnarion. 421
But all this monumental labour has been subsidiary to
his work at the Observatory of Juvisy, which he founded
in 1883 and still superintends. The resume of his astrono-
mical observations and papers fills two pages of the
memorial to him in the Bulletin de la SociSte Astronomique
de France, and to these labours must be added the editing
of a monthly astronomical review which M. Flammarion
founded in 1882. With such a wonderful record of
scientific work there is little wonder that last year the
Council of the French Astronomical Society held a public
meeting to celebrate the 80th anniversary of M. Flam-
marion's birth. At this meeting the great amphitheatre
of the Sorbonne, Avhich holds 3000 persons, was found
too small for the multitude who wished to join in this
magnificent celebration. ...
Owing to his great age and to his other pre -occupations
Monsieur Flammarion was not able to attend any meetings
of the Society during his year of Office as President, and but
few of our Members can have had any personal acquaint-
ance with him. But an impression of his vigorous and
alert personality can be gathered from the photograph
which was reproduced as a frontispiece to Vol. XXXIV.
of the Proceedings.
422 Professor Charles Richet. [PAET
DES CONDITIONS DE LA CERTITUDE.
Par M. Charles Richet, Propesseur a
L'Universite de Paris.
En vous parlant des conditions de la certitude, il semble
tout d'abord que je sois bien loin de I'objet de vos etudes.
Pourtant je vous connais. Je sais quelles sont vos actives
preoccupations. Je me soQviens encore avec emotion de
I'accueil favorable que vous m'avez accorde quand, il y a
deja vingt ans, j'eus, grace a votre bienveillance, I'honneur
d'etre nomme votre President. Alors—vous vous le rap-
pelez peut-etre—en mon adresse presidentielle, je n'hesitai
pas a jeter dans le monde ce mot de metapsychique qui a
fait depuis quelque fortune. Aussi bien restais-je ce jour
la tout a fait au coeur de vos anxietes scientifiques
speciales.
Or, aujourd'liui, en parlant des conditions psychologiques
de la certitude, il parait a premiere vue que je m'ecarte
des sujets que vous abordez d'ordinaire. Cependant il n'en
est rien. Meme, plus je reflechis, plus je me persuade que
ce qui domine notre science—car nous avons tous ici la
pretention d'appeler la metapsychique une science—c'est
de posseder la notion precise de ce qu'il convient d'appeler
la certitude.
Je n'aurai garde d'ailleurs de traiter la question autre-
ment qu'a notre point de vue particulier. Je n'ignore pas
en effet que de grands philosophes ont ecrit sur la certitude
des livres profonds, et imagine de savantes theories, depuis
Socrate jusqu'a Descartes, depuis Berkeley jusqu'a Kant,
depuis Auguste Comte jusqu'a Bergson, mon illustre ami,
un de vos anciens presidents.
Je me proposerai seulement d'etudier comment et dans
quelles conditions nous pouvons arriver en science meta-
psychique a acquerir la certitude.
xcv.] I)es Conditioyis de la Certitude. 423
§ I. Il est des Degbbs dans la Certitude.
Tout de suite, une premiere proposition est a etablir,
qui parait paradoxale, mais qui cependant, j'espere, ne
vous paraitra pas contestable ; c'est qu'il n'y a pas une
certitude, mais des certitudes tres diverses. Autrement dit,
la certitude comporte des degres. Maintes verites que
nous regardons comme certaines, et meme absolument
certaines, se presentent a nous avec quelque hierarchie
dans cette certitude meme.
Bien entendu la certitude ne peut^pasj porter sur les
jugements, et les appreciations, mais sur les faits. Notre
opinion sur les bienfaits ou les mefaits de Napoleon, de
Louis XIV, de Frederic II, est sujette a de teUes con-
troverses qu'il n'y a pas de certitude. De meme pour
les arts. Quoique Rembrandt me paraisse bien superieur
a Guido Reni, la superiorite de Rembrandt n'est pas une
certitude ;
pas plus que la superiorite de Shakespeare sur
Walter Scott.
II ne peut y avoir de certitude ni dans les arts, ni dans
la politique ; ni meme, helas ! dans nos jugements sur les
hommes.
II s'agit seulement de la certitude des faits. Pour
prendre un exemple simple, j'examinerai les verites elemen-
taires du calcul des probabiiites. Mathematiquement, ane
probabilite tres faible n'est jamais une certitude, mais
rnoralement il n'en est pas ainsi. La certitude morale,
comme on dit, ne correspond pas du tout a la certitude
mathematique. Quand la probabiUte est extremement
faible, la certitude du cas contraire devient extremement
forte, et rnoralement presque absolue. Au jeu de la
roulette, par exemple, la probabilite que la rouge va sortir
cinquante fois de suite est tres faible (^)^°, c'est-a-dire a
P^®^ ioo.oou!"ouo.ouo -
J® ^^^^ ^ P®^ P^®^ certain,
et meme tout a fait certain, que la rouge ne va pas
sortir 50 fois de suite. On ne I'a jamais vu. On n'a
meme quelque chance de voir cette extraordinaire serie que
si Ton joue 100 milliards de parties. Et cependant la
certitude n'est pas absolue. D'abord parce q\ie je peux
tomber sur cette faible chance, mais surtout parce qu'il
424 Professor Charles Richet. [part
s'agit d'une machine humaine, machine qui est mise en
mouvement par des hommes, machine qui n'est pas ideale-
ment parfaite, et qui par consequent comporte un defaut
tel qu'elle va surtout donner des boules rouges.
D'ailleurs il est evident qu'avant le cinquantieme coup,
quand il y a deja 49 rouges, j'ai exactement autant de
chances d' avoir 49 rouges, plus une noire, que 50 rouges.
C'est au commencement de la partie qu'on peut affirmer
en presque absolue certitude qu'on n'obtiendra pas 50
boules rouges consecutives.
Et tout de suite nous voyons qu'U y a des degres dans
la certitude. Car si, au lieu de dire 50 boules rouges, j' avals
dit 500 boules rouges, la certitude que je ne rencontrerai
pas une serie de 500 boules rouges deviendrait enormement
plus forte que la certitude de n'avoir pas une s^rie de 50
rouges. On est moralement certain qu'on n'aura pas 50
rouges consecutives, mais plus certain encore qu'on n'en
aura pas 500. On n'aura d'ailleurs jamais la certitude
mathematique, mais seulement la certitude morale.
De fait, dans toutes les sciences, math^matiques ou
autres, et dans la pratique habituelle de la vie, nous nous
contentons pour notre certitude de probabilites bien moins
faibles que ou meme {\f'', ou meme (-|)^".
Mais je ne veux pas prolonger cette discussion qui nous
entrainerait trop loin. Je reviendrai d'aUleurs sur I'appU-
cation du calcul des probabilites a nos recherches. Pour le
moment, je donnerai d'autres exemples, afin d'etablir que,
meme lorsqu'il n'est pas question de hasard, il y a des
degres dans la certitude, et je chercherai a savoir pourquoi.
Je viens de Paris et je suis a Londres. J'ai la certitude
absolue que Paris et Londres sont des vUles reelles.
Quoique je n'aie vu ni Calcutta, ni Sumatra, ni Valparaiso,
je suis tout aussi certain que ces viUes lointaines existent.
Des vaisseaux en arrivent chaque jour, avec des lettres, des
passagers, des marchandises. On peut y envoyer ou en
recevoir des telegrammes. La certitude est complete.
Je ne suis pas moins certain que Carthage a existe. Car
on en voit les ruines, et tons les temoignages des his-
toriens sont la pour etabhr qu'il y a vingt trois siecles
existait sur la rive africaine septentrionale de la, Mediter-
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitude. 4-25
ranee une grande ville appel6e Carthage. C'est un fait
d'absolue certitude, et le revoquer en doute ce serait nier
toute I'histoire ancienne. Cependant, quelque certaine que
soit la realite de I'ancienne Carthage, ma certitude relative
a Carthage est un peu moindre que ma certitude relative a
Calcutta, car pour Carthage je suis force de m'en rapporter
a des temoignages historiques ou a des debris de pierres.
Remontons a des temps plus anciens. II n'est pas
douteux qu'il y a eu en Asie Mineure une ville de Troie,
autour de laquelle se sont Uvres de furieux combats,
chantes par le plus grand des poetes. Mais les ruines en
ont presque entierement disparu, il n'en demeure plus que
de vagues vestiges. Etiam periere ruinae. De Troie il ne
reste plus guere que I'lhade. Or on peut pretendre, a
I'extreme rigueur, que toute la poesie d'Homere n'est
qu'une fiction.
Toutefois ce serait faire preuve d'un scepticisme peu
pardonnable que de nier la reahte de I'ancieime Troie.
Comment exphquer non seulement Homere, mais Eschyle,
Euripide, Sophocle, Herodote, et toute la Htterature
grecque ? La reahte de I'ancienne Troie est une certitude,
mais une certitude d'ordre inferieur a la certitude de
Carthage, a plus forte raison a la certitude de Calcutta ou
de Paris.
Done, il eat dans les certitudes une sorte de hierarchic.
Pourquoi ? Faisons cette analyse.
Des que je puis, a chaque minute de mon existence,
controler, verifier un fait, U n'y a plus d'hesitation pos-
sible. Nul doute n'est permis. Qu'un individu lunatique
vienne me dire :
" Calcutta n'existe pas," je pourrai lui
rire au nez, car je n'aurai qu'a entrer dans un bureau
telegraphique : au bout d'vme heure j'aurai la reponse de
Calcutta. S'U me dit :
" Carthage n'a jamais existe," je
pourrai le renvoyer a Polybe, a Plaute, a Tite-Live, a
Plutarque et a quarante auteurs latins, qui en parlent
comme d'une reahte incontestable. Je pourrai meme
I'engager a aUer sur la rive africaine jusqu'a Tunis, et il
verra pres de Tunis des ruines qui temoignent qu'il y eut
la une grande vUle. Mais s'il me dit : "la vUle de Troie
n'a jamais existe," la demonstration du contraire sera plus
426 Professor Charles Bichet. [part
difficile, et une discussion sera presque possible, malgre les
decouvertes de Schliemann ; car I'lliade d'Homere est un
poeme et non un document historique. Qui sait si les
Grecs, poetes et historiens, n'ont pas pris cette fiction pour
une realit6 !
Pourtant je suis bien certain que Troie a existe. C'est
une certitude historique, traditionnelle. Mais, comme elle
ne comporte pas une verification immediate qui entraine la
certitude absolue, c'est une certitude de second ordre.
De \k cette proposition peu contestable que la certitude est
d'autant plus grande que la verification pent se faire, facile
et prompte.
Cependant, en I'absence de tout controle immediat, il y
a dans le domaine des sciences historiques maintes certi-
tudes qui sont absolues. Mais, pour qu'elles aient ce
caractere, il faut la multiplicite et I'authenticite des
temoignages. Quand on possede 20, 30 documents authen-
tiques, on arrive a pouvoir affirmer les choses. Aussi toutes
les questions de certitude historique traditionnelle sont-elles
difficiles a etablir. II faut beaucoup de sagacity et im esprit
de critique penetrant pour distinguer ce qui est tres prob-
able et ce qui est absolument certain.
Charles I*^"^ est mort sur I'echafaud. Brutus a tue Cesar.
Cain a tue Abel. Voila trois faits certains. Mais quelle
difference dans la certitude ! Pour le crime de Charles I'^'',
nous avons tons les ecrits du temps, les lettres, les
memoires des contemporains, les archives du proces. Alors
certitude absolue. Pour la mort de Cesar, nous avons les
livres de Ciceron, de Su^tone, de Tacite, de Plutarque et
de tous les auteurs latins, mais enfin ils ont pu se tromper
en repetant la meme erreur. Pour le meurtre d'Abel,
nous n'avons que le temoignage de la Bible. L'histoire
devient presque de la legende.
Ainsi la certitude va en se degradant a mesure que les
temoignages sont plus clairsemes. La certitude est d'autant
phis grande que les temoignages sont plus abondants.
II va de soi que la qualite de ces temoignages a un role
essentiel ; un seul temoignage authentique pesera plus dans
la balance quel vingt affirmations hasardeuses. Mais qui
fera cette pesee ? II s'agit de nuances, d'appreciations
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitude. 427
personnelles. La certitude historique n'a jamais le carac-
tere absolu et dominateur d'une certitude scientifique laquelle
peut toujours se verifier immediatement.
Pour prendre un exemple, je citerai un livre tres curieux
et tres savant de M. Conchond. Get auteur conclut que
Jesus-Christ n'a pas existe, que tout est mythe et legende.
Bien entendu je lui laisse la responsabilite de cette auda-
cieuse assertion. Je I'indique seulement pour montrer a
quel point la certitude historique est toujours fragile.
La certitude se transforme en efiet quand des assertions
contradictoires sont opposees, quelle que soit la valeur des
preuves affirmatives. Les magistrats, cj^uand ils ont a
juger, sont souvent tres embarrasses, car il se produit des
temoignages contradictoires et confus au milieu desquels il
est permis d'hesiter.
Anatole France conte quelque part I'histoire d'un jeune
magistrat qui, par la logique de son argumentation et par
raccumulation de preuves formelles, avait fait condamner
un individu a mort. Ce miserable 6tait certainement un
assassin, mais cependant il s'obstinait a se dire innocent.
Or le magistrat en toute conscience n'avait pas la moindre
incertitude, et il etait bien convaincu que I'homme
qu'U avait fait condamner avait reellement assassine.
•
Cependant, la veille de I'execution, ce jeune magistrat, qui
etait au debut de sa carriere et un peu inquiet de sa
responsabilite, alia trouver le condamne dans sa cellule et
lui dit :
" Rien ne peut vous sauver : avouez que vous avez
tue." " Eh bien ! oui," dit le malheureux, " oui, j'ai tue." Et
ce fut un grand soulagement pour le magistrat. II avait
deja la certitude, mais I'aveu dix coupable augmentait la
certitude, car la certitvide a des degres.
Si j'insiste sur ces conditions de la certitude historique
ou judiciaire, c'est que souvent nous ne pouvons juger des
faits metapsychiques que d'apres des temoignages. Pour
toute une serie de phenomenes qui ne relevent pas de I'ex-
perimentation, mais de I'observation, et d'une observation
prise par des temoins, souvent peu competents, ou effrayes,
ou inattentifs, ou de memoire infidele, alors il faut une
documentation severe qui ne peut jamais etre trop minu-
tieuse. L'admirable recueil Phantasms of the Living, qu'aucun
428 Professor Charles Richet. [part
livre n'a pu meme de loin egaler, nous donne des exemples
de cette critique judicieuse. Les faits d'obeervation en-
trainent la certitude tout autant que les faits historiques,
niais c'est une certitude inferieure a la certitude scientifique
experimentale, car les evenements, qui sont passagers et
fugaces, ne peuvent se repeter, et nous sommes contraints
de nous en rapporter aux temoignages des temoins dignes
de foi.
Voila pourquoi, lorsqu'un de nos correspondants nous
signale un fait d'hallucination veridique, nous y croyons
assurement, mais nous en sommes beaucoup moins con-
vaincus que lui, car il sait mieux que nous a quoi s'en
tenir sur la veracite et la sagacite du temoin.
II se produit meme fort souvent un fait bien singuHer et
assez comique. Nous racontons un phenomene remar-
quable, excellemment demonstratif, mais notre interlocuteur
en est a peine emu. II hoche la tete, un peu sceptique,
et il ajoute :
" je ne crois pas beaucoup a votre r6cit.
Pourtant je connais un fait du meme genre, mais bien plus
remarquable, que je vais vous citer." Helas ! le plus souvent
ce fait si remarquable est entache de maintes defectuosites.
La certitude des faits metapsychiques est un peu celle
des aerobthes. Un meteore lumineux a ete vaguement
entrevu, diverses personnes ont cru entendre un grand
fracas, et au bout de quelques heures on decouvre une
pierre bizarre qui n'etait pas la la veille. Mais vraiment
n'etait-elle pas la ? Est-ce possible qu'elle soit descendue
du ciel ? Lavoisier, notre grand Lavoisier, le plus grand
des savants de tous les pays et de tous les temps, a ose
dire :
" il n'y a pas de pierres tombant du ciel, parce qu'il
n'y a pas de pierres dans le ciel."
II faut done excuser les personnes (de moindre envergure
intellectuelle que Lavoisier sans doute) qui, lorsqu'on leur
fait des recits de fantomes appuyes de constatations mul-
tiples et concordantes, n'ont qu'un sourire dedaigneux.
Tout depend pour une grande part du nombre et de la
qualite des temoignages. Mais que le temoignage humain
est faillible ! C'est effrayant !
Mon regrette ami Tli. Flournoy, de Geneve, raconte
qu'un jour, a un de see cours, brusquement un individu,
xcv.] Des Conditions cle la Certitude. 429
qui sembLait prive de raison, est entre dans la salle, sur
les hauts gradins, a prononce des paroles incoherentes avec
gestes desordonnes et compliques, et est sorti precipitam-
ment. A peine etait-il sorti que Flournoy a dit a ses
eleves :
" jevines gens, faites attention, relatez-moi par ecrit
exactement tout ce qui s'est produit : I'algarade et sa
duree, I'heure de I'entree et de la sortie, les gestes, les
paroles, la description de cet individu, car ce fut une
comedie par avance arrangee dans toutes ses minuscules
phases. Je veux savoir jusqu'a quel point vous etes de
bons obaervateurs." Eh bien ! ces jeunes gens, distingues
philosophes, ont donne sur ces deux minutes de tumulte
des relations tres differentes, incompletes et inexactes.
Nous avons pubhe jadis, avec mon ami Dariex, le cas du
heutenant Escourrou, qui eut Toeil gauche blesse par une
balle mortelle a I'assaut de La Puebla. Or sa mere, le
matin de ce meme jour, avait vu, sur un tableau repre-
sentant le portrait de son fils, le meme oeil gauche saignant,
dechire et elle en avait parle. Nous avons fait sur cette
remarquable hallucination veridique une enquete appro-
fondie. Dariex a ete chez M. et Me. Escourrou a deux
reprises dilierentes. M. Escourrou pere etait un officier
superieur, de bonne foi absolue. Voila done un fait bien
autlientique dont la documentation est irreprochable. Or
voici qui est bien smgulier. Mon eminent ami Camille
Flammarion raconte une histoire tout a fait analogue avec
d'autres noms. Un officier fran^ais, M. de Boisleve, est
blesse a I'oeil gauche lors de I'assaut de La Puebla. Madame
de Boisleve, sa mere, I'aurait vu dans son salon le jour de
sa blessure avec I'oeil gauche creve. Meme il parait qu'un
proces-verbal de cette constatation a ete dresse. Mais oil
est-il, ce proces-verbal 1 Nous n'en avons micune trace, et
j'incline a penser qu'il s'agit la d'une histoire racontee
apres le deces du heutenant Escourrou et inexactement
attribuee a d'autres personnes.
Je ne veux pas refarre le hvre qu'ecrivait, il y a trois
siecles, Cornehus Agrippa sur I'incertitude des sciences.
Agrippa croyait que la theologie etait superieure a toutes les
sciences, ce que je n'ai garde d'admettre. Mais je croirais
volontiers a I'inexactitude (relative) du temoignage humain.
2e
430 Professor Charles Richet. [part
Heureiisement, quand il s'agit des hallucinations veri-
diqnes, il y a des recits tellement nombreux, tellement
incontestables, que, sous peine d'un scepticisme ridicule, il
faut accepter beaucoup de ces recits comme authentiques.
Et la multiplicite des preuves pese d'un grand poids dans
la balance. S'il n'y avait qix'un seul fait, absolument
exact cependant, entoure de tous les temoignages et de
toutes les authenticites desirables, possedant toutes les
garanties de bonne observation et de veracite que vows
pourriez imaginer, ce fait, s'il etait unique, ne pourrait
suffire a nous convaincre qu'il n'y a pas eu erreur.
De la cette proposition qui n'est pas plus contestable
que les deux autres et qui est tellement simple qu'elle est
presque une naivete : la certitude croit non seulement avec le
nomhre, mats avec la qualite des temoignages.
II
Je prendrai pour exemple des faits de science. Tout
d'abord, quand on parle d'un fait scientifique, il semble
qu'il n'y ait plus de place a I'incertitude. Et cependant . . .
II est certain qu'il y a du fer dans I'eau de mer. Ce
fer est en mininie quantite, mais enfin il y en a ; les
poissons ont du fer dans le sang, les cendres de certains
mollusques {Suberites dormmcula) sont extremement riches
en fer, et cependant les reactifs chimiques ne permettent
de deceler le fer dans I'eau de mer que lorsqu'on a evapore
d'enormes quantites de liquide. Qui sait si pendant cette
laborieuse evaporation des parcelles de fer n'ont pas pu
etre introduites ? Nous sommes parfaitement certains qu'il
y a du fer clans I'eau de mer, mais nous sommes beaucoup
plus certains qu'il y a du chlore, car pour le chlore la
verification pent se faire tout de suite. II suffira d'une
goutte d'eau de mer. Un etudiant chimiste qui commence
sa premiere annee pourra en faire immediatement la preuve,
sans manutention prealable, sans longues evaporations, alors
que la constatation du fer est longue, dehcate et exige
des connaissances chimiques approfondies.
Les astronomes ont mesure la distance qui separe la
Terre de la Lune. A quelques kilometres pres, ils sont
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Cerfihide. 431
d'accorcl. Mais ils ont essaye aussi de mesurer la distance
qui nous separe de Sirius par exemple, en prenant comme
base du triangle, non plus deux points de la terre, mais
la terre aux deux points extremes de sa course annuelle.
L'angle parallactique est, meme alors, extremement petit.
Mais. quelqiTe confiance que j'aie en ces mesures et ces
calculs, lorsqu'on me dit cj^ue I'etoile polaire est a mille
annees de lumiere et que d'autres etoiles (c^u'on peut
photographier) sont a 300,000 annees de lumiere, j'en suis
beaucoup moins certain, quoique ma confiance en ces donnees
de la science soit absolue.
En astronomic, comme en chimie, les faits certains sont
d'une certitude diSerente.
Parlerai-je de la zoologie 1 Je suis certain cj^u'il y a
des elephants, car j'en ai vu, et je peux en voir quand je
voudrai. Je suis certain d'autre part qu'il y a eu des
mammouths. II n'est pas permis d'en douter. Tout de
meme, malgre les preuves zoologiques. malgre les exem-
plaires trouves en Siberie. presque intacts encore, la certi-
tude est moindre pour I'ancienne existence des mammouths
que pour I'actuelle existence des elephants.
En physiologie. je pourrais a ce propos mentionner
quantite de faits certains, mais d'hierarchie differente dans la
certitude. Je me contenterai d'un seul exemple (qui m'est
d'ailleurs guere plus demonstratif que beaucoup d'autres).
Eloiu:ens a montre que I'ablation du cervelet entraine
des troubles de I'equihbre. L'experience a ete faite des
milliers de fois sur des pigeons (surtout) et aussi eur des
mammiferes : en outre, les medecins savent que toute
lesion du cervelet entraine le vertige et I'incoordination
musculaire. Ce sont faits d'absolue certitude. Mais le
physiologiste itahen Luigi Luciani a prouve, en outre, qu'il
y avait, en meme temps que des troubles de I'equilibre,
deficience musculaire. Les experiences sont bien demon-
stratives : elles entrainent la certitude. Mais elles sont
difficiles a faire, 1' observation est dehcate, il faut une
grande habilete operatoire et une observation attentive
pour constater la deficience muscidaire apres I'ablation du
cervelet. La deficience est certaine, mais moins certaine que
I'incoordination.
432 Professor Charles Richet. [PAET
Ainsi nous voyons que, dans les sciences comma dans
notre opinion sur les choses, la certitude, tout en restant
certitude, est differente selon que les faits peuvent etre
repetes avec plus ou moins de frequence ou de facilite, a
I'aide d'appareUs plus ou moins compliques, avec un con-
trole plus ou moins rigoureux.
La Certitude est surtout un Fait d'habitude.
Je vous ai expose des verites tres elementaires, tres
naives, presque des truismes, et je serais tente de m'en
excuser. Pourtant ce qui justifie mon insistance, c'est que
cette variabilite de la certitude est souvent meconnue. Et
j 'arrive alors graduellement a ce qui est le principal objet
de ce bref discours, et j'espere que ma proposition ne vous
paraitra pas trop paradoxale.
Je vous la formulerai ainsi pour que vous puissiez bien
la retenir ! on n'a de certitude absolue que 'pour les faits
liabituels.
Plus un fait est inhabituel, rare, exceptionnel, en appa-
rente contradiction avec ce que nous voyons autour de
nous a chaque instant, plus la certitude est difficile a
acquerir. En depit de toutes les demonstrations, experi-
mentales ou autres, on n'est jamais completement certain
que des faits habituels. Et cela semble assez etrange.
Pourtant, lielas ! notre intelligence est assez mal faite pour
qu'il en soit ainsi. C'est assurement un defaut de notre
intelligence, mais nous n'y pouvons rien.
Voici un petit fait qui etablit a quel point des raisonne-
ments, meme de la plus severe mathematique, sont parfois
impuissants a entrainer la conviction. On demontre en
geometric elementaire que, quelle que soit I'inclinaison de
la section sur I'axe, la section d'un tronc de cone donne
toujours une ellipse reguliere. M. Thiers, le grand homme
d'fitat, ayant voulu, sur ses vieux jours, s'initier aux
mathematiques, se rebiffa devant cette demonstration
rigoureuse. " Non, non," disait-il, " il est impossible qu'en
coupant obliquement un pain de sucre on n'ait pas une
ellipse oil il y a un gros bout d'un cote, et un petit bout
de I'autre." II fallut alors, pour le convaincre, la preuve
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitude. 433
experimentale. On fit scier obliquement un pain de sucre,
et on vit alors, a la grande surprise du President de la
Republique, que I'ellipse etait bien reguliere.
De meme que pour les demonstrations geometriques, la
certitude n'existe complete, radicale, absolue, que pour les
faits facilement accessibles a nos sens c'est-a-dire a des
observations quotidiennes, repetees, et repetables.
On raconte qu'un des academiciens du XVIII^™" siecle,
I'abbe d'O etait fort avare. Un jour, a I'Academie,
on fit une collecte, chacun devant apporter sa petite somme.
Mais quand on fit le compte des oiTrandes remises, il en
manquait une. "J'ai donne," dit I'abbe d'O . Un de
ses confreres obligeamment dit :
" je ne I'ai pas vu, mais
je vous crois." Fontenelle ajoata :
" moi, je I'ai vu, mais je
ne le crois pas."
Quand un fait est invraisemblable, on a beau I'avoir vu,
on ne se resigne pas tout de suite a y aj outer foi, la
verite ne consent a etre acceptee que lorsqu'elle a pour
elle la vraisemblance, c'est-a-dire I'habitude.
C'est la le grand malheur de nos experiences et de nos
observations scientifiques. Vainement nous avons ete
temoins, et temoins rigoureux, vainement nous en avons
rirrefragable certitude, eUes ne font pas partie integrante
de nos convictions.
Pour le demontrer, je citerai deux exemples personnels,
I'un de metapsychique subjective, 1' autre de metapsychique
objective, qui tous deux ont entraine ma conviction absohie,
et que cependant,—ce qui est presque contradictoire avec
ma certitude,—je voudrais repeter, et meme repeter plusieurs
fois, afin de m'y habituer.
A. Metapsychique Subjective.—Pour le phenomene sub-
jectif, il s'agit d'une des plus belles experiences de Stephane
Ossovietzki. Avant que je ne partisse pour Varsovie, mon
illustre amie, la comtesse de Noailles, m'avait remis trois
enveloppes, soigneusement cachetees, et dont j'ignorais abso-
lument le contenu. Je les montrai a Stephane en lui
disant d'en choisir une. II en prit une au hasard. Nous
etions, Geley et moi, en pleine lumiere, a cote de lui,
surveillant I'un et 1' autre ses moindres gestes, notant toutee
ses paroles. Or c'est a peine s'il a regarde I'enveloppe.
434 Professor Charles Richet. [part
II la palpait, la mettait derriere son dos, la froissait \
legerement en tous sens et parlait de choses tres difiEerentes. ^
Au bout d'une demi-heure environ il nous dit :
" il y a '
quelque cliose de la Nature. C'est I'inspiration d'un grand I
poete fran9ais. On dirait Rostand. Je vols beaucoup de \
lumieres pendant la nuit. C'est un vers de Chantecler dit
par le Coq, et au-dessous il y a la signature, Edmond ,
Rostand."
En realite I'enveloppe que nous decachetames contenait
ces mots ecrits par Mme. de Noailles :
" c'est la nuit qu'il est ;
beau de croire d la lumiere. •
Edmond Rostand.' Ce vers de
Chantecler est dit par le Coq." :
Voila une experience irreprocliable. EUe me suf&t.
Nulle erreur n'est possible.
En effet : 1°. Supposer une collusion entre Stephane 0. •
et Mme. de Noailles, c'est monstrueusement idiot. Madame
de Noailles ne connaissait absolument pas Stephane.
2°. L'opacite de I'enveloppe etait complete, elle n'a ete
decachetee qu'apres que Stephane nous eut tout dit, la
nuit, la lumiere, Chantecler, Rostand. D'ailleurs, pendant
tout le temps de I'experience, c'est-a-dke j)endant environ :|
une demi-heure, nous avons, Geley et moi, surveille .
scrupuleusement tous les gestes de Stephane, sans nous
relacher dans notre surveillance.
Puisque je parle ici de cette experience faite en commun, |
avec mon excellent ami Geley, qu'il me soit permis de lui
adresser du haut de cette tribune un souvenir emu. Je
n'ai pas connu d'observateur plus sagace, d'experimentateur
plus penetrant, attentif aux moindres details, en meme
temps qu'apte aux plus puissantes generalisations. Helas !
un cruel evenement I'a enleve a notre amitie et a notre
admiration ; ce fut une grande perte pour la science.
3°. Supposer le hasard, c'est egalement absurde, comme
le bons sens lindique. Si nous apphquons le calcul des
probabihtes, la citation d'un auteur, au heu d'une phrase
quelconque, n'est que de 1/50 environ ;
que ce soit un
vers plutot que de la prose, c"est 1/100, que ce vers soit
de Rostand, c'est de 1/10,000, que ce vers soit de Chan-
tecler, c'est de 1/100,000, que ce soit un vers oil il est
question de nuit et de lumiere, c'est de 1/10,000,000.
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitude. 435
Ainsi le hasard ne peut etre mis en cause. Peu importe
le nombre de zeros. A partir d'une probabilite tres faible,
la certitude morale est a peu pres la meme.
Done cette experience est demonstrative. NuUe fraude,
nulle illusion, nulle collusion, nul hasard ne suffisant a
I'expliquer. II faut admettre cette verite invraisemblable,
surprenante, que I'intelligence a des moyens de connais-
sance autres que nos sens ordinaires.
I^Ce fait, quoique inliabituel, et etrangement inhabituel,
n'est pas unique. On en a rapporte de tres nombreux
exemples bien authentiques dans tous les temps et dans
tons les pays. Moi-meme je I'avais deja constate sur
divers sujets et j'ai public la-dessus il y a longtemps dans
les Proceedings de votre Societe un volumineux memoire.
A vrai dire, je ne crois pas qu'il y ait jamais eu de plus
belles experiences que celles d'Ossovietzki. Recemment, a
Copenliague, il en a fourni encore un exemple remarquable,
lequel, venant apres les trente experiences environ que nous
avons faites, Geley et moi, entrainait la certitude.
L'experience du vers de Rostand n'est ni plus, ni moins
irreprochable que mes precedentes experiences avec Stepliane.
Ce n'etait done que le controle des experiences anterieures.
Or ce rigoureux controle a apporte un resultat d'une
nettete eclatante. Ainsi done je tenais la certitude, certi-
tude experimentale, absolue. II semblait que tout fut
fini, puisque vraiment je ne pouvais rien supposer de plus
convaincant et de plus decisif que cette longue serie
d'experiences sur la lucidite.
He bien ! c'est ici que va intervenir ce curieux sentiment
psychologique, a moi persoimel, mais que je m'imagine
beaucoup de personnes ressentent comme moi, et sur lequel
j'insiste. Quand il s'agit d'un phenomene iiahabituel, in-
connu, qui est en contradiction apparente avec tout ce
que nous avons vu depuis notre eniance, avec tout ce que
les liommes, vulgaires ou savants, nous ont dit depuis un
temps immemorial, alors une experience, si parfaite qu'elle
soit, ne suffit pas a entrainer une de ces certitudes ab-
solues qui defient le temps et les critiques. Une experience,
ce n'est pas vraiment assez : il en faut dix, il en faut vingt,
il eu faut cent, il en faut toujours, pour que nous ayions
436 Professor Charles Richet. [part
pris le parti d'accepter dans son integrite un phenomene
anormal. Tant que le phenomene n'aura point passe dans
nos habitudes, nous n'y poitrrons croire profondement,
c'est-a-dire jusqu'aux racines memes de notre croyance.
Car ce qui determine I'absolue et irremediable certitude
d'un phenomene, c'est la frequence et la Constance de ce
phenomene meme.
Je lance en Fair une pierre, je suis certain qu'elle va
retomber. Nul doute ne m'assiege. C'est la certitude
dans toute sa puissance. D'autre part, Ossovietzki lit
dans une enveloppe opaque une lettre cachetee. II n'a
pas pu la decacheter. II n'a pu savoir ce qu'elle contenait.
La lecture de cette lettre, sans le concours de la vue,
est un fait aussi certain que la chute d'une pierre. Et
pourtant, sans avoir de doutes, je resiste dans mon for
interieur a admettre qu' il y a quelque connaissance des
clioses exterieures sans le concours des sens, car ce serait
la une faculte prodigieuse differant de tout ce qui est
connu, de tout ce qui a dirige les hommes, depuis des
siecles, de tout ce que j'ai vu depuis mon enfance, a
chaque seconde de ma vie.
II y a plusieurs annees, j'ai decouvert en physiologic un
phenomene fondamental et paradoxal, que j'ai appele
Vanaphylaxie. L'anaphylaxie a ete repetee et verifiee dea
centaines et des milliers de fois, tant par moi que par un
nombre immense cl'auteurs differents. La certitude en est
done absolue. Tout de meme, chaque fois que je le con-
state de nouveau, c'est toujours avec plaisir, et presque
avec surprise, car c'est un fait bien singuher, et je me dis
alors avec une vraie satisfaction :
" decidement je ne m'etais
pas trompe."
A plus forte raison quand il s'agit d'une experience de
cryptestliesie (ou de lucidite), phenomene beaucoup plus
mysterieux, et plus stup^fiant, et plus etrange, que l'anaphy-
laxie. On veut toujours recommencer. Apres la lettre de
Mme. de Noailles, j'en ai donne a Ossovietzki une autre de
Sarah Bernhardt, et une autre, et une autre encore, et
toujours dans des conditions de rigueur irreprochable, et
toujours avec le meme succes.
II semble que je ii'avais pas besoin de fortifier ma
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitnde. 437
certitude, et cependant je demandais toujours a recom-
mencer.
A mesure que le temps passe, notre certitude des faits
inhabituels, faits que nous avons cependant dument con-
states, va en s'affaiblissant. Les raisonnements les plus
solides, les experiences les plus decisives, n'ont pas la force
de compenser I'inhabitude des faits.
Surtout ne pretendez pas que, si vous doutez vaguement
de tel ou tel phenomene inhabituel, c'est que vous ne
I'avez pas compris. Quelle erreur ! Nous n'avons a vrai
dire rien compris a I'univers mysterieux qui nous entoure,
nous sommes environnes d'un Kosmos oil tout est a la fois
habituel et incomprehensible. Mais I'habitude en masque I'in-
comprehension. Oil est le fil qui attire a la terra la pomme
de Newton, quand elle se detache de I'arbre ? Nous disons :
" c'est I'attraction." Mais quoi ! I'attraction est-elle com-
prise malgre ses belles formules matliematiques ? Ces
formules expriment elegamment un phenomene mysterieux,
mais elles ne Fexpliquent nuUement.
Nous frottons du phosphore. Une flamme apparait avec
des vapeurs blanches. Avons-nous mieux compris parce
que nous disons : 1°, le mouvement se transforme en
chaleur (?) ;
2°, la chaleur determine la combustion du
phosphore (?) ;
3°, le phosphore sohde se combine avec
I'oxygene de Fair pour donner de I'acide phosphorique,
, corps aussi different du phosphore que de I'oxygdne, et qui
cependant est a la fois du phosphore et de I'oxygene.
Je parle : vous m'6coutez. Mais c'est la un vrai miracle
incomprehensible, que les evolutions de mon moi, ce
mystere, puissent se communiquer aux autres moi, mysteres
plus profonds encore.
Et cependant, ni la chute de la pomme, ni la combus-
tion du phosphore, ni le retentissement de la pensee
humaine ne nous etonnent. Ce n'est pas parce que nous
comprenons, c'est parce que nous sommes habitues.
II y a la, il faut bien I'avouer, quelque chose d'assez
desesperant. Nous ne pourrons gueres faire passer des
verites dans Fesprit des hommes tant que de ces verites
les hommes n'auront pas pris I'habitude. Comment pour-
rais-je trouver mauvais que I'on accueUlit avec quelque
438 Professor Charles Richet. [part
scepticisme les experiences de Stephane, par example, quand
j'ai eu tant de peine, malgre la repetition et la precision
de mes recherches, a en admettre la certitude.
Entendons-nous bien cependant sur le mot certitude, car
c'est la le point delicat du probleme psychologiqne que j'essaie
de resoudre. Je suis absolument certain que Stephane n'a
pas pu connaitre, par le secours des sens normaux (com-
muns a tous les hommes) les mots et les idees que contenait
cette lettre. J'en suis aussi certain que de ma propre
existence. J'y crois comma ja crois qu'il y a eu la Ville
de Cartilage, comma je crois qu'il y a du far dans I'aau
de mer, comma je crois qu'il y a eu des mammoutlis.
Je n'hesiterais pas a condamner un homme a mort la-
dessus, mais, comme je n'assiste jamais que dans des
occasions excaptionnalles a da tels phenomenes, et mema
comme ces phenomenas paraissant an contradiction avac ca
qua je vols chaque jour, avec tout ce que pensent, disent
et ensaignent mes contemporains, mes compatriotes, mas
amis, mas collegues, j'ai constamment basoin da renforcar
ma certitude par da nouvalles axperiances.
B. Metajjsychique objective. —Si da la metapsychiqua sub-
jective nous passons a la metapsychiqua objective, las
difficultes deviennent plus grandes encore. Je pourrais citer
beaucoup d'axperiences. Ja me contenterai d'en signaler
une seula, parca qu'alle a ce double caractere d'avoir ate
reahsee dans des conditions irreprochables et, d'autra part,
d'avok ete unique, en ce sens que je n'ai pas pu la
retrouvar una seconde fois.
A I'lla Ribaud, un soir, apres une seance plus ou moins
interessante, en presence d'Ochorowitz, de Fred. Myers, et
de sir OHver Lodge, Eusapia a presante le phenomena
suivant. Et je crois bien qua parsonne na pourra contestar
la competence de cas obsarvateurs.
Je prends dans ma main droite la main d' Eusapia et ja tiens
abaisse mon index de maniere qu'il depassa notablamant la
touta petite main d' Eusapia. Alors elle dirige ma main at
ma fait promener mon index sur du papier blanc. A masura
qua mon index se promene sur le papier, una marque
apparait sur ce papier, an bleu, comme un trait bleu. Avec
sa main gauche levee tres haut en I'air Eusapia tenait un
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitude. 439
crayon bleu qu'elle serrait convulsivement. Le phenomene
se passait a la Ivimiere d'une bougie qui etait presque au
contact du papier, tant elle etait proche.
Tons les souvenir's de ce fait remarquable sont minutieuse-
ment graves dans ma memoire, et je m'en souviens
comme si c'etait hier. Je vois encore Myers, avec son
lorgnon, penche sur le papier, et regardant attentiveinent,
scrupuleusement, le phenomene. Quatre a cinq fois sur des
feuilles de papier blanc (des enveloppes blanches neuves),
la meme trace bleue a apparu. Je suis absolument siar
que la main d'Eusapia ne touchait pas le papier qui
n'etait en toute certitude touche que par men mdex, lequel
n'avait pas la plus petite trace de bleu. Pendant pres de
dix minutes, toujours a la lumiere d'une bougie, I'experience
s'est repetee, soit sur du papier, soit sur le plastron blanc
de nos chemises.
Je n'ai pas le plus leger doute sur la realite du pheno-
mene ainsi constate.
Nulle hallucination possible. Nous etions tous les quatre
en notre etat parfaitement normal, et tres sceptiques, tres
incredules. Le controle de quatre investigateurs attentifs
et avertis est un controle a la quatrieme puissance. La
lumiere de la bougie nous permettait de tres bien voir tout.
Sur du papier parfaitement blanc, tous les quatre, nous
voyions sous mon doigt, et sous man doigt seul, au fur et
a mesure que je le promenais sur le papier, apparaitre une
hgne bleue.
1
Or, c"est la un phenomene si etrange, si inhabituel, qui
fait une telle rupture avec nos habitudes quotidiennes, avec
toutes les donnees scientifiques ou vulgaires, que malgre
ma certitude sur son authenticite, je suis amene a dire que
c'est une certitude de second ordre, parce que les phenomenes
ne peuvent pas etre repetes et parce qu'ils font violence a
toutes les donnees usuelles.
Je pourrais citer encore bon nombre de phenomenes
objectifs qui me paraissent avoir la meme force probatoire,
mais je ne peux pas faire ici un cours de metapsychique ;
^ Arnaud de Gramont m'assura avoir vu le meme phenomene avec
Eusapia. A. de Rochas en parle sommairement {Vexteriorisation de la
motricite, page 140).
440 Professor Charles Richet. [part
et je me contenterai de dire encore que nous aurions
maiivaise grace a reprocher aux sceptiques leur scepticisme.
lis n'ont rien vu et ils doutent. C'est bien explicable,
piusque nous avons vu et que nous avons tant de peine
a accepter ce que nous avons vu. Cela justifie ma formule
precedente, a savoir qu'on ne manie pas la conviction par
des demonstrations experimentales, logiques ou mathe-
matiques. La conviction resulte de I'habitude et non de
la demonstration. Faire assister a ces experiences d'ecto-
plasmie des personnes qui n'ont encore rien vu de tel,
c'est, selon toute probabilite, ne pas les convaincre. II m'a
fallu pres de vingt cinq ans d'etudes perseverantes, parfois
dans des conditions extremement favorables, pour me
rendre. J'ai fait une defense desesperee avant d'etre
convaincu de la r6alite de la metapsychique objective.
Comment demander aux autres hommes cette longue et
prolongee patience ?
Voila poxxrquoi je n'ai aucune sympathie pour les com-
missions d'enquete, les controles auxquels sont convoques
des hommes loyaux et intelligents, certes, mais inhabiles a
ces etudes, et surtout non habitues aux ph6nomenes
bizarres (et, dans le sens vulgaire du mot, enormement
absurdes) de la metapsychique.
D'ailleurs, presque jamais la science ne progresse que par
le travail d'xm individu isole. Elle n'est pas un fruit
coUectif, plus que ne peuvent I'etre un drame ou une
statue.
Cette necessite de repeter les experiences, meme quand
on en a obtenu de tout a fait certaines, exphque pourquoi,
quand il s'agit du phenomene tant conteste, mais a mon
avis nuUement contestable, de I'ectoplasmie, nous recom-
menQons I'exp^rience sans nous lasser, alors cependant, que,
selon toute vraisemblance, rien de nouveau ne va se
produire. Les experiences innombrabies que je fis avec
Eusapia et avec Gouzik sont d'une monotonie effarante.
Des contacts, des impressions de mains ou de moignons,
de ridicules mouvements d'objets, tous phenomenes qui se
repetent sans se perfectionner, et qui ne paraissent guere
capables d'un progres quelconque.
Et cependant, chaque fois qu'on a assiste a une tele-
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitude. 441
kinesie indiscutable, quand il y a eu une ectoplasmie dont
la realite n'est pas douteuse, on est tres satisfait. On se
confirme dans son opinion, et la certitude deviant de plus
en plus imperieuse.
Mais—chose singuHere—cette certitude s'envole avec le
temps. En sortant d'une belle et decisive seance, on n'a
pas I'ombre d'un doute. Mais, a niesure que le temps
passe, le doute arrive. On est pris de scrupules retro
-
spectifs, car tout ce qu'on voit autour de soi est contraire
a cette etrange ectoplasmie, qu'on na' pu entrevoir que
pendant quelques secondes. Au bout d'mi an, on est
devenu tout a fait hesitant, et, pour peu qu'on reste
quelques annees sans nouvelles experiences, on est envahi
par un scepticisme plus dangereux encore que celui des
individus qui n'ont rien vu.
Je le repete de nouveau, car c'est le point fondamental
que je veux etablir : pour croire completement d un pheno-
mene, il faut y etre habitue.
Aussi me parait-il tres important, apres qu'on a note
tous les details d'une experience, de ne pas se contenter
de cette notation, mais d'y ajouter quelque chose d'essen-
tiel, la conviction qu'on avail immediatement apres Vex-
perience. II faut ecrire resolument sur ses notes :
" je suis
absolument convaincu que nuUe fraude n'etait possible."
C'est cela qui compte, et non les doutes retrospectifs qui
peuvent, a tout moment, et parfois sans raison, s'emparer
de notre esprit.
Conclusions.
Et mauitenant, il faut conclure, car sans etre des
apotres, nous avons malgre nous, tous, plus ou moins
I'ardent desir de faire passer notre conviction dans I'esprit
des hommes. Ce que nous croyons etre la verite, ce qui nous
parait etre la certitude, malgre notre rebellion instinctive
pour tout fait inhabituel, si cela n'est accepte ni par le
pubhc, ni par les savants, alors nous en ressentons une
vraie douleur intellectuelle. C'est meme un sentiment
assez noble que cette tendance a faire partager notre
opinion aux autres hommes. Car, en reaUte, le vrai
442 Professor Charles Richet. [part
savant est celui-la, qui, sans aucun interet de vanite ou
de lucre, veut repandre des faits qu'il regards, en toute
conscience, comme certains.
Done il faut d'abord commencer par acquerir notre
certitude personnelle. Elle ne pourra etre obtenue que
par de repetees experiences. Ne craignons pas de les
multiplier, meme quand elles ne nous doivent donner que
du clejd vu, car chaque nouvelle experience justifie notre
croyance, et, sans doute, chaque fois qu'on la repete, on a
elimine un doute, un scrupule, qui nous empechait de croire
sans reserve.
Notre conviction personnelle ne pent pas, pour les choses
raetapsychiques, etre livresque, due a la lecture de tels ou
tels ouvrages, aux recits qui nous sont apportes par des
temoins, meme dignes de foi, ou par des savants, meme
tres habiles. Toutefois, pour appuyer notre certitude, il
est bon de relire et de mediter ce qu'ont dit les maitres. lis
ont eu les memes doutes qiie nous, et ils ont obtenu la
certitude par les memes voies.
Alors ce n'est pas seulement pour le public que I'appui
d'autres temoignages autorises est important, essentiel : c'est
encore pour nous. Vae soli. Malheur a celui qui est seul
a soutenir une opinion, car, malgre toute sa confiance en
son jugement, il va se sentir affaibli dans sa certitude,
s'il est tout seul a I'avoir.
Ainsi done, pour notre propre certitude, voir beaucoup
d'experiences, les repeter sans se lasser, lire et relire ce
qui a ete ecrit par d'excellents observateurs, je ne vols
pas d'autre moyen efficace pour combattre notre neophobie
naturelle, notre aversion pour les idees nouvelles qui ne
cadrent pas avec 1
'ensemble dogmatique de la science
contemporaine
.
Une fois que nous serons arrives a la certitude absolue,
irrefragable, il s'agira de la faire partager au public. Mais
cela, c'est tres difficile, et peut-etre meme assez sterile, car
nos observations et nos experiences, malgre leur precision,
n'entraineront pas la conviction de nos lecteurs ou de nos
auditeurs. La encore il faudra la repetition. II faudra
rendre les phenomenes metapsychiques habituels, car les
hommes (et les savants peut-etre plus que les autres
xcv.] Des Conditions de la Certitude. 443
hommes) n'acceptent pas ce qui ne leur est pas repete a
satiete.
Et, po^^^ justifier mon opinion, je prendrai un exemple
recent, celui de I'aviation.
Jtisque aux premieres annees de ce siecle, personne ne
croyait qu'il fut possible de voler avec des appareils plus
lourds que Fair. On ridiculisait les constructeurs de ces
aeroplanes. lis passaient pour des fous, des illumines. En
1894 j 'avals construit et essaye une machine volante (plus
lourde que Fair, naturellement). Alors on m'a montre, dans
une caricature repandue a profusion, tenant grotesquement
a la main une de ces stupides machines.
Quand je dis que personne n'y croyait, J'exagere. II y
avait bien, de par le monde entier, une trentaine de
personnes persuadees que les oiseaux ne volent pas par
des moyens surnaturels, et que le probleme de I'aviation
par des machines lourdes, etait un probleme soluble. Et
pourtant la neophobie generale etait telle que les quelque
trente individus croyant au plus lourd que Fair etaient
consideres comme des demi-alienes.
Mais, une fois que la demonstration a ete faite—et je ne
parle pas de la demonstration scientifique qui ne touche
pas le public, mais de la demonstration industrielle, qui
seule a de I'effet—alors aussitot un phenoniene psycho-
logique des plus singuliers s'est produit.
Ces machines volantes, auxquelles personne ne croyait,
tout le monde y a cru, et non seulement on y a cru,
mais encore, ce qui est profondement comique, on a
affirme y avoir cru toujours. En 1910, on n'aurait pas
trouve une seule personne disant :
" je n'ai jamais cru au
plus lovird cj^ue I'air." Tous les hommes ont pense, en toute
bonne foi, je suppose, qu'ils n'avaient jamais mis en doute
la possibilite de cette invention.
Eh bien, pour les phenomenes metapsychiques, au jour,
prochain peut-etre, oii les experiences jjourront se rejecter
facilement, tout le monde sera avec nous, et on dira " j'y
ai toujours crvi !
"
Attendons done ce jour et ayons confiance.
Ne vous lassez pas, mes chers collegues, dans votre
labeur.
444 Professor Charles Richet. [part
Et surtout soyez convaincus que les verites de la meta-
psychique sont plus importantes que toutes autres verites
scientifiques. C'est un monde nouveau, aux horizons im-
prevus et splendides, qui s'offre a Fintelligence de
I'homme, avide de connaitre, ne fut-ce que par fragments,
la destinee qui I'attend. -^^i,/^
-
xcv.] 3Irs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 445
MRS. PIPER AND THE IMPERATOR BAND OF
" CONTROLS."
By a. W. Trethewy.
(1) This paper is based on the articles about Mrs. Piper's
mediumship which have appeared in the 8.P.R. Proceedings,
and on the typed records of Hodgson's sittings with her
from 1896 to 1905 in the S.P.R. library. The Stainton
Moses, Imperator, Rector, etc., of Mrs. Piper's trance are
designated as S. M.p, Imperatorp, Rector p, etc. The refer-
ences to volumes and pages are to the S.P.R. Proceedhigs,
and those to dates and pages with the word " Records
"
are to the books of typed records.
(2) So much has been written about Mrs. Piper's medium-
ship by experts in psychical research, that it may seem
presumptuous on the part of a tyro to add to the litera-
ture. My excuse is that I shall restrict myself to a
single problem—namely, the question of the identity of the
Intelligences who communicated through her under the
names of Stainton Moses and his controls Imperator,
Rector, Doctor, Prudens and Mentor—and this point
is one on which I may claim to have some special know-
ledge, as far as the internal evidence goes, owing to my
study of the work of Stainton Moses.
(3) There seem to be two main difficulties in the dis-
cussion. The first is the difference in the kind of com-
munication ordinarily received through the two mediums
respectively, which suggests a difference in their methods
and therefore makes it unsafe to argue from one to the
other on the basis of analogy. For instance, much of the
information which came through Stainton Moses is traceable
to a printed source, with which it is probably connected,
even if it did not originate therein. The unconscious
exercise of clairvoyance may reasonably be regarded in
446 A. W. Trethewy. [PABT
his case as an alternative to the spiritualistic theory.
With Mrs. Piper, on the other hand, the alternative appears
to be rather a form of telepathy. Another instance of
the difference between them is the occurrence of physical
phenomena at seances with Stainton Moses, which, by their
connection with the automatic writing, tend to support the
spiritualistic theory, whereas there were no physical pheno-
mena with Mrs. Piper except the withering of flowers
attributed to supernormal agency.
(4) The second difficulty is inherent in the spiritualistic
theory, and consists in the uncertainty of estimating the
|
degree in which the medium's mind may colour or distort
the message. The apphcation of this factor should not
be strained to cover every contradiction or inaccuracy,
but the only check on its use is a priori speculation, an
unsatisfactory guide.
(6) For the present purposes I assume that the " Con-
trols " or " Guides " of Stainton Moses were spirits with
existence independent of his, and not merely the creations
of his subliminal mind. I make a similar assumption in
Mrs. Piper's case, to facilitate the comparison of the two
groups, except in so far as the consideration of a specific
alternative theory may clear the ground in some par-
ticular situation. The question to be discussed is whether
her " Controls " were identical with his, and not who or
what they were if the answer is in the negative.
(6) As the spirit of Stainton Moses professed to com-
municate through Mrs. Piper and to introduce the spirits
who had controlled him on earth, it will be convenient to
deal with his case first. He did not come without an
invitation. Hodgson in Proceedings S.P.R., Vol. XIIL
page 408, gave a short account of the sitting at which
the subject was broached, and stated in a footnote that a
more detailed account would be given in Part II. of his
report. Part II. was never written by him, but the inci-
dent seems to be the same as narrated by Professor
R^omaine Newbold (W. R. N.) in Vol. XIV. ppl 36 et seq.
On June 19th, 1895, the sitter (W. R. N.) quoted the writ-
ings of Stainton MosesJin the course of an argument with
George Pelhamp, and at the next two sittings asked that
xcv.] Mrs. Piper and the Imperafor Band. 447
his attendance should be procured if possible. On the
22nd and 24th Stainton Moses p came and gave some in-
formation about the opinions expressed in Spirit Teachings
and about the identity of his " Controls." He said that
some teachings given through him in his earth hfe about
the condition and practices of the spirit after the physical
death of the body were wrong in certain respects. He
accounted for these errors (Vol. XIV. page 40) as having
'
been due to his misunderstanding the communications from
his Guides in his earth life. This explanation is hardly
credible, for the subjects were essential parts of their
teaching. The only other theory that seems to me at
all plausible, while consistent with his identity, is that
owing to conflict with the views of Mrs. Piper or the
sitter his rephes to the questions did not come through
properly. If either of these persons did hold strong
opinions about the subjects discussed, a point on which I
can find no information, this aspect is worthy of con-
sideration, though the assumed distortion of the message
exceeds the Hmits of probabihty.
(7) The information given by S. M.p at these sittings
about the names of the " Controls " had not " the least
semblance of truth " (page 41 id.), but the names which
he gave are not quoted in the Proceedings, and lilank
spaces have been left where the names should be in the
typed records of these seances. The original manuscript
records are not in the S.P.R. office, but Mrs. Sidgwick
has recently obtained the information from Professor New-
bold and has kindly passed it on to me. On June 22nd,
1895, S. M.p said that Rector was Dr. Wallace., and that
Doctor was his (S. M.'s) father. On June 24th he cor-
rected himself, stating that Rector (not Doctor) was his
father, and that Doctor was not Wallace but Walton, a
" Dr. Walton " whom he had known at college. Then on
being questioned as to who Imperator was, he gave the
name of David, and on being asked whether he meant
King David he assented, adding that he had written it
("David") in his script without divulging it to anybody.
The names which these Guides gave to Stainton Moses are
mentioned in paragraph 26 below. Stainton Moses' father
448 A. W. Trethewy. [part
was alive while his son was doing the greater part of his
automatic writing under the influence of these " Controls "
;
he took no interest in, and apparently displayed no knowledge
of, his son's mediumistic experiences.
On a later occasion, October 14th, 1896, S. M.p stated
through G. P.p that Imperator had been St. Joseph, the
father of Christ (Vol. XXVIII. page 90). When G. P.p
was told that this statement was wrong, a soi-disant Dr.
Arthur Myers p intervened with the unsatisfactory allegation
that Stainton Moses' father and not Stainton Moses in
person had been responsible for it (pp. 91, 459 id.). S. M.p
certainly was correct in stating on November 9th, 1896,
" Records " page a. 165, that Plato had been one of his
Guides. The inclusion of so weU known a person may
have been due to guess work, and this presumption is
strengthened by the fact that he mentioned Demetrius also
on the same date, though no such name is to be found in
Stainton Moses' books of automatic script or seance records.
(8) On February 17th, 1897, "Records" page 193, S. M.p
said that for the automatic writing of his earth life he
used to give each of his Guides a separate pencil. This
statement was untrue. A pen, and not a pencU, was used
in the books of automatic script, and the same pen was
kept in use in spite of a change of writer. On page 273
of The Controls of Stainton Moses is an illustration of the
pen being adapted to a remarkable alteration in the hand-
writing. In reply to Mr. F. W. Percival's questions, he
made other mistakes about features of his mediumship.
He wrongly mentioned hyacinth and lily of the vaUey as
scents frequently produced at seances, and an opal instead
of a turquoise as the stone especially brought for Mr.
Percival, to whom I am indebted for these corrections.
(9) In matters not connected with his mediumship S. M.p
was often in error. On April 2nd, 1897, " Records " page
15, Hodgson told him that Massey said that aU his answers
to Massey's questions were wrong. In Vol. XXVIII. page
97, Mrs. Sidgwick quotes what seems to have been a pure
invention. He referred to an evening spent at Professor
Sidgwick's house, though in fact he had never been inside
the house.
xcv,] Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 449
(10) On a slightly different footing but equally unsatisfac-
tory was his conduct in connection with his mother's death.
She survived him, and died at the end of 1896 or early
in 1897, while he was frequently attending Hodgson's
seances with Mrs. Piper. He said nothing about her death,
and thus missed a capital opportunity of giving a good
test, as Hodgson told George Pelhamp on January 19th,
1897, "Records" page 119. In reply to Mr. F. W.
Percival, he said that he had gone to the funeral, but he
could not give the name of the officiating priest, and he
described wrongly the position of the grave, as I have
ascertained from Mr. Percival, whose help I acknowledge
with gratitude.
(11) The most important point in his favour is that he
does appear to have furnished on one occasion " some
private information unknown to the sitters, and afterwards
verified in England, and well adapted so far as it went as
an indication of identity " (Vol. XIII. page 408). Hodgson,
who was responsible for this statement, gave no particulars,
and Mrs. Sidgwick, who referred to it (Vol. XXVIII. page
98), could not discuss its evidential value for want of the
information. She gathers " from the way Hodgson speaks
of it that it does not go far to outweigh the many irre-
levant, unplausible, and false statements which have to be
explained away." This conclusion seems quite fair.
(12) The communications of S. M.p make a favourable
impression on me only when he laments in a general way
his inability to remember the events of his earth Hfe, and
describes in touching words the confusion of mind pro-
duced by renewing contact with the plane from which he
has passed. His manner is then plausible, almost con-
vincing indeed, and I feel that perhaps he may be the
real Stainton Moses struggling vainly with elusive memories
and incapable of expressing himself. This impression is
obUterated as soon as he commits himself to details.
Sympathy then gives place to distrust. On page 98 of
Vol. XXVIII. Mrs. Sidgwick's opinion is recorded
—" We
must regard W. Stainton Moses as having failed to estabhsh
his identity." I would go even further and say that we
are justified in regardmg his claim as false, for in my
450 A. W. Trethewy. [part
opinion if a person still in the flesh made such a claim and
gave such evidence in a court of law he would not only
lose his suit, but would probably be prosecuted for perjury.
(13) Of course the failure of S. M.p reacts on the claims
of his " Controls," Imperatorp, Rectorp, etc., to be iden-
tical with the " Controls " of Stainton Moses who used the
same pseudonyms. In fairness to them, however, their
cases may be considered on their merits without being
prejudiced by the collapse of their sponsor, S. M.p. Mrs.
Sidgwick, in rejecting their claims (see page 98 of Vol.
XXVIII.), seems to have based her decision mainly on the
communications made by S. M.p and by them in 1896 and
1897, several of which have been reproduced in that volume.
The statements which they made about the names which
they had borne in earth life, and the accounts which they
gave about the characters of the Bible, seem to me too
preposterous to deserve serious discussion. At any rate, if
the latter cannot be proved to be false, though contrary
to the contents of the Bible, they are certainly quite out
of keeping with the teachings given to Stainton Moses by
the origmal Imperator.^ In this respect, however, there is
one excuse to be made for them, as put forward by G. P.p
on April 3rd, 1900, " Records " page 376, who said that
they ought to reaHse that they had not developed pro-
perly when they talked this nonsense in the early days of
their association with Mrs. Piper. There is really some-
thing in this plea. Whatever view is taken of their
personahties, it is undeniable that the coherence, the thought
and the diction of their communications at Hodgson's
seances improved a great deal after the first haK of 1897.
Too much stress should not be laid on the early absur-
dities. Other aspects of the case should also be considered.
(14) There certainly is in some respects a similarity be-
tween their attitude towards Mrs. Piper and the attitude
of Stainton Moses' " Controls " towards him, but perhaps
^ One point not exjDressly noticed in Vol. XXVIII. may be mentioned.
On March 10th, 1897 (p. 480 id.), Imperatoi- expressed a Iiigh opinion
of Abraham, but Stainton Moses' Imperator on more than one occasion
distinctly expressed a rather low estimate of the qualities of that
personage.
xcv.] Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 451
no greater than we should expect to find between all good
" Controls." In both cases they were very careful of the
medium's condition ;
they insisted on the maintenance of a
good state of health for the exercise of psychic powers, and
they restricted admission to sitters in whom they felt
confidence. Hodgson, in Vol. XIII. pp. 408, 409, expresses
a very decided opmion of the success of then' management
;
see also his letter to Dr. HaU, page 286 of Vol. IX. of
the Journal of the S.P.R. At a later stage in 1910, 1911,
they gave several warnings of the expediency of stoppuag
sittings, declared their intention of withdrawing, and sub-
sequently carried it out. This was on a par with the
later stages of Stainton Moses' mediumship.
(15) To some extent the objects of the " Controls " of
the two mediums were identical. In the case of Stainton
Moses they professed to have a mission for the enlighten-
ment of the world through him, and used his powers
grudgingly for other purposes. Mrs. Piper's controls, to
do them justice, may have had a similar object in view
when they undertook to repair her organism. They cer-
tainly preferred teaching to tests, but in order to provide
funds for the support of the medium they had to admit
on payment sitters who wished to converse with deceased
relations and friends. Keepmg in view their favourite
purpose, they insisted on sittings being allotted to a particular
sitter, ]\Ir. Z., on whose mission they laid stress. They seemed
to take great pleasure in giving him instruction and preparing
him for his duty. It seems unlikely, however, that Stainton
Moses' band would have returned to earth again, or, having
returned, would have remained, to be in charge of a medium
who could be used so little for their mam purpose. It is
to me quite incredible that they would ever have conde-
scended to give advice about investments after the manner
of Mrs. Piper's "Controls" (see Vol. XXVIII. page 111;
and " Records," June 27th, 1899, pp. 351 et seq. ; June
29th, 1899, pp. 364 to 368).
(16) The teaching given to this sitter is sufficiently
important to deserve notice m detail. On February 1st,
1899, " Records " pp. 75 et seq., he was encouraged to
consider that he had a mission m connection with the
452 A. W. Treihewy. [PABT
Band, that he would be in rapport with them and inspked
by them. On AprU 17th, 1899, pp. 141, 142, he was told
—" a new light is opening through thy hfe whereby divine
truth can be revealed to the world . . . but, friend, we
see thee often lapse back into a state of questioning . . .
We act with such as thee directly, with others remotely."
On January 22nd, 1900, " Records " page 82, and on
February 12th, 1900, " Records " page 153, it was said
that, inspired by the Band, he would write for the
benefit of mankind. He was not always responsive. For
instance, on June 17th, 1902, " Records " pp. 693, 695, he
abruptly changed the svibject, interrupting the teaching by
asking for advice about his own immediate needs. Appar-
ently the Band were not always satisfied with him, for on
July 1st, 1902, " Records " page 725, they said :
" We
love thee but not thy moods, they are not of the highest."
(17) The following extracts from the typed records will
show the tenor of these teachings :
April 10th, 1899, page 137 : "Thou art a part of God, the
Spirit of God is within thee, we will bring thee into a
higher condition than thou hast ever known." Page 138 :
" Cease to regret the past, pray to the spirit of calm and
peace for power to control thy body." Page 139 :
" God
hath promised us that we may remain untU we have satis-
fied Him with our work." Page 139 :
" Thoughts cannot
injure others, but acts can." •
December 26th, 1899, page 600 :
" Findmg God is finding
a better side of one's self and livmg by it, listening to its
promptmgs ; it is being guided by the higher thought,
which does come from the mfinite and all-wise Spirit ; the
true Ego, the higher, better self, is a part of God."
February 20th, 1900, page 177 :
" God is spirit, we do
not say a spirit, but sjnrit . . . All life is spirit."
March 12th, 1900, page 286 :
'
Struggling '
in pursuit of
knowledge is deprecated. " Work for it, but do not
struggle. We do not know strugglmg here." Page 286 :
" Canst thou not beheve that there is a power above thee,
surrouiidmg thee, workmg for thy development . . . Our
power, and God's power, and our power is God's power."
.] 3irs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 453
April 2nd, 1900, page 357 :
" So long as thou dost put
thy trust m the higher power thou wilt be reheved from
physical distress : thine own mind has developed sufficiently
to hold thee from doing aught but what is w"ise in this
regard." Page 359 :
" This we state from absolute know-
ledge, as in communion with the all-wise God ; He has
sent us as His prophets."
April IQih, 1900, page 401 : When Paul prayed for those
in prison he meant " those in the imprisoning body."
Marj 22nd, 1900, page 428 :
" God doth prompt the
spirit and if the spirit doth listen and wait for this
prom^oting it will never be misled."
April 3rd, 1901, pp. 251, 252, an example of prayer
;
" Oh God, I am conscious that I am of Thee a part . . .
Give me light through my spirit, which is a part of Thee."
Page 252 :
" Become perfectly passive and calm, holding
thy spirit in communion with God."
June nth, 1902, page 692 :
" If thou dost ask for help
in thy work, thy writing, I should be conscious of that
the instant thou dost wish it ; therefore my power is of
God and far-reaching, and the thought which we convey
to thee spiritually is a part of the one great thought in
the universe, God-like thought and the thought of God."
Page 693 :
" What doth seem to thee wise and reasonable
to pray for, pray for it in perfect faith that it is for thee,
and thou wilt surely receive some recognition of thy
prayer."
July \st, 1902, page 723 :
" Relax mto a state of peace
with thyself." Page 723 :
" Live out of self more, and
receive the great peace of the great spirit friend. Do this
by relaxation and not by fighting. . . . Seek within thy-
self for greater peace."
January 5th, 1903, page 3 :
" We do not speak of the
Infinite as a spirit but as spirit." Page 4 :
" The Infinite
in His own wise way doth work many miracles on the
earthly side of life. And He hath sent His messengers."
Page 6 :
" Thou shalt know thyseK and to know thyself is
to be free." Page 8 :
" Have faith and patience to place
thyseK in God's hands and in ours also, as we are a part
oi Him."
454 A. W. Trethewy. [part
January \%th, 1904, page 73 :
" Relaxing and leaving it
to the Great Thought," is commended as better than auto-
suggestion.
March 8th, 1904, page 392 :
" He [God] is the life from
which life comes, the One, the Whole, the Life of man.
The body is nothing, it is the suit of clothes, keep it clean,
keep it whole, m the thought that the spii-it is the man
and the reflection of God."
April 5th, 1904, page 560a :
" God is the intelligence
that is not personal."
(18) It is a pity that there is no such complete record
of this teaching as there is for Stainton Moses' automatic
writing. For almost all the sittings, owing to Hodgson's
absence, Mr. Z.'s notes are the only record. Sometimes
there is no record, either because the communications were
treated as private and confidential, or because they were
made by word of mouth instead of being written, and were
spoken too quickly to be taken down. The notes seem
rarely to be more than fragmentary. Perhaps if there
were a complete record the instructions would be more
satisfying than what is embodied m the notes, and there
would not be so many gaps and unfulfilled promises of
imparting knowledge.
(19) It is noticeable that two ideas of God run through
the discourses. One is that God is the all-pervading
spirit of wliich man's spirit is a part. The other is the
anthropomorphic conception of a supreme personahty who
has commissioned the Band as his agents. Illustrations of
both conceptions are to be found in the extracts quoted
above. The following passages, taken from communications
addressed to Mr. Z. and other sitters, are quoted below to
bring out the anthropomorphic conception more fuUy :
April SOth, 1900, page 408 : "He [Imperator] is next to
the All-wise."
March 4:th, 1901, page 175 :
" God hath most profoundly
stated that under our guidance aU wiU end well."
April 18th, 1901, page 331 :
" Per order from the Most
High through His Messenger f Imperator."
xcv.] Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 455
January 23rd, 1905, page 153 :
" We do know and God
hath promised us greater knowledge of the conditions sui'-
rounding him [S]."
April mil, 1905, page 742 :
" We do not see Him [God],
but we feel Hun."
(20) The inconsistency between the two conceptions of
God is hard to understand, but speculation about the
origins of the two conflicting ideas is outside the scope of
the present article. It is sufficient to say that neither
conception is suggestive of the attitude of Stainton Moses'
Guides. The level of their teaching may not have been
above the best productions of Mrs. Piper's " Controls," but
it was on different lines—the truth to be found in all
religions, the consequences entailed by actions, the fallacy
of the popular doctriae of the Atonement, the discussion
of Reincarnation and the " Occult." Imperatorp is prac-
tically sUent on the subject of Biblical history during this
phase of teaching, and does not refer to his own dependence
on EUjah when he mentions his mission, two points which
were very prominent in the messages of Stainton Moses'
principal Guide. It is true that the original Imperator
did claim that his mission was part of a movement under
the leadership of Jesus, but he never ventured to claim
the close connection with God which Imperatorp asserts.
(21) Miss Newton, the Secretary of the Society for Psy-
chical Research, to whom I mentioned the principal Hues
of the teaching given by Imperatorp, suggested that the
ideas might be found in Dresser's The Power of Silence,
London, 1898, which in her opinion Mrs. Piper had prob-
ably read. A perusal of that book shows considerable
similarity between its contents and the thoughts expressed
by Mrs. Piper's Band. Ideas of this kind were much in
the air at that period, and there is nothing improbable in
the theory that the subject-matter of the teaching may have
come from the mind of the medium or the sitter. Rector
p
said on March 20th, 1905, " Records " page 492, that the
Band took their words but not their thoughts from the
sitters' minds, a statement which may point to their de-
pendence on the sitters' knowledge for the subject matter
456 A. W. Trethewy. [part
of their messages, though they Hmit thek obHgation to
verbal expression.
(22) This is a convenient place to mention some repKes
given^,by Mrs. Piper's " Controls " to Dr. Savage's questions
about the nature of Jesus. On January 14th, 1903, page
36, Dr. Savage was told by the communicating spirit, his
deceased son " Phil," that Jesus was the son of Joseph
and Mary. Rector corrected Phil immediately, stating that
Jesus was the " Son of God " . . .
" born of Mary in the
body but not as other mortals." Rector went on to say
that Jesus was not God or to be worshipped as God, but
was the son of Joseph, that He existed before birth and
was reincarnated. Rector then declared that God was
never visible in the spirit world, and was spirit, not a
spirit, thus returning to what had been told to Mr. Z. on
January 5th, 1903. He went on to say that Christ was
the only mortal or spirit who was reincarnated, but ad-
mitted, when reminded of the Band's earher teaching about
Melchizedek, that Melchizedek had also been reincarnated.
Then, apparently to explain the contradiction, he added
that Christ (Jesus) was the only Christ who had been
reincarnated. These statements will be found in pp. 37
to 40 of the typed records for January 14th, 1903. The
denial of the divinity of Jesus corresponds with the teach-
ing of Stainton Moses' Guides ; but the agreement on this
point is not a striking coincidence, for it is an opinion
held by many people, and the confusion and contradiction,
as contrasted with the reasoned arguments of Stainton
Moses' Imperator, deprive the incident of any weight as a
proof of identity. On May 5th, 1903, " Records " page
514, Mr. Z. was again told that Christ as well as Melchi-
zedek was a reincarnation.
(23) There are some minor points which deserve notice as
bearing on the question of the identity of the " Controls
"
of the two mediums. Those which are favourable to the
claim of Mrs. Piper's Band will first be discussed.
(a) There is some resemblance in the rehgious atmosphere
which surrounds each band, especially marked in their
frequent prayers. It is possible, however, that in Mrs.
Piper's case this trait may have been imitated, for Hodgson
xcv.] Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 457
explained to her Imperator* s relation vnih Stainton Moses,
and gave her a copj' of Spirit Teachings to read (Vol.
XX^7III. page 100). The style of the prayers in her
script may have been borrowed from that source ; the
expression " All-wise " used by her occurs there too. That
book was also famihar to Hodgson, no doubt.
(b) The serious characters of Imperator p and Rector p,
and the deference paid to the former by the latter as
described by Hyslop in Vol. XVI. page 181, agree with
the traits of the " Controls " of Stainton Moses bearing the
same names. It is possible, of course, that the dramati-
sation or personation was based on the contents of Spirit
Teachings, or even on Myers' articles in Vols. IX. and XI.
of the Proceedings of the S.P.R., with which the sitter was
probably famihar.
(c) Mr. Z. was told on January 15th, 1900, " Records
"
pp. 62, 63 :
" Neither do we pretend to see aU that goes
on in the material . . . but on aU the points on which
we speak, we are cognisant of the truth, . . . our knowledge
is knowledge and not conjecture." A similar claim was
made by Stainton Moses' Guides.
{d) What Doctorp said to Hodgson on February 8th,
1899, about having been with him as a silent helper (Vol.
XVI. pp. 376, 377) his predecessor with the same name
asserted to Stainton Moses.
(e) ]Mrs. Piper's Band commended the character of Mr.
Z.'s mother in terms which remind one of the high apprecia-
tion of ]Mrs. Speer's attitude expressed by Stainton Moses'
Guides. See January 15th, 1900, " Records " page 64.
(/) The admonitions given to Hodgson about his failings
recall the tendency of Stainton Moses' " Controls " to take
him to task for similar infirmities of temperament. See
" Records," February 20th, 1899, pp. 93, 94, and November
3rd, 1902, pp. 861 to 863.i
ig) On February 19th, 1902, " Records " pp. 208, 209,
^ Hodgson was much impressed by the advice which he received from
the " Controls." On January 30th, 1901, " Records " p. 30, he told them :
" I believe that I feel that what you have already done for my spirit
is worth more than all, even should God's guidance stop this communi-
cation and I should never hear from you again."
458 A. W. Trethewy. [part
Rectorp told Hodgson that Mrs. Piper harmed herself by
teaching too much, and on Hodgson's expressing surprise
admitted that he might be confusing her with Stainton
Moses, who had injured his health in this way.^ This state-
ment may have originated from confusion of ideas produced
by the sitter's knowledge of the case of Stainton Moses,
(24) The minor points unfavourable to the claim of
identity are stated below :
(a) The style of conversation adopted by Mrs. Piper's
" Controls " with sitters is sometimes quite out of keeping
with the manner observed by Stainton Moses' Guides in
addressing him. Perhaps such practices as the use of the
second person singular and of " Sabbath " for Sunday with
her, but not with him, may be attributed plausibly to the
influence of the medium's mind. The same explanation will
hardly fit such a contrast as is brought out in the con-
versation quoted in Vol. XXVIII. page 93, where Imperatorp
repeatedly addresses Hodgson as " Sir," using the word
apparently in the obsequious and not the American sense.
One cannot imagine Stainton Moses' Imperator talking in
this way. For the strange use of "Sir" byjRectorp, see
also page 147 id. See also February 2nd, 1897, " Records
"
page 17, where Rector p uses the inappropriate expression,
" Very truly yours."
(b) In 1897 " Records," on March 19th, page 172, and
April 1st, page V 2, Rectorp excused himself for confused
writing by alleging that it was difficult for him to express
Imperator'sp words. This attitude was quite different from
that of Stainton Moses' Rector, who professed to be in
perfect rapport with Imperator and to act with facihty as
his amanuensis, but to experience difficulty in understand-
ing and expressing the thoughts of some other spirits who
constituted " the Mystic Band." Perhaps some allowance
^ This is the last of the references of the " Controls " to their associ-
ation with Stainton Moses that I have noticed in looking through the
records of Hodgson's period. In Vol. XXIII. page 235, Sir Oliver Lodge
states: "Whatever relationship may exist between these personages and
the corresponding ones of Stainton Moses, there is little or no identity
. . . it would appear as if they did •
not very seriously pretend to be
identical." It seems, therefore, probable that after Hodgson's time their
claim to identity was dropped, or at any rate not asserted.
xcv.] Mrs. Piper and the Itnperator Band. 459
should be made for him in this matter, because the state-
ment was made before he and Imperatorp had developed
properly ; see paragraph 13.
(c) On June 29th, 1898, " Records " for May, page 358,
Mrs. Piper gave a clairvoyant description of Imperatorp:
" Tall, looking like a priest, with no hair on his face. He
was dressed in long flowing garments looking like soft white
silk, and had a silver cross on his breast, hung by a cord
. . . and had a halo about his head." This does not
correspond with the description given of the prophet
Malachi, who Stainton Moses' Imperator professed to be.
See Controls of Stainton Moses.
{d) On January 11th, 1900, "Records " page 52, Hodgson
was told : "In Moses' case we were unable to use the voice
at all, or very vaguely " ; and a similar statement was made
to him on March 4th, 1901, page 174. As a matter of
fact, Stainton Moses used to give trance addresses at
seances, and his voice was freely used in this way by
Imperator and other personages. This inaccuracy seems
to me very important. The only explanations consistent
with the claim of identity that occur to me as possible are
either that the subliminal mind of Mrs. Piper distorted the
statement, or that, as has sometimes been alleged in spirit
communications, spirits using one medium are unable to
recall their former experiences with another. Neither ex-
planation seems satisfactory.
(e) In Vol. XXVIII. page 95, it is stated that Doctor
p
wrote a large and heavy script. Now the script used by
Stainton Moses' " Doctor " was remarkably smaU and fine,
requiring the use of a magnifying glass sometimes for
facility in reading it. Perhaps this difference may be due
to the difference of the medium, but the omission to refer
to it and explain it is unsatisfactory.
(25) In my opinion a comparison of paragraphs 23 and
24 shows a balance against the claim to identity. The
similarities noticed in paragraph 23 can be accounted for
rather easily as due to coincidence or to the knowledge in
the minds of the medium and the sitter. Even without
these deductions their value is not high. It is more diffi-
cult to find satisfactory excuses for the inaccuracies set
460 A. W. Trethewy. [part
forth in paragraph 24, and the points at issue are more
definite as tests.
(26) The five " Controls " of Mrs. Piper who profess
to have been Stainton Moses' Guides were Imperatorp,
Rectorp, Doctorp, Prudensp, and Mentorp. His Guides
bearing the same pseudonyms alleged to him that they
had been the following persons in their lives on earth :
Imperator, the Prophet Malachi ;
Rector, Hippolytus, Bishop
of Portus near Rome ;
Doctor, the Stoic Philosopher Atheno-
dorus ;
Prudens, the Neo-Platonist Plotinus ;
Mentor, the
Arabian Ghazali or Algazzali. Mrs. Piper's " Controls
"
did not give the same account of themselves. From what
Hyslop wrote in Vol. XVI. pp. 262 et seq., they do not
seem to have been much pressed on the subject of their
past history, but to have been accepted as helpers on
account of their successful management of the medium, a
more important matter than their personality. To the few
questions that were put to them about their earthly names,
they gave answers that did not agree with the claims
of Stainton Moses' Guides. Without laying too much
stress on the statements made at an early stage of their
development (see paragraph 13), I will merely say that the
substitution of other names with IMi's. Piper for those
which they had claimed with Stainton Moses can hardly
be explained by forgetfulness of earth life or diSerence of
mediums. If the personahties were really identical, the
failure to get the right names through the medium might
perhaps be inteUigible, but no plausible excuse occurs to
me for the invention of such wrong names as Dante,
" Lidgates," Homer, and Ulysses. To pass on to later
statements, Rector said in 1907 that his name had been
Francis (see Vol. XXVIII. page 110). His ignorance of
Latin (see page 110 id. and Vol. XXII. page 314, and
Vol. XXVI. page 150) seems incompatible with the role
of Hippolytus, who lived in Italy in the third century a.d.
There is frequent reference to Plotinus in Vol. XXII. in
connection with a cross-correspondence about a passage in
his writings, and to Prudens as a trance personaUty of Mrs.
Piper, but there is no recognition of any relation between
the two, a significant omission.
xcv.] Mrs. Pij)er and the Imperator Band. 461
(27) In paragraph 5 it has been stated that for the
purpose of this article it is assumed that the " Controls
"
of Stainton Moses and Mrs. Piper respectively were spirits
with independent existence, and not merely creations of the
medium's subUminal mind. Summing up the case on this
basis, I find that the mternal evidence points to the two
groups not having been identical. There are, it is true,
slight resemblances, but they are either so vague as to be
well within the sphere of coincidence where two good
bands of controls are concerned, or they are of a nature
to suggest an origin from the mind of Mrs. Piper or her
sitter. On the other hand, the ignorance and the errors of
her " Controls " concerning the earth-lives of the Guides of
Stainton Moses whose names they bore, and concerning
important features of his mediumship, are altogether in-
consistent with their claim to identity. A considerable
degree of oblivion might be excused, but the mistakes do
more than weaken the case, they justify a finding that the
claim is false. The force of this argument does not seem
to be diminished if it is conceded that Stainton Moses'
Guides may not have told him their right names of earthly
life ; for even so, if they had become attached to Mrs.
Piper and claimed to have been associated with him, they
would surely have adhered to their former stories and
given correct accounts of his mediumship. There is only
one difficulty which occurs to me in rejecting the claim.
It is hard to see why spirits whose objects are good should
teU lies about their antecedents. One conceivable expla-
nation, of course, is that the " Controls " of Mrs. Piper
had not independent existences, but were creations of her
subliminal mind. Another is that they were separate
spirits, and that they personated Stainton Moses' Guides,
wishing to do good to the medium and sitters and feeling
that this was the easiest way to obtain siiccess, the end
justifying the means. The doubt about this point is
similar to the failure to discover a plausible motive for a
crime, a failure which is not necessarily a bar to conviction.
(28) Hyslop's position, as far as I can understand it,
may be noticed briefly. From his article in Vol. XVI.,
dated October 1901, he seems to have reserved his opinion
2a
462 A. W. Trethewy. [part
as to the personalities of Mrs. Piper's " Controls," but to
have favoured the view that they were independent spirits,
though there was no proof of identity (pp. 177 et seq.,
262-267). This seems to have been still his view in 1910
(see Vol. IV. of the Proceedings of the American S.P.R.,
pp. 189, 196). In the American Journal, Vol. X. page
265 (May 1916), he quoted Imperator's name as Malachi.
There, and in Vol. XI. id. page 76 (1917), he argued that
" Malachi," according to a certain Hebrew scholar, was
not the name of a prophet at aU, but a word for " mes-
sengers," a term by which Imperatorp described Mmself and
his Band, and that therefore it might be said that the
same name was given through both mediums. In Vol.
XI. page 76, however, he dropped this point, and con-
tinued :
" The proper name that I have obtained for him
through Mrs. iSmead and Mrs. Chenoweth, and which also
came through Mrs. Piper and Stainton Moses, is of a well-
known historical character m the Christian Church of early
times." I think that by Stainton Moses he must here
mean Stainton Moses p, because the real Stainton Moses in
his life-time left no record of any other name than
Malachi for Imperator. He does not seem to have changed
greatly his opmions of 1901, but to have become slightly
more inclined to the theory of the identity of the two
groups of " Controls," and not to have discussed the pos-
sibihty of the Piper group being spirits external to her
and falsely personating Stainton Moses' Guides.
In Vol. XI. of the Journal of the American S.P.R. is
an article by Raynes supporting Hyslop's views against the
opinions of Mrs. Sidgwick expressed in Vol. XXVIII. of
the Proceedings of the English S.P.R. He apparently
considers Juhus Caesarp to be a "mischievous fool of a
spirit " impersonating Juhus Caesar (page 139). He criti-
cizes Mrs. Sidgwick because she " nowhere entertains the
possibihty of spirit personation except in the vaguest
possible way" (page 142). Hyslop, as I have stated above,
has not dealt with this question in any of his writings
that I have read. As Hyslop had so much experience of
Mrs. Piper's mediumship, his views are of interest ; but as
he seems to have come to no conclusion on the question
xcv.] Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 463
of identity, I do not think it necessary to discuss them
further.
(29) In paragraph 5 I have said that the question to be
discussed is whether Mrs. Piper's " Controls " were identical
with those of Stainton Moses, and not who or what they
were if the answer to the question is in the negative.
Perhaps, however, a few remarks on the light thrown by
Hodgson's records on the nature and origin of the Band
may be interesting to the readers of this article. There is
at least a superficial appearance of personalities external to
Mrs. Piper.
(a) The dialogue between the " Controls " and the spirits
communicating through them with the sitter may, of course,
be the result of dramatisation on the part of the medium's
subliminal mind, but on some occasions it seems to offer
convincing evidence of the presence of independent external
personalities, e.g. on June 17th, " Records " pp. 691 et
seq., and November 10th, 1902, " Records " pp. 869 et
seq. Two of Miss Pope's (Theodate) seances furnish sup-
port on other lines to this theory. On May 18th, 1904,
" Records " page 786, she told G. P.p that Miss Porter's
spirit had given much more evidential information than had
John's spirit. This remark gives some reason for supposing
that these two communicating spirits were different entities.
On May 24th, 1905, " Records " pp. 22 et seq., Miss Pope
had a conversation with Rector p as to whether he got
names from her mind by telepathy and whether he really
had an existence separate from Mrs. Piper. To prove that
he had powers of his own and was an independent spirit, he
quoted some of her conversations with Hodgson about the
sittings, and referred to the knowledge about absent persons
which he was able to obtain by the use of " influences
"
(psychometry). He made out a plausible case.
(6) In pp. 264 to 266 of Vol. XXVIII. Mrs. Sidgwick
has discussed the ignorance of Mrs. Piper's normal state
professed by her " Controls." If they were really crea-
tions of her mind, their ignorance of the following matters
is very difficult to understand : her correspondence about
them in a newspaper, October 21st, 1901, "Records" pp.
347 et seq. ; her mental attitude towards them, April 28th,
3g2
464 A. W. Tretheivy. [part
29tli, 1902, " Records "
pp. 460, 467 ; the death of her
brother and the ilhiess of her husband, October 26th, 1903,
" Records " pp. 742 to 745 ; the interruption in the series
of sittings due to her ilhiess, January 6th, 1904, page 1 ;
the death of her husband, June 27th, 1904, " Records "
page 61 ; her physical condition (they had to have a
sitting with her daughter Alta in order to get the infor-
mation for the diagnosis of Mrs. Piper's case), November
1st, 3rd, 8th, 1904, pp. 273, 274, 319 to 320 (6), 332.
It is conceivable, no doubt, that in these cases the
ignorance was not real, but was falsely alleged m order to
support the claim to an independent existence. I do not
see, however, why the " Controls " should wrongly disclaim
the ability to exercise on Mrs. Piper the same powers
which they professed to use on her sitters. Their Imow-
ledge of her condition, thoughts, and affairs would be
regarded as the natural consequence of their association with
her, and would not be considered inconsistent with their
claim to be separate spirits.
(c) The " Controls " frequently prescribed for sitters
present at the seances and for absent persons whose in-
fluences were psychometrised by them (see pp. 305 et seq.
of Vol. XXVIII.). Doctor p, who made the diagnosis, did
not profess to be Stainton Moses' " Doctor," but a de-
ceased medical practitioner of modern date. How far his
medical knowledge exceeded that possessed by the medium
and the sitter, and whether the degree varied according to
the sitter, are points on which I can give no opinion.
The investigation might lead to valuable results if made
by somebody sufficiently conversant with the quahfications
of those concerned. There is one curious point, a sort of
development of the theory of influences. On April 8th,
1904, " Records " page 587, Doctorp, after feehng Hodg-
son's chest, predicted that an absent person would die
during the current season ;
pneumonia had been prophesied
as the cause of her death, January 14th, 1903, " Records
"
page 41. On other occasions Hodgson's body was touched
in the appropriate spot prior to the diagnosis of the case
of an absent person.
(30) It may be that in both cases (Stainton Moses and
xcv.] 3Irs. Piper and the Imperator Band. 465
Mrs. Piper) the " Controls " had an element of external
influence outside the scope of subliminal dramatisation, and
depending on states of personaMty beyond the range of
mundane experience. If this theory is correct, there may
have been some connection between the two bands in
links which cannot be appreciated by our intelligence.
Except for the uncertainties entailed by such reflections, I
cannot see in the material before me sufficient evidence of
any closer connection than one would expect to find be-
tween any two groups of good " Controls," where the
medium and a sitter with one group had the supraliminal
knowledge about the other which Mrs. Piper and Hodgson
had about the mediumship of Stainton Moses.
466 Ueviews. [part
REVIEWS
I
Experimentelle Telepathic. Neue Versuche zur telepathischen
Ubertrag von Zeichmmgen. By Db. Med. Carl Bbuck of
Berlin. 80 pages and 22 illustrative plates, published at
Stuttgart, 1925, with a short preface by Mrs Sidgwick
(who, however, was not present at any of the experiments),
and an interesting introduction by Dr. Arthur Kronfeld
who was present at a considerable number and is able
to testify to the care with which they were conducted.
This book is chiefly a detailed account and discussion of 114
experiments in the transference of drawings and diagrams
(including a few prints) carried out by Dr. Bruck, he being
himself the " agent " throughout, and it is an important and
valuable contribution to the evidence for telepathy. Dr.
Bruck prefers to speak of " Versuchsleiter " and " Versuchs-
person " (which we may perhaps translate " experimenter
"
and " experimentee ") rather than agent and percipient on the
ground that in telepathic experiments we do not know which
of the two persons concerned plays the active part. This is
true and has been pointed out at various times in our Pro-
ceedings, but it is an objection to Dr. Brack's alternative
names, that they are not applicable in spontaneous cases
nor even in all experimental ones. Of the experiments 111
were carried out systematically between July 1922 and Feb-
ruary 1923 with four young men as percipients who were all
easily hypnotisable. The remaining three experiments were
made separately with other percipients. The degree of success,
which was clearly beyond what chance might produce, can
best be judged by inspection of the illustrative plates, which
give the originals and reproductions in most of the distinctly
successful cases, besides giving some others to illustrate
points discussed m. the text.
xcv.] Reviews. 467
Dr. Brack's reason for experimenting with easily hypnotis-
able persons was that he wished to form an opinion on the
question whether telepathic percipience is assisted by hypnoti-
sation or not. He generally woke the hypnotised percipient
after each experiment, and frequently tried alternate experi-
ments with the percipient awake and hypnotised. On the
whole he concluded that the hypnotised state appeared to be
advantageous by faciUtating concentration. But it seemed to
have disadvantages also, leading, for example, in some cases
to repetition of an impression when a new one should have
come.
Dr. Bruck devoted much care to the method of experi-
menting, especially with a view to excluding the possibility
of normal seeing of the drawing to be transferred. As a
general rule he went into another room and either selected
one out of a large number of previously prepared drawings,
etc. (which he kept entirely in his own control unseen by
others) or occasionally used one drawn on the spur of the
moment by himself—or by a friend assisting in the experi-
ment. After looking at the selected drawing and fixing it
in his mind, he placed it in a portfolio (Mappe) held in his
hand and took it into the room where the percipient was.
In many of the experiments it remained in the portfolio
throughout and was therefore obviously invisible to either the
percipient or any other persons who might be present. But
Dr. Bruck thought at first, though he seems to have modified
this view later, that he could help the telepathic process by
continuous concentration of his own mind on the object to be
transferred, and being a bad visualiser, and the time occupied
by an experiment being often long, he found such concentration
difficult without constant re-inspection of the object. He
therefore in many of his experiments took his drawing from
inside the portfolio and placed it on the top so as to be able
to look at it. These he called open {offen) experiments, the
others bemg described as portfolio {Mappen) experiments. It
is, we think, a pit}- that he does not describe any general
method of screening the drawing from observation by others
in " open " experiments. He gives, however, in detail the
precautions in some cases and is obviously so careful that
one cannot doubt that the precautions were adequate in all.
468 Reviews. [part
Moreover, the results do not seem to indicate any compara-
tively greater success in " open " experiments than ia " port-
folio " ones. We may remark that Dr. Bruck devotes par-
ticular attention to the danger of reflection from any shining
surface and particularly from eye glasses and even the cornea.
We cannot in a short review examine the variations in his
experiments introduced by Dr. Bruck in hopes of throwing
some Ught on the process of telepathic perception. The
number of experiments was not sufficient to establish much
except the general fact of success beyond chance, but he made
observations of a useful and suggestive kind. One thing
that interested him was the occasional deferment of the
percipient's impression, and rather curiously he classes with
deferment a case of apparent anticipation. It was an
" open " experiment, but he had put into his portfolio
three drawings which he intended to use in succession
in the same series. The drawing selected for immediate
experiment represented a medicine bottle. The percipient
got as far as what looked like the cork and the rim of the
neck of the bottle^ and then stopped, putting down his pencil.
Contrary to his usual practice, Dr. Bruck urged him to go on,
whereupon he started afresh and drew a street lamp which
was a remarkably good reproduction of the second of the three
drawings in the portfolio. This can be regarded as in a
sense an anticipation of an intended experiment, but to us it
seems rather a confirmation of the view that great concentra-
tion by the agent on the subject to be transferred was not a
necessity or even imj)ortant. He had just selected the drawing
of the street lamp for experiment in the series begun with the
medicine bottle. It was therefore in his mind, and from his
mind the percipient probably got it.
Dr. Bruck has the advantage of being not only a good
experimenter, but hunself a good agent. He does not dwell
on this, and Ave are not sure whether he accepts the view
that it is not everyone Avho can transfer thoughts and impres- •
sions to a percipient, or—to put it otherwise—whose mind lies
open to a percipient trying to get an impression from it. ,]
^ As will be perceived, it also resembled a top hat, and as the percipient
could not always interpret correctly his own drawings, he may have regarded
it as a competent drawing of a hat.
xcv.] Reviews. 469
As he has this power, we are glad to note that he hopes to
fmd opportunities of further experimenting, and that he will
thus add to our knowledge of telepathy as well as to the
evidence for it—as the experinients published iii this book
certaiuly do.
II
I. Grundversuche auf dem Gebiete der fsycMschen Grenzwissenscliaften.
By Prof. Dr. Christoph Schroder. Berlin, 1924, Pyramiden-
verlag. Dr. Schwarz & Co. Pp. 66.
It would seem that among the results of the War and the Revo-
lution in Germany has been an effective breaking down of the
official tabus formerly imposed on psychical research or " occultism,"
as the Germans prefer to call it, in that country. At any rate
there now appear to be a number of competent inquirers and
investigating societies in Germany, who do not find it impossible
to engage the attention of scientific people and to get their re-
searches pubhshed by several new pubHshers. They have already
produced a considerable hterature, which is in the main a record of
careful experiments in "telepathy," "clairvoyance," and " psychom-
etry," as well as in the more spiritistic tjrpe of phenomena, and
is decidedly impressive. Among these researches Prof. Schroder's
book deserves to rank high. It forms the first pubUcation of the
German Society for Scientific Occultism, and is composed for the
most part of the (very concisely written) original notes of a syste-
matic series of the experiments at 68 sittings with 6 sensitives (two
men and four women, and all apparently unpaid) in Berlin, from
February 1920 to September 1921. Prof. Schroder set himself to
test whether the supernormal knowledge shown by his sensitives
could possibly be ascribed either to hyperaesthesia, or to telepathy ;
but though he started with a prepossession in favour of the former,
and at first seemed to get corroboration for it, finally arrived at
results which he (not unreasonably) claims, entirely exclude both
these hypotheses, as weU as merely fortuitous success. Towards
the end he had so trained his sensitives, who were generally in a
state of light hypnosis, that they could in total darkness pick out
correctly (in about three cases out of four) one out of five or six
objects, such as visiting cards on one of which an imaginary
picture or coin had been impressed (for them) by suggestion, or
such as empty bottles of which one was supposed to be filled with
470 Reviews. [part xcv.
otto of roses, after these objects had been so shuffled by various
people that no one present knew which was the marked object,
and this moreover without the object being even touched by the
sensitive ! What renders his record peculiarly instructive is that
he shows us how he gradually developed his technique, and found
out the sort of tests that were practicable, and then tried them,
with approximately equal success, upon his various sensitives. It
must be admitted that Prof. Schroder's methods do not appear to
be open to any very obvious objection, and that none of the ex-
planations ordinarily suggested seem to apply to his results, though
it seems decidedly sanguine on his part to suppose (p. 65) that
they cannot possibly, in view of their impersonal character, be
ascribed to inspiration by " spirits." It certainly appears an odd
occupation for a dead man (or a devil) supranormally to observe
on which of a number of visiting cards a hallucinatory image had
been suggested to a sensitive in order supranormally to prompt the
latter in identifying this card ; but then this oddity is in no way
removed by Prof. Schroder's only theoretic suggestion (p. 63),
which postulates a potential omniscience to be drawn on in an
emergency. Perhaps it is wisest to admit that for the moment,
in psychical research as in physics, experimental observation has
outstripped theory ; we shall be all the readier to appreciate the
ingenuity and tact which have enabled Prof. Schroder to obtain
his remarkable results.
F. C. S. Schiller.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART XCVI
A REPORT ON SOME COMMUNICATIONS RECEIVED
THROUGH MRS. BLANCHE COOPER.
By S. G. SOAL, M.A., B.Sc.
Introduction. . ,
The object of the present paper is to discuss a series of
experiments and observations carried out during the years
1921-1922 with a direct voice medium, Mrs. Blanche
Cooper, who practises at the British College of Psychic
Science. The sittings, which began on September 1,
1921, were with occasional lapses held once a week until
the following June. I will say at the outset that my
studies of IVIrs. Cooper were concerned entirely with mental
phenomena and do not touch at all upon the physical
aspects of the case. If one sets out to investigate mental
phenomena one is perhaps justified in ignoring those
physical concomitants which belong properly to the pro-
vince of the expert physicist or the expert physiologist.
I am not, therefore, interested in the question as to
whether the voices heard at Mi's. Cooper's seances are
truly independent or are produced by the exercise of her
ordinary vocal apparatus. It does not matter from my
point of view if Mrs. Cooper holds the trumpet to her
mouth and speaks into it in the ordinary way, since I am
not concerned at all mth how the voice is produced but
simply with what the voice says and with any charac-
teristic intonations which it may possess. But whatever
may be the physiological explanation of the voices it is
472 S. G. Soal. [part
certain that they involve a degree of mental dissociation
and present many of the usual stigmata of unconscious
mental phenomena. The medium does not go into trance
and in the intervals when the voice is not speaking she
is apparently normal and able to converse with the sitters,
and sometimes even able to repeat words which the voice
has just said. There is, however, right through the
sitting a certain degree of absent mindedness and the
medium is sometimes slow to respond to questions ad-
dressed to her by the sitter. While the voice ^ is not
speaking she keeps up a continuous humming noise with
her lips, and this humming ceases when the voice comes
into play. Throughout the period of my own experiments
the medium seemed unable to sustam the voice for more
than a minute or two at a time, and the information
was given for the most part in rapid snatches, punctuated
by periods of silence lasting from a minute up to a
quarter of an hour.
Moreover, it appeared that the voice could only be
produced while the musical box was playing, and only
on one or two occasions were words spoken a second or
two after the music had ceased. Objective lights were
seen at every sitting, but these appeared in the silent
intervals and were never simultaneous with the voices.
These lights varied in appearance from dim amorphous ,
patches to bright bluish discs about the size of a half ;
crown. When one attempted to touch them, even without
Avarning the medium, the hghts invariably receded in the
direction of the cabinet. In the light there often appeared
the dark outlines of the upper half of the four fingers
of a hand which may well have been the right hand of
the medium which was free.
Methods of Transmission. j
The mechanism by which ideas are transmitted through )
the mediumship of Mrs. Cooper seems to be somewhat dif- ]
ferent from that used by a trance personality like Feda '
in the seances of Mrs. Leonard. My own experience of
^ I have no record of any occasion on which two or more voices
appeared to speak at the same time.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 473
Mrs. Leonard is limited, but judging from the few sittings
I have had and from reading the long series of reports of
Lady Troubridge and Miss Radclyffe-Hall, it would appear
that the method by which ideas are presented to Feda is
in the main ^ a pictographic one. Feda sees pictures and
from these pictures she has to try to build up a story
that will be intelligible to the sitter. Now my experience
with Mrs. Cooper rather strongly suggests that her uncon-
scious mind and the co-conscious personalities which exist
within it are concerned very little if at all with the
receiving and interpretation of visual impressions. On
the contrary the function of her automatism seems to
be the transmission of aiulitory impressions.^ Mrs. Cooper
gives names and phrases which I am convinced could
awaken in her subconscious mind nothing beyond
the mere sound of the words themselves. At Sitting
No. 31, for instance, the control Nada pronounced the
name " Shagoian " quite clearly and almost perfectly.
In giving this name Nada simply said " Something from
your brother which you will understand." Asked what it
meant she said she did not know. It was the name of
a student of mine, Mr. Armenag Shagoian, whom I had
been coaching in mathematics for several weeks previous
to the sitting. This apparent direct transmission of word-
sounds seems to extend not only to individual words like
" Starbobs " [Sitting No. 6, p. 499], but sometimes to whole
phrases, which give the impression that they have been
heard and faithfully reproduced in some mysterious manner.
Thus in Sitting No. 13 [p. 506] there is the phrase "grove
gate " used to describe a certain gate near our old home
at Stambridge. It was the expression invariably used by
^ Feda, of course, does on occasion get auditory impressions and even
olfactory sensations, but I think most students will agree with me that
her method is in the main a method of visual pictures. The expression
" She's showing Feda something " constantly occurs in the various reports
of her utterances.
* The writer has since learned from a reliable soiu'ce that on one occasion
at which Mrs. Cooper's sitters were Dutch people some fragments of
Dutch—a language with which Mrs. Cooper is quite imfamiliar—were
communicated. This fact rather supports the theory of the transmission
of audile verbal imagery.
474 S. G. Soal. [part
the members of our family when they wished to refer to
this particular gate, and probably by no one else in the neigh-
bourhood except perhaps a few boys like Walter Valentine
and Percy Paternoster who had learnt the phrase from us. ;
Had Feda been aiming at a reference to this same gate
she would probably have seen a field with a path leading
from it to a wood and then perhaps have noticed that
the wood consisted mostly of tiny trees with some bigger
ones and that there was a gate near the bigger ones.
Both methods doubtless have their own peculiar advan-
tages. For while Mrs. Cooper's terse phrase " grove
gate " has a definiteness that no general pictorial descrip-
tion could ever attain, Feda, on the other hand, while
taking longer to arrive at her destination, would perhaps
have given many more collateral facts in the process of
getting there.
The direct voice seldom speaks in complete sentences.
Short condensed phrases are the rule and by this means a
great deal of ground is covered in a short time.
Questions asked by the sitter are seldom answered im-
mediately in the case when the sitter is holding the correct
anstver in his conscious mind. In such cases ^ it was ;
usually found that the idea had to pass back into the
unconscious mind of the sitter before it could emerge
from the automatism of the medium. The communi-
cator, when asked for an answer, would usually reply,
" I cannot give it now, but will try to give it later." ;
Then at a later period of the sitting when the sitter had ;
quite forgotten the matter in question the correct answer . \
would be forthcoming. In cases when the correct answer ]
was not known to the sitter a direct question would often
result in immediate success ; such instances are to be found
on p. 542, Sitting No. 18, J. F.'s answers ;
Sitting No. 20 \
Item No. 17 [p. 563] ;
Sitting No. 21 Item No. 47 [p. 565].
In considering the output of the present series of sittings
it must be borne in mind that we are dealing with the
results obtained through a combination of two psychic
personalities. The sitter is himself an automatic writer
and is therefore—at least to some extent — subject to
iCf. p. 496, 1. 14.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 475
dissociation, although he did not develop automatic writing
until a year after the direct voice sittings were finished.
It is, I think, now generally admitted that a degree of
mental dissociation in the mind of the sitter is one of the
determining factors in the production of supernormal infor-
mation. That is to say, a sitter who is himself medium-
istic will in general be more successful with mediums
than another sitter will be who is quite undissociated.
This fact of mental dissociation on the part of a sitter
does not, however, seem to account for the variations of
success which are encountered by the same sitter in experi-
ments with different mediums. Personal sympathy between
medium and sitter, though a most helpful factor, does not
seem in itself always sufficient to ensure results. The
present writer found for instance that while he " got on
"
very well indeed with a certain well-lmown clairvoyant, yet
the output of supernormal knowledge was extremely meagre.
One may suggest that success will depend at least to
some extent on the fact of the medium and sitter pos-
sessing the same predominant types of mental representation.
If the transmission of ideas and images from the mind of
the subject to that of the medium plays any important
part in the mental process, we should expect such simi-
larity as I have mentioned to be a vital factor. The
writer himself is a good " visual " and an indifferent
" audile," but he possesses in addition an exceptional
tendency to visualise words and to articulate them
inaudibly. Thus, if someone suggests to him the idea of
a mountain, he will see in his mind first a picture of
a mountain and next he will usually see the word
" mountain " spell itself out in white letters. Then,
as often as not, he will find himself saying the word
" mountain " inaudibly to himself. This predominance of
verbal imagery in the mind of the sitter may possibly
account for his success with a direct voice medium in
comparison with the interesting though less striking results
he obtained with mediums whose method is largely picto-
graphic.
It is hoped in the near future to secure the co-operation
of the large number of people who have had sittings
476 8. G. Soal. [part
with Mrs. Cooper in order to ascertain if any correlation
exists between types of mental imagery in the sitter and
success with the medium.
The Medium's Subject Matter.
As is the case with most professional mediums the
communications obtained through Mrs. Cooper are of
psychological rather than of intrinsic interest. Her super-
normal faculties exercise themselves almost entirely on
certain trivial aspects of the lives of deceased personalities.
In rare cases, however, the subject which the medium
describes may be a living person whom the medium has
mistaken for a dead person. In the important case of
" Gordon Davis,'' it will appear that except for the
mysterious prevision of the future house the same kind of
facts are given about a living personality as are given
about a personality that has once lived. In no case did
the medium's trance-consciousness occupy itself with
subjects of intellectual or artistic interest.
Characteristic Qualities of the Voices.
The voices produced at Mrs. Cooper's seances show
variations in pitch and timbre to correspond with the
different personalities which are supposed to be communi-
cating. Thus, when a young boy communicates, the voice
takes on a boyish intonation and alters somewhat in
pitch, and similarly in the case of a j^'oung girl. Some
fiindamental quality of Mrs. Cooper's own normal voice is,
I think, to be observed in all the voices. In the case
of my deceased brother who was the most frequent
communicator, I could not recognise the voice produced
at the seance as the normal earthly voice I had known.
The general pitch was perhaps the same, but the voice
itself I could not identify. It is of interest, however,
to note that in the case of my brother a " seance voice
"
was developed which preserved certain marked character-
istics so that immediately this particular voice spoke I was
able to recognise it as the voice intended for my brother.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 4:l'i
Even in the ease of a purely fictitious communicator like
" John Ferguson " the voice conserved the same individual
quahties from seance to seance. Only in the case of the
living communicator " Gordon Davis " did the voice really
remind me of the living person. I am unable to say
whether the voices of " James Miles " and of " Benson " ^
resembled those of the real persons for the simple reason
that I was never acquainted with them. There was
certainly an asthmatic hoarseness to be noticed in
the voice of the old man in the " Benson " case, and it
transpired, in fact, that he had suffered before his death
from a chest complaint. There has to be considered,
however, the possibility of certain qualities such as the
asthmatic hoarseness in the " Benson " case and the very
precisely articulated utterance of " Gordon Davis " being-
introduced for the express purpose of conveying dramatically
certain facts about these 'particular personalities. That is,
we may suppose, that what was intended was not to give
a faithful reproduction of the voice of " Gordon Davis
"
in all its almost inimitable qualities, but merely to convey
in this way certain facts about the man—such as the fact
that he had cultivated a very precise accent, etc. Here is
another point to be noted. My brother during life spoke
with a rather marked North Country accent. No attempt
was ever made to reproduce this at the Cooper seances.
^
Nada and Afid.
There are two voices which manifest at all of Mrs.
Cooper's seances. These call themselves " Nada " and
" Afid'' and purport to be Mrs. Cooper's guides and say
that their function is to look after the medium and to
help the other communicators to manifest themselves.
The voice of " Nada " is a rapid girlish whisper ; the
voice of " Afid " is gruff and sepulchral, and was seldom
heard until the very close of the seance, when he would
^ The case of " Benson " is not discussed in the present paper.
* The north country accent (Yorkshire) was, however, noticed at a
trance sitting with Mrs. Brittain on July 22, 1919, when my brother
purported to communicate.
478 S. G. Soal. [part
announce in nearly always the same formula that "power
is going." The voice of Nada was heard frequently
during the seance and often though not always spoke at
the commencement before the other direct communicators.
" Nada " like " Feda " sometimes spoke in asides to the
direct communicators, giving them instructions not to forget
certain details, etc. She seems aware of things which
happen in the immediate environment of Mrs. Cooper, as
when, for instance, she remarked that one of the medium's
pet mice had died. On one occasion " Nada " opened the
seance by saying, " what dreadful weather we are having."
Like many other secondary personalities both " Nada "
and " Afid " are under certain delusions concerning their
pasts and have come to beheve certain stories about
themselves which I do not think it necessary to repeat
here. Of the two controls " Nada " seemed the more
developed as an independent personality, and it is possible
that she may be a sort of resuscitation of Mrs. Cooper's
girlhood. " Afid," on the other hand, with the sole
exception of one occasion on which he advised me on my
health and offered to send a " spirit doctor " to see
me, whom he called " Doctor Alder," remained silent
during the seances, only coming in at the end with his
invariable reminder that " power is going." Supernormal
information was sometimes volunteered by " Nada," who
professed to get it from the purporting communicator, but
I found on the whole that information given by " Nada "
was slightly less reliable than when it came direct from the
communicator himself. [In the " Gordon Davis " case,
" Nada " is as rehable as " G. D. " himself.]
General Abstract of Experiments.
Section 1 of my paper is devoted to a series of sittings
at which the sole communicator was a deceased brother.
In addition to recording and analysing a large number of
spontaneous communications I consider in this Section
certain experiments whose object was the obtaining of
facts that were unknown to the sitter.
Section 2 is the study of what is perhaps the most
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 479
interesting of a number of fictitious communications. This
case of "John Ferguson" is very interesting as showing
the interplay between the minds of medium and sitter.
The study of such purely imaginary communicators affords,
we believe, a valuable method for observing the trans-
ference of ideas between sitter and psychic.
In Section 3 we discuss the case of " James Miles,'" a
fictitious commxmicator of an entirely different tj^pe. This
case appears to emphasise the necessity of the existence
of a physical link relating the sitter to the deceased per-
sonality, and argues the impossibility of obtaining in the
absence of such a link information about a deceased
personality which is not already present in the mind of
the sitter.
Section 4 deals with what is perhaps the most inter-
esting case of the whole series. It is a case in which
a person believed by the sitter to be dead, communicates
spontaneously through the direct voice. He reproduces
more or less accurately the tone of his voice, its accent
and his characteristic mannerisms of speech. He describes
incidents of his boyhood known to the sitter and speaks
of one or two matters unknown to the sitter. Most
interesting of all he gives an accurate description of the
environment and interior arrangements of a house ivhich
he did not occupy until a year later. Going back into the
past he is able to reproduce accurately the place of his
last meeting with the sitter and the substance of the
conversation. Further, he is dramatised as if he were
a deceased personality, desiring to send messages of
comfort to his wife and child. In the end we discover
that he is still hving. By means of a diary kept by him,
we are able to discover accurately just what he was doing
at the times of the first two sittings.
Method of Taking Notes.
One difficulty presented itself at the outset of my
experiments. This was the difficulty of taking accurate
verbatim notes of what was said both by mj^self and by
the voices at sittings which were held in total darkness,
480 S. G. Soal. [part
while the right hand of the sitter was held by the left
hand of the medium the whole time. In the case when
a friend was introduced it was quite impossible to
take any notes at all while the sitting was in progress
since on these occasions neither of my hands was free.
I soon found, however, that the difficulty was not
insuperable. The voices seldom spoke more than a few
phrases at a time, and there were considerable pauses j
during which by means of a hard pad balanced on my •
knee, and using my left hand, I was able to take what I
were practically verbatim notes. But even had I been
'
entirely unable to take any notes while the sitting was
in progress, the amount of matter which is given at
a sitting is always so very small that, for a person j
who is fortunate enough to possess as good a '
memory as my own, exact memorisation would be no 1
very difficult feat, especially if the sitter were keenly
|
interested. In every case in which it was impossible to
|
make exact notes during the sitting, memorised notes ]
were written out in pencil before leaving the seance room, i
It was not until the third sitting that I made any ;
attempt to take notes with my left hand, but after this
'
sitting, unless a friend happened to be present, I invari-
ably used this method. Before the war I had the mis- i
fortune to injure my right arm, and for a period of three i
or four months I cultivated ambidexterity, writing letters 1
and even lecture notes with considerable facility. I ;
found it, thex'efore, no very difficult feat to maintain a
j
stiff pad on my knees while writing with my left hand.
^
I found that the darkness itseLf presented no real difficulty
whatever. I could write as legibly in the dark as in the
light. Nothing in the way of rapid writing was needed
as is the case with " Feda " talk.
The Communicator of Section 1.
The communicator of Section 1 purports to be the
writer's deceased brother, and a few words about his hfe
history and subsequent psychic history may not be out
of place.
V
xcvi.] Communications Th'ough Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 481
My youngest brother, Pte. Frank Soal, 6th Leicester
Regiment, died in France at the age of nineteen, from
wounds received in action on September 5, 1918. Of
the nature of his wounds, or how he received them, we
know httle, save that he appears to have been wounded
on September 1st, to have died four days later at a
Casualty Clearing Station, and to have been buried in
Bagneux British Cemetery.
Born at Little Stambridge, near Rochford, Essex, on
March 9, 1899, the earher part of his life up to his
sixteenth year was associated almost entirely with the
fields and trees of the Essex countryside. Until 1914 he
lived at the old Rectory, Little Stambridge, two miles
from the Railway Station at Rochford, but in the winter,
1914-5, the family moved from these purely rural sur-
roundings to Prittlewell, which is five miles away and a
suburb of Southend-on-Sea. In that same year, 1915,
my brother was apprenticed to a large firm of electrical
engineers. Of a strongly scientific and constructive bent
of mind he soon developed the keenest interest in electrical
work, and made excellent progress. He was essentially
of a practical experimental type of mind, and not of the
type that could appreciate abstract symbohsm. Hence
he was never able to make much progress in mathematics.
In the last years of his life he developed in a remarkable
way, showing unexpected interests and enthusiasms. At
eighteen years of age, in March, 1917, he joined the
Army, was a keen young soldier, and entered into his
training with zest at Colchester, Sevenoaks, and Westport,
Ireland. He was sent to France in April, 1918. A
month later he was slightly gassed, sent to the base for
a few weeks, returned to the Front and was killed in
September. I missed him keenly. About a year before
his death I had become interested in psychic research,
but being in the Army I had no opportunities for sittings,
until I was demobilised in 1919. In April of that year
I became a member of the London Spiritualist Alliance,
and it was at one of the public meetings of this body
that I obtained my first personal experience of super-
normal faculty. This occurred on May 20, 1919, at an L.S.A.
482 S. G. Soal. [part
meeting when IMrs. Annie Brittain was giving clairvoyant
impressions from the platform. I had never seen her
before, and was sitting in the front row, when, towards
the end of the meeting, she turned to me and said, " Do
you know Canuter ? or it might be Ganuder ?
" She did
not know if it were a place or a person. I replied,
" I think it is a Httle village I know well." She said,
" Well, there seems to be someone from there v/ho wishes
to speak to you." Nothing more was forthcoming then.
Now " Ganeivdon " is a little village situated about three
miles from Stambridge on a low hill overlooking the
marshes of the Crouch. It is about two miles away from
our old home, and we Uved within sight of the ancient
flint church tower, which is a landmark for many miles
around. Canewdon is, in fact, the next parish to Stam-
bridge. M}^ own associations with this place are stronger
than in the case of my deceased brother, for when I was
six years old I walked there every day to a Kindergarten
School held at the Rectory. My brother might have been
there once or twice in his life.
I was so impressed with the medium getting this name
that I arranged with her by letter for a private sitting
which took place twelve days later at her house at
50 Westbourne Park Road. At this sitting, during which
the medium did not go into a trance, a very good des-
cription of Frank's personal appearance was given together
with his name " Frank." At the end of the sitting
I recalled to Mrs. Brittain the " Canuter " incident and
asked her how she came to give this word. She replied,
" Oh, that funny word ! I remember ! I will tell you.
I saw a boy in an oak tree, or it might have been an
apple tree. He peeped over a branch and I heard him
say, '
this is Canuter,' but I could not tell that before
all those people. They would have laughed at me. So
I just said, '
do you know Ganuter ?
' " It is rather
curious that the name Ganeivdon has often been given at
sittings. It appeared for instance at my first sitting with
Mrs. Leonard on March 28, 1922. I was accompanied
to this sitting by Mr. B. E. C. Davis, M.A., Lecturer in
English Literature in the University of London, who made
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 483
shorthand notes. During the train journey to Oakleigh
Park, Mx. Davis, in a conversation about historical Essex,
mentioned the fact that he had once visited Canewdon.
I then related to him the above psj^chic incident. Towards
the end of the sitting with Mrs. Leonard, whom I had
never seen before that day, and who did not know my
name, " Feda," who had been describing a bridge, spoke
as foUows :
Feda. " He (my brother) says the name " C " is connected
with it—rather a long name—its more than one
syllable—(what's that) Canterbury no it can't be
Canterbury—Can—Can—Cana—Cana—Can—Canadon.
(I was careful to refrain from giving any assistance.
S. G. S.)
S. G. S. Just say that word again, Feda.
F. Cana—Canadon ( I speU as pronounced by Feda,
S. G. S.).
F. The people call it that. He says they are a funny
people there—They keep together—they're clinging
—" conservative " he calls them—looking upon
themselves as a class apart from the rest.
S. G. S. Try to describe the place, Feda.
F. It seem as if it's away from London. Feda don't feel
it's a toAvn—a sort of place with wide spaces as
if there were no shops or trams.
[Note.—This particular way of pronouncing the
word by Feda is interesting. Throughout history
there have been many variations in the pronuncia-
tion of the name of this vUlage ranging from
"Canweedon" to "Canudon" and " Cannadon."
The modem pronunciation is " Can-u-don," the u
being pronounced as in " tube." Among the native
peasantry of the place it is often spoken of as
" Cannadon " exactly as given by Feda. Through
my early associations with the place I was perfectly
familiar with this latter pronunciation, but I feel
certain that Frank would have said " Can-u-don."
'
The description of the place by Feda is rather
vague, but the expressions "funny people,"
"conservative," "looking upon themselves as a class
484 S. 0. Soal. [part
apart," are all appropriate in a general way and
suggest an isolated community, a rather out-of-the-
world place. Canewdon is in fact four miles from
a railway station, and until recently there was at
least one inhabitant who had never been in a train.
The name " Canewdon " was again spelled out
at an Ouija sitting with Mrs. Travers-Smith, held
in May, 1923. At the time my hand was not
resting on the slider.]
At a second sitting with Mrs. Brittain on July 22,
1919, at which the medium went into a trance my brother
again purported to communicate, speaking a few words
in the North Country accent we used at home. The
sitting, however, was not very evidential. Fairly good
personal descriptions of my brother were given by Mrs.
Cannock and other platform clairvoyants, but no very
remarkable evidence was secured until the present series
of sittings with Mrs. Cooper.
On August 28, 1921, I received a letter from Mrs. B.
M'Kenzie, Hon. Secretary of the British Psychic College,
informing me that a sitting with Mrs. Cooper had been
arranged for September 1st, and that I was at liberty to
bring a friend. The question arises—^How much could
the ofRcials of the Psychic College be expected to know
of my private affairs ? At that time I had been a
member of the College for a little over a year, but with
the exception of one experiment with the Crewe Circle
in August, 1920, and a Bessinet seance in July, 1921,
I had had sittings Mdth no other medium at the College.
The following would be a fairly exact summary of the
facts which, without elaborate enquiry and special detective
work, the College officials could be expected to know :
1. My name and the address " Scratton Lodge," Brook
Road, Prittlewell, Essex.
2. That I was a recognised teacher in the Faculty of
Science in the University of London.
3. That I was very interested in psychic science and
that I knew the medium Mrs. A. Brittain and her
husband who introcluced me to the College.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 485
4. That I had lost a brother in the war. From the
report of the Bessinet seance at the end of July,
which I sent to Mrs. M'Kenzie, she might have
learnt that my brother's name was Frank, but
nothing else respecting him.
5. That in May, 1920, I had pubUshed an article in
Light on Einstein : the Mathematician as a
Mystic.
I have no reason to beheve that any of these facts
were communicated to Mrs. Cooper, whom I met on
September 1st as a complete stranger.
Section 1.
My first two sittings with Mrs. Cooper were not very
evidential, and the supernormal information obtained was
not of that clear-cut and conclusive character which is
apparent in the later sittings. I have thought it ad-
visable, however, to give a detailed account of Sittings 1
and 2—first, in order to give some general impression of
what Mrs. Cooper's sittings are hke, and next, as an
illustration of the way in which a communicator comes
upon the scene. The notes of these two sittings were
written from memory at the end of the seance before
leaving the room.
Sitting No. 1.
2.25 p.m. September 1, 1921.
Present : Mrs. Blanche Cooper (medium).
S. G. SOAL.
I arrived at the British Psychic College at 2.25 p.m.
and was met by Mrs. M'Kenzie, who welcomed me and
f; informed me that I should find Mrs. Cooper waiting in a
seance room at the top of the building. I found this
room, in which a musical box was playing, and knocked
''
at the door, which was opened by Mrs. Cooper whom I
did not remember having seen before. She said she was
expecting a sitter, but did not know whether it would
be a lady or a gentleman. Mrs. Cooper shut the door
486 S. G. Soal. [part
and turned the key in the lock and then pulled a heavy
curtain across the door. The window of the room was
closely shuttered, so that no light could enter from the
street. Above the fireplace a shaded electric light was
burning controlled by a switch near the door. A cup-
board in the corner of the room contained some old
clothes. The furniture of the room consisted of three
plain wooden chairs, a musical box, and a " cabinet,"
about five feet high, and of rectangular cross-section
2' by r. The front face of this cabinet was formed of
a pair of wooden folding doors opened so as to leave
down the centre a long vertical slit of about 2" aperture.
Resting on the floor in a corner at the bottom of the
cabinet was a small metal cross about a foot long, illumi-
nated with jjliosphorescent paste. The medium informed me
that this cross had been used while she was developing
her mediumship with Mrs. Leonard, hwt was not in use
at present. The medium arranged the musical box and
chau's as shown in the plan, and told me I should have
to keep the musical box wound up with my left hand.
She also explained how to start and stop the box.
Standing immediately in front of the cabinet aperture and
about a foot away was a large hght hollow cardboard
cone called the " trumpet " which rested on a broad
end, diameter eight inches.
CABINET
CRO
MUSICAL BOX
o
I
1
sitter's chair
'
The above plan is not drawn to scale, but is only
, intended to give a general idea of the arrangement of the
seance room. The measurements given in the text are
fairly accurate.
O
TR UM PET
\
<
I
u
z>
5
UJ
2
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 487
The medium explained that during the sitting this
trumpet was levitated in the air and that the " spirits
"
spoke through it. Having arranged the chairs as shown
in the plan the medium left her own chair a moment to
switch off the hght. In total darkness she groped her
way back to her chair and asked me to take hold of her
left hand with my right. This attitude was maintained
throughout the whole sitting. With my left hand I had
at intervals of about ten minutes to wind up the musical
box, which kept repeating the same record.
After we had been sitting in the dark for perhaps three
minutes Mrs. Cooper asked me if I could see a light.
I looked round and said I could see nothmg. She rephed,
" You will see the light presently." At the end of about
another two minutes I noticed a very dim amorphous
patch of light moving slowly about in front of my face.
It seemed at a distance of about nine inches away. The
musical box played loudly all the time. This hght soon
grew fairly bright and took the form of a disc of the
size of a crown piece. It was never stiU, but dodged
about in the circle space, disappearing and after a minute
or so reappearing again. When I reached out stealthily
with my left hand to touch it the light would always
recede in the direction of the cabinet. Mrs. Cooper said
that the Hght was produced by a spirit and that I had
better speak to this spirit and ask it its name. I there-
fore said, " Are you a relative of mme ?
" Thereupon
the disc of light made three complete vertical oscillations,
which in the spirituahst code signifies " Yes." Just then
the medium said she could see clairvoyantly a letter " J "
upside down, and she asked me if that meant anything
to me. I said " No." I then addressed the hght again,
saying, " If you are a relative of mine speU out your
name by moving the light." Deliberately and slowly the
patch of light made six complete vertical oscillations. I
asked for this to be repeated, and called out A B C D E F
at each movement of the hght. This I understood to be
the first letter of the word intended, i.e. the letter " F."
I asked the spirit to try to give the next letter, but
nothing more was attempted. The medium asked if this
2
1
488 S. 0. Soal. [part
letter was correct, but I merely said " I think perhaps it
might be." The medium then asked me to turn ofi the
box and to join her in singing a few verses of " Abide
Mdth Me." I did my best, but could not remember the
words. During the singing no hghts or other phenomena
were observed. When the hymn was finished I was asked
to turn on the music again. Immediately the box had
started to play, I heard, apparently close to my ear, a
rather deep toned but not very strong voice saying,
" I am so glad to see you—so glad you have come
—
Sam, I want you to know that it is really me."
S. Try to tell me your name.
Voice. Sam, it's really me, FranJc.
S. Frank, I wonder if you remember the old house where
we used to live.
F. Yes, yes, dear old place.
S. I am glad you remember. Try to imagine yourself in
the garden and tell me where you would come to
if you crossed over the bridge.
F. Into the field where we used to play.
[Note.—I had not expected this answer, but it is
perfectly correct and really apt. I had actually
expected him to say " If you keep on you will come
into the grove (a copse where we used to roam).
This copse, however, is separated from the bridge
over the moat by a pasture field some two hundred I
yards wide which was a favourite playground when
we were boys. I had expected that the communi-
cator's mind would leap over this field to the copse
beyond.]
(Pause.)
After an interval.
F. Nineteen eighteen. Nineteen eighteen. The year of
my passing.
S. That is almost exactly three years ago, isn't it ?
[Note.—My brother was killed in September, 1918.]
S. Frank, I wonder if you would remember the names of
any of the boys who used to play with you when
we lived at the old house.
F. The answer was inarticulate.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 489
S. Well never mind. Can you remember anything at all
about the old house ?
F. Pond there.
S. Yes there was a pond. Have you anything to say
about it ?
F. Dooks, ducks.
[Note.—Pond is correct. There is a conspicuous
pond at the old Rectory, but the answer may well
have been a guess. At one time there were ducks
on the pond, but the answer might easily have been
a reaction by association to the word " pond."]
S. Frank, can you remember the day you and I rode to
Chelmsford 1
F. Yes, yes. Father was very angry.
[Note.—I did not expect this answer, but it happens
to be relevant. My brother and I rode to Chelms-
ford only on one occasion in the summer of 1911.
I was at that time about twenty-one years of age and
I had cause to remember that on the day following
this excursion my father was extremely angry with
me, although the matter had no connection with our
visit to Chelmsford. In my memory I have always
associated the ride to Chelmsford with my father's
displeasure on the following day.]
S. Frank, can you remember the village school at all.
What was there near the school ?
F. Church, church.
[Note.—^The playground of the village school was
separated from the church by a brick wall. At the
time I was not thinking of the church but of a
steam flour mOls at the head of a creek nearby.]
S. Frank, can you remember anything about that church-
yard wall in reference to yourself 1
F. FeU off. (Natural answer to such a question.)
S. Yes, you fell off, but what did you do to yourself ?
F. The word " head " was heard, but the rest was in-
articulate.
[Note.—I asked this question to see if he would men-
tion breaking his two upper front teeth. An accident
whose results were ever afterwards slightly noticeable.]
490 S. G. Soal. [PABT
S. Tell me anything else you remember.
F. Ernest, Ernest.
[Note.-—I do not know whom this name refers to.]
S. Who was Ernest ?
F (Inarticulate.)
S. Frank, have you met Uncle since you passed over ?
F. Seemed some attempt to make a "G" sound, but the
name of the Uncle which was George was not given.
(At this point a voice whispered " I am Nada.
This spirit must have a rest. He has been working
very hard.")
The light now reappeared floating in the air. The
medium called to my brother, " Try to show yourself
to us." I do not attempt to explain the appearances
which followed, but for the sake of completeness I merely
record them. What seemed to be the rough outline of a
human ear showed on the disc of floating light. This
appeared and disappeared and then reappeared. There
followed what seemed to be the outline of part of a hand
showing four fingers from the knuckle to the finger tips.
These " fingers " made the motion of opening and closing
and appeared as dark outlines in the centre of the patch
of light. No " thumb " could be seen. Then something
was shown in the light which looked rather like a pair
of lips. I called out " Open your mouth," and the lips
made a definite motion, as of parting, and when I cried
" Shut your mouth," the lips closed. I tried this several
times. Then something was shown which looked like a
hooked nose seen in profile. Considerable time was spent
over these appearances, and when the light had dis-
appeared the voice of Frank was heard again. It
appeared excited.
F. Sam, did you see my ear, my hand, and my mouth ?
S. Yes, I saw something which looked like a hand and ear
and mouth, but what was that last thing you were
trying to show ?
F. It was part of my forehead.
[Note.—Frank's nose was straight, but his forehead
was decidedly arched.]
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 491
A rather deep voice was now heard to say " Power is
going."
The medium explained that the voice which had just
spoken was that of " Afid " her Eastern guide.
The voice of Frank was heard again.
F. Sam, I won't say " Goodbye " because you will be coming
again.
S. I hope so, goodbye.
The medium then said, " Turn off the box," and when
this was done we concluded the sitting by singing the last
verse of " Abide with Me."
On consideration I came to the conclusion that while
there was no very strong evidence of supernormal infor-
mation at this sitting, yet the results were sufficiently
interesting to warrant a further trial. I therefore arranged
with Mrs. Ford, the Assistant Secretary of the Psycliic
College, for another sitting to be held on Thursday, Sep-
tember 8, at 2.30 p.m.
Sitting No. 2.
Thursday, September 8, 1921, 2.30 p.m,.
Present: Mrs. Cooper (medium).
S. G. SOAL.
The conditions were the same as at the first sitting.
The patch of light soon made its appearance and I
observed in quick succession what seemed to be the dark
outlines of a hand and an ear. I was also touched
lightly on the knee by what might have been the trumpet.
We sang a few verses of the hymn, and when the box
was restarted, the voice which I recognised as the one
which I had heard at the previous sitting commenced to
speak.
F. Sam, I am so glad to see you again. Sam, I was with
you yesterday.
S. Yes, and where did I go yesterday ?
F. Dogg—Dogger—Dog—Dogget.
492 S. G. Soal. [part
S. Doggets 1 That's right.
[Note.—On the previous afternoon Wednesday, Sep-
tember 7, I paid a visit to a friend who lives close to
our old home, Little Stambridge Rectory. To reach this
friend's house I took the 2 o'clock bus from Southend-on-
Sea to the little market town of Rochford and then
walked the remaining distance of two miles across the
fields of a large farm called " Doggets Farm." This
farm, adjoining as it does the rectory fields, was a
familiar haunt of our boyhood days, and on this par-
ticular afternoon I strayed from the footpath and spent
an hour or so wandering round the plantations, etc., for
old times sake. I then proceeded to my friend's house.
My present address is 5| miles away from Doggets
Farm and my visits to this place are not more frequent
than once in three months. On Sept. 7 I did not
decide to pay this visit untU 1 o'clock in the afternoon
and even the people at home did not know where I was
going when I set out after lunch. Moreover, on reaching
|
Southend-on-Sea I first took a tram towards Thorpe
Bay which lies in quite another direction, as I had
some business to do there. I then returned by tram
and walked down High Street to Victoria Corner, where
I caught the Rochford bus. Had I been followed by
strangers I fancy I should have noticed them if they
had tried to follow me over the deserted fields of
Doggets Farm. Southend-on-Sea is forty mUes from
London, and assuming private detectives to have been
employed by the medium or College, the one word
" Dogget " would be a somewhat meagre " bag " after
such an exciting chase.
It may of course be suggested that what the medium
actually said w^as " Dog " and that an uncertain second
syllable was added when she divined that " Dog " was
not effective. Against this explanation it must be
urged that " Dog " was not a rational answer to the
question I asked. The actual answer I anticipated was
" Reeves " (the name of the people I went to see) or
" Rochford " or " Stambridge." Doggets, however, was an
excellent answer. I have given this detailed discussion
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 493
not because the incident itself is important, but merely be-
cause I made such an analysis at the time of the sitting.]
S. Now Frank, do you remember the hut we had at the top
of the big field ?
F. Yes, Sam, 1 remember.
S. Well, can you tell me what we used to do at the hut ?
F. We buUt a fire and sat telling stories.
S. Quite right. That's very good. Tell me who used to
be with us.
F. Charley.
S. Not very often. Charley sat once or twice in the hut.
Can't you remember who was most often with us ?
F. W—War—Warra—(not very distmct but the first syllable
certainly sounded like War).
S. (After some unsuccessful attempts to get the word)
—
All right, never mind that now. Can you remember
anything about the inside of the hut ?
F. Twelve bricks.
[Note.—In the autumn of 1910, when I was twenty
years of age, my brother Frank and myself with the
assistance of two other boys named Walter Valentine
and Percy Paternoster cleared out a hollow in a thick
hedge on the borders of a copse (called the grove) near
Little Stambridge Rectory. With ivy and interlacing
branches we formed a roof and in the centre of the
floor space we stuik a brick fireplace. During the whole
of September and part of October we spent many of
our evenings in this hut in which we had constructed
rough seats. Within the brick fireplace a large wood
fire was always burning and round this fire we sat
telling stories or reading stories aloud from books until
" the evening star washes the dusk with silver," and
the mists rose in the meadows.
. It will be seen therefore that the answer " buUt a fire
. and sat telling stories " together with the mention of
the bricks ^ was as good an answer as could have been
devised in this limited number of words. At the time
of the sitting I was interested to see how nearly an
answer of equal correctness could have been approximated
^ The actual number of bricks would not exceed four or five.
494 S. G. Soal. [part
to by guesswork. I therefore intervieA^ed about a dozen
persons to whom the existence of the hut was quite
unknown and questioned them as follows :
" Imagine
yourself to be a fraudulent medium who is impersonatmg
my dead brother. I say to you '
Do you remember
the hut we had at the top of the big field ? Tell me
what we used to do there. Now you must make a
guess in not more than eight or nine words.'"
Judging by the results of the little questionnaire given
below, guessing is by no means a good method for the
fraudulent medium.]
S. Now we will leave the hut. Do you remember the first
time I took j'^ou to London ?
F. Yes, Sam, it seemed very wonderful. I saw the River
Thames for first time.
[Note.—This visit took place when Frank was about 12
years old in the summer of 1912. It would undoubtedly
have left a strong impression on his mind. The reference
to the Thames is interesting. On reaching Liverpool St.
from Rochford we took the Underground to Mark Lane
with the intention of visiting the Tower. On leaving
the station we walked down to the river and stood for
some time watching the shipping and I remember pointing
out St. Paul's to Frank. Thus the first real glimpse my
brother had of London was the view from the River Thames
and therefore this reference to the Thames seems very apt.]
S. Then where did we go ?
F. Tuss—Two—swords. (If this is intended for Tussaud's it
is quite mcorrect as we never visited the place at all.)
S. Where did we go in the afternoon ?
F. Wild—wild animals. Z—z—zoo.
[Note.—We spent the afternoon at the Zoo, but the
answer might easily have been a guess.]
S. Frank, I have in my pocket a photo of a group of boys
taken at your school. Could you tell me whereabouts
you are on the photo.
F. Yes, remember very well. 1 am fourth from left.
[Note.—Fourth from left is correct, but the photo was
very familiar to me.]
(Interval of silence.)
xcvr.] Communications ThrougJi Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 495
6
n
03
o
o
CO
-to
f=i
2
Eh
^ ^ .
P-l-r-j
^ 03
-+3 a; cs
a;
a^
o
CD t3
©.a
4J
-to
a;
3
C3
t5
o _,
rH rr-j
o P
a; a
^1
W
-to
•I—
I
-to
O
• rH
;h
o
O
O
05
O
CO
o
o
ai
-to
!h
O
<D
O
o
o
-to
0)
-(O
3d ^.2
a^ 3
H PQ
n3
t3
O
o
CO
3 5£
O
r-H
''^
a
02
CD
O
>5
CO
0)
03
03
-to
c6
;h
ft
CO
<»
Ti
03 Oj
0^ 3
S'bbS
03
O!
w
0
0
-|o" O
a 2
o
a;
O >
ce rH
pq t>i-to
o
a
o
o
u
m
t3
o
o
o
P5
w a
o
o
03 . (D
> ce >
O ^
-to rrj -to
^ a a
03 ^ -Jf 5
03
03 O 03
(M
. 03
* >
9 ^
:3 a
O 03
ce
03
CO o
o
rH Tjj
'
-to ~i
to -to
o CZ3 ce
o
03
-|0
-to
• rH
03
03
rH
-to
(Z2
-to
03
o
-|0
to
03
-to-le W
03
-to fH tH
C/2 O O
o
o
-|0
<1
05
r^
-to
cc
-to
Ph
ce
O
,
Rankin
Ranldn
Sloman
.
Sloman
M M W W
Mrs. Mrs.
CO
-to
'Se
• rH
O
O
m
bO
03
— ^
bO O
ce
CO
-to
-(O
03
d
(H
ce
xn
ce
a
o
03
o
O
CO
ce
ce
a
ft
ce
O
00 05 O r-*
496 S. G. Soal. [part
F. Bicycles, bicycles.
S. Are you referring to what we were speaking about last
time ?
F. No, Sam, two bicycles.
S. Do you mean the ride to Chelmsford ?
F. No. Two bicycles. Sam, I am afraid I can't get it.
S. Never miiid. Perhaj)s it will come to you presently.
(At this stage Nada interposed saying " This spirit is
very powerful. You bring a great deal of power. . . .
He must have a rest now."
The voice ceased and lights appeared for a short time.
A hand appeared outlined in the light.)
(After an interval.)
F. Sam, I've got it now. Pat was with us at the hut. Pat.
S. That's very good. You've got it at last.
F. Yes, Sam, 3'ou see how we can get things through when you
don't worry us.
[Note.-—It will be recalled that earlier in the Sitting in
connection with the hut I had asked the question " who
was with us in the hut 1
" and the answer had been
" Charley," succeeded by something which sounded
like " War." Now the two boys who helped us to
build the hut and who were constantly with us were
Walter Valentine sometimes called " Waller " and Percy
Paternoster whom we invariably called " Pat." Charley
is my livmg brother who seldom came to sit in the hut.
It will be noticed that at the time when the question
was asked and the name " Pat " was in the field of the
sitter's consciousness the answer was not forthcoming.
The present records are full of similar cases.]
F, Sam, soon I shall be able to speak to you as I used to.
(Interval.)
F. Friday, Friday.
S. What about Friday ?
F. The birthday into a new life. The day of passing into a
new life.
[Note.—The only information we possess with regard to
the exact date of my brother's death is a letter from
an Army Chaplain addressed from 3rd Casualty Clearing
Station and dated September 6, 1918 (no day of week
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 497
mentioned). The letter contains the phrase " we buried
him to-day." A probable inference would be that Frank
died either on September 6, or on the preceding day,
September 5. Now I find that September 6, 1918, is
on a Friday. I had of course seen the Chaplain's
letter when it arrived, but had never thought about the
day of the week. The result, if not a chance coinci-
dence, might have been derived by sub-conscious com-
putation from the date September 6.]
[Additional Note.—We have records now to show that
Frank died on September 5, 1918, which day is Thursday.
He was therefore buried on a Friday.]
NadA. The power is nearly gone.
F. Goodbye, Sam.
S. Goodbye.
AviT). Power is going.
(Sitting concludes.)
I shall next relate a series of spontaneous incidents in
which the evidence for supernormality is particularly
strong. These are scattered throughout the whole series
of sittings and are arranged here under separate heads.
In each case the record is copied direct from my case book.
No. 1
—
Incident of the Two Bicycles.
i
Sitting No. 5.
Monday, September 19, 1921, 8 p.m.
t.
This was a group sittmg at which seven persons were
present including Mrs. Ford. At such a sitting all the
persons were linked up by holding hands, the left hand of
the person on the extreme left havmg to manipulate the
musical box, while the medium sat on the extreme right.
The trumpet would come to one person and then to
another givmg short messages to each. The sitters in the
immediate vicinity of the person to whom the voice was
speaking could generally hear the words, but those who
were farther off could not. Quite early in the sittmg the
voice of Frank spoke to me.
498 S. G. Soal. [PABT
F. Sam, I'm glad to see yoii again. I want to give you
that test.
S. I'm pleased to see you. What test is it ?
F, Two bicycles. Two bicycles.
S. Is it what you were speakmg about last time ?
F. No, Sam, it was two bicycles. Sam, I can't get it.
F. Will come again a little later.
The voice then moved away to someone else. Towards
the end of the seance it came again to me.
F. Two bicycles, two bicycles.
S. Yes, what about them ?
F. One went so fast it ran away from the other.
S. Now I think I know what you're driving at. Can you
remember the place where it happened ?
F. Yes, Sam, it begins with " D." Long hill and sandy
road. D ^
—D—many ferns.
S. Try to get the name.
F. D
—
D—difficult, try another time.
The trumpet passed away again.
[Note.—When I heard the phrase " one ran away
from the other," I recalled at once the incident to
which the communicator was referring. One after-
noon m August, 1914, my brother and I rode
together on bicycles to Danbury Common, which is
about eighteen miles from Southend-on-Sea and is one
of the highest pomts in Essex. The return journey from
Danbury is a long downhUl for about a couple of
mUes. We mounted our machines and let them rip.
Frank soon took the lead and, outpacing me, dis-
appeared from sight round a bend. When I reached
level ground to my dismay I could see nothing of
him and feared that he had taken the wrong turning.
I dismounted and waited for some time by the side
of the road, but when he did not appear I was
disturbed and imagined he might have met with some
serious accident and was perhaps, even then, lying
unconscious somewhere on the road. However, I
decided to ride on and to my relief I overtook hhn
^Throughout this record D— P—, etc. (with a dash), mean that the sounds
of these letters were articulated, i.e. the D sound not letter D.
xovi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 499
some two miles farther on near Woodham Ferris.
He had dismounted there and was waiting for me.
To the best of my knowledge neither of us ever
mentioned this incident to a living soul. The
mention of the "long hill" and the "ferns" (really
bracken) and the " sandy road " are truly excellent
bits of description. As one enters the Danbury
district the roads become bordered with bracken
;
mdeed, there are acres of bracken on each side of
the road, which is of yellow sand. When we also
add the letter " D," it will be seen that Ave have
a remarkable incident in which the psychic showed
knowledge that probably belonged to only one living
person.]
No. 2
—
Incident of the " Stakbobs."
Sitting No. 0.
September 20, 1921, 3.30 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper (medium).
S. G. SOAL.
(After an interval Frank speaks as follows:)
Fj In the barn. Set fire alight. Starbobs flew out.
Sam, this is important. Starbobs.
S. What sort of a fire was it ?
I*. With bricks.
S. Was it outside the bam or uiside ?
F. Outside—near the—(inarticulate).
S. :
Were the starbobs burnt ?
F. None of them were hurt.
S. Was I there ?
F. No you could not come.
Si Who was with you that day ?
F, Percy.
S. Were the starbobs old or young ?
F. Some old and some young.
Nothing more was forthcoming about this matter.
"
[Note.—The scene of the above happenings was
Little Stambridge Rectory, and the time was the
summer of 1909. The old Rectory at which we lived
for 12 years is situated two miles from Rochford
500 S. O. Soal. [part
Railway Station. A lonely place, it has attached to
it 34 acres of glebe land, and about 40 yards from the
house is a large dilapidated outbuilding, weather
boarded and thatched, and known to the family as
" The Barn." The Barn was divided into two
compartments of which the smaller was called " The
Stable." Hence M^hen I heard the phrase " the
barn," this building was at once pictured on my
mental retina. I found by enquiries after the sitting
had concluded that the word " Starbobs " conveyed
nothing to the mind of the medium, but immediately
I heard it I recognised at once a local nickname
used by boys in this particular district for the
starlings which in the winter settle in their thousands
in the copses and groves. In the evening they make
the air clamorous with their cries, and the immense
flocks as they fly to their roosting places pass over-
head like a darkening scarf. At the tinae of which
I write my brother was about ten years of age and
spent most of his time out of doors clinibmg trees
after eggs and young birds. I have made enquiries
about the word " Starbobs " and find that it is in
fairly common use among boys in the Rochford
district. It was certainly used by Frank and his
companions. (See Walter Valentine's statement
(p. 591) in Appendix.) These boys would organise
massacres of the starlings on winter evenmgs. Frank's
old companions are, however, now widely sejDarated,
and I would hazard an opinion that " Starbobs " is
about the last word that a fraudulent medium would
be expected to get by enquiries in the district.
But to continue with the incident. When I heard
the words " in the barn. Set fire alight. Starbobs
flew out," I conjured up in my mind an imagi-
nary picture of boys lighting a fire inside the barn
and the half-burned birds crawling across the floor.
But immediately the words, " a fire with bricks.
Outside—near the • " were said I vaguely recalled
having seen such a fire in bricks. On the following
Saturday I rode across to Stambridge to interview
xc^a.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 501
Walter Valentine, who was perhaps the most regular
companion of my brother at this period. I asked
him if he could remember any fire that he and
Frank made outside the barn. He answered at once,
" We had a fire ia some bricks just in front of the
Stable."
He said he thought it would be " just under the
eaves of the thatch " and he seemed quite clear
that the fire was " in the summertime, when the
thatch would be full of nesting starlings." He could
not actually remember the smoke driving the starlings
out of the thatch, but thought " it very likely
happened," and that " he was certain the thatch was
full of j'oung starlings at that time." My sister,
Miss Lottie Soal, corroborates " the fire in bricks
outside the bam," and she says that " Walter and
Frank had it burning every day for more than a
week." It is quite certain that I must have seen this
fire myself and I have an indistinct recollection of
seeing the brick fireplace in front of the barn. The
statement " you could not come " would possibly
mean that I was busy with my studies aU day in the
house and was unable to join the boys in their play.
All members of the family corroborate the fact that
there were scores of starlings' nests in the thatch of
the barn. That picture of the upward-curling smoke
rising into the thatch and disturbing the birds never
entered my conscious mind until Valentine showed
me the position of the fire. I should add that
Valentine, though uneducated, is intelligent and has
a reliable memory. On the same day on which I
saw Valentine I also interviewed Percy Paternoster,
• •
who was mentioned in the account of the seance.
He was unable to recollect any fixe outside the barn,
but reminded me that at about that period he only
saw Frank on ver\^ rare occasions, and it was not
imtil 1910 that he became a regular companion.
Since " Pat " lived a mile away from us, I think it
improbable that he ever saw this fire. It is practi-
cally certain that to-day Valentine would not use
502 S. G. Soal. [PAilT
the childish word " Starbobs " ; he would probably
say " starlings." There is, however, no reason to
suppose that he has been interviewed by any agent
of the Psychic College. It would be quite charac-
teristic for my brother to relate an incident connected
with starlings since during his lifetime he was
intensely interested in birds and their ways, collecting
eggs, bringing up young birds, etc., while I had
scarcely any interest in them at all. It is just
possible that the incident is a fabrication of my
own unconscious mind founded on the memory of
the fire which I had seen. That is, the incident may
be a mixture of truth and fabrication.]
No. 3 Incident. " Father M'Kenna."
Sitting No. 4.
Tuesday, September 13, 1921, 2.30 p.m.
Present : Mrs. Cooper (medium).
S. G. Soal.
(Towards the middle of the seance, after a pause,
my brother begins to speak again.)
F. Father Father M'Ken.
S. Father what ?
F. Father M'Ken—Kenna—Father M'Kenna.
S. Yes, what about Father M'Kenna ?
Nada. I hear him say church, church.
F. Father's M'Kenna's church.
S. What did you do at Father M'Kenna's church ?
F. Helped him with his lights.
S. That's very good. Can you remember the name of the
church 1
[Note.—I do not think I ever knew the name of
the church (S. G. S.)].
F. Electric. It was his lights.
S. Yes, but I asked the name of the church.
F. St.—St. (marticulate).
S. I couldn't hear that. Try again.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 503
F. It was the Sacred—can't get it, Sam. The Sacred
—
can't get any more.
[Note.—It was well known to the family that in
the year 1915 Frank was sHghtly acquainted with
Father M'Kemia and sometimes used to visit him at
his " Church of the Sacred Heart," which was situated
off the London Road, Southend-on-Sea. On one
occasion he helped Father M'Kenna to adjust his
electric lights. At home Frank often spoke of
Father M'Kenna, who appears to have amused him.
I remember him relating how on his first visit he
addressed Father M'Kenna as JVIr. M'Kenna and that
gentleman replied " Father M'Kenna, my boy, Father
M'Kenna." The word " Sacred," which was recorded
before leaving the seance room, is certainly part of
the name of the church, and I cannot remember ever
having heard it, or ever having seen the church.
It is interesting to note that this reference to electric
lights is the first m the whole series of sittings to
the subject of electricity which was a predominant
interest m my brother's life.
Since the incident occurred six years previous to
the sitting and in a town 40 mUes from London, and
was known to perhaps only two or three people in
Southend, a fraudulent medium would have ex-
perienced some difficulty in ferreting it out.]
No. 4 Incident. " The Christmas Present."
Sitting No. 7.
Wednesday, October 5, 1921, 3.30 p.m.
Present : Mrs. Cooper (medium).
S. G. SOAL.
(Toft'ards the middle of the sitting Frank speaks
again.)
F. A Christmas Present. Christmas present you gave me.
S. Yes, I remember. What was it I gave you ?
F. Electric thing, with two handles.
S. That's very good. Remember anything else about it ?
2 k
504 S. G. Soal. [pabt
F. Shock, shocks.
S. That's right.
[Note.—At Xmas, 1912, I bought Frank a small
induction coil as a present. This was the only
Christmas present that I can remember ever having
given him. It pleased him immensely and he amused
himself by connecting the coil to a dry battery and
giving people shocks. The mention of " two handles"
is a most definite piece of description, since the
machine had two bright metal handles which people
held for the purpose of getting shocks. Two or
three people outside our family may have seen the
coil, but I do not think that anyone except ourselves
would know that it was given to Frank as a
Christmas present. The coil is still in my possession.]
(Frank speaking again.)
F. It was green. Sam, I would like to connect it up to
a battery.
S. I put it away with your other things, but you won't
ever connect it to a battery again, Frank.
Nada interposing. " You don't know what he'U do."
F. Try to connect it up, Sam.
S. I will. Have they any electricity where you are, Frank ?
F. Inarticulate.
[Note.—The colour of the coil was a bright green.
Altogether the incident provides excellent evidence
of supernormal power on the part of the medium,
but does not go beyond the content of my own
mind.]
No. 5 Incident. " The Scalded Hand."
Sitting No. 8.
Thursday, October 13, 1921, 3.30 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. Soal.
(At the beginning of the sitting after Nada had
spoken Frank begins :)
F. Sam, a test—what you did to your hand.
S, What did I do to my hand ?
xcvi.] Communications Throvxjh Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 505
F. Burnt with water. It was very upsetting time.
S. Tell me what you remember about it.
F. Mother was very upset. SpoUt exam—examination.
It was Sunday, Sam. You upset the (marticulate).
S. I understand. Can you remember anythmg else 1
F. Yes, Sam. Went to Doctor about it.
S. Quite right, what else. What was the name of the
Doctor ?
F. (Inarticulate) Can't get it, Sam.
S. Well never mind the name. See if you can remember
anything else.
F. Remember the day before.
S. The day before what ?
F. Day before hand was done.
S. Well, what do you remember ?
F. It was wet and C—cl—cla—Claude—Claude came with
gun.
S. Why, Frank, I had quite forgotten that. What did
Claude do ?
F. Round field for hares.
S. That's very good.
F. You see, Sam, I remember things better than you do.
Pause.
[Note.—This is one of the best incidents, although
none of the information given was unknown to me.
The facts are as follows. On Sunday evening the
first week in June, 1913, I upset by accident a large
. pan of water (almost boiling) over my right hand.
I had good cause to remember the event for it
happened on the eve of my M.A. examination and
on account of the injury to my right hand I had
to postpone taking the examination until the following
June. On Monday morning I saw Doctor A. C.
Lewis of Rochford who bandaged my hand and put
it in a sling. My mother was natiirally much upset
about the affair more on account of the examination
than anything else. When my brother mentioned
about " Claude and the gun," I at once remembered
.; .-
that on the Saturday evening before the accident
: . . Frank and myself accompanied Claude Butcher, a
506 S. 0. Soal. [part
friend of ours, round the Rectory fields on the chance
of starting a hare or rabbit. About that period
Claude Butcher used to come with his rifle almost
every Saturday afternoon or evening, Saturday being
his only free day. Frank and I invariably accom-
panied him on these occasions.
We have in this incident very clear evidence of
information being acquired by Mrs. Cooper in a
supernormal way.]
No. 6 Incident. " The Big Tkee."
Sitting No. 13.
Thursday, November 10, 1921, 3.30 p.m. Present : Mks. Cooper.
S. G. Soal.
(At the beginning of the sitting Frank speaks as
follows :)
F. So glad you've come again, Sam. I've thought of a
good test.
S. Then let us have it, Frank.
F. It's about the big tree, Sam. Do you understand ?
S, I linow what you used to call the big tree.
F. Built hut right at the top. Do you know what I
mean ?
S. I know very well, Frank. Can you tell me where the
big tree was ?
.F. Near Grove gate, Sam. Where M^ood-cock used to be.
S. That's excellent. The woodcock is not there now, is it ?
F. Gone long ago.
S. Tell me what you could see from the top of the big
tree.
F. Could see River—riv—Couch.
S. Are you sure you could see the River Crouch from
the top of that tree ?
F. Quite sure, Sam. We often saw it.
S. What else could you see 1
F. Inarticulate. (The voice ceases to speak here.)
[Note.
—^There was a particularly tall elm which
stood close by a gate leading into a copse about two
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Coojier. 507
hundred yards from the Rectory. This copse was
christened by the family " The grove," and the
wooden gate the " The grove gate." At the top of
this tall tree Frank and another boy, Walter Valentine,
in the summer of 1914 constructed a kind of nest or
eyrie in which they would sit for hours. My mother
, remembers this hut very well. She was in fear that
the boys would break their necks. The reference to
the woodcock is very remarkable. The bole of this
elm which Frank always called the " big tree " was
somewhat hoUow and rotten at the base and had
projecting from it a curious piece of timber which bore
a rough semblance to a large bird or cock. Seen
from a distance it certainly did resemble a cock and
for several years Charley—my eldest brother—always
spoke of it as the "wooden cock." This piece of
rotten wood disappeared somewhere about the year
1907 or 1908. Frank must have heard us talk about
it often and have seen it himself when a small boy.
But perhaps the most interestmg feature is Frank's
statement that " you could see the River Crouch"
from the top of the big tree. I had never myself
climbed to the nest or eyrie and at the time of the
sitting I had no idea that the Crouch would be
visible from such a comparatively low altitude.
When I asked the question at the seance I expected
him to reply, " you can see Prittlewell Church," or
" you look down on the grove." On a Saturday,
in October, 1921, to satisfy my curiosity on this point
I actually climbed to the topmost branches of this
elm—no easy feat owing to the slenderness of the
higher boughs. To my surprise I could plainly see
the silver streak of the Crouch over the top of a
gentle rise to the north. It is, of course, just pos-
sible that the boys might have mentioned seemg the
Crouch and that I had heard them at the time and
forgotten it. The incident, however, is certainly
interesting in its unexpectedness.]
[Note added April 23, 1925.]
Yesterday (April 22) I saw Walter Valentine and
508 8. G. Socd. [PABT
made a little experiment. I had not previously
mentioned to him anything about the " Big Tree
Incident " and " the view of the Crouch " as I felt
at the time that the matter could be best tested by
chmbing the tree myself. Yesterday, however, it
occurred to me to put to Walter Valentine without
any warning the same question that I had previously
asked Frank at the seance. I asked suddenly
" Do you remember the hut at the top of the big
tree ? " He answered " Yes, very well." I then
asked " What could you see from the top ?
" With-
out the sKghtest hesitation Valentine rephed, " The
white sails of the yachts on the River Crouch."
The purporting communicator and the living person
therefore in this case agree that it was the view of
the Crouch that impressed them most from " The
Big Tree." For Valentine's corroboration see
Appendix [A].
No. 7 Incident. " The Conan Doyle Story."
Sitting No. 14.
Thursday, November 17, 1921, 3.30 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
(After John Ferguson had finished, Frank communi-
cated the following mcident :)
F. Sam, we sat on the grass. You read to us. Do you
remember ?
S. Do you mean when we were in the hut ?
'
F. No, Sam, before hut.
S. You mean before we made the hut 1
F. Long time before.
S. What is it you want to teU me ?
F. We sat on the grass and you read a book.
S. I can't remember the time you mean.
F. It was more than once, Sam. . .
i
.
S. What do you mean more than once ?
F. I mean it wasn't finished all at once—sounded like
" next week."
XCVT.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 509
S. Well, what did I read to you about ?
F. About—about big animals and birds with teeth.
S. I think I know now what you mean, Frank. Tell me
something else about it.
Nada interposing. He's laughmg about it. He whispers " yes
young fel—my lad."
S. That settles it. I understand perfectly now. It's a
good test. Frank do you remember who was with
us ?
F. Pat was with us.
S. No, that's wrong.
F. Thmk it's W—W—
S. Try to get it.
F. W— —there isn't much power, Sam.
S. Well never mind.
(A pause.)
S. Don't forget to bring John Ferguson next time, Nada.
Nada. He'U be there.
F. Goodbye, Sam.
S. Goodbye, Frank.
Afid. Power is going.
[Note.—The incident is a very good one, but it
does not go outside my own conscious knowledge.
In the summer of 1912, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's
story, "The Lost World," was appearing in monthly
instahnents in the Strand Magazine. Frank and I
eagerly looked forward to the successive instalments
of this fascinating story, and when the magazine
arrived we would take it into the field where, sitting
on the grass, I would read it aloud to the others.
It was, in fact, the only magazine serial that I ever
did read aloud to the boys. " Birds with teeth
"
refers obviously to the pterodactyl with which
Professor Challenger and his companions had such
perilous encounters ;
" big animals " would refer to
the dinosaurs and other extinct monsters. The phrase
" young fel—my lad " (young fellow my lad) was
always on the lips of Lord John Roxton. W—W
—
is perhaps an abortive attempt to give the name of
the boy (Walter Valentine), who with Frank listened
510 S. G. Soal. [part
to the story being read. On enquiry I found that
Mrs. Cooper had not read " The Lost World."]
There is, I notice, an incorrect statement in Frank's
account which I overlooked at the time of the
sitting. Franlt is Avrong in saying that the incident
took place " before " the building of the hut. In
fact, as the hut was made in 1910, this incident
occurred a coujjle of years later.
No. 8 Incident. " The Big Eel."
Sitting No. 14.
Thursday, November 17, 1921, 3.30p.m. Present: Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. Soal.
(Frank was the first voice that spoke in this sitting.
He communicated the following mcident and then
withdrew in favour of John Ferguson.)
F. Good afternoon, Sam. I want to tell you something
before Ferg comes.
F. A big eel. We caught it, Sam, in the Moat. Such a
big eel.
S. Say again where you caught it.
F. M—M—moat. It was near the house.
S. I remember very well, Frank. Tell me something else
about it.
F. Set lines at night. (Inarticulate)
S. That's quite right about setting the lines at night.
Can you remember anythmg else about the moat ?
F. R—R—rats—bow and arrow.
S. I know what you mean, but what about the bow and
arrow ?
F. For rats. Do you know now, Sam 1
S. Yes, I understand. Can you remember anything else ?
F. Funny birds on moat. Dashed down—dashed down
the water.
S. What did we call those birds ?
F. Inarticulate.
S. Tell me more about the birds.
F. Dashed with a big fluster.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 511
S. That's right, but what is the name of the birds 1
F. Can't get it. They were wUd, Sam, not tame.
S. I quite understand.
(Pause. Interval after which John Ferguson appears.)
[Note.—During the year 1914, Frank and Walter
Valentine set lines overnight to try to catch eels in
the moat. To everybody's surprise they found one
afternoon a huge eel at the end of the Ime. The
same week they cauglit another as large as the first.
The family had not expected that eels of such size
lived in the moat. My mother remembers cooking
the eels which no one except Frank really liked, as
they had a muddy flavour. The getting of the
word " moat " is in itself very interesting. What we
called the " moat " was in reality a very wide ditch
which surrounded the Rectory on three sides. Water-
rats abounded in its banks and it is remembered
by the whole famUy that on one occasion Frank
made a bow and arrow and succeeded in shooting
one or two of these rats. The mention of the birds
which " dashed down the water " vividly recalls the
moor hens or water hens which made their homes
there. Very frequently if one walked unperceived
to the edge of the moat one of these birds would
scuttle away down the water in a great flurry. We
have, therefore, in this incident very definite evidence
of supernormal information, although the facts given
were in my mind.] [See Appendix A.]
No. 9 Incident. " The Bxjeied Medal."
Sitting No. 8.
Thursday, October 13, 1921, 3.30 p.m. Present: ]\Irs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
[This incident has a special significance since there
is at least a possibility of some of the facts given
being known only to the communicator himself.
I AvUl first give the record of the sitting and then
my brother's account of the developments which took
512 S. 0. Soal. [part
place afterwards. The incidents given below occurred
just before the " Benson " case opened a little latei
in the same sitting.]
(Frank, who has been speaking, continues, after a
pause, as follows :)
F. Sam, I buried it. In the
—
S. What was it you buried ? .
'
,
F. I buried it in the hut one day.
S. Which hut do you mean 1
F. Top of big field. It was a medal, Sam.
S. What sort of a medal ?
F. (Sounded like) " metal " (but uncertain).
S. Where did you get the medal ?
F. Given to me by a boy.
S. What was the name of the boy ?
F. Inarticulate—sounded something like " school."
S. Was it a boy at school ?
F. Boy at school. It had a piece of chain on it.
S. Where did you bury this ?
F. In the hut. You weren't there, Sam.
S. Was anyone there ?
F. Only me, Sam. It was near the fireplace.
S. Do you mean where the bricks were 1
F. Near the bricks—left hand.
S. On the left hand of the fireplace 1
F. Left hand of bricks.
S. How far away was this from the fireplace ?
F. Close to. Not far away.
S. Did you tell anyone you buried it ?
F. Told no one, Sam.
S. Why did you bury it ?
F. (Sounded like) "amuse"—it wasn't worth anything,
S. Did you have a spade ? Was it very deep ?
F. Not deep, Sam. May have sunk a bit now.
After a pause I again qiiestioned him.
S. Frank, did you bury the medal with a spade ?
F. No, Sam, just poked it in with sticks.
S. Did I Imow anything about it ?
F. You never saw it, Sam.
S. What was there on this medal ?
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 513
F. Can't remember, Sam, it had a piece of chain I carried
it by.
S. Was it very large ?
F. (Sounded like) " inches " (but not clear).
S. Try to tell me some more about it.
F. Not much to tell, Sam—heavy (inarticulate).
S. Where did you say you got it from ?
F. Someone gave it me.
S. Someone at school ?
F. W—Perhaps at school.
S. Did Pat or Walter know anj^thing about it.
F. No, I was by myself—when I—school.
S. Do you mean when you came back from school ?
F. Yes, Sam, think it would be then.
(No more was forthcoming about the medal.)
Statement by Mr. C. W. Soal.
ScRATTON Lodge,
Brook Road,
Prittlewell, Essex,
October 24, 1921.
On Thursday evening of October 13, my brother, Mr.
S. G. Soal, showed me the records of a sitting which he
. had had that day with Mrs. Blanche Cooper at the British
Psychic CoUege. These notes purported to be a communi-
cation from my deceased brother Frank and indicated the
possibility of the finding of a medal under the earthen
floor of a hut made by us some years ago m a double
hedge near Little Stambridge Rectory. No description
was given of this medal except the statements that it was
heavy, and had a piece of cham attached. The position
of the buried object was indicated fairly exactly by the
phrase, "near the brick fireplace." I did not remember
my brother possessmg any such objects, but he may have
done. I remember that the hut was used in the year
1910, and understood that it had fallen to decay since.
On Saturday, October 15, my brother suggested that
we should ride over to Stambridge and have a look at
the place. Neither of us had any real hopes of finding
14 S. G. Soal. [PAET
anything and I consented to accompany my brother merely
for the sake of the ride. We set out at about 2 o'clock
in the afternoon and reached the Rectory fields sometime
after three. We found the hut had fallen in and its
floor was overgrown with brambles and undergrowth of
various kinds. I stayed near the hut whUe my brother
walked over to the Rectory to borrow a spade and pick
from Mr. Williams, the present occupier. It was Mrs.
Williams who lent him the spade and pick. On his return
we cleared away the brambles and roots and soon found
the remains of the old brick fireplace. We delved around
this with the pick as the ground was iron hard. Presently
we were able to remove some clods with the spade, but
at first found nothmg. On prising out a large clod on
the left-hand side of the fireplace, I detected something
metallic sticking out of the underside of the piece of earth.
The object was firmly bedded in and from the state of
the ground it could not have been put there at all recently,
i.e. not during the present hard condition of the earth. It
was found at about the depth of three quarters of a spade
depth. When extracted it proved to be a disc of lead
of about two inches in diameter and nearly a quarter of
an inch in thickness. At about half an inch from the
circumference a hole had been bored through the disc,
probably for the purpose of inserting a chain or string.
No chain was however found. The edge of the disc
looked as if it had been cut by a chisel from a sheet of
lead. There was no inscription or any sign of machine
work on the disc, and I cannot conceive for what purpose
it could have been used unless as a lad's plaything to be
whirled about at the end of a chain or piece of string.
The hut was buUt on virgin soU, and therefore if any
object was found buried it was most probably buried by
one of the boys who inhabited the hut. Neither my
brother nor myself can recall ever having seen the object
before. The other two boys, Percy Paternoster and Walter
Valentine, who used to sit in the hut, can remember nothing
about it. There seems, therefore, at least a possibility
that it was put there by Frank as stated in the seance.
The surface of the lead showed evidence of severe oxidiza-
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 515
tion, but I could see no signs of iron rust near the hole
where a chain might once have been and have rusted away.
The disc could not properly be described as a medal, but
might perhaps be called a medallion.
C. W. SOAL.
A consideration of the statement of my brother, Mx.
C. W. Seal, argues at least a fair possibility that my
brother Frank buried something in the hut, and that this
interment was known only to himself. It is important
to note that the object was found in the position indicated
at the seance. In addition, we have the important state-
ment that it was " heavy," while the object found was
made of lead. Although no chain was found yet the hole
in the disc seems to suggest the possibility of there having
been a chain at some time. I have since made enquiries
of several boys who knew Frank at school, but not one of
them can remember having given him the medallion, or
ever having seen it before. This lack of corroborative
evidence that the medal was ever in Frank's possession
is perhaps the chief flaw in the case.
Attempts to Obtain Information About Matters
Unknown to the Sitter.
Towards the end of September I interviewed Walter
Valentine, one of the boys who had known my brother
intimately during the Rectory period, and asked him to
think over a few striking incidents connected with my
brother's life at Stambridge, of which I should be entirely
ignorant. These incidents I asked him to put in the
form of questions so framed that I could not myself
easily guess the answer, but which nevertheless admitted
of fairly definite rephes. Valentine, who thoroughly under-
stood the object of the experiment, said he thought it
would be difficult to frame such questions for the reason
that I myseK knew most of what Frank had done at
Stambridge. He promised, however, to think the matter
over in his spare time, and when I visited him in about
a week's time he had made three or four such questions.
516 S. G. Soal. [part
I regret to say that I did not ask him to enclose them
in an envelope to be opened only at the seance, but
copied them at his dictation into my pocket book. There
was therefore the possibihty of rapport being estabUshed
in the interval preceding the seance between Valentine's
mind and my own. Very little is, I think, known about
the conditions under which spontaneous telepathy operates
from A to B via a third person C. One or two cases,
however, have I believe been recorded which seem to
indicate that this kind of transference may sometimes
occur. The questions propounded by Valentine read as
follows :
1. What did we have to eat on the day when you and
me and Pat walked from Fambridge Ferry to
Creeksea Ferry ?
2. When you and I went to bathe at the Mill one day
what happened to our boots ?
3. One day when you and me and Pat were sitting in
the hut I did something that made Pat very angry,
what was it ?
I put the first and last of these questions at Sitting
No. 7 on October 5, after the incident of the " Christmas
Present." I said to Frank :
S. Frank, Walter has made some test questions of which
I don't know the answer. I want you to do your best
to get the answer through.
F. All right Sam, fire ahead.
S. The first question is this, " When you and Walter and
Pat walked from Fambridge Ferry to Creeksea Ferry,
what did you have to eat on that day ?
" Take your
time to answer. Do you know the time I am talking
about ?
F. Remember it very well, Sam. Were tired to death.
S. Now do you remember what you had to eat ?
F. Sam—Samfer—samfer—samphire.
S. Samphire is that the answer to the question ?
F. Think that's the right answer, Sam, but there was some-
thing else.
S. Something that you h^yd to eat ?
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 517
F. Something to eat—it was in a field—iaarticulate.
[Note.—At the words "in a field " I immediately
thought of turnips. S. G. S.]
F. In a field—s—s—sw—sweet—sweet—swede.
S. Say that word again, Frank.
F. Think it was swedes, Sam.
S. Then samphire and swedes are the answers ?
F. Try samphire and swedes.
(Pause.)
S. Now, Frank, I am going to put you another question.
S. You and Pat and Walter were sitting in the hut one day
and Walter did something that made Pat very angry.
What was it ?
F. Walter ran away—marticulate.
S. What did Walter do to make Pat angry ?
F. It's very difficult Sam, I can't get it.
(Pause.)
F. It might be when Pat was sitting over the fire and
—
(Pause.)
S. Yes, Pat was sitting over the fire and what then ?
F. Walter knocked the tin of water on the fire.
F. Pat was mad.
S. Is that the answer ?
F. That may be what he means.
On the evening of Friday, October 28, 1921, I rode over
to Great Stambridge to interview Valentine with regard
to the tests. To avoid the risk of his memory being
influenced by my answers I asked him to go into his
cottage and write the correct answers on separate pieces
of paper, while I wrote the answers obtained at the
sitting on other pieces of paper. I was first to show my
answers to Valentine, and if they were reasonably correct
he was to show me his corresponding answers. If, how-
ever, my answer was hopelessly wrong or inadequate, he
was to keep his own answer so as not to spoil the test
for a second sitting. I first showed Valentine the paper
on which I had written " samphire and swedes." Valen-
tine produced his piece of paper on which was written,
\ve ate swedes." I asked him about the samphire, but
518 S. G. Soal. [part
he said he was quite sure that none of them ate samphire
on that day.
I then showed Valentine the second answer which read
" Walter ran away—Pat was sitting over the fire and
Walter knocked the tin of water on the fire. Pat was
mad."
Walter Valentine said that the phrase, " Walter ran
away," was quite relevant, but that the rest of the answer
about the tin of water was altogether wrong. He did not
show me his paper in this case, but suggested that I
should try again. I did try at a subsequent sitting, but
no intelligent answer was obtained.
^
[Note.—It will be seen that a success was scored with
the word " swedes." Had I not heard Frank say, " in
a field," my conscious mind I feel sure would not have
suggested " turnips," in fact, what I was thinking of was
" winkles," or some sort of shell fish, since I knew this
walk was on the sea wall. The answer " samphire
"
although definitely wrong is very interesting. From the
way in which the question was put Mrs. Cooper or her
subconscious mind could scarcely have guessed that the
walk was by the side of a tidal river on whose saltings
the glasswort (locally called samphire) blooms in profusion
during the month of September. I, however, was quite
familiar with the plant from which a sort of pickle can
be made and the stems of which even in the raw state
are not unpalatable. I had sometimes during my rambles
on the Essex marshes nibbled at the green stems ;
they
were salty but not disagreeable. Samphire, however, does
not suggest edibihty to the majority of people, and I very
much doubt if IMrs. Cooper even knew that it grew in
Essex.]
The question as to whether the boys could have eaten
glasswort on this journey, I have settled definitely in the
negative. The excursion took place on a Good Friday
(this is confirmed by several people, including my mother),
and at this time of year the glasswort has not begun to
thrust its shoots through the mud ; at an3rrate they are
1 For the real answer to Valentine's question and additional notes see
Appendix [A].
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 519
just beginning to appear and could not be eaten. The
getting of the word " samphire " suggests therefore either
transference from my own mind or the emergence of an
associated memory in the mind of the communicator.
The answer given to the second question even although
it may be wrong as a reply to the question certainly
suggests supernormal knowledge—possibly of a telepathic
nature. Mrs. Cooper could not possibly know by any normal
means that a tin of water was always kept in the hut
for the express purpose of extinguishing the fire when we
left at night. The incident described was just the sort
of prank that a mischievous boy like Walter would be
likely to play on another boy seated over the fire.
Having emptied the tin he Avould then naturally run away
to escape the wrath of his victim. The incident may
actually have happened, or, on the other hand, it may have
been a pure mvention of my own subconscious mind.
It is not the sort of thing that Mrs. Cooper herself could
have invented ; it reveals too intimate a knowledge of
conditions at the hut.
For Valentine's corroboration of these tests see Appen-
dix A.
The third test about the boots when put at a subse-
quent sitting ehcited no intelligent answer. It will be
seen therefore that one definite success was scored in the
series of tests.
Unverified Incidents which show Supernormal
Knowledge.
It will be observed that almost all the preceding inci-
dents refer to a particular period of my brother's life,
namely the years when we hved at Little Stambridge
Rectory, and during which I was most closely associated
with him. From the year 1915 onwards I saw much less
of him for I was away on my Army service. After the
thirteenth sitting I encouraged him to speak of things
connected with this later period of his Me, as I thought
that such incidents would afford a greater chance for
the exclusion of direct telepathy from myself. From time
21.
520 S. G. Soal. [part
to time Frank attempted to speak of matters comiected
with his Mfe in the Army, but unfortunately the incidents
he selected were such as were almost impossible to verify.
But though it seemed absolutely impossible to prove his
statements they were from a psychological standpoint very
interesting as the setting of the incidents invariably
showed supernormal knowledge. The statements made
were true as far as the sitter knew anything about them,
but the main incidents although plausible could not be
checked.
A typical example occurs in Sitting No. 16, held on
Thursday, December 1. At this sitting Mr. A. L. Gregson
was present.
(Franlt spoke first and related the following story :)
F. Sam, I'm trying to give you something about when I was
in the Army.
S. Good, that's just what I want.
F. Sam, it was when we were in Kent. We all had bicycles.
F. Two of us went—inarticulate.
S. Two of you went—I didn't get that, Frank.
F. Two rode ahead for scouts.
S. I think I've got that. Two of you rode ahead for scouts.
F. I was one of them, Sam.
S. Then what happened ?
F. We stopped near a—inarticulate.
S. Try and get that, Frank. You say you stopped somewhere.
F. Stopped near a thatched house.
S. What then ?
F. There was an old woman—gave us apples.
S. Yes I've got that. Go on.
F. Gave us lots of apples—filled our pockets—it was hard to
ride, Sam—I mean for the apples.
S. Would you remember the name of this village ?
F. Didn't notice, Sam. Wasn't a village.
S. Well would you remember whereabouts in Kent it was ?
F. Mid—middle—orchards—pause.
(After a pause Frank refers agam to the matter.)
F. The old woman said something, Sam.
S. Yes, what did she say ?
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 521
F. About " I have a boy
—
S. Yes, I have a boy
—
F. I have a boy just like you.
S. Is that what she said ?
F. Yes, Sam. If you could find out about it.
S. It would be very hard unless we knew the name of the
place.
F. In Kent, Sam—when we were
—
S. Where were you going then 1
F. A great time, Sam.
S. But where were you going ? >
F. Right to the C—C—
S. Where.
F. Right through to the—we saw the sea at the end—it was
over the d—downs.
S. Did you get right to the sea ?
F. Right there, Sam.
(The voice ceases and lights appear. At the end of
the sittmg when John Ferguson had gone I questioned
Frank again about it, but could get no additional
information.)
Now the medium could hardly have known that my
brother had belonged to a Bicycle Section whose Head-
quarters were at Sevenoaks in Kent. The fact that
Frank's Battalion rode on manoeuvres through Kent to
the Sussex Coast was known to me since it was mentioned
in one of his letters to my mother. These manoeuvres
appear to have lasted a week or two, and my brother in
his letter mentions such things as " passing through
Groombridge," " fighting all the way," carrying " pack
90 lbs." with bicycle 60 lbs. up a three miles' hill on
the first day's journey from Sevenoaks. As the letter
is dated September 8, 1917, the time certainly corres-
ponds with " apple time." There is, however, in this letter
no mention of his being sent on scouting operations or
of any old woman who gave him apples. Nor is there
any definite mention of a sight of the sea in this letter
although I have some hazy recollection that when my
brother visited me in Maida Vale hospital one day at the
522 S. O. Soal. [part
end of September 1917, he mentioned catching a glimpse
of the sea from the Downs. I have also a distinct recol-
lection that he told me on that occasion that they had
ridden 80 miles and that he mentioned Lewes. It is one
of those tantalising problems which we shall probably
never solve. Have we here a superstructure of fabrication
reared upon fragments of knowledge obtained supernormally
from the mind of the sitter 1 Or was my brother detail-
ing an incident which actually occurred ? The next
section of our paper will perhaps throw some light on this
question of fabrication. A similar series of unverifiable
incidents were given by my brother in connection with his
electrical career, but it is perhaps scarcely necessary to
describe them. The best that can be said for them is
that they appear plausible and show a knowledge of
matters which the medium could not possibly have
obtained in any fraudulent way.
Other cases similar to this in connection with electricity
were obtained, but the one described above should suffice.
I have been asked the question, "Did your brother
ever profess to remember an incident which turned out
to be definitely false—not merely unverifiable 1
" I would
reply that in the case of incidents spontaneously volun-
teered by Frank I can find no intelligible story which
proved to be definitely false. There is, it is true, one
case in which Frank talked about " a letter " " sent
to the old Jiouse " " after you left
"—" you did not get
it." But the wording is so very vague that some doubt
might be felt about the meaning. Though I tried to clear
the matter up by questions the story still remained inco-
herent. If, as I suppose, it refers to a letter being
addressed to us at Little Stambridge Rectory after we
had moved to Prittlewell, I think it highly improbable
that we should not have received it since the P.O. would
certainly forward it.
He also stated in a sitting that " a great friend of his,
M , had put a green wTeath on his grave." It seems
highly improbable that he ever had such a friend who
would put a wreath on his grave. We cannot imagine
who it can be. • • -
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 523
I have records of two or three questions I put to hhn
to which he returned definitely false answers.^ Often it
seemed as if he (or the medium) were merel}^ guessing.
Thus on one occasion I asked the question, " Where did
Pat hide his money ?
" This referred to an incident that
Frank, if living, would certainly not have forgotten. The
answer I hoped for was "In a hollow willow tree where
we found his hoard one day." Frank, however, merely
muttered, " In Drawer—Drawer," and then lapsed into
silence when told that the answer was wrong. It is safe
to say that no spontaneous incident of the same importance
as say " The Starbobs " incident was ever given which
proved to be false.
On three occasions Frank gave book-tests, but only
one of these appeared to be a success. The successful
one (if not due to chance coincidence) is rather remarkable
and is recorded in Psychic Science [April 1923].
Frank gave no descriptions of his life in the other
world—perhaps for the reason that I never encouraged
this kind of message.' On one occasion he uttered a few
sentences about " the beautiful summerland," but I must
confess I thought at the time that both the voice and
the views sounded very like Mrs. Cooper. Frank once
purported to give a description of how he was wounded
on the battlefield.
" Such a big flash, Sam—such a big flash. They found me
lying—I saw a beautiful mist all round me—the first thmg
I thought of was '
Mother.' We were going over the top
—
"
There is nothing in this description that I have been
able either to verify or to disprove, but I well remember
that at this particular sitting the atmosphere seemed
charged with emotion and I had a strong impression at
that moment that I was really in touch with my brother.
.
'
Section 2.
The Study of a Fictitious Communicator
.
The chief interest in the following case Hes in the fact,
that by means of a quasi-experimental method we are
524 S. G. Soal. [part
able to watch the mental interplay which goes on between
the minds of the sitter and the medium. I do not mean
to suggest that there is anything transferred from the mind
of the sitter to the mind of the medium, but merely state
that there is a causal nexus between the working of the
two minds ; of the fundamental nature of the process
I know nothing. I use the term " transference " merely
on account of its convenience and not as implying any
theory of what is observed to happen. The case of John
Ferguson seems, however, to suggest some of the con-
ditions to be observed when carrying out similar experi-
ments. The stories about the communicator which the
sitter suggests to his subconscious mind should in the first
instance be plausible and not such as would conflict with
the statements given by the communicator at the previous
sittmgs. The arguments on which the sitter bases his
conjectures of what is to transpire may be quite unsound
from a logical point of view ; what seems important is
that they should be psychologically suggestive. In other
words the sitter must be able to convince the irrational
side of his mind that the arguments he employs for
arriving at his conclusions are plausible, and that his
absurd conjectures have at least a sporting chance of
coming true. It is necessary, in fact, that the ideas
which he wishes to transfer to the medium should in the
first place have become active in his own subconsciousness,
for there is some evidence to show that it is those ideas
which are coloured by an emotional tone which have the
best chance of becoming externalised by automatism. In
my own case I actually came to half beheve the things
I had supposed about John Ferguson, and had a sort of
desperate hope that they might turn out to be facts after
all. At the same time the logical, reasoning part of my
mind told me that my arguments were childish and
absurd. I was able to establish beyond reasonable doubt
that John Ferguson was a pure fiction—a personality
built around certain scenes and events comiected with my
own thoughts and environments.
The case of John Ferguson, which extended over ten
sittings, shows throughout a curious consistency, not
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 525
uncommon in such fictitious cases, which was kept up till
the fiction was finally exploded at the end. Thus it will
be observed that John Ferguson never got mixed in his
dates, age, etc., but would repeat in Sitting 19 what he
had said in Sitting 11. He would invent new scenes and
happenings to cope with new facts discovered by the sitter.
The case may be said to have opened at Sitting No. 11,
when the mention of Brentwood first occurs. John
Ferguson himself, however, did not communicate directly
until the next sitting. I will first quote the record of
Sitting No. 11.
Sitting No. 11.
Thursday, November 3, 6 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
Dr. a. C. Dunstan.
S. G. SOAL.
(This was a very poor sitting. Both the sitters and
'
'
the medium complained of being cold. UntU the end
of the sitting the voices were feeble and indistinct, little
of any iaterest being said. ToAvards the close of the
sittmg Nada speaks :)
Nada. There's someone wishes to speak—^Wescot Road—Brent
—Brentwood.
S. What was the name of the road ?
Nada. Wescot Road, Brentwood.
[Note.—-Dr. Dunstan said, " I think it said Wesgate
Road." I however distinctly noticed that the last
syllable was " cot," and said so at the time. S. G. S.]
S, Who is it speaking ?
Nada. Think it's a man and a child.
S. Can you give their names ?
Nada. Difficult because he's not strong enough to speak.
Think it's a father and daughter.
S. Are you sure of Wescot Road ?
Nada. Quite sure—Wescot Road, Brentwood.
(Pause.)
AriD. Power is going.
I arranged to have the next sitting on the following
Saturday morning as I did not think it would be advisable
526 8. O. Soal. [part
to wait so long as a week. No enquiries were made
about Brentwood or Wescot Road. I should mention
here that Brentwood is an old world market town about
18 miles from London on the Great Eastern Railway, and
enjoys the distinction of possessing both a Grammar
School and a Lunatic Asylum. In my journeys to town
I had passed through the station for many years, but had
never visited the town. Nor to the best of my know-
ledge had I ever consulted a directory of Brentwood.
We will now proceed to the next sitting.
Sitting No. 12.
Saturday, November 5, 11 a.m. Present: Mks. Coopek.
S. G. SOAL.
(Nada sjioke first.)
Nada. Pleased to see you, Mr. Soal.
S. Pleased to see you, Nada. Are you going to bring the
man from Brentwood.
Nada. He's going to try to give his name.
(Pause, during which Nada was heard to whisper
aside as if addressing an unseen communicator
—
" Now don't forget. There are two houses. Two
quite different houses.")
A rather deep, but not unpleasant voice said briskly :
Voice. I am John Ferguson—brother's name is Juu—Brent-
wood—I want to describe a house—in an avenue
—
trees on each side all big houses with gates painted
dark red—quite large houses.
S. Where is this avenue ? •
.
•
'
J. F. Brent. ,
•
S. Brentwood ?
J. F. Yes, m Brentwood.
S. What is the name of the avenue ?
J. F. H-—H—can't get it, but it begms with H. It's a
large house. People there very musical. Keep
foAvls. I was 33 Avhen I passed over—Jim is my
brother.
S. Does your brother Jim live at this house ?
J. F. Must enquire there—find out about Jim.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 527
S. Can't you give the name of the street ?
J. F. Not now it's gone from me.
Nada. You mustn't press him so. You must give him time
to breathe.
S. Very well, Nada. But has this house anjrthing to do
with Wescot Road ?
Nada. Yes, there's a connection between the two families.
S. What is the connection ?
Nada. Can't say. He isn't strong enough to tell much yet.
(Pause.)
(Frank spealdng) Sam, I'm glad to see you.
S. Frank, do you know anything about this man Ferguson 1
F. Only what I heard Nada say.
S. What did you hear Nada say ?
F. About a large house at Brentwood and red gates. I
was interested, Sam, because I remember Brent.
S What can you remember about Brentwood ?
F. First time—first I ever slept from home.
S Quite right. When was that ?
F. The Army—joined there.
S. Good, do you remember anything else about it ?
F. Only that I didn't like it, Sam—not there long.
[Note.—Frank joined the Essex Yeomanry at Brent-
wood (Warley Barracks) m 1916. Stayed there a
night or two and was sent on to Colchester.]
Nada. There isn't much power left. He'll try to tell more
next time.
F. Must say goodbye, Sam.
S. Goodbye, Frank.
Afid. Power is going.
Sitting No. U.
Thursday, November 10, 3.30 p.m. Present: Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
(For the first part of the sitting Frank communi-
cated incidents of his own life and after he had
finished Nada spoke :) • -
Nada. John Ferguson's here. He'll try to speak, but he isn't
very strong.
528 S. G. Soal. '
[part
S. Let him do his best.
(I now heard the same voice as at the previous sittmg.)
J. F. John Ferguson sends his love to brother Jim and his
wife. Give my message.
S. I will gladly do that if you will tell me where your
brother Jim lives.
J. F. You must enquire at the avenue H—H—it won't come
to me.
S. That doesn't help me much.
J. F. Wish I could get it—it's a large house—stands in
grounds not joined up—all large houses just there.
Nada whispers. Think there's trellis work at the back in the
garden.
S. Never mmd about that. When did John Ferguson die ?
Nada whispers. Surely you can tell him that. When did you
pass over ?
J. F. Thmk it was in 1912 about March.
S. Are you sure of that date ?
J. F. Yes, pretty sure. .
S. How old were you when you passed over ? .
J. F. I was 33 years.
S. Where did you die ?
J. F. My mind is confused. It was in a very large town.
S. In Brentwood ?
J. F. No not Brent, quite another place.
S, What was your occupation ?
J. F. Machmes—engin—engineer—a room with big machines
—
several men worked under me.
Nada. He makes me hear soimd of whirring wheels.
S. Was this ui London ?
J. F. It might be London.
S. Were you married ?
J. F. Yes, married, but she passed over before me. One
daughter Amy and she's dead. ,
'
'
S. How old was Amy ?
J. F. Amy was just a child—Amy buried—^same grave as
her father.
Nada. Think there's a large cross at the head of the grave.
S. How do you know that? .
.'
Nada. Because he makes me see it.
xc^^:.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 529
S. Well, can you see what it says on the cross ?
Nada. I'll try to see. It's John Ferguson, died 3rd March,
1912, aged 33 years. There's something else, but
I can't see it.
S. Where is this grave ?
Nada. Don't know—I just see the grave. Trying to make
him tell me—it's a very large cemetery. Thousands
of white stones.
(Pause.)
(After this Frank communicates upon a different
subject.)
Sitting No. 14.
Thursday, November 17, 3.40 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
(Frank communicates for a Avhile and during a
pause I ask :)
S. Nada, is John Ferguson coming to-day ?
Nada. We're waiting for him to come.
(Short interval.)
J. F. Good afternoon, it's John Ferguson speaking—I wasn't
iU long, it was pneumonia after falling mto the water
—^whUe we were fishing—boat upset.
S. What happened then ?
J. F Jim and I got ashore and Jim took no harm. I
caught my death.
S. Where did this happen ?
J. F. The boat was not far from the—not far from the shore.
S. Was it at the seaside ?
J. F. No, not at seaside but near the sea—a large river—we
went on a week-end.
S. Can't you tell me the name of the place ?
J. F. Sorrj^, names have aU gone.
S. Is Jim younger than you or older ?
J. F. Much younger by ten years.
S. What is Jim's occupation ?
J. F. Jim was—inarticulate.
S. Can't hear. What was Jim's occupation ?
J. F. Jim was a bit of a scholar—but he gave it up and
joined me.
530 S. G. Soal. [part
S. What did he join you in ?
J. F. With the machines—mo—mo—motors.
S. Where is brother Jim living now ?
J. F. Sorry I can't get that. I only remember an avenue
and the big house.
,
Nada. Believe there's a large picture in the drawing room
with eyes that seem to look all roimd the room—lots
of cats at this house.
S. Do you mean the house at Brentwood ?
Nada. Yes, Brent.
S. Had this house at Brentwood any name or had it a
number ?
J. F. It had a name, but forget it.
S. Try to think of the name.
J. F. Makes many efforts to pronounce words but nothing
articulate is given.
Nada. It's no use pressing him any more to-day. He isn't
clear. Perhaps he'll be clearer next time.
(No more from John Ferguson at this sitting.)
[Note.—It was between this sitting and the next
that I recalled havmg loiown a boy named James
Ferguson who had once attended the Southend-on-
Sea High School at the same time as myself. I
made his acquamtance in the year 1902, at a time
when we should be both about 12 or 13 years old.
I distinctly recoUect his telling me that his father
was an Army Listructor or kmd of schoolmaster at
the R.G.A. Station at Shoeburyness. He also
mentioned havmg been at Gibraltar when his father
was serving there. Our acquamtance was slight and
confined entirely to school hours. I never visited
his home, and knew really very little about him.
I have a hazy recollection that he intended to follow
in his father's footsteps and become an Army School-
master. He must have left the school in about 1904,
possibly on account of his father being transferred
to another garrison. Be that as it may, I lost sight
of him after my first year at Southend High School
and have heard nothmg of him since. I did not
know he had a brother—at least I cannot remember his
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 531
ever having mentioned it. At this stage I formed
in my mind the first of a series of purely fanciful
conjectures about the communicator John Ferguson.
I amused myself with the follomng absurd arguments.
1. J. F. said he died in 1912 at the age of 33. His
brother Jim would therefore be about 13 in the year
1902, since J. F. had said that Jim was ten years
younger than himself. In 1902 the James Ferguson
I knew would be about 13.
2. J. F. said his brother was a bit of a scholar. This
would probably mean that Jim attended the High
School while John had had no such advantages.
Quite possibly, therefore, Jim went in for Army
- • teaching but finding something more lucrative gave
it up for engineering. Of course, needless to say,
• - I knew these arguments to be absurd, but I hoped
vaguely that " there might be something in it."
I was, however, very surprised to see the effect of
these imaginings upon the next sitting, No. 15.}
Sitting No. 15.
Thursday, November 24, 3.30 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
(John Ferguson appeared quite early in the sitting.
It was Nada who spoke first.)
Nada. Good afternoon. John is so anxious his brother should
know he is still alive.
S;
'
• I shall be able to teU him if I knew where Jim lived.
Nada. He's going to try to tell you, but he finds names so
difficult. He's awfully worried because he can't
remember things.
S. Well you must try to help him, Nada.
Nada. We're doing all we can.
(Pause.)
J. F. speaks. Good afternoon. I want to tell you this.
My father—my father
—
S, What about your father. Is he still alive ?
J F. No, has passed over. I want to tell you this. He
had to do with the Army.
532 S. G. Soal. [part
S. Was he a soldier ?
J. F. Not exactly a soldier—was with soldiers a lot—he used
to help them.
Nada interposing. He makes Nada frightened Boom—-Boom
—
he makes a noise like big guns—the noise would
break all the windows—Nada wouldn't like it. Big
guns in the sea.
S. I quite understand all that, Nada, but what had John's
father to do with soldiers ?
J. F. speaking. Used to—-to—inarticulate.—Maps lots of maps
—
he read the maps with the prism compass—he used
to—inarticulate. Can't get it, perhaps you will guess
what I mean—helping the soldiers.
S. Never mind, you've said enough about it. Had Jim
anything to do with the Army ?
J. F. A bit—he helped father with the maps and compass.
—
Soon gave it up—not enough go for him.
S. What did Jim do then ?
J. F. I got him work with me.
S. Is Jim still in the same place ?
J. F. Same work—not same firm.
S. What sort of work ?
J. F. Mo—m—motors.
(Pause.)
S. Ask John Ferguson, Nada, if Jim ever knew me.
Nada. I'll ask him that. (Nada is heard to whisper aside).
Nada. He's not strong now, but he says " school." He
means Jim, not himself. Says Jim mentioned you
at home—somethmg about " always top of the year
—
aU the prizes"—I don't know what he means.
S. Does he tell you anythmg else ?
J. F. Think that's all I know about you.
(Pause, after which Frank communicates.)
[Note.—This sitting is a remarkable illustration of
spontaneous telepathy from sitter to medium. The
mention of the guns breaking the windows most
clearly recalls Shoeburyness, where many windows are
broken every year. Then again the mention of the
maps and prism compass vividly recalls the duties
of an Army schoolmaster in an Artillery School.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 533
The prism compass is, of course, the prismatic com-
pass used for finding bearings of distant objects.
As a person who once instructed cadets in Artillery
work I was quite familiar with the prismatic compass,
but could Mrs. Cooper even have heard of it ? We
see the idea which I had formed before the sitting
clothing itself in imagery. Again the phrases " always
top of year " and " all the prizes," are clear evidence
of telepathy from myself. At Southend High School
we did not speak of forms in those days, but of
" years." James Ferguson and I were at school
together in our first year. I was the top of this
year and top of every terminal examination also.
The phrase " all the prizes " also obviously refers to
myself, since at the end of my first year at Southend
I took first prizes for mathematics, English, physics
and chemistry. Clearly what was intended to be
conveyed was the fact (obtained telepathically from
myself) that Jmi Ferguson had brought home to his
brother news of my successes.]
FiKST Visit to Brentwood.
On Monday, November 28, I visited Brentwood for the
first time in my life, although I had frequently passed
through it on the railway. My object was not to settle
the question of John Ferguson's identity but to glean
a few facts about the locality and watch what effect it
would have on the next sitting. I alighted at the railway
station, walked down the High Street, and presently met
some Grammar School boys in their red caps. Entering
into conversation with the boys I asked if there was a
street in Brentwood called " Wescot Road." " Oh yes,
sir," one answered, " there is a Warescott Road. It is
a good walk from here and lies off the Ongar Road."
" How do you spell it ? " I asked. "It is speUed
Warescott, but we say it like Waiscoat or Wescut."
" I will give you a riddle," said I, "it is to find a street
in Brentwood consisting only of large houses with red
gates which has an avenue of trees and whose name
534 S. G. Soal. [part
begins with H." The boys thought a while and at last
one of then answered, "It could only be Highland Avenue."
And checking off the points one by one they all presently
agreed that Highland Avenue was the only street that
would fit the description. " And where does Highland
Avenue lay," I asked. "It is off the Ongar Road a
good mile from here, and Warescott Road is not far from
Highland Avenue." Bidding the boys adieu, I set out
for Highland Avenue, which I reached after a quarter of
an hour's hard walking. It is a comparatively new road
running at right angles to the Ongar Road and contains
perhaps not more than a dozen large houses each standing
majestically in its own grounds. The gates were all
nicely painted of a dark red colour, and on each side of
the street was a row of young trees. It certainly seemed
to answer John Ferguson's description. I did not, how-
ever, enquire whether anyone lived there of the name of
Ferguson, but walked a few hundred yards down the hill
to view Warescott Road. I found a short street of about
thirty-two houses, obviously the homes of the artisan
classes of the town. The houses were not detached, but
built into two long blocks on each side of the street.
" What a contrast," thought I, " this street presents in
comparison with the spacious opulence of Highland Avenue."
What conceivable connection could there be between
families living in such different environments ? So musing
I made my way back to the railway station.
Sitting No. 16.
December 1. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
Mr. A. L. Gregson, B.Sc.
S. G. Soal.
(During the first part of the sitting Frank communi-
cates and then after a pause John Ferguson began
to speak.)
J. F. It's all coming back to me about Brentwood.
Nada. He's so excited because his memory is coming back.
J. F. The house is near the
—
Nada. Now don't get out of breath.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 535
J. F. The house is near—near the Ong—Ong—Onget Road.
S. Say that name agam.
J. F. The Onget Road.
S. What is the name of the avenue ?
J. F. H—H—H—I nearly got it. It's near the Onget Road.
S. Well, never mind. Perhaps it "wUl come to you presently.
Try to tell me the name of the house.
J. F. Inarticulate.
Nada. He says there's two funny gas lamps at top of Wescot
Road.
[Note.—I had noticed two rather curious globes on
my visit.]
S. Never mind that, Nada. Don't give me gas, give me
the name of the street.
Nada. Don't be so impatient. He's doing the best he can,
it's very difficult.
J. F. High—High—Highlands—I've got it at last.
S. Is that the name of the house ?
J. F. Name of Avenue.
S. Where is the house ?
J. F. House is Onget end of Avenue.
S. Good, in which side of the Avenue is it ?
J. F. Left—left side from Onget end.
S. How many houses from the end, one, two, three, four ?
J. F. (Inarticulate.)
S. Is it the very end house ?
J. F. Not the end house—not more than four or five from
the end.
S. Well, tell me what connection there is between the family
in Highland Avenue and the family in Warescott Road.
J. F. Enquire for Ethel—Ethel is the luik.
Nada. He says Ethel connects it up.
S. Ethel who ?
J. F. Ethel (inarticulate).
S. Was Ethel a relative ?
J. F. No. Ethel is a young person in Warescott Road.
Nada. There isn't much power left.
(Frank comes to say goodbye.)
[Note.—At the end of sittmg Mr. A. L. Gregson, B.Sc,
corroborated the word " Highland " given by the voice.]
2 m
536 S. G. Soal. [part
[Note.—The day after the previous sitting 1 made
another imaginative conjecture. I asked myself
" What connection can there be between Ethel who
lives in Warescott Road and the well-to-do -people
who live in Highland Avenue. They could hardly
be poor relatives. " I have it," I said, " Ethel is
a trusted servant of the house in Highland Avenue.
Her people, however, live in Warescott Road."
We shall see how this idea is worked out in Sitting
No. 17.]
Sitting No. 11.
December 8, 1921, d. 30 p.m. Present: Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. Soal.
(Frank communicates for the first part of the
sitting and after this came an interval during which
lights M'ere sho^vn. After the interval J. F. speaks :)
J. F. Pleased to see you.
S. Good afternoon, are you John Ferguson ?
J. F. John Ferguson.
S. Can you tell me an}i}hing more about Ethel ?
J. F. Ethel Lloyd, she was the young person in Warescott
Road.
S. But who was she ?
J. F. Maid to the family in Highlands—went there to help
every day. She didn't live at Highlands.
S. Why did you mention Ethel at all ?
J. F. Someone here wanted to send message to her.
S. Who was this 1 .
J. F. Think it's her mother, but she is hard to get at.
S. Can't she come to speak herself ?
J. F. Not strong enough.
NadA (interposing). Think she died of cancer.
S. Is she Ethel's mother ?
'
;
NadA. We think so, but we're not sure.
(Pause.)
S. John Ferguson, can you tell me the name of the house
in Highland Avenue ?
J. F. Inarticulate—It's quite near the Onget Road, on the left
hand.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 537
Is Ethel Lloyd living in Brentwood now ?
Waa before War,
But is she there now ?
Can't say—out of touch.
What was the number of the house in Warescott Road
where Ethel Lloyd lived ?
Have forgotten—Ethel was well lilced at Highlands.
There isn't much power to-day. Perhaps he'll teU you
more next time.
(Frank speaks for a few moments and the sitting
concludes.)
Second Visit to Brentwood.
On the evening of Monday, December 12, 1921, I visited
Brentwood for the second time and interviewed Mr.
Symonds the Postmaster, who at my request consulted
the directories and informed me that there was no person
of the name of Ferguson at present on the Postal Register.
He further informed me that he himself lived in Highland
Avenue, and had lived there since before 1913. He had
never heard of the name of Ferguson in connection with
anyone in Highland Avenue. With the exception of one
house called " Paglesham," all the houses had retained
their original owners since 1913. A certain Captain Shoe-
smith,^ who had been living in " Paglesham " in the year
1913, had quite recently left the district and the house
was now empty. Mr. Symonds did not inform me where
. Captain Shoesmith had gone. On this point I am positive
I
since I made notes in my pocket-book at the time. While
f I was conversing with Mr. Symonds, there came into the
Post Office a postman whose round had included Ware-
^
scott Road for a great many years. This man told me
that no people of the name of Lloyd lived in Warescott
Road at the present time. Some seventeen years ago,
however, he remembered a " very dirty old woman,"
J
called Mrs. Lloyd, who had lived in one of the houses,
but this woman had left some sixteen years ago. He
could not recall her initials, but thought the number of
^Pseudonym.
S.
J. F.
S.
J. F.
S.
J. F.
Nada.
\
538 S. G. Soal. [part
the house at which she hved was 16. As the communi-
cator had described " Ethel " as a " young person," who
presumedly lived in Warescott Road somewhere about
the year 1912, this clue seemed scarcely worth following
up. I next visited Warescott Road and learned from a
resident that no " young person called Ethel " was living
there at present.
I next visited Mr. Cottee of 11 Rose Valley, the
Registrar of Births and Deaths, and was informed by him
that no directory of Brentwood had been published since
1913, owmg to the War. On consulting a 1913 Directory,
I verified that no Ferguson was living in Highland Avenue
in 1913, and no Lloyd in Warescott Road at that time.
Captain Shoesmith, R.N.R., was, however, hvhig at
" Paglesham," as stated by ]\Ir. Symonds. Reference to
old directories showed that no Ferguson had lived in
Brentwood for many years before 1912. On leaving
Mr. Cottee, I walked over to Highland Avenue and noted
that " Paglesham " was the third house on the left from
the Ongar Road. I then returned home.
[Note.—Between the date of the above visit and the
next sitting, which was held two days later, I invented
more theories around the enigmatical personality of John
Ferguson. I thought of Captain Shoesmith, R.N.R., who
had just left Highland Avenue for a destination unknown.
The tenor of my argument ran as foUows :
1. Caj)taui Shoesmith was a naval man.
2. The Navy is in close co-operation with the Coast
Defence Artillery. What more natural then than the idea
that John Ferguson's father should have met Captain
Shoesmith at Shoeburjmess. The fathers became friends
and consequently the sons of Ferguson became friends
with the sons of Shoesmith. Hence we have an ex-
planation of John Ferguson's request for us to " enquire
at Highlands about Jim." These conjectures the communi-
cator most obliguigly confirmed at the next sitting.]
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 539
Sitting No. 18.
December 14, 3.30 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
(Nada spoke first :)
Nada. Pleased to see you, Mr. Soal.
S. Good afternoon, Nada. I want most especially to
speak to John Ferguson to-day. It's very important.
Nada. I'm going off to bring him.
(Interval of a few minutes.)
Voice of J. F. Glad to see you again.
S. Good afternoon. Are you John Ferguson ?
J. F, Yes, John Ferguson speaking.
S. Then listen, John Ferguson. I've just been to Brent.
wood and have found out that neither you nor your
brother ever Hved there. What do you say to that ?
J. F. Pardon me, I did not say we lived there. We had
friends there.
S. I understood that your brother Jim lived there.
J. F. Oh no, we motored to Highlands weekends from town
—
they were very musical. Jim played the violin and
I the 'cello.
S. What year was that ?
J. F. About 1911 or so.
S. Then why on earth did you spend all this time talking
about a place where you never lived ?
J. F. We had to do it. Brent was the link with yourself.
Jim was another link.
S. But I had never been to Brentwood.
J. F. No, but you had some connection with it. Often went
through it.
[Note.—At the end of the first sitting I mentioned
to Mrs. Cooper that I often travelled through Brent-
wood.]
S. Well, try to teU me the house of j'our friends in High-
land Avenue.
J. F. Can tell you now—you've made fresh links.
J. F. Think it was third house from Onget Road.
S. And what was the name of your friends ?
J. F. They were friends of my father's—N—N
—
540 S. 0. Soal. [part
S. Does the name begin with N ?
3. F. Na—Na—Naval—friend of my father.
S. Say that again.
J. F. He was Naval man—Sh—[Shoeshine]^—think that was his
name.
S. You're nearly right—say it again.
J. F. Sh—Slioeshine.
Nada. Shoeshine ; it sounds a funny name.
S. It's near enough. '
S, Now tell me the name of Shoeshme's house.
J. F. It's where cowslips grow in cock
—
S. What was that last word ?
Nada. Cowslips grow in cockle beds—think it's something you
would know.
S. That's very good indeed.
J. F. Do you beUeve m me now 1
S. You seem to know a great deal.
Nada. Frank's laughing about this.
F. Sam, I heard that. We've been where they are.
S. What do you mean Frank ?
[Note.—I had guessed his meaning.]
F. There were cockles but no cowslips, Sam.
S. Quite right, Frank, I understand.
F. Not even cockles, Sam, only empty shells. Do you
miderstand.
S. I guess what you mean.
F. We saw them, Sam, and on the way we passed a mon
—
monk—it was a tree, you know—riddle of a tree
—
do you know now 1
S. That's very good indeed. I Imow perfectly.
Nada. He must have a rest after giving these splendid tests.
(There is a pause during which lights appear.)
[Note.-—This complicated series of allusions merits
a special study. In the first place the phrase "where
cowslips grow in cockle beds " is a most ingenious
method of introducing the name " Paglesham," which
it will be remembered was the name of Captain
Shoesmith's residence at Brentwood. Now Paglesham
^ It has been necessary to alter the name given at the sitting to correspond
with the pseudonym given above on p. 537.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 541
is the name of a small hamlet on the Essex coast
situated about four miles from Little Stambridge
Rectory. Frank and I visited this place several
times. It is noted for its cockle and oyster beds.
Moreover the word '
Paglesham " (Ham of the
Paigles) is Anglo-Saxon for " cowslip meadow.''' ^ This
derivation was, of course, known to both Frank and
myself, but I could hardly imagine that Mrs. Cooper
could have loiown even the place, let alone the
derivation. The next phrase " cockles but no cow-
slips " clearly refers to our own visits to Paglesham,
on which occasions we could always discover the
cockles but never the cowslips. The succeeding
statement " not even cocldes, Sam, only empty
shells," is once more an allusion to the visits which
my brother and I made to Paglesham. Walking
along the sea wall by the side of the creeks, we often
came across shallow rectangular tanks of concrete full
of sea water, and the bottoms of these tanks were
inches deep in cockle shells. But all the shells were
empty and never a cockle could be seen. The
reference to "a riddle of a tree " and " mon " also
clearly shows supernormal knowledge. On our walks
to Paglesham we passed a house which had on its
lawn a well grown " Monkey Puzzle," and I dis-
tinctly recall that we always stopped to admire this
tree,2 which was the only specimen in the neighbour-
hood visible from the high road. The whole incident
is probably a curious and mvolved example of spon-
taneous telepathy from the sitter.]
(To continue with )Sitting No. 18.)
NadA. After the interval. John Ferguson is here again.
S. Are you there, John Ferguson ?
J. F. What else do you wish to ask.
S. Your friend [Shoeshine] has left Brentwood now. How
can I find out where he lives '\
^ The etyrnology of the word '
paigle '
is doubtful, but it is still in common
use in the Eastern counties to denote cowslip.
^This tree, which is fifty years old, still stands in front of the house of
Mr. Wiseman, of Buckland House, East End, Paglesham.
542 8. G. Soal. [part
J. F. Think he has gone to seaside.
S. To Southend-on-Sea 1
J. F. Not Southend. P—P—
S. Do you mean Portsmouth ?
J. F. Not that. P—P—Plym—
S. Plymouth, is that the name i
J. F. Try Plym—
Nada. There isn't much power left.
(Pause.)
F, I've come to say goodbye, Sam. So glad you knew
about the cockles. It was a good test.
S. Very good. Goodbye, Frank.
Afid. Power is going.
Sitting No. 19.
Tuesday, December 20, 1921, 3.40 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. Soal.
(Frank communicates for the first part of the
sitting. After him John Ferguson speaks.)
J. F. Good afternoon. Have you found [Shine shoe] yet ?
S. Not yet. I haven't tried. I wish you could tell me
your brother Jim's address.
J. F. It's difficult. Think he lives m London now.
Nada. Believe his house has two white pillars—six steps to it.
S. That won't help me very much.
Nada. Don't be so rude. I give you what I can get.
J. F. Sorry can't get Jim's address. I worked in Glas
—
Glasgow for some years. Father comes from Glasgow.
He was educated at Union University, Glasgow.
S. Union University ? I never heard of such a place.
J. F. You will find it's right. Union University.
[Note.—Union University is quite absurd, but there
is a buildmg connected with Glasgow University
called the " Union."]
S. Were you educated at Union University ?
0. F. Not me. Father was.
S. How did he come to get into the Army ?
J. F. He left the University quite young. Didn't pass his
exammations. Then got job with the Army.
S. Were you ever at Gibraltar ?
xc^t:.] Comviunications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 543
J. F. Faintly remember it. Very small then. Father often
talked of it.
S. You say you worked at Glasgow for some years. What
part of Glasgow ?
J. F. Pollok Shields.
S. Say that again.
J. F. PoUok Shields.
S. Where did you die ?
J. F. Don't use that word. I've only passed to another life.
S Well, where did you pass from 1
J. F. Glasgow Pollok Shields.
S. Then were you buried at Glasgow ?
J. F. Yes, that's right, Glasgow.
S. Was your wife buried at Glasgow 1
J. F. No, London—Kensal Rise.
J. F. Amj' buried with me.
S. How old were you when you died ?
J. F. Just 33.
S. What was the date of your death ?
J. F. 3rd March.
S. What was the year ?
J. F. 1912.
S. You say the same things as you said before.
J. F. Why shouldn't I if they are true.
S. How did you die ?
J. F. Caught cold in water.
S. Where was that ?
J. F. River near Glasgow.
S. Can you give the names of any streets in Glasgow 1
J. F. Union Street—difficult. Remember two friends of my
father who lived near there.—Robert Lecky and
James Fraser—like two old brothers.
S. Did they live in Union Street ?
J. F. Xot far away.
S. Is Robert Lecky alive now ?
J. F. Xot sure. Must be old man.
S. Are you sure you were buried at Glasgow 1
J. F. Quite sure.
(Pause.)
AriD. Power is going.
544 8. O. Soal. [part
[Note.—On December 26, 1921, I addressed a
letter of enquiry to Captain Shoesmith, R.N.R.,
" Paglesham," Highland Avenue, Brentwood, Essex,
and marked the envelope "To be forwarded." In
this letter I mentioned all the facts of the case,
describing the object of my experiments and including
a brief list of the statements of the communicator.
To this I added a request that Captain Shoesmith
• •
would be so kind as to throw any light possible on
the subject, with the assurance that the matter would
be treated as confidential. Captain Shoesmith's
reply to my letter did not arrive tUl the morning
of January 9, so that I remained in suspense
durmg the next sitting which was held on January 4.
Previous to this sitting I procured a plan of Glasgow
and spent a couple of hours on the evening of
January 3 poring over the names of the plan. I
noted the names of all the cemeteries both large and
small, and observed in particular that the two large
cemeteries which seemed to be nearest to the PoUok
Shields district were called " the South Necropolis
"
and " Janefield Street." I took this map with me
to Sitting No. 20 the next morning, and when the
light had been switched off unfolded it and spread
it on the floor in the dark. In my own mind I
had decided that the name of the cemetery in
which John Ferguson was buried was a toss up
between South Necropolis and Janefield Street, smce
these seemed nearest to the district in which he
resided. Here follows the record of the sitting.]
Sitting No. 20.
Wednesday, January 4, 1922, 11.10 a.m. Present: Mrs. Cooper.
[Postponed from December 28, 1921] S. G. Soal.
(I did not mention to Mrs. Cooper that I had
brought a map with me and when the light was
extinguished I unfolded it and spread it on the
floor as stated above.
Nada spoke first, and then Frank, but to my
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper 545
surprise John Ferguson did not appear, but instead
a most remarkable communicator, called " Gordon
Davis " appeared, whose case is considered in the
last section of my paper. When Gordon Davis had
lost control there was an interval and at the end
of this interval John Ferguson spoke.)
J. F. Pollok Shields—PoUok—is where I lived.
S. Could you teU me the name of the street ?
J. F. It's difficult.
S. I've laid a map of Glasgow on the floor. Won't that
help you ?
NadA. He's gone away to study it.
[Note.—A scratching sound was heard on the floor.]
J. F. Now it comes back to me. I worked for a time in
India Street not far from Charing Cross.
S. But Charing Cross is in London, isn't it ?
J. F. No, Charing Cross, Glasgow—George Street was not far
away.
S. What were you working at ?
J. F. Oh, motors.
S. What was the name of the firm ?
J. F. Inarticulate.
S. Now try to tell me where you were buried.
J. F. It was a large cemetery—South—^South Necrop
—
S. Say that again.
J. F. South Necrop—
[Note.—Clearly an attempt to give South Necro-
polis, one of the names I had chosen. At the
moment of the sitting, however, I had forgotten it.]
S. Would you remember anything about the grave ?
J. F. A double grave—Amy my daughter—a large cross—one
grave for two.
S. How old was your daughter Amy ?
J. F. Four years. {Note.—Consistent with previous state-
ment.)
S. What were you doing with motors ?
J. F. Sounded something like " design " but uncertain.
S. When did you come to London ?
J. F. About 1903.
S. What made you come to London ?
546 S. G. Soal. [part
J. F. Firm had a branch there. Was sent—then got Jim
into London branch.
S. Did Jim go into the firm about 1903 1
J. F. No, about 1908.
S. What was Jim doing before then 1
J. F. Helping father—instruct—inarticulate—sounded like maps.
S. Where was Jim workmg ?
J. F. At seaside place.
S. Can you tell me the name?
J. F. Can't get it.
(Pause.)
F. Glad Gordon was able to come.
S. Do you know anything about him ?
P. Think he was shot, poor fellow—I never knew him,
Sam.
S. Well, don't forget to bring him next time first thing.
F. Shan't forget—there's no power, Sam^—Goodbye.
Afid. Power is going.
[Note.—On the mornmg of January 9, which was
the date arranged for my next sitting, I received
before leaving home a brief note from Captain
Shoesmith, R.N.R., stating that he was sorry he was
unable to throw any light on the questions contained
in my letter. Further, " he had no recollections of
pictures or cats " in cormection with the residence
" Paglesham," which he did not occupy prior to
1913. All the statements of John Ferguson with
regard to Highland Avenue are therefore definitely |
proved to be false. There is, however, one curious
point to be noticed. Captain Shoesmith 's letter bore
as its address the single word " Pl3rmouth," and is
dated January 7, 1922. In Sittmg No. 18 it will
be remembered that in reply to a question of the
sitter, John Ferguson stated that " Shoeshuae " had
gone to the seaside and mentioned " Plym " as the
name of the place. This new residence of Captain
Shoesmith was quite unknown to myself and my
letter of enquiry was addressed to Brentwood. At
my interview with Mr. Symonds, the Postmaster,
I merely learned that Captain Shoesmith had left
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 547
Brentwood. Had Mr. Symonds mentioned Plymouth
I should most certainly have taken a note of it at
the time. Quite possibly, therefore, we have in this
case telepathy from Mr. Symonds to Mrs. Cooper via
'
myself. I will give now the record of part of Sitting
No. 21 which contains the denouement of the Ferguson
case.]
Sitting No. 21.
January 9, 1922, 3.40 p.m. Weather fair.
Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
(The first part of this Sitting was occupied by
attempts to induce Gordon Davis to communicate
directly and to the statements which Nada purported
to be getting from him. But towards the end of
the sitting and before James Miles appeared, I
enquired after John Ferguson in whom I had now
lost interest.)
S. After a pause. Nada, I would like to have a chat
with John Ferguson.
Nada. Is not coming any more—Says he's fed up—no use
—
he only gets worse and worse.
S. Couldn't you bring him for the last time ?
Nada. He says it's no good—no more.
S. Was he really a spirit 1
Nada. Yes, but he was muddled.
S.- [Shoeshine] said he never heard of him. What do you
say to that ?
Nada. Suited [Shoeshine] not to own him perhajDS.
S. You still stick up for him ?
Nada. Yes. It's wicked trying to confuse spirits.
S. I didn't try to confuse him.
Nada. I think you did.
S. No, I tried to help him.
Nada. We won't discuss it.
(Pause.)
(Frank speaks.)
F. Sam, you shouldn't let this worry you.
S. What do you think of John Ferguson ?
S. G. Soal. [PABT
Thiiik he got mixed up, Sam. Mistook your thoughts
for his own.
How do you mean ?
His mind was blank. He caught at any thoughts
flying round—he'd have believed he was Jonah if
you had told him so.
But I didn't tell him he was anjrthing.
You thought it—no difference.
How did he get hold of that address Warescott Road,
Brentwood ?
Bit doubtful—might really have been someone from there.
Do you mean a spirit from there ?
Yes, spirit (inarticulate). You see, John had forgot all
about himself—clutched at any straw in the wind
—
couldn't bear to think he was nobody.
Could I make you think you were somebody else 1
Inarticulate.
Could I make you think you were John Ferguson ?
No, Sam. Should see through it.
Why would you see through it.
Things would come back to me—you know too much.
What do you mean ? •
ICnow too much about me. Could always find myself
in you.
(Voice becomes faint and ceases. After an interval
a new communicator, James Miles, appears, whose
case is considered separately in Section 3.)
[Note.—At this stage the statements of John
Ferguson were virtually disproved. It only remained
to disprove his assertions about his burial in the year
1912 at the South Necropolis, Glasgow. On January 5
I addressed a letter to the Keeper of the Cemetery,
asking him to make a list for me of all the Fergusons,
male and female, who had been interred in the South
Necropolis since the year 1890. An examination of
this list show conclusively that no John and Amy
Ferguson were buried in the same grave, and further
that no John Ferguson was buried on March 3, 1912.
A communication from James Anderson, Keeper of the
South Necropolis, Glasgow, is printed in Appendix C.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 549
On examining the map after Sitting 20, I found
that the streets mentioned—namely, George Street,
Charing Cross, and India Street,—were all quite close
together. India Street was in very small type
indeed. It would seem as though a little area of
this map had been visualised by myself unconsciously
and transferred to the medium.]
It would appear from the study of " John Ferguson
"
that the case for spontaneous telepathy between medium
and sitter is far stronger than the average psychic re-
searcher usually admits. Indeed, it would seem to be so
extensive that in the present state of our knowledge we
are not justified in putting any limits to it. A large
number of the incidents described in Section 1 purporting
to come from the mind of my deceased brother may be
so many examples of spontaneous telepathy from myself.
And it would even appear that a purely fictitious communi-
cator like John Ferguson can sometimes give supernormal
information about facts unknown to the sitter, e.g. his
knowledge of Captaia Shoesmith's removal to Plymouth.
The hypothesis of conscious fraud on the part of the
medium in this case may obviously be lightly dismissed. No
intelligent person who cares to study the evidence could
entertain it for a moment. If there was fraud we should
clearly have to assume that the sitter was also a party
to it. In the end, therefore, the case rests largely on
my o-\vn honesty, and there I must leave it.
Section 3.
The Case of James Miles.
Although the evidence is mainly of a negative character,
I have thought it worth while for purposes of comparison
to give some account of this case.
The case of " James MUes " would appear to be one of
cryptomnesia rather than of conscious fraud. The cases
discussed elsewhere in our paper do not support the theory
of conscious fraud on the part of the medium, and there
seems jio reason to assume it here. To suppose that
550 S. G. Soal. [part
Mrs. Cooper had read the account of James Miles' death in
the Daily Express and unconsciously dramatised it is, on
the whole, the most rational explanation. There is in
the later sittings a certain amount of evidence for tele-
pathy from the sitter's mind but practically no evidence
for any independent exercise of the medium's supernormal
faculty on the life of James Miles.
It may be suggested that the reason why real super-
normal information was not forthcoming in this case is
possibly to be found in the fact that no link of any kind
existed between James Miles and the sitter. Exactly
what constitutes a link is at present a very difficult
matter to determine. Osty seems to look upon a link
as consisting of some object, living or inanimate, which has
had physical associations with the subject upon whom the
psychic desires to exercise her powers. But, however
this may be, it is certain that the sitter neither possessed
any object connected with James Miles nor was acquainted
with any of his friends or relatives. Nor had he ever
been to Bath, the place where James Miles lived, or pre-
vious to the sittings to the best of his knowledge known
any people who hailed from there.
Abstract of first two " Miles " Sittings.
In lieu of quoting the full records which have been
filed for purposes of reference, it will be sufficient to give
a summary of the various statements made by the com-
municator.
Sitting No. 21.
Monday, January 9, 1922, 3.40 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. Soal.
Towards the end of the sitting there spoke a boyish
voice saying in rather pathetic accents, " Oh ! where am
I ? I don't know where I am."
This communicator then said that his name was James,
and that he had fallen into the water, " while trying to
catch " something. At this sitting he was unable to give
his surname but said that he was only thirteen years old
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 551
and had lived at Bath. He had fallen into the River
Avon. At home they called him " Jimmy," and he was
very anxious that his father should hear from him. In
reply to a question by the sitter he stated that he had
"passed over," only a few days ago.
Between this sitting and the next no enquiries were
made by the sitter relating to the matter.
Sitting No. 22.
Monday, January 16, 1922, 3.40 p.m. Present : Mrs. Coopeb.
S. G. SOAL.
" James " appeared again. The voice and style of
address were reminiscent of the last sitting. The boy
said that his father was a painter, who lived at " Clarence
Place." He next spelt out his surname as M—I—L—-E—S,
giving James Miles as his full name. In reply to a ques-
tion he said that his father did not live at Bath, but in
a town not very far away. This place was ultimately
spelt out as W—E—S—T—0—N. The medium (who
comes from Bristol) suggested that Weston might be
Weston-super-Mare, a jalace with which she was acquainted.
James told us that " He had lots of brothers and
sisters," and mentioned, " Little Sid " or " Little Sis."
He said that he was on a visit to Bath, and was playing
with some other boys. Asked what it was he was " trying
to catch," he said it was "nothing alive," but something
" I had given me."
He then attempted to give the name of a street where
he hved as LOCK—^foUowed by another syllable having
the PR or BR sound and a D at the end. The last
half of the word " had to do with water." Asked if the
day was warm and sunny when he fell into the water,
he replied, " No, it was very cold." In reply to the ques-
tion " Did no one try to save you ? he gave the answer,
" It was too deep."
As a result of the information obtained at the two pre-
vious sittings, I consulted the English directory on Janu-
ary 17 and discovered that UPPER WESTON and
LOWER WESTON are parts of BATH, and that further
552 S. G. Soal. [part
there is a LOCKSBROOK ROAD in LOWER WESTON.
The statement that the second part of the name " had
to do with water " made it practically certain that I
was on the right track. I accordingly selected the
name of a responsible resident, "J. T. Fryer, Esq.,
Builder's Merchant," living in LOCKSBROOK ROAD,
and wrote to him asking if he would kindly confirm the
facts given at the sittings. I addressed a similar letter
to the " Registrar of Births and Deaths," Bath.
On January 19 I received a reply from the Rev. A. T.
Fryer, 63 Newbridge Road, Bath. The following is an
abbreviation of Mr. Fryer's letter :
63 Newbridge Road,
Bath,
„ 18.1.1922.
Dear Sib,
Your letter addressed to my brother J. T. Fryer,
(who died six years ago) came into my hands this morning.
As an hon. associate of the Society for Psychical Research ^
I am naturally interested in your enquiry, and shall be
pleased to aid you in this case as far as possible. James
Miles was drowned a short time since near here. I will
try to get the newspaper rej)ort of the inquest and for-
ward to you (rest of letter omitted),
Yours faithfully,
A. T. Fryer.
On Friday, January 20, 1922, I received from the Rev.
A. T. Fryer a cutting from the Bath Herald of Friday,
December 30, 1921.
THE ''BATH HERALD;' FRIDAY, DECEMBER 30, 1921.
BOY'S LIFE FOR A TOY
SLIPS INTO THE AVON AND IS DROWNED
CORONER SAYS ALL BOYS SHOULD SWI3I
Inquest on Weston Victim
That all boys should learn to swim is tragically empha-
sised by the death of James Alymer Miles, 13, son of
1 It will be remembered that the Rev. A. T. Fryer was a member of the
Coimcil of the S.P.R. for several years.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 553
Charles Miles, of 5 Clarence Place, Lower Weston, wh'j
,
in trying to recover a toy balloon from the Avon yesterday
slipped in and was drowned in the presence of his three
chums. The inquest was held at the Guildhall to-day by
the City Coroner (Mr. F. E. Shum).
" JIMMY IS IN THE WATER."
Charles Miles, the father, Avho is a painter by trade,
said he last saw his boy alive at 9 o'clock on Thursday
morning. He was at West Twerton School. He was a
very strong healthy lad, but could not swim. He was at
home about 1.30, mid-day, when three boys came to
inform him of the tragedy. They said that " Jimmy was
in the water drowned." He asked where it was and at
once hastened to the spot, between the Midland Railway
bridge and the Weston toll bridge, but he could see
nothing of him in the water. There was no one there
at the time. Witness went to the Twerton Police Station,
where he was informed that a boat was being procured
to drag the river. He himself returned to the river
. bank. He was present when the body was recovered by
the police, between 3 o'clock and half past. It was taken
to the mortuary.
Leonard Pitt, aged 12, a schoolboy, in giving evidence,
said James Miles was a friend of his. They went straight
from home to the river bank. The day before a boat
had been pulled out and they went to see it, but it had
been removed. . . . Then " Jimmy " saw what appeared
to be a toy balloon in the water near the bank. " Jimmy "
said he was going after it. The bank was not very steep
there, the deceased put his foot on a loose piece of turf
and slipped in. . . . Witness and some other boys ran up
for a drag pole near the bridge, but there was none there.
(Rest of account omitted).
On Saturday, January 21, 1922, in reply to my letter
addressed to the " Registrar of Births and Deaths," I
received from Mr. W. E. Winckworth, Superintendent
Registrar of 12 Charlotte Street, Bath, a cutting from the
Bath Weekly Chronicle, published before the date of the
inquest on " James Miles."
554 S. G. Soal. [part
From this account of the tragedy I shall quote only
such items as are important in view of developments at
subsequent sittings. Under a sub-heading " A FATAL
SLIP " we read :
Miles, it appears, noticed a toy balloon floating down
the river near the bank. He at once exclaimed, " That's
my balloon," and endeavoured to secure it. His two
companions appear to have taken little interest in his
find, and were possibly engrossed in a game of their own.
At all events. Miles appears to have attempted to secure
the balloon without the assistance of his companions.
He scrambled down the bank, which is rather steep at
this point, and presumably encountered some insecure
foothold. At all events, his horror-stricken companions
told a Bath Chronicle representative that they watched
him " roll " into the water. . . . No cry was heard and
the tragedy seems to have ended before help was forth-
coming. .
Further on in the report occurs the statement :
" The
boy, James Miles, was a member of '
Uncle Fred's
'
League, which is conducted in cormection with the Bath
Weekly Chronicle, and was one of the recipients of a
'
Joy Parcel '
in the recent Christmas distribution. His
mother is in somewhat poor health, and recently under-
went an operation in hospital. Thursday's tragic hap-
pening has naturally distressed her extremely."
I had arranged to have my next sitting on Monday,
January 23, but unfortunately an attack of influenza
obliged me to postpone it until Monday, January 30.
In the meantime on Friday, January 27, I visited the
offices of various London newspapers and copied from the
files the accounts of the fatality published on December
30, 1921, and December 31. I found that accounts of
the tragedy had appeared in three London Newspapers
—
the Daily Mail, the Daily Chronicle, and the Daily Express.
Of these accounts only that given in the Daily Express
tallied exactly with the statements made at the two pre-
vious sittings. This report read as follows :
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 555
''DAILY EXPRESS" DECEMBER 30, 1921.
Boy's Life for a toy
Drowned in rescuing his Balloon
A toy balloon received as a Christmas present caused
the death of a thirteen year old school boy named James
Miles at Bath yesterday. The balloon was blown into
the Avon and Miles and two other boys tried to rescue
it. MUes slipped while scrambling down a steep bank
and fell into deep water. Meanwhile the balloon had
drifted out of sight.
Miles was one of a family of eleven.
His father is a painter at Clarence Place, Locksbrook
Road, Weston.
The Daily Chronicle mentioned all the facts given by
the communicator with the exception of the address
" Clarence Place." The Daily Mail gave much less infor-
mation than did " James Miles " at the sittings.
I will now give a brief summary of certain additional
statements made by James Miles at sittings No. 23 and 24.
Sitting No. 23.
Monday, January 30, 1922, 3.40 p.m. Present : Mrs. Cooper.
S. G. SOAL.
At this sitting the voices were rather indistinct. Nada
appeared and gave the word LOCKSBROOK correctly.
She then mentioned " a pink thing " which she thought " was
on Jimmy's bed." A little later " James " himself pur-
ported to speak, and I asked him to give me details about
his home and family. He mentioned a baby " named
George that died when it was a year old." " Bobby,"
"Willie" and "J " were mentioned as the names of
his brothers. Thei'e was a reference to " Little Sid " (or
possibly " Little Sis ")—" a sweet little thing," and also a
mention of an " Uncle Frank " (possibly an attempt to
give the " Uncle Fred " of the Bath Chronicle's report
which I had read). A date June 20, was given as being
that of someone's birthday, possibly " Willie's birthday."
556 S. 0. Soal. [part
A little later came a statement which seemed to refer to
some insurance money. " It wasn't much money. Father
took it—paid to him—a big building
—" (sounded like
" £2 " ).
Sittiyig No. 24:.
Monday, February 6, 1922, 3.30 p.m. Present : Mrs. Coopek.
S. G. Soal.
"James" appeared again, but said "he was all mixed
up, and didn't know what he was saying." He repeated
the names " Bobbie " and " Willie " of the previous
sitting, and gave an additional name, " Mary." He also
mentioned a boy named " Seymour," aged 11. He went
on to speak about " Two gates not far from where he
lived," ..." Two gates we used to go through . . . one
broken ... I scratched my name on it." " Scratched
'
J.M.' and '
Oily.' " Towards the end of the sitting Nada
made the statement, " The mother is very ill. That's a
good test."
[Note.—I had read that the mother was very ill in the
Bath Weekly Chronicle, but was not thinking of the fact
at the moment. S. G. S.]
There was also a reference to "A man putting out a
big stick " (possibly some confused attempt to bring in
" the drag poles " of which I had read in the inquest
report. S. G. S.).
On February 7 I sent a list of the statements made at
Sittings 23 and 24 to the Rev. A. T. Fryer for investiga-
tion, and on February 10 received a report from him.
Mr. Fryer stated that he had had an interview with Mr.
Miles at his home at 5 Clarence Place on Wednesday
evening, February 8. It appears from Mr. Fryer's long
and detailed report that practically all the information
given at these last two sittings was incorrect. The names
"Bobbie," "Willie," and "Sid," for instance, were not
the names of the lad's brothers as stated. The " impor-
tant date (June 20) " seemed to have no connection with
the family. The bed coverlet was not pink, and although
there- was " a broken gate " in the neighbourhood of the
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 557
boy's home it appeared that " James " had not carved
his initials on it. Mr. Miles had received some insurance
money in respect to the dead boy, but states that he did
not thmk " James " knew he was msured. Certainly
the amount was more than " £2." The statement con-
cerning the mother's illness was correct, but the sitter
had read it previously in the Bath Chronicle.
At Sitting No. 25 held on February 13, 1922, when
there was present, besides myself, Mr. Harold Rankui, of
" Broomhills," Rochford, Essex, the name " Helen," or
" NelHe," was given as the name of the mother of James
IMiles. This proved to be incorrect. " Jimmy " also
mentioned that his father's name was " Charles," a fact
which the sitter had previously read in the " Bath
"
newspapers. " James Miles " did not appear at any
subsequent sittuigs.
It should be added that ui a letter dated 16.11.1922,
Mr. Fryer states that " James, so his brother says, was
not given to cutting his name on any gate." "As to
the mention of the lad named '
Seymour,' the children
at home have made inquiries amongst the school children
and the lads of the Boys' Brigade, but there is no
'
Seymour '
amongst them."
Observations and Deductions.
A careful inspection of the London press reports and
comparison with the records of Sittings 21 and 22 shows
that all the verified facts given at the first two sittuigs
were published in at least one London newspaper, the
Daily Express. Further we see that there is no correct
statement obtained at these two sittings that could not
have been deduced from the account in the Daily Express
of December 30. An interesting feature of this case is
the remarkable way in which every scrap of information
given in the London press is utihsed to support the
impersonation of the deceased lad. Thus, when I ask
" James " the question, " Did no one try to save you ?
"
he replies, " It was too deep."
In the Daily Express we read " He fell uito deep water."
558 *S'. G. Soal. [part
Again "James" says, "I've such a lot of brothers and
sisters," while the Daily Express states, " Miles was one
of a family of 11."
It is when we come to compare the wealth of accurate
detail given at the first two sittings with the press account
and then contrast this with the poverty and inaccuracy
of the later " communications " that no doubt is left in
our minds that the newspapers were the source of the
information. " Jimmy," who was able to " get through "
such complicated names as " LOCKSBROOK " and
" CLARENCE PLACE " fails to give correctly the name
of a single brother or sister or school mate. As the
" spirit " of " James Miles " he falls obviously to the
ground.
But in what sense is the newspaper the source of the
information ? I have satisfied myself that during the
days December 30 and 31 I saw no newspaper except
the Daily Chronicle. I was staying in the country at the
time, and spent the days in long walks. During those
two days the Daily Chronicle was the only paper available
to me, but as the report of the fatality was printed on
the first page I must almost certainly have read it. This
paper, however, could hardly have been the source of the
communications since the important name " Clarence
Place " is omitted from the account.
There is good reason for believing that the London
Daily Express and not the " Bath " or West Country
newspapers was the true source. In the first place, while
the correct information given at Sittings 21 and 22 just
covers the Daily Express account it does not nearly
exhaust the store contained in the Bath Herald or the
Bath Chronicle. But there is another more conclusive
argument. In Sitting No. 22 " James " makes concerning
the toy balloon the statement " It was something I had
given me." Now all the London Papers state definitely
that the balloon was a Christmas present to the boy
James. In the " Bath " papers, on the contrary, there is
nothing to lead one to believe that this balloon belonged
to James Miles. In fact, the general impression made by
reading the reports is to the effect that the boy found
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Coojjer. 559
the balloon in the water. Thus Leonard Pitt in his
evidence at the inquest says :
" Jimmy saw what
appeared to be a toy balloon in the water near the
bank." It is true that in the Bath C'hro7iicle we
read that the boy was the recipient of a " Joy Parcel,"
but we are not told that the balloon was part of the
contents of this parcel.
One other interesting point calls for note. The " Direct
Voice " gave correctly (a) the fact that the mother was
very ill and (6) the father's name " Charles." Neither
of these facts were given in the London newspapers, but
they were not given at the sittings until the sitter had
read them in the " Bath " papers. We have here some
evidence for " transference " from the unconscious mind
of the sitter to the automatism of the medium. It is
the kind of transference which we have studied in greater
detail in the case of " John Ferguson." By the study of
such cases as these we learn that the mere dramatisation
of a communicator by tricks of intonation, peculiar and
consistent style of address and the like, affords no guaran-
tee that we are in touch with discarnate agency. The
tendency to impersonate seems to be a native tendency
of the unconscious mind. It is by the quality of the
information they communicate and by that alone that
we must test the claims of so-called " spirits." Judged
by this test the " spirit " of James Miles certainly
falls to the ground. Nor need it be imagined that we
are putting forward such cases as this as an argument
against the possibility that so7ne of the mental phenomena
exhibited by mediums are the result of discarnate agency.
It is almost certain that the mental phenomena of auto-
matism have their origin in many sources. Sometimes
the source (as in this case) is the acquired knowledge of
the psychic, sometimes it ii^ the acquired knowledge of
the sitter transferred to the medium's automatism. The
important duty of the investigator is to track each piece
of information to its most probable source. In this spirit
we hope to continue our observations.
To sum up then, we are bound to assume that the
present case is one of cryptomnesia on the part of the
560 S. G. Soal. [part
medium. The medium states tiiat she does not read
the Daily Express, and in view of this statement there is
just the bare possibiHty that the medium clairvoyantly read
the contents of the newspaj)er paragraph or that she
obtained the information from the unconscious minds of
the thousands who must have read and assimilated the
accounts of the tragedy of James Miles. It is " in the
air," so to speak. But if such clairvoyance there be, it
scarcely seems to extend in this case beyond the limits of
a London newspaper. -
'
It is curious that Mr. Fryer in the course of his investi-
gations should have come across a gate inscribed with
initials. But this is probably a coincidence. Indeed it
would have applied equally well, in fact far better if it
had been given as a piece of information to support the
impersonation of my brother Frank. Frank actually did
carve his name on the gates near home, whereas " James "
we are told " was not in the habit of scratching his name
on gates." Again, there is the question of the insurance
money paid to Mr. Miles, and not mentioned in any news-
paper. That is curious, but it may be nothing more
than a lucky guess by the unconscious mind of the
medium. There is a, lack of definite and clear evidence
for any independent clairvoyance in this case and we
cannot, therefore, assume it.
In conclusion, our thanks are due to the Rev. A. T.
Fryer for his co-operation •
in investigating the facts given
at the sittings ; but for his help we might never have
reached our present conclusions.
'~
Section 4.
The Case of Vordon Davis.
A " Communication " from a Living Person.
In discussing this remarkable case it would be perhaps
entirely illogical, although practically convenient to des-
cribe the case as one of " communication " by a living person.
There is not a great deal of real evidence to justify us in
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 561
saying that the living Giordoii Davis took any active part
in the affair. We Imow tliat his conscioxis mind was
busy interviewing clients on both occasions on which he
was supposed to communicate. All that we are entitled
to say is that a communication was received concerning
Gordon Davis ; that is to say, certain facts were com-
municated about his life history, past and future. Some
of these facts were given in the form of verbal statements
describing incidents which had happened or which were
to happen ; other facts such as his vocal characteristics
were expressed in a purely physical way.
For mediums to obtain knowledge supernormally about
a living person is not an infrequent occurrence, but cases
in which the hving person appears to " control " the
psychic and is dramatised and made to speak in the first
person are, I believe, extremely rare, although not un-
known.
In the case under consideration the supernormal know-
ledge shown is of a high order. Not only is there pene-
tration into the past of the " communicator," but there
are considerable indications that the future was also
anticipated.
There is further (I think) some grounds for the assump-
tion that this prevision was of the purely psychic kind
rather than of the kind that is built up upon inferences
drawn from present data. Granting this assumption, the
case has special interest in relation to those theories in
which the material universe is regarded as a four-
dimensional complex, with time as the fourth dimension.
Looked at from this point of view, human beings have
an extension in time as well as in the other three dimen-
sions. They exist in their totality independently of the
particular moment at which we choose to view them.
The personahty of Gordon Davis was arrested, as it were,
at a particular point of the time stream
—
i.e. a special
three-dimensional section was taken of his four-dimensional
complex. He was dramatised in 1922 to appear as he
would be in his new environment of 1923.
One very interesting point arises. This dramatised
personality, so accurate in its other statements, apparently
562 S. G. Soal. [part
believes itself to be a deceased person. We might, of
course, assume that this idea was suggested to it by the
spiritistic mind of the medium, who in turn obtained false
information from the mind of the sitter. But is this the
true explanation ?
It is to be noted that Gordon Davis does not give any
details about the circumstances of his death. It is true
that " Frank " expresses some " belief " that G. D. was
killed in the war, but it must be remembered that Frank
could not tell anything else about him, and the possibility
is that he was merely " guessing."
Record of Gordon Davis Sittings.
Sitiing No. 20.
Wednesday, Jam(ary 4:, 1922, 11.10 a.tn. Present: Mrs. Cooper.
[Postponed froin Wednesday, December 28, 1921.] S. G. Soal.
(At the commencement of the sitting Nada
remarked, " think there's someone wants to speak
to you.")
(Frank speaks.)
1.' F. Sam, I've brought someone who knows you.
2. S. All right, let him speak.
(Pause.)
(A voice well articulated and extraordinarily clear
and strong began to speak. From the first
moment I had a lightning impression that the
tone was quite familiar to me, but I could not
immediately place it. It was a surprisingly weU
modulated voice with a most fastidious accent.
I knew at once that IVIrs. Coojaer had never
produced anything so good at my sittings before.)
3. Voice, Well, Soal, I never expected to speak to you in
this fashion.
[Note.—This sentence was delivered with an
extraordinary variety of tone, and also with
great energy.]
4. S. Who are you then ?
1 These numbers refer to Mr. Davis' statement, see below p 573.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 563
5. Voice. Remember Davis—Gordon from R—R—Roch
—
Roch
—
[Note.—This word was not completed, but I
- - easily understood it was an attempt to say
" Rochford."]
6. S. By Jove, and it's like Gordon Davis, too.
7. Voice. The dead to the living. Queer world, what ? —My
poor wife is my only worry now—and kiddie.
8. S. Can you really be Gordon Davis 1 I had heard
you were killed.
9. Voice. The same—what's left of me.
10. S. But what proof could you give me that you are
Davis 1
11. Voice. Here, I must hold on—not used to this.
12. Nada. He's a very strong spirit—may hurt the medium.
(Short interval of silence.)
13. Voice. Remember the old school ? How I always argued
13a. with H—H—Hs—Hs—oh confound these names
136. •
—was for brighter geog—brighter geography
—
harpoons and things.
14. S. I remember about your arguing with Histed but
nothing about harpoons. Try to tell me where
you lived. That's something I don't know.
15. Voice. At Roch—you mean ?
16. S. That will do.
17. Voice. (Not so strong)—Near the M—Ma—Malt.
18. Nada. He must rest for a bit.
(Another silent interval. Then voice is heard
quite strong again.)
19. Voice. Remember our last little talk ?
20. S. Yes, I do quite well. Where was it ?
21. Voice. In the train—about guards—not train guards
21a. though. A little confab on the work of guards.
That help you ?
22. S. I can recall it excellently.
23. Voice. Seems ages since to me—remember Playle and O—
Over—Over
—
24. S. I thmk I know who you mean, but tell me where
your wife lives.
25. Voice. Old chap, I can't hold on—not a second longer.
564 S. Q. Soal. [part
26. Nada. He's losing control, but he's showing me the
26a. letter " E " and some figures, but I can't see
what they are. Two E's.
27. S. What would the letter " E " mean, Nada ?
28. Nada. Feel sure it has to do with the address of his
28a. wife. He's very anxious to send news to her,
poor thing. It was a great shock to her.
29. S. Can't you bring him again ?
30. Nada. Not this time—the medium could not stand it.—
30a. She went right out of her body.
(Pause.)
[Note. —I thought at this point the sitting had
finished, but in a few minutes John Ferguson
began to speak. All during the time Gordon
Davis had been talking and during the mtervals
Mrs. Cooper had remained quite silent. At the
end of the sitting she seemed quite confused and
unable to recall either what John Ferguson or
Gordon Davis had been talking about. She
said her head was achmg badly. I had not
heard her complain of this before. Between this
sitting and the next I did not make any enquiries
about Gordon Davis.]
Sitting No. 21.
' '
\ ,
January 9, 1922, 3.40 ^3.m. Weather fair.
Present : Mks. Cooper.
S. G. Soal.
(Nada spoke first.)
31. Nada. Pleased to see you again.
32. S. Pleased to see you, Nada. Can you bring Gordon
Davis to speak again.
33. Nada. Doubtful—it's very bad for her—too strong.
34. S. Who is too strong ?
35. Nada. Gordon.
36. S. Well I hope you'll try to bring him.
37. Nada. He mustn't come again like that. But I wUl try
to make him whisper things to me.
(A short pause, during which Nada is heard to
whisper somethmg indistinctly.)
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 565
38. Nada.
38a.
39. S.
40. Nada.
11. Nada.
12. S.
13. Nada.
t4. S.
45. Nada.
46. Nada.
46a.
466.
47. S.
48. Nada.
48a.
49. S.
50. Nada.
50a.
51. Nada.
51a.
516.
52. S.
53. Nada.
54. Nada.
55. S.
56. Nada.
56a.
566.
He's trying to tell me about his house. He says
something about a funny dark tunnel—it's to
do with his house.
Is this at Rochford ?
Don't thmk it's there.
(Nada is heard to whisper again, but I cannot
catch a word.)
He says there's five or six steps and a half.
Is that at the front or the back of the house.
Think it's the front.
Could you ask him to tell you what is inside the
house.
[Note.—I asked this question out of idleness.
I did not expect there would be any truth in
the answer.]
I'll speak to him (whispers agam). (I catch the
word '
house.')
He says there's a very large mirror and lots of
pictures. Oh, these are not like the pictures in
John Ferguson's. These pictures are all scenes.
What are they scenes of ?
Glorious mountains and the sea—there's one picture
where a road or something seems to go between
two hUls.
Anj^thing else.
Some vases—very big ones with such funny tops
and saucers, but not to drink out of.
He says there's a woman there now and a little
boy. Believe it's a woman very fond of the
country and country thmgs.—Fond of flowers
—
think it's his wife.
Could you describe her or give her name ?
I can't see her. He's telling me something, but
I can't hear. He's getting farther away.
Oh, do^vnstai^s there's two funny brass candlesticks.
Where are they ?
Think they are on a shelf. He's so far away
I can't hear hun, but there's somethmg right in
front of his house—not a verandah—something
that's not in front of the other houses.
566 S. 6. Soal. [part
57. S. Is the house in a street ?
58. Nada. Joined up to others—don't think it's a proper
58a. street—like half a street.
59. S. Could you give the name of the street.
60. Nada. Get the letter " E's."
61. S. Would that be East Street ? (Thinkmg of East
Street, Prittlewell. S. G. S.)
62. Nada. Don't think so, but he's gone right away.
'
(Voice ceases and there is an interval in which
lights appear. Afterwards John Ferguson com-
municates.)
In the record of my sittings I have found one and only
one more slight reference to Gordon Davis. It was
during Sitting No. 23, held on Monday, January 30, 1922,
3.40 p.m. This reference occurred during a pause in the
middle of the sitting. James Miles had been communi-
cating and was apparently resting. I asked Nada if
Gordon Davis could come again.
Nada. Is not coming any more.
S. Can't he come and talk to you. He need not
use the voice directly.
Nada. He can't because he's too far away now.
S. Try to get him.
63. Nada. Only see his house, but it's not clear—can't get
an3rt.hmg. There's somethnag about black dickie
bird—think it's on piano—not sure about it.
S. Would this be in Gordon Davis' house ?
Nada. Think it would be his house—it's very uncertain
because he isn't here.
(Frank then speaks and tries to give a book
test, which is unsuccessful. Afterwards James
Miles is mentioned again and sitting concludes.)
Sitter's Previous Knowledge of the Communicator.
Gordon Davis and I were at school together during the
years 1898 to 1901. At school I knew of him rather than
knew him, for he was in a higher form than myseK. I
have a distinct recollection that he was a very intelligent
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 567
boy, disposed to ask disconcerting questions during our
lessons in science and geography, which subjects I took
with him in the same class. He was, even at school,
something of a dandy, and somewhat more refined in his
speech than the rest of us. Of his people I knew nothing,
except that they lived at Rochford. while I lived '2\ miles
away. I feel fairly certain that I never knew in what
part of Rochford, Gordon Davis lived. Doubtless we must
have spoken to each other at school, but I cannot recall
a single conversation. Prolmbly I really saw very little
of him, owing to the fact tliat I was a younger boy than
himself, and in a lower class. I fancy he left school
somewhere about the year 1901, and for many years after
that I lost siglit of him. I may have had some vague
idea that he liad started business in Southend, and I may
possibly have seen him walking in the street, but I cannot
remember ever speaking to him until one day in May,
1916, I met him on the platform of Shenfield Station,
where we were both waiting for the London train. We
were at that time both cadets, he in the infantry and I
in the artillery, and we -^ere botli returning from week-end
leave. I was. I remember, going to Bexhill, but I do
not remember his destination. As boys who had been to
school together we recognised each other, but he seemed
to know me better than I knew him, for he it was who
spoke first. We entered the same compartment and
travelled together as far as Liverpool Street, which is
about half an hour's journey from Shenfield. During the
ride I am quite certain -ne did not discuss family matters
at all ; he did not even tell me whether he was married or
not. We spent all the time comparing the routine of artillery
with that of infantry cadets, and I remember very vividly
how lie mentioned to me that lie had been detailed to
give a lecture to the other cadets on the duties, of the guard.'"
Gordon Davis seemed full of the Army, and I noticed
especially that he had cultivated a rather nice accent.
We parted at Liverpool Street, and I heard no more of
him for a long time. I knew, of course, that as an
Infantry Officer he would be sent to the Front very soon.
In August of the same year I was myself sent to France,
2o
568 S. G. Soal [part
and did not return nntil I was A\ounded in June, 1917.
spent a year in the Isle of
Wight as Instructor of Cadets, was sent to Oxford as
chief instructor in mathematics at the Army School of
Education, and was finally demobilised in the spring of
1919. It would be some time in the autumn of 1920, that
I received a false impression that Gordon Davis had been
killed in the War. On my way to visit a friend at
Rochford one day, I met a man with Avhom I was very
slightly acquainted, and with this man I walked for a
mile, our paths being in the same direction. He began
to speak of the men belonging to Rochford who had died
in the War, and I feel almost certain that he told me ^
" Gordon Davis has gone west too."" This news made a
considerable impression on me at the time, and I men-
tioned at home that Gordon Davis had been killed. My
remarks did not excite much comment, because no one
at home knew Gordon Davis, and I did not personally
make any enquiries, because our acquaintance had only
been of the slightest. I often, however, thought of him
and of our last meeting in the train, and how tragically
things had ended for him. It never, indeed, occurred to
me to doubt that he had been killed. I took it for
granted that the news I had received was correct. Had
I made the least enqukies I should certainly have had
my impression corrected quickly enough, for he had
started business in Southend as an Estate Agent, and was
becoming very well known in the district. I live, how-
ever, in Prittlewell and do not very frequently visit either
Southend or Rochford, and in this fact is to be found an
explanation of my continued belief that Gordon Davis
was dead. When I received my first communication
from Gordon Davis on January 4. 1922. I was considerably
impressed, particularly by the lifelike reproduction of
mannerisms of speech, tone of voice, and accent, but I did
not attach any very great weight to the subject matter
of the communication which did not (at the time) appear
II have heard independentl,y from botli Mr. and Mrs. Davis that after
the armistice there was a widespread rumour in tlie district that Mr. Davis
h:iil lieen killed.
xcvi.] Communications Tlnough Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 569
to iiie to go much beyond what I had known of Gordon
Davis. I was certainly impressed by the giving of the
word " Malty because I knew that there is a large
building at Rochford called " The Malting,'" now used as
a storehouse for flour, etc. At this particular period of
my psychic researches I had just conehided the long study
of telepathy in the case of John Ferguson, and I formed
the idea that the case of Gordon Davis could probably be
explained in a similar manner, i.e. by transference of
fragments of knowledge from the sitter's mind to that of
the medium. I paid still less attention to the description
of the house by Nada at the sitting of January 9. I
thought it was all the purest fiction. Very fortunately
at Ijoth sittings I had taken verbatim notes of every
detail, and my brother, Mr. C. W. Soal, corroborates
readino- these notes in the Christmas holidays of 1921.
when he was home on vacation. It was in rebruar}^
1925. that I first learned indirectly that Gordon Davis
was alive and practising as an Estate Agent in Southend-
on-8ea. I heard also that he had only been livhig in
Southend-on-8ea for a year or two. and I therefore con-
jectured that the verification of the details given by Nada
about his house would be an extremely difficult matter. I
learned, moreover, about the end of February that Gordon
Davis was living at No. 54 Eastern Esplanade, and I was at
once struck by the fact that the two " E's " mentioned
by Nada as giving the address would be applicable to this
street. Pressure of work prevented me from paying a visit
to Gordon Davis until the evening of April 8, 1925.
Record of My Visit to Gordox Dams.
I arrived at Mi'. Davis' house No. 54 Eastern Esplanade,
at 8.30 p.m. on Wednesday, April 8. I noticed at once
that to reach the front door one had to ascend a flight
of six steps, and that the lowest of these steps was an
extremely thin slab of stone in comparison with the other
five steps. I noticed also that the house was part of a
single long block of houses facing the sea. There were
no houses on the other side of the street. I noticed also
570 S. G. Soal. [part
before ringing the bell, a kind of curious tunnel which
leads from the street into the back gardens of the block.
There were several such tunnels—one between each two
doors. The door was opened by Mrs. Davis, who ad-
mitted me into the drawing room on the ground floor, and
asked me to wait for a few moments, while she informed
her husl)and of my visit. At the time of my arrival the
drawing room was in darkness but there was a light in
the dining room which is in the basement. When the
electric light was switched on in the drawing room. I
immediately noticed that there were many pictures hung
on the walls, and that all these pictures contained either
mountains or seascapes. I also noticed several fairly
large vases, and two objects on one of the walls Avhich
I should have unhesitatingly described as " saucers."
There was also a very large mirror above the mantelpiece
which arrested my attention. In a short time Mr.
Gordon Davis entered the room, and after we had ex-
changed greetings I began to broach to him the object
of my visit. Before, however, I had showed him any of
my papers I noticed that he had used the expression
" Old man " twice, and " Old chap " once, which affords
an independent verification of (25). When I explained
somewhat hesitatingly that I had come to talk to him
about psychic matters, he remarked, " Old man, I've tried
all my life to steer clear of these things and I will tell
you why. A man like myself whose mind is always
running on his business has no time for this sort of thing.
It's all very well for people who have leisure. I've
noticed another thing. I've noticed that people who go
in for this kind of thing are nearly always dannied
unlucky. I suppose I'm a bit superstitious myself ; would
never walk under a ladder or use the third match." I
then explained briefly about my direct voice sittings and
communicated to him the somewhat astounding news that
he himself had been a communicator at one of these
sittings. I then handed him a typewritten record of the
sitting on January 4. He was very much amused, and
kept exclaiming, "Just the very words I should use."
When he came to the word "^Malt " he said, "Why,
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 571
that is the name of the house where I lived at Rochford,
twenty-five years ago." It was always called " The Mal-
ting.'" if anyone wanted specially to refer to it. When
lie came to the j^hrase " harpoons—was for brighter
geography," he cried " Well, that's damned fmmy." I
next handed him the record ^ of tlie sitting on January 9
(also typewritten).
AVhen Mr. Davis had finished reading the records, we
set about the business of discussing them point by point,
and AA'hen we had carefully examined the room and the
room downstairs, and also the outside of the house and
its surroundings, we repaired to Mr. Davis' office on the
Midland Railway approach, where Mr. Davis keeps his
personal diaries. It was obviously important for us to
find out, if possible, what Mi-. Davis was doing at the
exact hours when his spMt was supposed to be communi-
cating. With regard to this matter we were extremely
fortunate. For several years Mr. Davis has kept a detailed
record of his daily doings, the precise hours at which he
gives interviews to clients, etc. We were, therefore, able
to learn exactly what Mr. Davis was doing at the time of
both sittings. I questioned Mr. Davis (who was keenly
interested) on every aspect of the case that occurred to
me. taking notes of everything he said. I next propose
to exhibit in a tabular form Mr. Davis' statements together
with any corresponding data obtained at the sittings in
1922. Each statement has been carefully scrutinised by
Mr. Davis and its accuracy endorsed.
Tabular Analysis of the Evidence.
Extracts from Mr. Davis' Diary.
January 4, 1922. Arrived at the office in Southend at
9.30 a.m. by train from London. (Mr. and Mrs. Davis
^At his interview with Mr. Salter on September 19, 1925 (see Appendix
B), Mr. Davis in my presence confirmed the fact that all the information
concerning the description of the house, besides that which related to him-
self and family, was read by hira from type-scripts on the evening of April
8th, and further, that these type-scripts contained no written matter what-
ever.—S. G. S.
572 S. G. Soal. [part
were liviiig in London at the time of the sitting, but Mr.
Davis had an Estate Office in Southend, and travelled to
business every day.) 11 to 11.45 a.m.. interview with Mr.
Short at jMarine Parade (^Maime Parade is an extension
of the Eastern Esplanade which was to be Mr. Davis'
future home).
January 6, 1922. Inspected for the first time the house
at 54 Eastern Esplanade—interview with Mr. Sidney
Playle (an old friend of JNIr. Davis).
January 9, 1922, 3.30 jj.m. Interviewed (a client) Mrs.
Browning.
November 23, 1922. ^"isited the house on the Eastern
Esplanade to make an estimate for repairs.
.Dece?nber 13, 1922. Moved into the house on the
Eastern Esplanade.
[Note.—The above record sho^^•s, that at the time
(January 6) of the interval bet^^een sittings on January 4
and January 9, Mr. Davis was occupying his thoughts witli
his future house in the Eastern Esplanade. It is inter-
esting to note that at the sitting on January 4, before
Mr. Davis had visited the house, the letter " E " indicating
the name of the street was given, but that the detailed
description of the interior of the house was not forth-
coming until the sitting on January 9, i.e. untH Mr. Davis
had seriously begun to direct his thoughts towards the
house. It is also rather curious that at the time of the
first sittmg on January 4, Mr. Davis should have been in
the Marine Parade ivhich is quite close to the house in the
Esplanade.
We should also note the coincidence of Mr. Davis' inter-
view with his friend Playle on January 6, and the mention
of Playle as a school friend on January 4.]
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs', Blanche Cooj^er. 573
The Personnel of Mr. Davis' Family.
Refer-
ence No. 1
Remarks by S. C^. S.
7 a,nd In The sitter did not
1 Q9n TTp Vinci nnp pliilrl a
Xv^Z^V. XXvj lido Ulio v,/llin_l, cif ^1
O L
1^^ n n\v fiVi af, A'l r
xVllVJ VV UlXtXU J.TXX .
boy aged five vears. Davis was mar-
ried or anything
of his children.'^
At the time of the
TCirlrlip Qnrl np"\7'P'p ncip "(".lip
XVH_IHJC CLlH-l lie V Iw'l Uo*^ UllC fi rst vi sit T did not
XXX IJ 1/ V XOJ U -X_ VXXV.*. XX\_/ U
pviiTptj^iinnt: iii^/" '^nn ' or
CA [71 CoolUilo J
Illy 'T-vjll V '1 la see the little bov
» J x-.-^^ UXXV.^ XXwL.'xv. y./ \J y
iii_y uuy . as he Avas in bed.
My wife is passionately fond of 51o Flowers were very
flowers. There never passes 516 much hi evi-
a week but I bring her dence in the
flowers. She is fairly fond of '
drawing room ;
the country. more so than in
most houses.
Mannerisms of Speech.
People have often remarked
that my accent is very
marked. They think it is a
little pedantic, but it is really
quite natural.
The phrases " the dead to the
livmg, queer world—A\'hat
"'
followed by an expression of
concern for my wife and
kiddie are quite character-
istic. I should first see the
humorous aspect and then
revert to seriousness.
la
This is noted in
record of sitting
on January 4.
1 See above, p. 562.
- At the time of my meeting with Mr. Davis in the train he was not
married, and he informs me that at that time he had no prospects or
thoughts of marriage.—S. S.
574 S. G. Soal. [part
Me. Davis' Statement.
Refeb-
EXCE Xo.
I am constantly using the ex-
pressions, " Old chap " and
" Old man.'"
The word " coniab " is fre-
quently used by me. I often
say " we'U have a little con-
fab " on something or other.
The expression '"
confound the
names ' "
I should use in the
company of women. Other-
wise I should more likely say,
" Damn the names." I have
a very bad memory for names
but a very good one for faces.
21a
13a
Remarks by S. G. S.
Before I showed
Mr. Davis my
record he had
used the phrase
" Old man
twice and " Old
chap once.
Such phrases as
"That help you,"
" Remember our
last little talli,"
are characteristic
of Mr. Davis. He
says it's his way
to omit the open-
ing ' Do you
"
or " Does that."
[Note.—It is important to notice that the Gordon Davis
who purports to speak at this sitting does not seem to
be the Gordon Davis Avhom I kne^^• as a boy at school^
but the Gordon Davis of 1916. The accent, mannerisms,
etc., reproduced at the sitting do not remind me of the
Gordon Davis I knew at school, but of the later Gordon
Davis whom I met as a cadet. It is rather curious that
even while Davis " is reverting to his past life as a boy,
he uses expressions of quite modern currency like Brighter
GeogTap)hy." I doubt if this particular phrase was in use
even in 1916, the time of my meeting with Gordon Davis.
S. G. S.]
xcvi.] Co7nmunications Through Mrs. Blanche Coojjer. 575
Incidents connected with Rochford.
Mr. Davis' Statement.
I
Refer-
ence No.
I much impressed by the
remark "
' How I always argued
with Histed." I was keenly
mterested at school in every-
thing connected with geo-
graphy. I often remember
raising discussions in class
with. ^ic. Histed.
The reference to harpoons is
connected with my great
hobby. All my life smce I
was a small boy, I have col-
lected weapons of various
kmds—especially spears, boo-
merangs, etc.
I fully understand the remark
that I was " for brighter geo-
graphy." I well remember
how the master, Mr. Histed,
when about to give a lesson
on Australia asked me to
bring a boomerang. On
another occasion he said,
'"
bring along that poisoned
spear of yours from the Sand-
wich Islands."" I gave a
lecture to the class on this
and I remember being a little
' funkjr " because I knew the
spear was poisoned.
I recognised at once the word
" Malt ""
as the name of the
house ui which I lived as a
boy in Rochford 25 years ago.
This house has the malting
13
13a
136
136
13a
136
17
Remarks by S. G. S.
I remembered that
Gordon Davis
used to argue
durmg geography
lessons.
In the hall of Mr-
Davis' house
there is a large
collection of
spears and other
savage weapons.
I cannot remember
him bringmg the
spears to school
but it is a thing
I have probably
forgotten
.
To the best of
my knowledge I
never knew where
Gordon Davis
lived at Rochford
.
576 S. G. Soal. [part
Mr. Davis' Statement.
at its back and was often
called " The Malting."
It has a little porch in front
whicli we called the " ver-
andah,"" but the description
in the sitting does not apply
to this house or to any house
in which I have lived excejot
the house in Eastern Es-
planade.
I do not think I should have
forgotten the name of my
master Histecl, but note that
in the sitting I got the syl-
lable "Hs,"
Playle is a name of an old
friend of mme at Rochford.
It is a family name at Roch-
ford and there were Playles
went to school Avhen I did.
I recognise the A\'ord " Over
'"
immediately as an attempt to
give the name " Overell," the
name of a boy who attended
school with myself.^ He was
not a friend of mine, but he
Refee-
ENCE No. Remarks by S. G. S.
13
I had no occa.sion
ever to visit his
house and only
had the slightest
a c q u a i ntanc e
with him. It is,
of course, in the
case of an isolated
factlike this, diffi-
cult to be certain
that I had not
learnt it in some
normal way as a
boy and forgot-
ten it.
]Mr. Davis has liad
no experience of
psychic research
and knoAA's noth-
ing of the diffi-
culties in trans-
mitting names.
I did not hnoiv
that " Playle
"
Avas a special
friend of Gordon
Davis, but kncAv
the name.
Cliff Overell was
a great friend
of mine at school
^ r have since learned iVom Mrs. Overell that the eldest Overell boy
(Leonard Overell) often spoke at home of Gordon Davis. In the above
statement G. D. is probably thinking of "Cliff'" Overell. who was certainly
not a friend of his. —S. G. S.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. ."377
Mr Davis' Statejient.
Refer-
ence No. Remarks by S. G. S.
came from the same j^art as
Mr. Soal, namely Doggets, and
I would naturally associate
him Avith Mr. Soal since they
came to school together.
Moreover, the Wo families
Overell and Playle were
friends.
23 and we lived
quite close to-
gether.
Playle was not a
friend of mine
and /(ZiVZ not know
he was a friend
of Gordon Davis.
The Incideyit of a Meeting in the Train.
I can recall my last meeting
with Mr. Soal. It M'as on
Shenfield Station when I A\'as
returning to my Cadet Corps
at Berkhampstead from leave.
I weU remember talking about
guard duties. In our Corps,
they were mad on the subject,
and paid more attention to
it than to anything else, for
\\Q were told that the effi-
ciency of a battalion depends
on its guards. The expres-
sion " confab is one which
I should use.
I remember lecturing to my
brother cadets on guard
duties.
21
21a 22
I remember tliat
Mr Davis told
me on the train
that he had been
detailed to give
a lecture on the
duties of the
guard.
Description of the House at No. 54 Eastern Esplanade.
The house is part of a large 58 Verified by S. C4. S.
block. Statement at Sit-
ting is ''
joined
up to others
578 S. Q. Soal. [part
Mr. Davis' Statement.
The liouses are all on one side
of the street. The other side
is open to the sea.
Name of the street is Eastern
Esplanade.
The curious passage-way be-
t^^•een the doors of Nos. 54
and 55 in this street could be
accurately described as "'a
funny dark tunnel,"' " it's to
do with his house." This
passage-way, which is very
dark, is from 15 to 20 feet
long, and leads from the
street to the back of the
premises. There are two or
three similar tunnels at in-
tervals in the same block.
Opposite the house on the other
side of the street is a seaside
shelter with seats all round,
Avhich would give the idea of
a verandah. It is situated
exactly opposite the gate of
No. 54.
No. 54 has six steps, the
bottom one bemg very thin.
Refer-
ence No.
58^/
26
26a
60
38
38a
photo)
56a
56b
41
Remarks by S. G. S.
This therefore
would answer
the description
of " half a
street
"
In 26a Nada men-
tions two ''
E's"
as givmg the
address of the
wife. In 60 the
two "E's '"
are
definitely stated
to be the nam©
of the street.
I was much im-
pressed by the
appearance of
this passage-Avay.
I do not re-
member having
seen a similar
tunnel in South-
end.
have noticed
that this shelter
is precisely op-
posite the gate-
way to No. 54
and the state-
ment "something
that is not in
front of the
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 57 9
Mb. Davis' Statzmext. '
exck No '
Remarks by S. G. S.
other houses
"
would be appli-
cable.
Verified by S. G. S.
Mr. Davis points
out that there
is actually a
" V e r a n d a h
"
round the roof
;
of this structure.
steps. Tunnel through house.
PHOTOGRAPH OF Mk. GORDON DAVIS' HOU.SE
showing front door with steps and passage to back-garden.
The Interior of Xo. 54, Eastern Esplanade.
The cbaA^ing room is on the I myself was de-
ground floor slightly raised ceived by the
above the level of the street. two desert scenes
There are seven pictures hang- I said, " Surely
ing on the walls. Every 46 that is sea."
580 S. G. SoaJ. [part
Me. Davis' Statement.
picture is a picture of scenery.
Witli the exception of Uvo
desert scenes every picture
contains niountain.s, or is a
seascape. In Uvo or three
pictures, mountains and sea
are combined. The mouii-
tains are in the foreground
in every case and not in the
background. One of the
pictures and only one is quite
definitely a large picture of a
road and a stream between two
high hills or mountains. This is
the sole subject of the pic-
ture. The two desert scenes
could easily be mistaken for
seascapes owing to the bluish
colouring of the empty ex-
]3anses.
T«o of the scenes were painted
for Mr. Davis by the Artist
Fred Whistock in the smnmer
of 1924.
In the drawing room there is
one and only one large
mirror above the mantelpiece.
This mirror extends from the
ceilmg right down to the
mantelpiece.
There are five faii'ly large
vases in the drawhig room.
One is a Japanese vase A\ith
a curious lid.
46
50
ENCE No.
Remarks by S. G. S.
46a
46b
4 /
48
48a
Mr. Davis showed
me the receipt
for the pay-
ment for these
pictures dated
August 27, 1924.
Inspected by S.G.S.
Inspected b}- S.G.S.
The Japanese
vase did appear
to me to have a
curious top.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 581
Mr. Davis' Statement.
On the north wall of the draw-
ing room are t^^'o saucer-
shaped china plaques, about
the size of large saucers.
The dining room is down a
flight of steps in the base-
ment below the level of the
street. On the mantelshelf
of this room one at each end
are two brass candlesticks
—
ornaments, since the house is
lighted by electricity. They
are the only t-wo brass candle-
sticks in tlie house.
So far as the pictures and
candlesticks are concerned,
none of these objects have
been removed suice summer
of 1924.
Refer-
ence No.
50
50a
54
Remarks by S. G. S.
I should have un-
hesitatuigiy de-
scribed these
plaques as
saucers. They
resemble nothing
so much.
I inspected these
candlesticks
which are of
brass. Nada's re-
ference to ' down-
stairs is per-
fectly correct.
The candlesticks
•\\ere specimens
of Elizabethan
work and Mr.
Davis thinks the
'
'Drawing Room
would perhaps
have been a better
place for them
than the room
downstairs. jNIr.
Davis also told
me that he had
bought the U\o
candlesticks at an
auction sale in
Soutliend before
the war. In his
London flat the}'
stood on the
mantelpiece in ti
bedroom.
582 S. G. Soal. [part
Mr. Davis' Statement.
All the seascapes were obtained
by me after the dates of the
sittings. The jiicture showing
the road between the moun-
tains, I obtained in Ireland
in the year 1920. The
candlesticks were in my posses-
sion before the sittmgs.
Previous to the evening of
April 8, Mr. Soal had never
been in my house. He had
never met my wife and child
until the same evening. No
letters have ever been ex-
changed betAveen Mr. Soal
and myself.
The description of the house and
its interior would not apply
to any house in which I have
ever lived except the house
in the Eastern Esplanade,
but this house fits the de-
scription admirably.
Refer-
ence No.
63
Remarks by S. G. S.
On my first visit
to Mr. Davis'
house on April
8, by a curious
oversight I en-
tirely overlooked
the statement
concerning
" black dicky
bird on piano,"
and it A\ as not
luitil I reached
his office later
in the evening
that I remem-
bered to men-
tion it. Mr.
Davis then in-
formed me that
he had in his
possession a
small ornament
in the form of a
kingfisher A\hich
stood on a black
cliina pedestal.
At the time of
my visit it w&s
actually stand-
ing in a plant-
pot on the
l^iano and, owing
to its l:)eing
almost liidden
inside the plant
-
pot, had escctped
my notice. The
xcvi.] Co)nmu)iicatio7is Throiigh 3Irs. Blanche Cooper 583
Mr. Davis' Statement.
Refer-
ence No.
the
stood
centre
Remarks by S. G. S.
clima pedestal
on which the
bu'd stood was
pro^Tided with
holes for hold-
ing flowers, and
\\hen in use
ornament
in the
of a
'>owl of flowers
on the window-
sill. When not
required for
holding flowers
the bird and
pedestal were
removed from
the bowl and
stood sometimes
in the plant-
pot on the
piano. Thebii-d,
Mr. Davis says,
has been on
and off the
Ijiano ever since
he moved into
the Southend
house. The
l)ird itself is
not more than
3 or
high ; it
black but might
seem black from
a distance. The
i inches
is not
2p
584 S. G. Soal. [PAKT
Me. Davis' Statement.
Refer-
ence No.
Remarks by S. G. S.
pedestal is quite
black.
A week or so
later Mr. Davis
informed me
that he had
bought the bii'd
at Upton Park
in the year
1921 when he
was living in
London. In the
London flat it
did not stand
on the piano
but was packed
away with other
ornaments as
there was no
room for it.
S. G. Soal.
I have carefully read the foregoing record, and checked
off the various statements and descriptions therein con-
tained, and made any alterations necessary.
This matter is extremely surprising to me, as I have
never dabbled in anything to do with psychic science.
However, as this affair is particularly interestmg to those
who study these matters, I shall be pleased to answer any
query or question that may be put to me.
Gordon C. Daat:s.
Avril 9, 1925.
xcvi.] Gommmiications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 585
Statement by Mr. C. W. Soal.
ScRATTON Lodge,
Brook Road,
Prittlewell,
Essex.
April 9, 1925.
I followed the records of my brother's sittings with
Mrs. Cooper during the years 1921-22 with great interest,
and remember reading week by week the instalments of
the cases of Ferguson and James Miles, copies of which
my brother sent me to Cambridge. The case of Gordon
Davis I remember reading in the vacation of Christmas,
1921. This I read from the green books in which my
brother wrote his original records. I have this morning
compared his typescript with the records in those
books and find them accurate and in order. I can
recall most of the details of the description of Gordon
Davis' house and liave a distinct recollection that some-
time during the summer of 1920 my brother told me that
he had heard that Gordon Davis was dead. I never knew
Gordon Davis personally. I have also, as far as possible,
compared the typescript of Section 1 with the records in
the green books and find them accurate.
C. W. Soal.
Analysis or the Evidence.
A study of the foregoing records would appear to
establish with reasonable certainty the following facts :
1. The communicator was able to give accurately, facts
about the past life of Gordon Davis. Some of these facts
were known to the sitter ; others were not, e.g. the name
of the old house in Rochford.
2. The communicator reproduced the characteristic
mannerisms, accent, etc., of the Hving person. These we
must consider to be, in a certain sense, also facts about
the life of Gordon Davis, even although they are expressed
in a dramatic form. We must beware of supposing that
such facts are essentially different from the other class of
2p2
586 S. G. Soal [part
facts represented hy incidents in the life of the deceased
person.
3. Tlie communicator gave accurate descriptions of the
environment and interior of the house whicli he and his
wife and child were to occupy a _year later. The question
arises, however, coidd the living Gorrlon Davis on the
day when he first visited the house have formed in his
mind, consciously or subconsciously, an idea of what its
interior arrangement was to be like 1 The evidence seems
to show that he could not by any normal process of
thought. Though the kingfisher was in his possession he
coukl scarcely have known that it was to stand on the
piano. He informs me that his wife did not visit the
house with him on January 6, and that when she did visit
the house some months later she was for some time unde-
cided whether the living room should be in the basement
or on the ground floor. It is, therefore, liighly improbable
that CTOi'don Davis or his wife could have come to any
decision by January 0. \9'22, conscioiis or unconscious,
that the two brass candlesticks in their jDossession were to
stand " on a shelf downstairs " (.34). Mr. Davis told me
further that when he visited the house on January 6,
1922, he was not thinking at all about how it would look
when his furniture was transferred into it. He says his
chief preoccupation at the time was in planning how to
get it clean. At that time the house was not empty, but
occupied by tenants and in a dirty condition. Moreover,
the pictures on the walls were as different as possible
from the present selection and consisted mainly of cheap
prints. Mr. Davis also said that at the time of taking
over the house he had no particular predilection for " sea-
scapes " but that he had always liked water-colours. He
acquired the sea-scapes fortuitously and not through any
special love for this kind of picture. These facts are
important in helping us to a conclusion as to whether or
not there was true pre-vision in this case or not. If I
make the statement that there will be an eclipse of the
sun on January 14, 1926, that is in a certain sense an act
of pre-vision. In the last analysis this kind of scientific
pre-vision is not more explicable than the kind of pre-
xcvi.] Coniiainiicaiiom TkroiKjIi Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 587
vision which one meets ^\ith in psychic research. There is,
however, this essential difference. When I predict an
echpse of the sun. 1 base my prediction on hypotheses
which have been tested and found to work again and
again. I have, therefore, a certain degree of intellectual
control over the phenomena which I predict, although
I have no practical control. In the case when a
l)sychic predicts the death of a certain person, he does
not consciously follow any well-tested rationale and he
does not know how his unconscious mind arrives at its
results. It does not follow, however, that the unconscious
mind does not follo\\' a definite rationale in arriving at
its conclusions. If \\e kne^^• the nature of tlie hypotheses
upon which the subconscious mind works, it might perhaps
be possible to predict events in the lives of human
beings with as much certainty as the astronomer shows
when he predicts the return of Halley's comet. The two
kinds of pre-vision may, therefore, not really differ in the
last analysis. What we have to make sure of in this case,
however, is whether the kind of pre-vision employed is
of the scientific or of the psychic variety. We know that
just two days before the house was described by the
psychic the living Gordon Davis was occupying his
conscious mind with it. He had visited it and gained
knowledge of its environment and interior. Certain
articles, such as the brass candlesticks and the picture of
the mountain road, the saucers and the vases, were already
in his possession. Certain tastes, such as a taste for
water-colours, were in his possession. The bird also
l)elonged to him. But could he have arrived at the
knowledge that the bird would most probably stand on
the piano and that no single portrait picture would be
hanging on his walls in the next few years i Could he
have known that the two brass candlesticks were to stand
in the downstairs room and not in the upstairs room ? If
these questions are answered in the affirmative then we
have a case of ordinary or scientific pre-vision : if in the
negative, it is a case of pure psychic pre-vision.
In a discussion after the present paper was read before
the Society it was suggested by Dr. V. J. Woolley that
588 S. G. Soal [PABT
the case of " Gordon Davis " might be somewhat simpHfied
by assuming that the pre-vising agenl ims the sitter and
nol the mind of Gordon Davis. Dr. WooUey suggests, in
fact, that telepathy from Gordon Davis did not play any
real part in the affair, biit that when the future house
was described the sitter was unconsciously pre-vising, not
an event in the life of Gordon Davis, but an event in his
own life, i.e. his visit to the house on April 8. 1925.
The sitter, therefore, saw the objects at the sitting as they
appeared on the day of his future visit. This theory
Avould clearly require us to assume that all the information
given at the sittings about the past of Gordon Davis was
the sitter's own normally acquired knowledge and not
derived by any telepathy from Gordon Davis. Incidents
like the address at the " Malting " we should have to
assiune were scraps of information once normally acquired
by the sitter and now forgotten. Further, it would be
necessary to suppose that the fairly close coincidence in
time between the date of the sittings and the date,
January 6, on which Mr. Davis first visited the house was
due purely to chance. Again, the mention of " Playle
"
at the sitting and Mr. Davis' visit to his friend Playle
two days later must also be attributed to chance. It
will be remembered that on my visit to the house on
April 8 I saw Mrs. Davis but not the little boy, who
was in bed at the time. It would therefore be necessary
to suppose that the pre-vision of the tilings in the house
not only extended to the things which the sitter saw but
also to the substance of his conversation with Mr. Davis.
Again, the expression "kiddie" applied to the little boy
—
an expression which was mvariably used by Mr. and Mrs.
Davis—must have been either the result of a lucky guess
or of a pre-vision of the future conversation of Gordon
Davis with the sitter. Mr. Davis himself has expressed
the opinion that the rej^roduction of mannerisms, mental
attitudes, etc., are far too accurate to be attributed to
the single half-hour's conversation which the sitter had
with him in the train.
It may be added that if we care to push such theories
of pre-vision to their ultimate conclusion they may be
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 589
called upon to " explain " almost any psychic fact.
Almost any piece of information given by a medium and
afterwards verified by the sitter might be thought of as
a pre-vision by the sitter of the moment in his life when
he comes to verify the fact ! I do not, however, suppose
that Dr. Woolley or any other student would be prepared
to go as far as that. But if pre-vision is to be accepted
as a fact in .jjsychic research, it does not seem possible in
the present stage of our knowledge to set any very precise
limits to its scope.
590 /S'. G. iSoat. [I'ART
APPENDIX A.
In my presence on April 22, l!t2r). Walter Valentine
at my request \Arote out the following corroborative
statements. The words are his own but now and then
I helped him to spell a word and to express a sentence
more grammatically. But in no case did I suggest any
alteration of the sense of what he intended to say.
S. G. SOAL.
L\t. 8TAMBRIDGE,
Nr. Rochford,
Essex.
April 22, 1925.
1. Mr. Seal came to see me to-day to ask questions about
his brother Frank. He asked me " Do you remember
tlie hut at the top of the big tree '? " I said Yes, very
well." He asked " What could you see from the top ?
"
I said at once " The white sails of the yachts on the river
Crouch ; we could see them quite jilain." Only a few
weeks ago when walking M'ith my wife I showed her the
tree where we had the hut and told her you could see
the sails from the top.
2. I remember giving Mr. Soal the question about
" What did we have to eat on the day M'hen we walked
from Fambridge Ferry to Creeksea Ferry ?
" Mr. Soal
wrote on his paper " Samphire and Swedes." I wrote on
my paper " We ate Swedes." We took nothing Avith us
and Avere out all day. We were so tired we could hardly
drag ourselves home. I can't reuiember eating any Sam-
]}hire. I remember the Swedes were in a field near Lion's
Creek. We had nothing else to eat till we got home.
3. I remember Frank and me catching a big eel in the
moat. We set the line at night and when we found the
eel at the end of it Ave got very excited.
xcvi,] Conwmnicationfi Through Mrs. Blanche. Cooper. 591
4. I can remember making the questions for Mr. Soal
4 years ago and the one abont " Wliat did I (Walter
Valentine) do when Pat was sitting in the hut when I did
something and made him angry l
" What I did was to
tlirow a sharp hemlock stallc Avith an ekler head on the
end through the hedge and it hit Pat on the cheek and
Pat was very angry. It made Pat's face bleed. I often
used to kick the water tin on to the fire foi- fun, but I
can't remember doing it when Pat was sitting over the
fire, though I may have done.
5. I remember the fire we had just outside the stable
door. It was in a brick fireplace and just about nesting
time. ' Starbobs is a common word for starlings round
here among boys. There were a lot of starlings in
the thatch of the barn. We sometimes caught them. I
can't remember the fire driving the starlings out of the
thatch but the fire was only a yard or two from the barn
and imder the eaves. Only Pi-ank and me were there.
fi. I remember Frank shooting rats with a bow and
arrow on the moat. I can remember tlie l)ow was made
of nut wood and the arrow had a six-inch ^\'ire nail tied
tightly on the end.
I remember once how the head of the arrow passed
through a rat's back and pinned it to the banii, holding
it there.
[Signed] Walter Valentine.
592 >S'. G. Soal. [part
APPENDIX B.
Statement by Mr. W. H. Salter.
By arrangement with Mr. S. G. Soal I visited Mr. Gordon
Davis' iiouse, No. 54 Eastern Esplanade, Southend, on
September 19, 1925, and was kindly shown by Mrs. Davis
the room apparently described in the sittings and also the
downstairs room where the brass candlesticks are. The
row of houses, of which No. 54 is one, is of a very unusual
construction, quite unlike the general type prevalent at
Southend or, as far as I know, elsewhere, owing to the
peculiar eifect of the "tunnel" between each pair of houses,
flanked on each side l)y five full steps and a half ste])
lead.ing to the front door.
T als(j ohsei'ved that the sea-side shelter to which Mr.
Davis refers is directly in front of his house, and that
tlie only other one of the kind on this part of the sea-
front was at some distance away.
I confirm Mr. Soal's and Mr. Davis' description of the
j)ictures and other ornaments in the house, except that
the two desert scenes mentioned appear to have been
moved to another room.
Mr. Soal and I then called on Mr. Davis a.t his office,
and he showed me tlie entries in his diary, and fully
confirmed Mr. Soal's statements as to their previous
acquaintanceship, his lack of interest in psychical matters,
and the circumstances lender which he became interested
in No. 54 Eastern Esplanade. I confirm the statement in
the footnote on p. 571.
Mr. Soal also showed me the old Rectory where he
formerly lived, and pointed out the scenes of various
incidents mentioned in the earlier parts of his paper.
xcvi.] Communications Through Mrs. Blanche Cooper. 593
APPENDIX C.
[Letter from the Keeper of the Soutpi Necropolis,
Glasgow.]
Southern Necropolis (Central and Eastern Divisions).
316 Caledonia Road, Glasgow,
I'dth January, 1922.
S. G. SoAL, Esq. •
Sir,
At your request. I have gone through the book from
year 1890 till 1920, and enclosed please find list of all
the John Fergusons therem noted. There is no trace of
Amy Ferguson during these years as far as I can trace.
This is all the mforniation I can supply you with as
far as my books are concerned.
Yours truly,
James Anderson,
Supt.
The detailed list enclosed with this letter can be con-
sulted at the S.P.R. Rooms, should any one wish to
examine it.
594 S. G. Soal. [part xcvi.
APPENDIX D.
It has been suggested by Miss Gertrude Tubby iu a
letter to Mrs. Sidgwick that an inmate of the Brentwood
Mental Institution might have been responsible for the
communications in the " John Ferguson " case. Miss
Tubby suggested (a) that there might at the time of the
sitting have been an inmate, living or dead, whose real
name was or had been John Ferguson, or (6) an inmate,
living or dead, who imagined or had imagined his name to
be John Ferguson (which is the name of a character in a
well-known play).
I wrote therefore to the Medical Superintendent of the
Brentwood Mental Institution and received the following
reply which effectively disposes of Miss Tubby's suggestions.
Brentwood Mental Hospital,
Brentwood, Essex,
Juhj 18, 1925.
Mr. S. G. SoAL,
Scratton Lodge,
Brook Boad, Prittlewell,
Essex.
Dear Sir,
I have to acknowledge receipt of your letter of the
16th instant, and to inform you that there has never been
a patient of the name of John Ferguson in this Mental
Hospital. As far as I can ascertain, there has not been
a patient with a false idea that his name was " John
Ferguson."
Yours faithfully,
[Signed] M. Robinson,
Medical Su]}erintendent
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. XXXV.
(PARTS XCIII-XCVI)
A.
A., A. G., Hypnagogic experiences - - 313, 319, .S61, .364, 365
A., Miss, Crystal visions of 378, 379 (footnote), 380, 381, 382-383
A., Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home 106-109
Abercrombie, J., M.D., Hypnopompic experience related by - 354
Accordion, Communications by notes played on 206, 226,
267, 268, 272, 276
„ played 50, 52, 55, 59, 67-68, 69, 84, 114, 206, 232,
267, 268, 271, 272, 275, 276, 279
„ „ no one touching it - - 12, 193, 217, 226
,, supported, without himian contact - - - 59, 193
Adare Abbey, Occurrences at ... - 195-199,202,208
Adare, Lord. See the Earl of Dumaven's Experiences in
Spiritualism with D. D. Home.
After-images and hypnagogic visions 307-308, 352-353,
360-361, 373-374
Alexander, Professor H. B., On Hypnagogic and allied pheno-
mena 292, 306, 311, 312, 317, 318, 323, 328, 329, 333,
340, 341, 344, 351, 358, 361, 366-367, 392-393
Alphabet drawn, and decorated ... - 216,232,274
American S.P.R., Foundation of the first - - - 414-415
American S.P.R. Proceedings, Articles on and references to
hypnagogic phenomena . - . - 292, 301, 304, 331
Angus, Miss, Crystal visiorLS of . . . . . .378, 382
A
596 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts
Animals, Trance theories on the future state of 87, 167, 243-244
Aristotle, on Hypnagogic Illusions 293
Arnold, Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home 257
Arnold-Foi'ster, Mrs., On HyiDnagogic and allied phenomena
292, 294 (footnote), 320, 325, 341, 342, 358, 364, 391 (footnote)
392 (footnote), 394
Arrow brought through the air at a sitting - - - - 189
Ashley House, Discrepancies in the record of a sitting with D. D.
Home at - - - - - - - 151-153 (footnote)
Attention, Influence of, on phenomena ----- 56
Automatic writings by D. D. Home ..... 75, 7fi
B.
B., S.M., Hypnagogic experiences. See " Occult Review."
Baillai'ger, M. .J., On hypnagogic and allied phenomena 291,
301, 307, 311, 344, 348-349, 350, 356, 374
Barrett, Sir W. F., In Memory of 413
„ On Entoptic Vision 310, 386
„ the " fire-test " with D. D. Home - - - - 14
,, „ the work of Camille Flammarion - - - 420-421
Barry, Arthur Smith, Sittings with D. D. Home 160-161,
266-269, 271-273
Bastian, Dr. H. Charlton, Hypnopompic experience - - - 353
Bates, Miss E. K., Hypnagogic experience .... 372
Bergheim, J., Sittings with D. D. Home - - - 259, 264, 265
„ Experience of, under hypnotism, - - 260-261, 263
Bergson, Henri, On dream imagery. Reference to - - - 389
Berkeley, Lady, Hypnagogic and allied experiences 321, 333,
. 339, 346-347
Bertolacci, The Misses, Sittings with D. D. Home 74, 113, 146, 280
Besterman, Theodore, Bibliography on Crystal-gazing - - 379
Blackburn, Charles, Sitting with D. D, Home - - - 238, 240
„ Major, Sittings with D. D. Home 176, 179, 180,
185, 190, 192, 194, 199, 207, 215, 219-222, 226-227
„ Mrs., Sittings>ith^D.5;D.*Home 176, 180,«185,
190-193, 199,"201-202, 204, 206-207, 215, 2'*17-221, 227
Blake, Projection experiences .307
Book-tests through other mediums than Mrs. Leonard - 523, 566
l^ooth, James Gore, Sittings with D. D. Home - - 128, 139
,, Henry Gore, Sittings with D. D. Home - - •139
,, Miss Augusta Gore, Sittings with D. D. Home 160,
168-170, 266-269, 271, 273-274
„ Sir Robert Gore, Sittings witli D. D. Home 266-269,
271, 273-274, 276
Bostock, J., On Hypnagogic phenomena - - 297, 300, 332, 358
XCIII.-XCVl.] Index to Vol XXXV. 597
Brain, Hypnagogic and allied experiences recorded in
307 (footnote), 353
Brain, Physiology of the, writers on - - - - 389 (footnote)
Brandy, essence extracted from ...... 148
„ glass of, emptied and filled ..... 147-148
Breeze, cold 49, 53, 56, 59, 63, 71, 74, 96, 104, 107, 113, 115,
132, 178, 185, 192, 211, 221, 223, 248, 274
„ ,, paper lifted by--...-. 60, 65
Brevern, General, Sitting with D. D. Home - - - - 104
Brewster, Su- David, and D. D. Home's phenomena - - - 29
„ Hypnagogic experiences ..... 339, 388
British Medical Journal, Hypnagogic and allied phenomena
recorded in 327, 333 (footnote), 339
Brittain, Mrs., Medimnsliip of - - - 477 (footnote), 482, 484
Bruck, Dr. Carl, Experimentelle Telepathie, Review of - - 466
Bm'dach, K. F., Hypnagogic and allied experiences 302-303,
315, 353, 365
C.
Candles, light from, dimiiiished during sitting - - - - 58
Cane, Dr. F. E., On dream phenomena . . . . . 388
Canewdon incidents -------- 482-484
Cardano, H., On Hypnagogic and allied phenomena 291, 307,
331, 332 (footnote), 346, 357, 410
Carrington, Hereward, Mrs. Peppler's crystal visions - - 379
Carter, Dr. C. C, Tendency to see visionary faces - - - 311
Census of Hallucinations and hypnagogic and allied phenomena
289, 293, 294 (footnote), 302, 315, 332, 355, 357, 365, 373, 378
Childi"en and Hypnagogic and allied phenomena 293-294, 299,
301, 311, 313, 314, 315, 316-317, .324-325, .342, 356-357, 363,
374-375, 397
Cheeny, Ward, Sitting with D. D. Home 257
Clairaudience, Articles on. Reference to - - - 345 (footnote)
Clau'voyance, Expermiental 469
Medimnistic 102-104, 111, 128, 137, 140-141,
145, 249-250
„ Objects seen but mirecognised .... 322
,, Question of an organ of - - - - 397-399
Clarke, Dr. E. H., Hypnagogic experiences - - 323, 363, 375
„ Projection, Case of 307, 308
Collins, J., Sitting with D. D. Home 138
Communicating, Methods of, and conditions, trance theories of
42-43, 85, 117-118, 174-175, 190-191, 200, 212-213, 221, 234
Coimnunications, Medimnistic
—
Cryptomnesia, Case of 549-560
A 2
598 Index to Vol. XA'XV. [parts
CJommunications, Mediumistic
—
Fictitious communicator ------ 523-549
Living person, a communicator ----- 560-589
Methods of transmission 472-476
Auditory impressions - - - - - - 473
Pictographic impressions - - - • - 473, 474
Communications, Report on Some, received through Mrs. Blanche
Cooper - - - - • - - - - -471
Conditions at Seances with D. D. Home ----- 56
in the other world. Trance theories on - 140-142, 257
Controls, Mediumistic. " Imperator " group. On the question
of the identity of 445-465
Teaching of 452-456
Cooper, Mrs. Blanche, Communications received through - - 471
Cox, Dannie, Reported manifestations on the death of - 120-127
„ of and by 132, 146, 153, 155, 161, 165
Crape, Effect of, at Seances 113,264
Crawford, Mrs., Sitting with D. D. Home 264
Crookes, Sir William, Early enquiries and evidence contributed
by ----- - 5, 9, 10-11, 12, 13-14, 16-17
CryjDtomnesia, Apparent case of - - . . . 549-560
Crystal visions, compared with hypnagogic visions - - 378-384
Control 383
Diffusion 379
Frequency and health 379
Physical sight and visualing power ... - 305, 380
Sources - 400
Subject-matter and Features 380-383
Prominent elements 382
D.
D., Lady, Sitting with D. D. Home 271-273
Dawson, Ellen, Incident with reference to - - 236, 237 (footnote)
Death's-head moth incident . - - . 98,100,127-128
De Boisleve, Madame, Alleged experience of - - - - 429
De Bray, M. Ghevuy, Hypnopompic visions 331, 335, 367, 379, 401
De Crespigny, Mrs., Account of a " fire-test " with a medimn - 14-15
Deering, Mr., Hypnagogic experiences ..... 365
De Galiano, Madame, Sitting with D. D. Home . - - 264
De Gernet, Miss N., Crystal and hypnagogic visions of - 379, 380
Deland, Mrs., Hypnagogic experiences 304, 306, 312, 317, 343, 364
De Manaceine, Marie, On Hypnagogic phenomena 291-292,
294 (footnotes), 315, 320, 339 (footnote), 343, 353, 354, 358,
365, 366
De Mons, Count, Sitting with D. D. Home - - - 104-105
xcnr.-xcvi.] Index to Vol. XXXV. 599
De Morgan, Mrs. E. S., Hypnagogic experiences - 292, 300, 320
De Pomare, Comtesse Medina, Sittings with D. D. Home
112-115, 264, 266, 282-283
De Quincey, On Hypnagogic phenomena 294 (footnote), 363, 375
De Savigny, Lelorgne, Hypnagogic phenomena 311, 339,
346, 348, 411
Des Conditions de la Certitude, by Professor Charles Richet - 422
Desmond Castle, Occmrences at - 202, 203-204, 206, 207, 231
De Tyard, Bishop Pontus, On Hypnagogic phenomena - - 291
De Veh, Baron and Baroness, Sitting with D. D. Home - 104-106
Diagnoses and prescriptions, trance 96-98, 105, 109, 127,
131, 145, 146, 171, 187
Direct voice phenomena 13, 16, 55, 91-92, 142, 146, 163, 227, 233
See also Soal, S. G. : Report on Conmimiications through
Mrs. Cooper.
Dii-ect writing - - 13,16,189,195
Douglas, Miss, Sitting with D. D. Home - - - - 238-240
Dowsing, On 417
Drayson, Major, Sitting with D. D. Home - - - - 138
Dreams, and hypnagogic phenomena, difference between - 355-356
,, ,, hypnopompic phenomena . . . . 352-355
,, Imagery in -------- - 389
„ Physiology of, reference to - - 386 (footnote), 388
Physiological explanation of - - - - - 388
Drummond, Mrs., Hypnopompic experience . . . . 355
Dunraven, Earl of. Experiences in Spiritualistn ivith D. D. Hoyne 1
E.
E., Mrs., Sitting with D. D. Home ----- 161-162
Earl, Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home 48-51
EUiotson, John, Alleged conmiimications from 74, 77-78,
84-85, 89-90, 127, 135, 140, 204-207, 210, 213, 214, 218, 220,
228, 235, 236, 271
EUis, Havelock, On hypnagogic and allied phenomena 292,
294 (footnote), 299, 342, 345, 351, 389
Elongation of the hmnan body 13, 63-64, 76-77. 97, 109,
155, 161, 178, 238-239, 248, 250, 282
Entoptic phenomena and hypnagogic visions - - - 385-389
Escourrou, Madame, Experience of - - - - - - 429
Essence extracted from flowers, fruit, etc. 12, 68, 136, 148,
165, 166, 279
Experiences in Spiritualism with D. D. Home, by the Earl of
Dtmraven --------- 1
Author's Preface - - - - - - - - 21
Classification of Phenomena - - - - - - 284
600 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts
Experiences in Spintualism—
Introduction. By Sir Oliver Lodge ----- 1
Introductory Remarks. By the late Earl of Dunraven - 26
Record of Seances 48
„ On the accuracy of - - - - 24, 25, 27-28, 46
„ On a discrepancy in place and date of Seance No. 41
152-153 (footnote)
Sitters 46
Experimentelle Telepathic, by Dr. Carl Bruck. Review of - 466
F.
" Faces in the Dark." See Hypnagogic phenomena.
Fairfax, Lady, Sitting with D. D. Home 96-98
Fere, Ch., Self-induced hypnopompic experiences - - - 355
" Fergusson, Johir." See Study of a Fictitious Commmiicator,
in Mr. Seal's Report on Conxmimications through Mrs. Cooiser.
Ferriar, J., M.D., On hypnagogic phenomena - - - 298, 303
Fielding-Ould, Rev. F., Hypnagogic experiences 319, 334-335,
362, 364, 391 (footnote), 395 (footnote)
" Fire-test " - - - 13-15, 133, 135-136, 239-240, 280-283
Flammarion, Camille, I)i Memory of - - - - - - 419
FloTirnoy, Th., Hyjsnagogic experiences - - 298, 304, 306
Flowers, brought tlirough the air and given to sitters 68-69,
122, 124, 165, 166, 169, 183, 189, 207-209, 223, 226,
237, 238
scent withdrawn from - - - 68.136.165-166
,, showers of -------- - 210
Forman, Simon, On hypnagogic phenomena - - - - 291
Fortnightly Revieiv, Article by Galton in, on hypnagogic pheno-
mena 293
Fryer, Rev. A. T., Assistance rendered by, in the investigation of
the Case of James Miles - - - . 552, 556-557, 560
Fuller, F., Sitting with D. D. Home - - - - 238, 240-241
G.
Gallwey, Miss, Sitting with D. D. Home ----- 57
Galton, Francis, On hypnagogic and allied phenomena 291, 293,
302, 304, 315, .324, 325, 329, 334, 339, .342, 358, 364, 384
(footnote), 394
Geley, Gustav, Reference to ------ - 434
Germany, Psychical research in ------ 459
Society for Scientific Occultism ... - 469
Gibotteau, Dr. A., Experunents in Thought-transference, refer-
ence to 332
Glossolaly, Alleged 62, 157, 260-261
XCIII.-XCVI.] Index to Vol. XXXV. GOl
Goethe, Projection experiences ----- 307, 322, 333
Gonmi, Lady, Sitting with D. D. Home - - - . 282-283
Goodrich-Freer, ]Miss, Crystal and hyjDnagogic visions of 378,
379, 380, 381, 382
Gottschalk, F., Fragmentary hallucinatory appearance in disc
of light - 332
Greenwood, Frederick, On hypnagogic phenomena 292, 302,
309-310, 311, 312, 316, 318, 329, 334, 337, 343, 358, 364,
372, 392, 396
Gregory, Mrs., Sittings with D. D. Home - 96, 104-105, 238, 239
Gruber, Professor, Case of coloured audition, references to - 332
Gruithuisen, F. P., Hypnopompic experience - 354, 355, 388
" Griinbamn, Mr.", Auto -suggested vision of " spectre," com-
pared with hypnagogic phenomena - 312 (footnote), 349, 361
Gnindversuche anf dem Gebiete der psychischen Grenzwissen-
schaften, by Dr. C. Schroder. Review of - - - - 469
Gully, Dr., Sitting with D. D. Home 171, 172
Gmney, Edinixnd, On hypnagogic and allied phenomena 291,
302, 307, 352, 354, 358, 391-392, 395
Guyon, E., On hypnagogic illusions 342
H.
Hall, S. C, and Mrs., Sittings with D. D. Home 74, 76, 77, 112,
114, 140, 146, 280-282
Hallucination as a possible explanation of Physical and Tele-
kinetic Phenomena - - - - - - - -8-10
„ Visual, A case of ....... 429
Hallucinations, Dr. William ZM'Dougairs Classification of,
references to • 289, 355
„ Lilliputian - - - - - - 333 (footnote)
Hamilton, Miss Mar>', Sittings with D. D. Home 96, 104, 106, 109, 110
Mr., Sittings with D. D. Home - - 104,106,110
Mrs., 96-97, 98, 104, 106, 109
Hands, materialised. See ^Materialisations.
,, of sitters cold during Seance - 50-51
Harp, Chords of, played (D. D. Home) 205
Haweis, Mrs., Hypnagogic experiences 299, 329, 330, 331,
348, 358, 363-364, 372
Hawthorne, Xathaniel, Vision of a face in a cloud described by.
Reference to - - - - - - - - - 311
Heat, current of, felt from tlie medium (D. D. Home) 61, 63,
177, 179, 248
Hennings, Mrs., Sittings with D. D. Home 52-54, 58, 64, 69,
83, 90 (footnote), 132, 138
602 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts
Henslow, Rev. George, Hypnagogic experiences 324, 328, 330,
336, 337, 339, 363, 364
Herrick, Professor C. L., Hypnagogic experiences 320, 325,
339, 343, 358, 375
Herschel, Sir John, Hypnagogic experiences 293, 300, 302, 315,
320, 325, 331, 358, 365, 391
Hobbes, T., On Hypnagogic phenomena . - - - 291, 298
Hodgson, Dr. R., Hypnopompic experience - - - 347-348
Holt, Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home 74-77
Home, D. D., Medimnship of ------ - 1
Honeywood, Mrs., Sittings with D. D. Home - - 161, 266-277
Huggins, Sir William, References to testimony of, on D. D.
Home's phenomena ...... 12, 13, 14
Hiunan testimony. On the inexactitude of . - - 428-429
Humphrey, H. T., Sitting with D. D. Home - - - - 112
Himter, Mrs. Annie, " Fire-test " with 14-15
Hurt, Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home 132, 135
Hypnagogic Phenomena, An Introductory Study of, by F. E.
Leaning 289
Application of Theory 292, 393
Bibliography and Data 290, 404-409
Companion Phenomena 343
Sensations 349-351, 376
Smells 348-349, 376
Sounds 344-348, 376
Control 362-368, 377-378
Crystal Vision : a Comparison - ... - 378-384
Data 290
Definition - - 289
Diffusion 292
Drawings of Visions - - - - - - - - 321
Features - - - 327
Colour 337-341, 388
Duration and Speed 329-331, 388
Emotional Reaction ------ 341-343
Illmiiination 336-337, 388
Point of View 334-336
Shape and Scale 331-334, 388
Similarity with subject-matter in crystal Visions
380-382, 383
Variety and Change 328-329, 388
Frequency 295-300, 374
Among Children 293-294
Health 300-303, 375, 388
Hypnopompic Variety - - - - - - - 351
xciii.-xcvi.] Index to Vol. XXXV. 603
Hypnagogic Phenomena—
Hypnopompic Variety
—
Hypnagogic Type 355-357
Strict Type 353-355
Introductory 289
Interior Vision : its Mechanism 396-399
Memory 357-362, 376-377
Natural Vision - - - - - - 303-308,375-376
Significance ......... 368
Sources discussed 399
Subject Matter 308
Designs and Objects ..... 320-324
Faces - - - - - - - 310-320, 376
Aesthetic QuaHty -. - - - - 314-317
Behaviom- 317-320
Formation 310-314
Formless 309-310
Landscapes 324-325, 376
Scenes 325-327, 376
Similarity with subject-matter in crystal visions 380-382, 383
Svimmary 373-378
Theories and Explanations ..... 384-393
Central initiation ...... 390-393
Mind's Eye - 385, 389-390
Physical ;
Entoptic 385-389, 393
Hypnopompic Visions. See imder Hypnagogic.
Hypnotised subjects, experimental telepathy with - - - 466
Hypothetical explanations of abnormal phenomena - 18-20, 30, 31
Jlyslop, Professor J. H., Hypnagogic experiences - 301, 331, 392
„ On the identity of the " Imperator " group of controls 461-463
T.
Identity, Tests of 90, 193, 233, 236
He Roubaud. See Palladino, Eusapia.
Jmperator Band. See " Controls."
J.
J., Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home, and subsequent experience
247-251, 252-253
„ Story of Eastern magic related by - - 253-256, 265
.James, Professor William, On hypnagogic and allied phenomena
291, 305, 328, 330, 337, 343, 366
Jencken, Dr., AUeged communications from - - - 70, 135
Jencken, H., Sittings with D. D. Home 52-53, 58, 60, 61, 63,
64, 66-67, 69, 70, 83, 84 (footnote), 89, 132, 135, 138, 161, 237
604 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts
Jencken, Mrs., Sittings with D. D. Home 52. 58, 64, 66-67,
69, 83, 132, 138
Johnson, Dr. Lindsay, On entoptic vision ----- 386
Jones, Miss Amanda, Hypnagogic vision - - - - 372-373
Jones, Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home 79-82:
Journal of the S.P.R., Cases of hypnagogic experiences in 292,
295, 297, 301, 304, 305, 315, 318, 321, 324, 331, 340, 353, 373.
380 (footnote), 394
Journal of Nervous and Mental Diseases, reference to article in
333 (footnote)
Jung, C. G., Hallucinations of hysteria . . - . - 327
K.
Kaldoun, Ibn, On crystal gazing . . - . 380 (footnote)
Kardec, Allan, Alleged commimications from, and trance refer-
ences to 247, 249, 256, 257
Karoli, Princess, Sittmg with D. D. Home ... - 104
Kekule, F. A., Hypnagogic experiences ----- 402
Keulemans, J. G., Claii'voyant and other experiences, reference to
380 (footnote)
L.
Ladd, Professor G. T., On entoptic and hypnagogic plienomena
309, 323, 339, 359. 379, 387-388.
Lamb's Witches and Other Night Fears, reference to - - - 342
Lang, Andrew, On crystal-gazing 378 (footnote), 379, 382
,, On hypnagogic i^henomena 293,304,312,
313, 321, 359. 361-362, 364
Lawless, Hon. F., Sittings with D. D. Home 176, 178. 180.
184-186, 190, 192
Leaning, Mrs. F. E., An Introductory Study of Hypnagogic
Phenomena --------- 287
Lemon, Taste, essence, etc., extracted from, and restored (D.D.
Home) 166, 173-174, 279
Leonard, Sirs. Osborne, trance phenomena of. General refer-
ences to - - - - 478, 482-483
Methods of transmission in communications - 472-473, 474
Leroy, Raoul, " The Syndrome of Lilliputian Hallucinations,
"
reference to ------- 333 (footnote)'
Levitation of D. D. Home 147, 149, 155, 161, 178, 197, 229, 275.
,, Passing from one window to another
152 (footnote), 156
accordion ------- 59, 193
„ book - - - - - - - - - 133
chair - 146, 241
XCIII.-XCVI.] Index to Vol. XXXV. 605
Levitation of piano -------- 64, 209
table 11-12, 32, 52-54, 59, 66, 67, 74-75, 80,
97, 113, 114, 132, 147, 162, 169, 170, 178, 180, 181, 182, 183,
185, 190, 193, 194, 217, 218-219, 223, 227, 237, 271, 273,
276, 281
Light. Effect of, on the medinm - - - - - - 172
Light, HyxDnagogic phenomena reported in, References to 312,
313, 319, 325, 336, 340-341
Lights at Seances. See Liuninous appearances.
Lindsay, Miss Beatrice, on entoptic phenomena - - - 387
Lindsay, Master of, Sittings with D. D. Home 142, 146-149,
151-153, 156, 157, 160, 161, 164-165, 238-240, 259-261, 280
Living person, A " communication '
(medimnistic) from a. See
Soal, S. G., Comimmications through Mrs. Cooper : Case of
Gordon Davis.
Lodge, F. Brodie, Levitation witnessed by, m the presence of
Eusapia Palladino - - - - - - - -11-12
Lodge, Sir Oliver, Introduction to the Eai'l of Dmuaven's Record
of Experiences with D. D. Home ----- 1
Hypothetical explanation of Abnormal Phenomena - - 18-20
On the physical Phenomena of Spiritualism - - - 1-10
Remarks on the Attitude of Orthodox Science - - - 16-18
Summary of the Phenomena - - - - - - 10
Lombard, Dr., Experiences in image-projection. References to
307, 308, 373
Luminous appearances comiected with Mediumistic and tele-
kinetic phenomena - - - - - - - 10-11
Forms 92, 236
Hands 100, 224, 232
Lights 64, 95-96, 115, 124, 132, 146, 161, 163, 165, 204,
209, 217, 238, 472, 487, 490, 491, 536, 540, 566
Medium's head or hands, luminosity of 68, 69, 161, 195, 198
Objects becoming hmiinous - . - - 80, 94, 276
Tongues of flame - - - - - - - 34, 157
M.
M., Miss C. B., Reference to case contributed by - - - 332
Macdonald, Mrs., Hypnagogic phenomena 311, 312, 316, 317, 330, 391
Mainwaring, Mrs., Sitting with D. D. Home - - 106, 108, 110
Mackenzie, Stanley J., Sitting with D. D. Home* - - - 237
Materialisations
—
Fingers - - 189, 269
Hand, or hand and arm 80, 114-115, 122, 124, 164, 170,
172, 182, 189, 208, 209, 272
„ ,. moving curtains - - 114-115
606 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts
Materiali sations
—
Hand, or hand and arm reflected in glass - - - - 224
visible 79, 100, 110, 139, 169, 192,
223, 224, 226, 227, 232,
233, 272, 276, 279
„ ,, „ ,, holding cord of eye-glass - 79
„ ,, . „ ,, holding snuff-box, and shak-
ing out snuff - - 232
„ „ „ ,, turning light off - - - 110
See also Phantoms ; and Touches.
May, Humphrey, Sitting with D. D. Home - - 211,212,214
Mairry, M., On Hypnagogic phenomena 291, 292, 300, 301,
303, 304, 312, 323, 330, 333, 340, 342, 347, 348, 353, 360,
366, 372, 375, 388, 394 (footnote)
M'Dougall, Dr. Wilham, Classification of hallucinations - 289, 355
M'Nish, Dr. Robert, Hypnagogic experiences 296-297, 300,
312, 315, 333, 342, 347, 395 (footnote), 398 (footnote)
Medical Times, Articles on auditory hallucinations. Reference to 351
Mediumship, Trance utterances on the subject of - 174-176, 201
Menken, Adah, Alleged communications from, and physical
phenomena connected with 91-95, 109, 110, 111-112, 137,
146, 153, 156-157, 159-160, 161, 174, 237-238, 265
Meyer, G. H., Self-induced visions 309, 312-313, 328, 337, 354, 355, 366
Michea, Dr. M., Case of projection given by - - - 307, 350
Miles, James. See under Soal, S. C, Report on Communications
through Mrs. Cooper.
Mind, References to articles in, on hypnagogic and dream
phenomena ........ 339, 351
Mind's eye. See Hypnagogic phenomena. Theories.
Mitchell, Dr. Weir, Visions under mescal, reference to 339, 343, 364
Moses, W. Stainton, Automatic drawings by - - - - 311
On the mediiimship of - - - - - 445-446
„ physical ----- 15-16
Movements of objects without contact - - - - - 10
Accordion 268, 272, 275
Arrow igg
Bed . . - 83, 129, 137
Bed-clothes 79, 252
Benitier 139-140
Book 146, 226
Bracelet 172
Chairs 49, 75, 79, 80, 97, 104, 142, 146, 149, 154, 169,
170, 178, 180, 186, 206, 238, 242, 248, 250, 267, 270, 275. 276, 278
Clock, hands of 147
,, made to strike 238
xciii.-xcvi.] Index to Vol. XXXV. 607
Movement of objects without contact
—
Couch - - - 116,160,168,206,238,241,266,267
Crucifix 163
Ciu'tains, and drapery . . - . 53, 124, 217, 224
Dagger 184
Doors opened and shut - - - - - - - 238
Drawers opened 194, 271, 272
Eye-glass 79-80
Flask of brandy 189-190
Flowers . - - - 68-69, 125, 165, 183, 223, 226, 233
Handkerchief - - - - - - - 69, 81, 272
Handle, heavy --------- 169
Latch-key in handkerchief - - - - - - 81
Muiiature 224, 233
Money 80, 81
Objects moving by themselves or remaining on a slanting
table - - - 15-16, 49, 53, 54, 64-65, 92, 169, 276
Papers 188
Pencil - - 272
Piano 58, 132
Relic -------- 274-275, 277
Sand 210
Scissors ---------- 184
Screen 160
Snuff-box - 79, 80, 231-232
Stud 238
Table 49, 50, 53, 57-59, 80, 116, 124, 180, 183, 194, 206,
217, 227, 233, 266, 267, 276, 278
Table-cloth - 182, 183, 185, 189, 192, 267, 268, 272
Vase - - - 223
See also, Levitations ; Materialisations ; and Touches.
Miiller, J., On Hypnagogic and allied phenomena 291, 292-293,
294 (footnote), 298, 308, 309, 313, 322, 323, 330, 339, 352
(footnote), 359, 362, 388, 398 (footnote)
Myers, C. S., On Visual sensations, references to 310 (footnote),
337, 339 (footnote), 390
Myers, F. W. H., On crystal gazmg - - 378, 379 (footnote), 384
,, On hypnagogic and allied phenomena 289, 304, 336, 337,
347, 352, 353, 391, 392, 393
Music heard at sittings - - - - - - - 79, 91
N.
TSTicolai, F., Hypnagogic experiences - - 297-298,301,327,333,362
INixon, Brinsley, and Mrs., Sittings with D. D. Home - 115, 128
608 Ivdex to Vol. XXXV. [parts
o.
Occult Review, References to S. M. B.'s hyiinagogic experiences
recorded in 303, 305, 313, 315, 321-322, 333, 339, 363,
391, 395 (footnote)
Ossowiecki, Stephan, Experiences with - - 433-435, 436, 438
P.
P., Miss A., Sitting with D, D. Home 266
Palladino, Eusapia, Phenomena with - - 11-12, 438-439, 440
Parish, Edmund, On the physiological process in visual halluci-
nations 389
Paternoster, Percy. See Soal, S. G., Report on Communications
through Mrs. Cooper.
Pedagogical Seminary, Report on Hypnagogic phenomena among
children 294
Pencil writing by itself 189, 195
Pentecost, Phenomena of, imitated (D. D. Home) - - - 157
Peppier, Mrs., Crystal vision of - . - . 379, 381, 383
Phantasmata. See Hypnagogic Phenomena.
Phantasms of the Living, by Gurney, Myers and Podmore 427-428
„ „ ,, Hypnagogic and allied phenomena re-
corded in 302, 307, 308, 311, 312,
316, 317, 320, 332, 352, 353, 354,
358, 365, 391, 392
Phantoms, Alleged 49, 59, 80. 83, 92, 115, 132, 146, 153, 160, 165,
170, 173, 196, 197, 202, 236, 238, 277-278, 279
„ „ bouncing up and down on sitter's feet - 132
Physical Phenomena, Dubious aspects of, and the difficulty of
investigating - - - - 1-6, 17
„ „ Hallucination as a possible explanation of 8-10
,, Scientific attitude to - - 4-5, 16-18,26, 29
„ „ Smiimary of, with D. D. Home and others 10-16
Piano played, no one touching it ------ 64
,, raised off the ground 64, 209
Piper, Mrs., and the Imperator Band of " Coyitrols," by A. W.
Trethewy - - 445
Piper, Mrs., Physical phenomenon in the mediumship of - - 12
Planchette, Communications by, at a sitting with D. D. Home 74
Prevision, Case of Mediimiistic. See Case of Gordon Davies,
under Soal, S. G., Communications through Rlrs. Cooper.
,, On the phenomenon of - - - - 561, 586-589
Projection of mental images. Voluntary - - 306-308, 355, 373
Proceedings of the S.P.R., Hypnagogic and allied experiences
recorded in 298, 332, 336, 349. 361, 378, 379. 385, 391, 393
Psychical Research. Difficulties in - • - - - - 17
XCIII.-XCVI.] Index to Vol XXXV. 00!J
Psychical Research. Early interest in - - - 413-415, 419
„ „ Hypothetical exiolanation of Abnormal
Phenomena 18-20
,, in Gennany 469
Psj-chometiy, Experimental 469
R. «
R., Miss C, Sitting with D. D. Home - - - 266, 270-271
R., Miss D., Sittmgs with D. D. Home - - - 52, 53, 65, 66-69
Raps 57, 58, 79, 83, 95, 106, 113, 118, 122, 125, 171, 179,
181, 188, 203-204, 206, 207, 214-215, 217, 227, 271, 273, 277, 280
,, Conmimiications thi-ough - - - - - - 1-277
,, location of, controlled 47, 51
„ stream of, like electric sparks - - - - 53, 122, 187
Rayleigh, Lord (The late). On physical phenomena and the hypo-
thesis of hallucination - - - - - - - 8-10
Report on Some Communications Received through Mrs. Blanche
Cooper - - - - - - - - - - 471
•Re%aews
—
Experimentelle Telepathic, by Dr. Carl Bruck - - - 466
Grundversuche auf dem Gebiete der psychischen Grenzwissen-
schaften, by Professor Dr. C. Schroder - - - 469
Richet, Professor Charles, Des Conditions de la Certitude - - 422
„ „ Levitation witnessed by, in the pres-
ence of Eusapia Palladino - 11-12
Rigidity of medimn"s body (D. D. Home) 65, 75, 101, 160, 162,
216, 217, 248, 274, 281
Ronicker, Count, Sittmgs with D. D. Home - - 101-102, 104
Rudall, H. A., Sitting with D. D. Home - - - - 237-238
Russell, Mrs. Scott, Sittings with D. D. Home 52-54, 58, 59, 146
S.
S., Captam, Sittmg with D. D. Home . . . . 161-162
Saal, :Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home 132, 135
Salter, W. H., Statement by, on the Case of Gordon Davis - 592
Scent withdrawn from flowers - - - 12, 68, 136, 165-166
Schiller, Dr. F. C. S., Review of Dr. Schroder's Grundversuche
auf dem Gebiete der psychischen Grenzwissenschqften - - 469
Schroder, Professor Dr. C, Grundversuche auf dem Gebiete der
psychischen Grenzwissenschaften. Review of - - - 469
Scientific attitude to the physical phenomena of spiritualism
4-5, 16-18. 26, 29
Senior, 3Hrs. H., Sitting with D. D. Home - - - - 264
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
In Memory of Sir William Barrett 413
Preface to Experimentelle Telepathic ----- 466
610 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts
Sidgwick, Mrs. Henry
—
Psychology of Mrs. Piper's Trance Phenomena, references to.
See Mr. Trethewy's Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band
of " Controls."
Sight, The apparatus of 385-389
Sign of the Cross made by table at sittings with D. D. Home 59, 183
Silk, Influence of, on the medium 70, 71
Sitters, Effect of seances on, with D. D. Home 75-76, 77, 165,
178, 185-186, 191, 201, 215, 250
Slanting table. Objects remaining on a 15-16, 49, 53, 54,
64-65, 92, 169, 276
Smells, Hallucinatory 348-349
Smith, Captain Gerard, Sittings with D. D. Home 164, 171,
173-174, 240, 274-280
Smith, Dr. J. Barker, Clairaudient experiences - - - 345, 351
,, ,, ,, Entoptic vision . . . - 386-387
Smith, Miss, Sittings with D. D. Home - - 178, 179, 180, 185
Soal, C. W., Evidence contributed by - - - 513-515, 585
Soal, S. G., A Report on Some Communications received through
Mrs. Blanche Cooper - - - - - - - 471
Communicator of Section I. (Frank Soal) 476, 477, 478,
480-523, 527, 542, 546, 547-548, 562, 566, 590-591
Attempts by the sitter to obtain information about
matters imknown to him . . . . 515-519
Canewdon Incidents - - - - - - 482-484
Fabrications 522-523
Incidents
—
Big Eel - - 510, 590
„ Tree ------- 506, 590
Buried medal - - - - - - - 511
Statement by C. W. Soal - - - 513-515
Christmas present ------ 503
Conan Doyle story ------ 508
Father M'Kemia ------ 502
Scalded hand - - 504
Starbobs 499, 591
Two Bicycles - 497
Life and subsequent psychic history of communicator 480-485
Paternoster, Percy, Interviewed - - - - 501, 514
References to - - 474, 493, 496
Questionnaire on " what we used to do in the hut " 494, 495
Records of Sittings 488-499, 502-506, 508-513,
516-517, 520-521
Unverified incidents which show supernormal know-
ledo-e - - - - - - - - 519-523
XCIII.-XCVI.] Index to Vol. XXXV. 611
Soal, S. G.—
Valentine, Walter, Interviewed 501, 507-508, 514, 515-519
„ ,, General references to 474, 493, 496,
501-502, 507, 509-510, 511
,, Statements by - - - 590-591
Fictitious Communicator (" John Ferguson ") 478-479,
523-549, 585, 593, 594
Records of Sittings - - 525-532, 534-537, 539-548
Visits to Brentwood ------ 533, 537
Gordon Davis, Case of 476, 477, 478, 479, 545, 560-589
Analysis of the evidence - - - 571-584,585-589
Extracts from Mr. Gordon Davis's diary - - 571-572
Record of sittings 562-566
,, visit to Gordon Davis - - - 569-571
. Sitter's previous loiowledge of the Commmiicator 566-569
Statement by W. H. Salter 592
„ C. W. Soal 585
Statements by Gordon Davis - - - - 573-584
James Miles, Case of - - - 479, 548, 549-560, 566, 585
Observations and Deductions - . . - 557-560
Records of Sittings . - - - 550-551, 555-556
Telepathy between sitter and medium 523-524, 532-533,
547, 549, 550, 559, 569
Society for Psychical Research and physical phenomena - - 4
,, ,, ,, Sir WUKam Barrett and the foun-
dation^f - - - 413-414
Sounds at Seances with D. D. Home
—
As of bell tinkling -------- 183
,, blow struck -------- 142
,, breathing --------- 67
,, chirping, flying, and whistling of a bird 51, 55, 157,
162, 169-170, 198
,, echoes 193
„ footsteps 78, 132, 163, 238, 248
,, furniture moving ------ 51, 92
,, galloping of a horse ----- 141, 150
,, hand brushing on the wall - . - - . 185
,, kissing --------- 163
,, laughter 51, 170
„ metaUic substance being lifted and thrown down - 231
,, movements of persons or things 79, 92, 132, 142,
173, 181, 210, 242
„ music 79, 91-92
,, railway train -------- 237
,, rattling 273
612 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts
Sounds at Seances
—
As of rinnbling and rolling - - - - - - 185
„ „ „ rushing 199
I'ushing up and down - - - - - - 51
„ rustling 92, 122, 123, 279
„ voices - - 55, 91, 142, 146, 163, 170, 204, 227, 233
,, water dropping ....... 204
,, whistling 233
,, wind rushing and moaning - - - - - 157
See also, Raps.
Spearman, Mrs., Sitting with D. D. Home - - - 106, 109
Spinoza, Hypnoiaompic hallucination - - - 353-354, 358
Spirit world, Trance theories of conditions in - - 84-89, 137
Spiritual Magazine, Reference to " Mrs. W.'s " hjq^nagogic ex-
periences related in------- - 338
Spiritualism, Experiences in, with D. D. Home. By the Earl of
Dunraven 1
St. Albans, The Dowager Duchess of. Sittings with D. D. Home 271-278
St. James's Gazette, On hypnagogic experiences. Reference to
293, 305-306, 315, 317, 333 (footnote), 337, 358, 396
Stead, W. T., Hypnagogic experience 295-296, 301, 325, 328,
332, 336, 337, 358, 370, 396
Stockton, Manifestations at (D. D. Home) ... 120-127
Stoney, Dr. D. G., Hypnagogic phenomena ... 298, 299
Stopford, Mrs., Sittings with D. D. Home 271, 273, 275, 276, 277-278
Striimpell, L., Hypnopompic experience - - - - - 354
Sugden, Rev. E. H., Hj'pnopompic experience - - - 353
Symonds, J. A., Hypnagogic experiences, reference to - - 342
T.
Table raised in the air. See Levitations.
,, varying weights of .... 49, 65, 215, 276, 281
Taine, H. A., On hypnagogic and allied phenomena 293, 304,
325, 330-331, 339, 352, 363
Telekinesis. See Movements of objects without contact.
Telepathy, Plienomena of—
Activity and voluntary effort on the part of the Agent not
necessary 468
Experimental 400, 466, 469
Favourable condition for transmission .... 372
Hypnotic 466
Medium and sitter, between 523-524, 532-533, 547, 549,
550, 559, 569
Sir William Barrett on 418
Tests, Trance remarks on - - - - - - - - 234
XCIII.-XCVI.] Index to Vol. XXXV. 618
Thayer, Mrs., Sitting with D. D. Home 48-51
Thomas, Northcote, Crystal gazing - 379 (footnote), 380 (footnotes)
Hypnagogic experiences - - 318,359,362
Tobacco smoke. Effect of, on trance - - . . 137-138,216
Touches, Light 49,59,74,102,115,160,165,185,190,192,
193, 194, 206, 208, 226, 238, 266, 268, 271, 274
„ Clothes pulled 116,169,170,185,188,
192, 271, 276
By materialised fingers, or hands 79, 80, 122, 124,
132, 155, 164, 169, 170, 182, 209, 210, 226,
232, 233, 269, 271
Trance Phenomena
—
Communications, Helpful factors in - - - - 474-476
methods of transmission - - 472-476
D. D. Home 56, 60-64, 69-74, 76-77, 84-94, 96-97,
101-102, 105-106, 107-114, 116-125, 126-127, 129-138,
140-145, 147-151, 153-163, 165-168, 171-174, 177-179,
181-182, 184-187, 190-192, 194-199, 200-205, 208-210,
212-217, 218-220, 222-223, 227-231, 233-251, 256-257,
259-260, 261-266, 268-269, 272-275, 281-283
Movements 84 (footnote), 188
See also : Mr. Trethewy's Mrs. Piper and the hnperator
Band of " Controls.''
Trench, Thomas, Alleged communications from - - 213-214
Trethewy, A. W., Controls of Stainton Moses, Reference to - 311
„ Mrs. Piper and the Imperator Band of " Con-
trols " 445
Tubby, Miss Gertrude, Suggestions by, regarding the " John
Ferguson " case ^C)^
Tuke, Dr. Daniel Hack, Cases of projection recorded by, Refer-
ence to 307, 353
Turvey, Vincent, Hypnagogic experience - - - - - 349
Tweedale, Mrs., Hypnagogic experiences - - - 348, 369, 372
V.
Vairus, Leonardus, On hypnagogic phenomena - - - 291, 310
Valentine, Walter. See Soal, S. G., "Communications through
Mrs. Cooper."
Van Eeden, Dr. F., On hypnagogic phenomena - - - 355
Verrall, Mrs., Crystal visions of - - - 378, 380, 381, 383, 384
Vibrations of furniture, floor, etc., chief references to
52, 57, 58, 59, 60, 67, 79, 81-82, 115-116, 179, 207, 243
Vignoli, Professor, After-image hallucination - - 298, 352, 373
614 Index to Vol. XXXV. [parts xciii.-xcvi.
w.
Wales, Hubert, Series of cases of Thought-transference without
conscious agency, reference to ----- - 372
Walsh, W. S., On hypnagogic phenomena - 202, 293, 301, 341
Wareollier, R., Crystal gazing ... - 379, 380 (footnotes)
Hypnagogic experiences 292, 299, 320, 328,
. 335-336, 340, 367, 379
,, ,, Experimental .... 400
Watkins, Mrs. 104-105
Watson, John, Hypnagogic experiences - - . . 344-345
Watts, Mrs. Alaric, Visions seen by, when beginning her auto-
matic drawings - - 312, 373 (footnote)
,, ,, ,, Hypnopompic experience .... 356
Wild, Miss Ida, Hypnagogic experiences - - - 395 (footnote)
Wilkinson, W. M., On the " fire-test " with D. D. Home - - 14
Willert, Mrs., Hypnagogic experiences - - 320, 332, 358, 365
Wiltse, Dr. A. S., Experiments in hypnotism, reference to
322 (footnote)
Woolley, Dr. V. J., On Mr. " Griinbaum's " auto -suggested
visions - - - - - - 361
,, ,, Suggestion regarding the Gordon Davis case 587-589
Wundt, W., Hypnagogic phenomena 388
Wynne, Captain C, and Mrs., Sittings with D. D, Home
115-116, 128, 138, 151-161, 164, 168-170, 176, 178,
180, 185, 186-189, 190-192, 195-197, 199, 204, 205,
206, 209-210
Miss, Sittings with D. D. Home 176. 179, 180, 185,
190-192, 199
Y.
Y., Mrs., and the Rev. Mr., Sitting with D. D. Home - 280-282
Z.
Z., Mr., Sittings with Mrs. Piper - - - 451-455, 456, 457
I'RINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASCiOW
