{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paolo_d_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Paolo D Probable NDE 5452","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paolo D Probable NDE 5452  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paolo D Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3425 Paolo D Probable NDE 5452  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					As a consequence of a car accident, I suffered brain trauma and I have been in coma for some days. It was in that coma state that I had the experience of entering a dark tunnel. As I saw a distant and diffuse light, I began to walk along the tunnel towards the light. As I saw that light, I felt euphoric and I try to reach it as quickly as possible. When I managed that, I saw a wall/barrier of a fluid light, intense and very bright. I felt a huge desire to cross that barrier of light. However, I have clear notion that I felt fear about not knowing what could be beyond that barrier. Such fear made me decide to return to the starting point in the tunnel, which was extremely hard to do, unlike the moment I try to reach the light barrier, whose approach was fast. As I reached the starting point in the tunnel I got out of the coma.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  +- 1989

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   As a result of a car accident I suffered severe brain trauma and I have been in coma for some days. Due to my clinical situation the doctors informed my relatives that I was in a life-threatening state.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   I was conscious during all the experience, in other words, since entering the dark tunnel, visualizing the fluid and intense light barrier at the end of the tunnel, the feeling of fear when I tried to cross the barrier and the decision to return to the tunnel starting point, which was very hard and slow.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was conscious during all the experience, in other words, since entering the dark tunnel, visualizing the fluid and intense light barrier at the end of the tunnel, the feeling of fear when I tried to cross the barrier and the decision to return to the tunnel starting point, which was very hard and slow.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I entered in a tunnel and saw at the distance an intense and very bright diffuse light that seemed to have life fluid.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   It was a very bright and fluid light which attracted.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Anxiety, doubt and fear.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     I felt fear in crossing the light barrier, although I had felt a strong will for doing it.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   católica

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Uncertain     I don’t know how to answer with accuracy. I can only say that I lived a unique experience that made me believe in a greater force. Which, I don’t know.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   católica

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Uncertain     I don’t know how to answer with accuracy. I can only say that I lived a unique experience that made me believe in a greater force. Which, I don’t know.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   I didn’t know the space I was in.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don’t know how to answer with accuracy  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Before the NDE I already had some special gifts (experience smells, premonitions and previous answers to what someone was thinking). After the NDE, I lost memory of part of my life, including people I knew, as well as part of the gifts I had before. Adding to that, after the accident my taste and smell become more accurate.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The light, the will to cross it and the fear of doing it, as well as the great difficulty in returning backwards to the starting point.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I told this to very few people. Only after a year I told to someone what happened.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am fully aware of what happened, but it took a long time before I told someone because I was afraid that no one would believe me and they doubted my mental sanity.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am fully aware of what happened, but it took a long time before I told someone because I was afraid that no one would believe me and they doubted my mental sanity.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Nothing else beyond what was said. I only will mention again, that I lived the experience with absolute conscience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Nothing to say.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paolo_d_probable_nde.html