{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paquita_nde.html","mytitle":"Paquita NDE 2840","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paquita NDE 2840  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paquita NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1085  Paquita NDE  2840  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  I was working in a hotel annex alone. I was vigorously vacuuming a room when suddenly I banged my elbow really hard against the open door and lost consciousness. When I awakened, I saw they have put me on a bed. The boss was there, a doctor, and a coworker. I had peed all over myself. The doctor said that I had passed out. Nevertheless, I was in Manhattan, at water level, the skyscrapers were in front of me, the wonderful sensation I had was that I could go instantaneously at will wherever I wanted. When I began telling this story years later, I said that I didn't have a body, only a head, and that strangely I wasn't wet. Later I understood that I didn't have a body, either, only consciousness. The experience was tremendous and wonderful to such a degree that it took me a long time before I told anyone about it.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	August 1970  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No.         fuerte golpe en un codo contra una puerta  'Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening'   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   To be alert means to be afraid of something but there was nothing of this. Only a sense of absolute freedom and wellbeing.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       It was very sudden and without warning. I felt incredible peace as well as an incredible sense of wellbeing.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Neither  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The movement of the water - it was entirely within my scope of vision.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Serenity approaching happiness.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It's difficult to describe the sensation of not having a body, only consciousness.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I had sort of a sixth sense. But of course I was such a young girl even though I had it before - I don't know.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think about ten years ago. I only wanted to know what fainting was and I asked some doctors but really got no answer.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     For me it was like a treasure that only I knew about and if I told anyone it would destroy the enchantment or something.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably not real      The memory is now very hazy and the fear of death makes me afraid even though for years I said I wasn't afraid of death because of this experience.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I would like to know if anyone else has experienced this because I didn't see a tunnel or a light or anything else. And the part about Manhattan makes people laugh at me - it's funny.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       You have done a good job, I believe. Thank you.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paquita_nde.html