{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1parker_k_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Parker K Probable NDE 2511","mylang":"de"}
          	        Parker K Probable NDE 2511  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Parker K Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  						793  Parker K Probable NDE  2511  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I was told that I was unconscious for approximately thirty seconds, but I felt that I had 'been gone' for what seemed like two hours. Also, felt the presence of a male figure and knew that we had been 'conversing', and this of course was difficult to explain, as I do not remember anything about the encounter. Would have been so much easier to say something like, 'I was told it's not my time, etc.,' but I could not say that. I get mixed reactions when I report being angry to have had to leave and just wanted to close my eyes and return to that place.

After being admitted to the hospital for hypobolemic shock, and before receiving two units of blood, I had just been in my room a short time. I thought I was strong enough to walk to the bathroom, but, I lost consciousness again, only that time, I did not go anywhere.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 08/03/04  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related       Life threatening event, but not clinical death   I was three days post total abdominal hysterectomy and at home alone. I began to have internal bleeding that went untreated for approximately forty-five minutes before I lost consciousness.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    No

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Difficult to say, because I am not aware of any verbal conversation. I vaguely begin to feel that there was an understanding, but I had the overwhelming sense that I had been conversing with a male dominance, and that my role was more passive.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       The entire time. I was just so overcome and aware of the feeling of peace, or whatever it was.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once     I did not know that I had lost consciousness. The last thing I remember was that I was getting light-headed again, and then I was awake in another room in my house. I had to ask what happened to me, and when I was told that I passed out, I said that I had been dreaming. I was told that I was only out about thirty seconds, and I felt this to be so wrong. I told them that I had 'been gone' (meaning that I was definitely somewhere) for at least two hours.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I was instantly in the presence of what I feel was a male dominance. When I was told that I had passed out, it was very important for me to let people know that I had been 'dreaming' and 'conversing'. I was very active during the time I was unconscious.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   Not that I was aware of.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Clearly mystical or unearthly realm       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Instantaneous peace, sublime, the most intense feeling of satisfaction and peace; I was calm and not afraid in the least.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     United, one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Liberal     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I realize how fragile life can be.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   After regaining consciousness, I found it difficult to convey the enormous degree of peace and serenity that I was enjoying.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I think it is significant that I did not want to be awakened, and somehow wonder if I did have a conversation where I was told that I need to return. Otherwise, I cannot explain why I was upset when I realized I was no longer in that place and unable to find my way back.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it immediately with my family, but when I told my doctor she did not even acknowledge it.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   At age fourteen, I read Raymond Moody's, 'Life After Life' and have read countless books since then. I was not aware of the time distortion so wondered if I really experienced a NDE. I thought everyone went through a tunnel, saw a bright light, met by family, etc.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I continue to feel blessed but would really like to know what was conveyed to me.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No          				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1parker_k_probable_nde.html