{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pat_b_nde.html","mytitle":"Pat B NDE 2461","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pat B NDE 2461  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pat B NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						752  Pat B NDE  2461  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

As stated above I had an out of body experience where I noticed doctors and nurses issuing orders all around me trying to revive me I remember floating above the table and watching what was going on and noticing the lights. I went through a dark tunnel and felt that I was carrying a weight on my back like a haversack. I felt there were people beside me but I could not recognize anybody even though I saw the shape of people. I felt that the tunnel was a long walk.  There was a pin point of light at the end of the tunnel.  I came outside the tunnel and noticed somebody standing beside me with a covering over the head and I was looking at fields of bright colorful flowers and felt that a massive weight had gone from my shoulders. It was extremely peaceful and I felt that I did not want to go back. The colors were extremely bright and beautiful. This other person told me that I had a son and it was not my turn yet. I tried to argue as I felt I did not want to leave but I had no choice, every time he said I had to go back I felt that I was drifting back through the tunnel. I woke up about a week later in intensive care.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 4/25/1980  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-relatedChildbirth       Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I had to undergo a cesarean section in which my heart stopped on the table and I also vomited which stopped my lungs from functioning. I was paralyzed by the doctors and given electric shock to bring me back. I was clinically dead for approximately three minutes. On two occasions during all of this I was also given the last rites by a priest and family was notified I was not going to make it.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I was aware I was floating out of my body and was not scared at all and felt peaceful. Also during the walk through the tunnel I noticed I felt a weight on my back and the beautiful colors.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was floating above the table and through the whole event I felt that I was aware of everything happening.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Time seemed to go faster than usual     I felt it took me a lot longer to go through the tunnel and felt that I was there for a lot longer than I was.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors of the flowers and fields.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Walking through a dark tunnel carrying a weight of some sort and noticing a pin prick of light at the end of the tunnel - it did not take me long to get there - and it opened up like a massive drain pipe, which is the best way to describe it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     When I came outside of the tunnel somebody was waiting there with a hood of some sort over the face like a cowl, which is the best way to describe it, no I did not know them. I was told I had a son and that it was not my turn and I had to go back. Even though I tried to argue it did no good.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   When I was inside the tunnel I walked towards the light as above.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     all i saw was the beautiful colourful flowers and fields of varying colours and the person i spoke with  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Peace, floating, colors, and a sense of happiness and wonder and not wanting to go back to this life.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A barrier I was not permitted to cross; or 'sent back' to life involuntarily     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   none  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   none  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Not to be scared of death. Not to believe in one religion as we ultimately believe mostly of the same like Catholics and Church of England etc. The colors of nature and I feel what we do on this earth is we are being tested and have the right to choose right and wrong it is our decision.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only a few friends and I felt that they did not believe but I wanted them to know not to be scared of death.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It took me a few weeks to come to my senses and to understand what had actually happened to me. One of the doctors was asking me what it was like and what I felt and gave me a bunch of flowers after I had woke up. I was put in a ward and I was on some sort of medication for a short while after to help clear the lungs etc.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I was told I had a son and it was not my turn to die. As of yet the colors and the sense of peace that I had it is not something that could be made up from drugs during the operation. I have often felt and wondered and think about it from time to time when a friend dies and wonder if they are going through the same thing that I did.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pat_b_nde.html