{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1park_sang_hee_nde.html","mytitle":"Park Sang Hee NDE 1098","mylang":"de"}
          	        Park Sang Hee NDE 1098  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Park Sang Hee NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						595  Park Sang Hee NDE  1098  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

Before being put under anesthesia, I prayed and left everything to God.  With that state of mind, I went into surgery.  My experience occurred after I gave birth under anesthesia but before coming out of anesthesia.  However, I do not remember anything after hearing that I was being put under anesthesia.


I don’t know how much time passed since that time, and I was not sure whether it was dream or not, but now I am positive that it was not a dream.  It was very vivid and I really liked it.


I had no worries or anxieties, and best of all I had no pain.  There were no thoughts of family, parents, my younger sibling, etc.  I only thought of God and Jesus.  At that place, Jesus came and gave me a beautiful child.  Because I loved my father God so much, I did not want to come out of anesthesia.  I had a wonderful time with God, calling him 'Daddy, Daddy.'  We played for a long time in a field that was blooming with flowers.  Although I did not see God, I could feel how good he was and how much I liked him.


That place also had blue skies.  Clear and clean, just like an autumn sky.  It also had very large green fields of tiny flowers that spread all around.  The field was full of white flowers and dandelions.  I joyfully rolled around the green pastures with a shepherd's lamb.  At a distant place there was a fence.  The fence was not very tall, but it was at a very distant place, where I did not go.  It was at a height where I could have jumped over it, but because I was having such a great time, I did not even have slightest curiosity to go there.


Because my husband unwillingly woke me up, I woke up very annoyed.  Unwillingly coming back to reality from such a wonderful place, I had many regrets.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    2001.9.20

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      Uncertain   Childbirth     ’제왕절개 마취상태’

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Very, very vivid.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did your hearing differ in any way from normal?    Absolutely no conception of noise.

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     Jesus.

Did you see an unearthly light?      No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?     A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     A flower bed of heaven.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      Just plainly overfilled with happiness.

The experience included:      Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No

God, Spiritual and Religion:

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      No

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       I only had good experiences.  I was so happy that I would not mind just dying because there was not a thing that I had to worry about.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    My husband was very fascinated and was happy.  My husband said, 'God is a living God.'

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1park_sang_hee_nde.html