{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paola_mh_ndelike.html","mytitle":"Paola MH NDE-Like 2417","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paola MH NDE-Like 2417  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paola MH NDE-Like  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE-Like  						755  Paola MH NDE-Like  2417  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

I have to say from the depth of my heart that I don't want to lie in any way. I have as well to say that I am deeply happy to come across this website, which has been very helpful in sharing these experiences, which are so difficult to convey to other people unaware of the subject. I don't really know if my experience was a true NDE, but no doubt it was an OBE (out of body experience) and left a mark on my life.

I was lying alone in my bed in the morning; my little daughter had gone to school and I was asleep. The previous night I had taken some pills to sleep that were very strong.

Suddenly I found myself like waking up aware of the surroundings, of my body and of the place where I was, and the circumstances, etc. Following that, I could clearly see the ceiling, with my eyes closed. I felt a great peace and calmness and I really thought that I couldn't feel my body. At this moment, I started seeing on each side of my bed two high and luminous presences (figures) that apparently were there to escort me. They didn't have a clear form, just like beings of light. Then I saw towards the foot of the bed, a group of more or less six luminous people, but again I couldn't see their faces. I didn't feel odd but completely familiar with the experience. I began floating towards the ceiling, like being drawn by something, not that I wanted to be floating, I was being drawn. At that point I thought, 'I am dying,' then I remembered my daughter and I recalled to have said, 'No my God, not yet! My child is going to come back and she is going to find me dead in my bedroom. That is going to be a shock to her.' I recalled to have heard an 'It's alright.' I answered, 'Thanks.' I looked down at my feet and I believe to have seen my uncle and grandfather (already demised) and then I concentrated myself to come back to my body. I woke up with a deep sigh and my heartbeat was very fast. 

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	October 1999   

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes         supuesto paro cardiaco por somniferos  Life threatening event, but not clinical death   

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I don't know, everything was just more clear and calm, I didn't see neither the heaven nor the tunnel nor the light but I believe I was at the threshold of the experience.  One can feel calmness and all clear.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I realized I was rising up to the ceiling.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Neither  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   I wouldn't know how to explain it, in fact my experience was an out of body one and everything went so natural and with a feeling of calmness.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More so than usual  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was more clear, the colors as well. (I must state that I didn't see the awesome prism of colors like the amazing stories of other people.)  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I am not sure because the atmosphere was in silence and instead of hearing it is more like receiving and sending thoughts.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Sensed their presence  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     I saw beings of light but they didn't appear like people, they looked like persons and were tall but I couldn't see their faces, I only think to have recognized my uncle and granddad.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No   But I saw beings of light on both sides of my bedroom and at my feet.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Calmness at the time it was happening, but when I remembered my daughter I felt very much distress.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Relief or calmness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither     But since I experienced that event I began to believe in what I have never believed before.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither     I think I am a lot sensitive and I began to experience OBE. Frequently.  

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have always believed in God and Jesus but now I think they are with us though we don't see them.  

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have always believed in God and Jesus but now I think they are with us though we don't see them.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Sensed their presence  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I became much more sensitive. It hurts me the wrongdoing of people and I felt depressed for some things and I feel them like amplified.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I must say that when I refused to go and I received an 'its alright' as a reply, and when I responded 'thanks' I am still surprised at that.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    And almost always they look at me like saying 'you'd better go to a psychiatrist.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In films but it was not a subject of my major concern.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was probably real     I see it like real, and I recall it very well so far.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That in order to understand sometimes we have to go through those kinds of things.  

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I think that is very helpful to query about the religious beliefs of people, and also how his relationship with family, parents and friends before the NDE was. As well if they were taking drugs. Also in which circumstances they suffered the NDE, illness, accident, etc. It would be very helpful to interview personally these people so they might testify or give evidence about his NDE, and I am sure nobody would refuse.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paola_mh_ndelike.html