{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1paeata_bc_nde.html","mytitle":"Paeata BC NDE 3971","mylang":"de"}
          	        Paeata BC NDE 3971  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Paeata BC NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1898 Paeata BC NDE 3971  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					No Description Given

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  various over many years

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  'Suicide attempt at 19 =no NDE  Many asthma attacks resulted in repeated NDE's'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) There were5 or six involving flat lines and over and up to 50 or sixty involving respiratory arrest. Not all flat lines were NDEs Some respiratory arrests were.  Apart from one recent incident in which I was given a chance to re-experience part of what had happened in full consciousness. This occurred only once.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Uncertain    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   Full death/flat line

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Full death/flat line

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     A second was an eternity and an eternity a second.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I saw all the richness of color with great clarity and all my other senses seemed to be working overtime and even I would say outside of normal experience so it was like an  extended awareness.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Great care was taken that I understand every part of what went on and speech was slow and seemed to be coming from elsewhere.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Most certainly, every time except one.

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met what I would call an ultimate being. I was instructed. I came back. This happened only once in all of those experiences and was at the height when I had seven cardiac arrests in three days. I was also trying to rip out my life support though deeply unconscious and I remember feeling too much was being asked of me. I felt I could not bear what was asked of me. I still feel like that. I was in deep grief about coming back.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Unmistakable but I qualify that as to brightness, intensity and color. That can alter. I have even experienced what the Romans (I found out later) call the shades. Hades. It's not hell, its gloaming like a velvet nightfall.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Most certinaly. All of those often and always different from other like experiences.    Under 25. below. I experienced different worlds and clearly mystical and unfamilair are both correct.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Pain, confusion, and despair followed by extraordinary sights and sounds and then perfection everywhere.  At some point it was peaceful.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Once only. There were times that some part of my past came swimming up but always in the context of showing me about cause and effect.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Although everything was NOW

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     Once. I experienced layers or realms that were subject to some of our earthly laws, like the bend of the horizon. I don't want to relate more than once what I saw.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Raised a Catholic. Left during traumatized teen years as a result of abuse

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am very liberal now. I make no judgment about religions or religious practice. I understand even human sacrifice

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I am very open minded about what constitutes belief. I rest only on my own experiences in this regards but do not try to thrust them on others.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am very liberal now. I make no judgment about religions or religious practice. I understand even human sacrifice

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Unfortunately, yes. I learned that we are all part of this and outcomes are not to be read from here, nor do they read as the same thing. Sort of like when you bend light the view alters.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I guess my changes in attitude caused some of that though. And fear of what was coming. I have no fear of after death. It's here that's hard.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It was difficult to describe the depth of the experience. I had a go and it may have involved your site, some years ago. My story was published in a magazine where I reported not the full NDE only the minutes during which you 'die'. My purpose was to deter the targeted group in the magazine from suicide. It was published as an article called 'Been there, done that'. I got feedback, which showed the article had fulfilled its purpose in deterring people from suicide. A voice over was added by the publisher that was between a man who was 'psyched to die' and a psychiatrist. The man indicated that he did not want to try it after reading my article.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     For some time after. I saw the tsunami at Kiribati and was upset for weeks before it happened, but I did not tell anyone as it was attached to an NDE visionary learning about cause and effect. I also found that we are not the only inhabitants of our realms and that density of matter is very important as to how and where we are located and that all those worlds affect all the others in a way that is far out of our ordinary consciousness.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Oh yes. They altered my life and even that alteration was out of my hands.  It was terrifying. And it has been as hard, as I saw it would be.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Uncertain    A little bit.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   Not at all. It was totally unexpected. I was not interested in anything other than day to day survival.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was really painful going in to the experience and I think most people are spared that memory. I hope so.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     All that I saw has played out except a few things.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I'm very liberal now.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Lots but it may just be more of same for you.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       It's excellent.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1paeata_bc_nde.html