{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1padraic_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Padraic R NDE 3412","mylang":"de"}
          	        Padraic R NDE 3412  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Padraic R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1378 Padraic R NDE 3412  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I poised myself sitting upright against the wall, near the glass pane I had just broken. I rested my right arm in my lap and each time I took a breath my arm would gurgle. I figured if the ambulance was called at the time, I broke the glass they were over 15 minutes away from me. I knew I had about 8 minutes left. I thought to clamp the wound but a voice in my head said 'Lie still, you're fine!' I tried to keep track of my breathing and lost count. I could no longer keep my head up or my eyes open and fell into a gentle sleep. This was when I was aware that I was dying. 

I was not frightened by this thought. I had no direct fear of the death awaiting me and embraced it with warmth and recognition. I knew that I was still conscious but didn't know how. I could think in five different directions at once. The expansion of my experience was greater than I've ever experienced in life. Death became a new experience to me. I wanted this experience. I could talk to trees and ants on the ground. I experienced a 'life tone' of the Earth that I felt on one level. 

I stood in a field by a river, by a bridge. A man walked past me and I tried to get his attention. He walked about 10 feet away from me. It was daytime, although I knew it was night in the building I was just in. 

I said earlier that I knew that I was, but I didn't know just what I was. I could see, hear, feel and experience. Experiences came to me with lightning speed and clarity. As my consciousness expanded, I moved physically. At one moment, I was above the Earth and began to forget my family, my own name, even that I had fingers on my hand. I passed through four dimensions about as thick as a piece of paper. As I moved away from the Earth, I could feel 'life tones' of space and other planets. I then came in contact with a 'life force' not as advanced as our own, who expressed the emotion 'love' to me both individually and collectively. I hope to return to them after my second death. 

As I moved on, I met a dark haired friend. He was a friend who glowed yellow light from himself and as I tried to approach, he stopped me. I was frozen in space now, and in conscious experience. He said to me 'As you believed in me, I shall believe in you and thou shalt not die.' This I didn't understand because I was more alive than I've ever been in 33 years. 

Next, a cop was kneeling over me, telling me that I couldn't go to sleep and had to stay awake and keep talking. The paramedics were about to hoist me to the gurney. For the next year, I had mini death experiences that would come into my life at odd times.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'July 9, 1993'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Criminal attack  'In my escape from my attack, I punched my fist through a 14 to 16 foot plate glass window'  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   The glass that fell down around me severed an artery, and I watched myself bleed to death while hoping and waiting to hear a siren from an ambulance.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Just as my consciousness left my body and I forgot who I was.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I experienced more time in the afterlife than had happened here in the physical life.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I could see the gentleman in the next dimension, dimensional boundaries and the 'life forces' that contacted me.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear life tones of different life systems, trees, ants, asphalt, the Earth, space.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My friend with the dark hair, who with his yellow aura stopped me. I didn't know him from my past or from biblical impressions. He said to me 'As you believed in me I shall believe in you and thou shalt not die.'

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I went first to the dimension right after I passed over, with the gentleman, with the blue sky, river, bridge.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love, contentment, peace, self-awareness and my nature in the world of things.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     There were times in my life when I was supposed to die, and the narrow escapes were shown to me.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I studied Seth by Jane Roberts and accepted those views

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Actually, my beliefs have been enforced by my experience.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   I still study Seth

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Actually, my beliefs have been enforced by my experience.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was given information about an event in the future, nothing major like a train wreck or something on that scale. I'll become clearer of the event and my purpose as the future of it unfolds.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No I have not gone into depth what happened on that day in my current relationship.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I communicated with a voice that was telepathic. I felt 'life tones' that were musical in nature. I could experience the 'earth tone' as different from the 'life tone' that were trees.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The awareness I experienced, the personal experience and the future experience.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I did, and after their reactions decided to keep quiet about the whole affair.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew of them, but never paid much attention to them or the experiencers.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I became more withdrawn the first weeks after the NDE. I became more aware of the world around me. I wanted to return to the NDE to look in different directions and I wanted to learn about Mary and Christ.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I believe I will die again. I will not go to some 'Hell'. I'm not afraid of death in the terms we understand it.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I always wanted to go back and experience more.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1padraic_r_nde.html