{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ozzie_f_nde.html","mytitle":"Ozzie F NDE 5332","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ozzie F NDE 5332  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ozzie F NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2804 Ozzie F NDE 5332  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I experienced cardiac arrest while on the operating room table for a stent implant. I thought I had fallen asleep and was dreaming. I saw my mommy who is deceased and my sister who is deceased. They were walking down a gently sloping pasture field towards a small crystal-clear creek. I was standing on the opposite side of the creek when I saw them. Both were smiling and my sister was a step or so ahead of my dear mother.  

The pasture field they were walking through was covered with green grass and flowers of all hues but not very tall. The flowers were only a little taller than the grass, which I estimate to be about six-seven inches long making it look like a carpet of flowers and grass. There was a small breeze blowing lightly rustling the blades of grass and the flowers. As I stood on my side of the perfectly clear stream that was meandering crystal-clear water over the rocks, I noticed that my place of waiting was like the pasture field on the other side of the stream covered with beautiful flowers and grass carpeted. When I commenced walking down to cross the small creek to greet and hug Mommy and Sister Bonnie, my sister said, 'Not now Bubby, don’t cross over yet.' My mommy did not utter one word, she was there and she was smiling. Then I awoke.

When I awoke the Doctor told me I had passed out for a while that was all he said. It was not until later in the day, six or so hours after the procedure, still in the recovery room, that I learned that I went into cardiac arrest on the table and they used electric shock to start my heart again. The gelatin used for placing the paddles on my chest started drying and pulling my skin. Then I asked my wife, who was sitting with me in the recovery room how the drying sticky stuff got onto my chest.

She related to me about the cardiac arrest, how they had to jump-start my heart, using paddles and the gel. My doctor came into my room later that evening and he explained it all to me. I did not ask nor did he tell me how long I was in cardiac arrest, but I had to stay in the hospital extra days making sure I was recovered before sending me home.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  'March 03, 2005'

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Surgery-related. Heart attack    Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function)   I experienced cardiac arrest while on the operating room table for a stent implant.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When my sister Bonnie spoke to me saying, 'Not now Bubby, don’t cross over yet.'

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     All was perfect in my vision without flaw or fault. I am an amputee - right leg above the knee. In the NDE my body was whole.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

The experience included:       Presence of deceased persons

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   The day was brighter than any I ever saw and the light was special bright but not like staring at the glaring sun.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Bright lit pasture fields carpeted with green grass and perfect flowers seperated by a crystal-clear running stream.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Gladness at seeing my mommy and sister. I was happy to be whole again with two legs.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My NDE has made me a better person caring for those who are less fortunate than me, and has brought me closer to Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   'I was not a real devout religious person when I had my NDE.  Attending church at this time, March 1995, in my life was sporadic and spotty at best. During this time of my life all I could say about my faith was; I believed and understood the fundamentals of my Christianity but did not practice any of the tenants of my church—I was more like a hypocrite dabbling in my fundamentalist religion belief.'

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I am more faithful, attend church on a regular basis, study the scriptures daily, and pray thanking God several times throughout the day I have become a more caring, understanding person.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   'Currently I attend church on a regular basis. I study Old Testament and New Testament scriptures daily. We pray in our house now before every meal.  I have become more aware of needy folks and help as much as I can with their needs. It is most rewarding to pray for others and to seek others to fellowship with my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. My NDE led me to start a very small Bible Tract ministry. No matter where I travel, I try to place fundamentalist bible tracts in conspicuous locations.'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am more faithful, attend church on a regular basis, study the scriptures daily, and pray thanking God several times throughout the day I have become a more caring, understanding person.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I love my wife more and more. I do not find faults in others like I once did. I quit swearing, smoking, and cheating in my everyday life. I am trying to live the best I can in peace and harmony with God through my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ who teaches all the good things about life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No   It was so pleasant, that it is worth retelling again and again.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I noticed the clarity of my vision watching Mommy and Sister Bonnie walking towards me smiling and in perfect health and in what looked like the same body without blemish - the same body but different in a sense I cannot explain. Not until later the same evening when I was told about my cardiac arrest, did I realize I had been standing in paradise. I was on one side of the stream going to meet Mommy and Bonnie on the other side of the stream.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    About 12 hours later when I shared it with my wife.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It is burned into my brain and has had a profound effect on how I live my life now. I changed for the good and have a very personal and close relationship with my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is very real and I strive daily to live a better life, to be a better person, to be a better father, brother and grandfather. It's real!

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Uncertain

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Live the faith, do not fear, God is on our side and through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ we will walk in paradise again soon.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Thank you for providing the outstanding questionnaire.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ozzie_f_nde.html