{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1pam_a_nde.html","mytitle":"Pam A NDE 934","mylang":"de"}
          	        Pam A NDE 934  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Pam A NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						399  Pam A NDE  934  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					

After falling down, I entered into another universe, I’d rather say into space, in a strong light. I felt wonderfully well, I was no more hungry and I didn’t suffer any more. It seemed to me that I was able to understand everything and to give, finally, a sense to my life. I was aware of being dead and earth seemed so far away. I had no more any link with earth, I knew flying. I met other beings, who, as me, had no body anymore. But anyway, I could enter them and then know what they felt and who they were, even if I didn’t know them.


Then I met Christ himself. I recognized him straightaway. I understood he wanted me to go back to earth but I didn’t want to do so. But he told me it was not the time for me and that we’ll see each other again pretty soon.  I’m very attached to my family but at this moment this had absolutely no importance at all.  I had no opportunity at all to make contact with earth or people living on earth.  And I was not anymore interested in doing so.


I had been attracted back to earth and when I woke up, I was very angry against my family who helped me to breath again.

Background Information:

Gender:    Female

Date NDE Occurred:    1984

NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?      No   Accident     arrêt respiratoire et des fonctions vitales

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

Did you feel separated from your body?    No

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?      Perfect.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?      No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?      No     The shock had been too hard, I think I went directly behind the tunnel.

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?      Yes     I didn’t know the beings I met in space and except for Christ, none of them told me anything; it was not necessary, I knew everything about them.  Christ told me that it was not time for me, that I had to go back to earth and that we would see us again pretty soon.  They were beings of light, without body nor face and nevertheless I could see their bodies and their faces.

The experience included:      Light

Did you see an unearthly light?      Yes   I was in the light.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?      That was wonderful. What a peace!!!

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?      Everything about the universe     Life after death, the peace of soul, the genuine meaning of our life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?      My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?      No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?      No   I wanted to stay there.  I didn’t want to go back to earth but I had no choice.

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?   Moderate

What is your religion now?      Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?      Yes     I have not any more any fear about death and I know that something wonderful exists after. The only thing I want is to go back there as quick as possible.

The experience included:      Presence of unearthly beings

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?     Yes   During the experience, I had some particular gifts which are very difficult to describe to others. It’s also very difficult to describe the feelings I had.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?      Yes     I guessed some things that became real later.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?       All was marvelous, the worst, to come back on earth.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?    Yes    At the beginning yes, but people didn’t believe me so I preferred keeping silent. People look at you, smiling, as if you were crazy, so I prefer keeping all this only for me.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?    No   

</h5>

&nbsp;</h5>  				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1pam_a_nde.html