{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oscar_t_nde.html","mytitle":"Oscar T NDE 2876","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oscar T NDE 2876  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oscar T NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						993  Oscar T NDE  2876  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description:   

  					  In ceiling, working on top of a six feet ladder, with one hand on the wires, that where live (on the safe part) and the other hand on my pliers (also on the rubber). The voltage and amperage was high. The flexible metal conduit jumped to one finger like a magnet and the power arched over the pliers sending 277 volts about 13 amps through me. It wiped my head back and started to hear static running through me. I was trying to drop my tool or move my hand from the wipe, but they were glued into place. I was told I was screaming a death cry. I realized that there was no hope and no one was close to me to help.

My vision started to be swallowed by static; it was like seeing a TV station go off air. That's when I felt the push out. I was now in a dark tunnel looking down at me (like there was a spot of light behind me) and that was when I felt scared with fear and then I was looking at pictures of events and people of my life in order from birth to that day. When the last picture fell, I was looking down at myself standing there on the ladder with my arms out and my head pulled back, it was like I was floating over myself.

That's when I said goodbye and started to turn toward the light. After I said goodbye, I felt pure happiness. I never have felt that happiness since that time. Just about that time, I almost turned around. I was pushed very hard back down. I was now off the six feet ladder, standing with my arms out and my head back. And slowly my vision came back.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	August 1999  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was working in the ceiling, trying to troubleshoot some 277 volt circuit live (which was dumb) I used one hand but the amp jumped and locked me on.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I felt like I had more knowledge.  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Yes.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither   Time stopped, because when I was looking down I wasn't moving.  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything was high definition.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Not at it, it was behind me.  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Sad, guilty.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     It was like have 3 x 5 inch pictures drop down in front of me on a table. And they were not falling in a stack either.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       Neither     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   roman Catholic  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes       

What is your religion now?       Moderate   None  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Neither     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I had a feeling of everything making sense.  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   It took five years before I could even talk about it. Every time I tried to think about it I'd re-live it and I'd start crying.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Twice now I've dreamed of people that I knew but not the kind of people that I'd ever keep in my head. I had a dream of them the same day they died and would learn later of their death.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I'm still working on that one.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My wife I told her last month it was over seven years being married and I finally told her, with all details. Told some strangers, it was easier to tell people that weren't in the pictures falling from the sky.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was a skeptic. My family own a pyramid house and it used to be open for tours. In my early twenties, I used to give lectures there. Often, I'd had to host groups of metaphysics. I heard and saw a lot of weird stuff but I never believed it. It scares me now because I'm one of the nuts now.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oscar_t_nde.html