{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oscar_d_nde_22393.html","mytitle":"Oscar D NDE 22393","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oscar D NDE 22393  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oscar D NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2514 Oscar D NDE 22393  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was given too much gas in the dentist’s office, died, and floated up above my body. I was about three feet above. I could look down with complete clarity at the dentist and see the top of his head, back of his head, looking into my mouth. Then, I floated down the hallway of the office, in the opposite direction, of where my body was being taken. They took my body to the recovery room, where they found me dead, not breathing with no heartbeat. The nurses and doctor worked on recovery, with my mom screaming with anxiety. I was in a state of curiosity.  I was trying to comprehend what was happening, but only for a few minutes.  I knew I had died and was glad it was over with. It was awful to die. To die was terrible, but as soon as I let go, I was left with peace. I decided to explore the area, went outside, came back in, and then met my real parents, who explained that my mom in life was a nice person, but not my real mom. I knew, without any doubt, what they were saying was completely true; because I could feel the intense love and affection they had for me. I could feel a direct link to them and they were both like guardian angels, advising me of my situation, and giving me advice on what to do. But, I did not take their advice, because I knew, that my mom on earth would suffer throughout her life without me, so I felt it necessary to save her from that fate and return, even if she was not my real mom. I felt the pain she would have to go thru, knowing I died would ruin her life and I felt I would be the one to suffer more. By returning to this life and giving up an opportunity to go to a better life, as my real parents had told me was available and waiting for me.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1963

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    I was given the gas at the dental office for sedation, to have a tooth removed. Dentist gave too much gas, stopping my heart.   stopped breathing, no heart beat, had to be given cpr and chest pumping to start breathing again.  I was not breathing and was without a heartbeat.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Positive

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I was like an entity without body, an invisible being, like a small ball of energy or electricity with thought and awareness.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Completely alert, completely awake in another state of life or afterlife.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     I met two individuals or beings as I floated out towards the dentists lobby, above the office secretary's desk. I immediately felt complete love from them. They explained to me that they were my real mom and dad and that my mom in life was a very nice person, but not my real mom. I knew from their love and warmth of presence that they were in fact my mom and dad. They told me it was time to go with them to another life, a better life, with more opportunity, but listening to my mom screaming in the dental room, I felt so sorry for her and asked my real mom and dad if I could continue in this life. They told me that the life would be hard and not happy, but I told them, I would rather go back and not see her suffer. They asked me if I was sure, and I said, yes. Then, I remember heading back into the recovery room, I could see the nurses panicking, everyone was scared, I saw myself, and I went back into my body and came back to life.

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I could see and hear, no different from life. I do not remember any smell, except the odor of the gas before I died.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Maturity, sadness for my mom who was screaming in shock during the ordeal.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     After meeting my real parents, my mom and dad, I quickly felt I was oriented back to the afterlife and I trusted everything my mom and dad told me as God like information. Unquestionable, completely true and without doubt, about the future and what they said would occur, if I stayed in this life.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     I immediately headed for the dentist's front door, went outside and then came back into the office, where I met my real parents. While outside, it was clear to me then, that the sun was where all afterlife entities go first after death. I realize some people see light, but for me, I could see and understand the place to go was the sun, and that is where all of us go after we die. It is a place where all life meets.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     It was extremely accurate.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   I asked permission to return to this life and I was given permission to return by my real parents.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   I was only 10 years old, but I was raised Catholic

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I believe in the afterlife.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I periodically have received a sixth sense feeling of what to do in many crucial and dangerous times during my life, all resulting in my survival. Also, I felt I was given a special bit of information back in the mid 1990's to buy up hundreds of domain names, which I did and made hundreds of thousands of dollars on the deals.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Knowing that I was returning to a life that has already been set as a life without happiness and that I was doing so only to spare my mom the suffering from losing a child.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Disbelief.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       That I had the experience long before any television show or movie talked about near death experiences. I told my story about the ordeal to a few people back in 1965, and it was not until the mid or late 1970's that I had ever heard anyone else have a similar experience.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Felt I was repeating information. I apologize for any errors. I wanted to tell someone my experience and I hope you can read it. No time to proof read, I need to get back to work here.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oscar_d_nde_22393.html