{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oswaldo_probable_nde.html","mytitle":"Oswaldo Probable NDE 7464","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oswaldo Probable NDE 7464  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oswaldo Probable NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Probable NDE  			3813 Oswaldo Probable NDE 7464  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was selling incense with a friend in a street in the city center and they mistook me, and stabbed me from behind and also my friend. I got up and ran, overwhelmed with panic and losing a lot of blood from the wounds. I got into a taxi at the red traffic lights, while my friend also got up and got in the taxi.  From that moment, (I) he began to feel very dizzy and feeling very sick, and panicked.  Everything was yellow with descending giant black drops. When we arrived at the hospital, I fell unconscious. The hospital porters picked me up, put me on a trolley, and started to yell. Gradually I lost consciousness again. 

I began to hear and experience a type of regression, like a film.  I saw all the religious deities from the subconscious. A friend said to me that death is like a web that looks like a daisy and that we go in a vehicle through a metallic web, continuing to the Earth.  He said, that Death is like a daisy that doesn't exist, and fortuitously the daisy tried to say an illusion, or maybe that death is an illusion. 

I also saw the religious deities Jesus, the Virgin Mary, Krishna: experiencing that they exist in real life. Then I saw a pool, with a four-cornered tomb in the middle.  The person was saying to me to throw myself into the tomb, which was joined to the pool.  He tried to throw me, but then I saw a sort of tunnel, or a kind of dark opening that tried to suck me in.  I panicked.  I tried many times but the fear stopped me from jumping in.  I entered another dimension, seeing puppies digging around on their stomachs, suffering like me, or myself.  

Something very strange occurred as I began to live my childhood playing with my friends. In the green meadows, it was as if I, myself, or something had to test my spiritual level.  I was shown that my childhood could have been lived as if every moment was beautiful. He surprised me with such a profound realization as he was saying goodbye to the surgeon and me, but they wanted me to go.  It was a beautiful, deep sleep in a state of peace and harmony. I imagine that, if I had said goodbye I would have stayed in this incomparable, relaxed trance state.

Then I heard the surgeon say to me that I was fixed to my trolley.  I mentioned my spiritual master, that I had found my religion.  He told me that I was in very good shape being saved from the operation.  They had stitched up the stomach, with various probes in each wound.  He said that when they took me to intensive care and under anesthetics, I had experienced the suffering of the Earth, like a purgatory that you suffer and feel pain.  At that point, you are alleviated or you are purified. I would have really preferred to remain unconscious in this state eternally, without pain or suffering, totally disconnected from this material plane.  But it was a great teaching, sometimes difficult to describe. 

I feel that one has to experience it personally.  However, many, whilst in these experiences, can't tolerate the pain and go.  While others, such as ourselves, remain here in this World.  I reflect and trying to live as a harmonious non-violent human being without war and aware of everything surrounding us indestructible.  I feel compelled to never destroy anything and to live life as healthily as possible, linking with the supreme.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  09/27/1994

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Herida de arma blanca  Life threatening event, but not clinical death. Ahogamiento, nauseas.  I was bleeding and very ill and very, very dizzy and the worst feeling of fear in my whole life.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND distressing

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Upon realizing I was dying: drowning with sickness and with pure panic.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I felt that my whole life passed in just one day at once.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My experience was like a dream but at the same time a film. It tried to show me many things about life and beyond.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I heard normally, in nervous shock I trembled and shouted and cried out for this suffering called life, and had to face it with courage and good judgment.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Everything was very fast but I saw images of every religious deity that seemed to exist or those that were shown to me in the experience.

The experience included:       Void

The experience included:       Darkness

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       No

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Fear, sorrow, pain and suffering, laughter, confusion, song, love of God, and the doctors that I could see like angels, lovely and beautiful and from another plane.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       No

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt no longer in conflict with nature

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I experienced that all knowledge is stored within every living being: animate or inanimate.

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       I remembered many past events     I experienced all of the past from my far off infancy and everything since, as if it had happened that current day, or as a regression.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will   While unconscious I was dreaming and living in my subconscious which was like an empty swimming pool, with a tomb in the center, and someone told me to throw myself into the pool, but when I tried to do it I felt threatened from a dark opening which tried to suck me down; I was so frightened, and I couldn't throw myself in the tomb in the centre of the pool. I believe that if I had been able to do it I would have died.    

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Hindu   Religión hinduista haré krishna

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Hindu   Sigo en la religión hinduista pero ya con más responsabilidades,casado, fuera de mi país .un hijo de 15 años

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Si no se sí por haber pertenecido a la religión vedica influencio en todas mis experiencias en ese suceso fatídico dei vida

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin   Some doctors were attending to me but their faces were very beautiful and of a very fair complexion with bright eyes but with a type of fine beauty too difficult to describe.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Era todo muy rápido pero vi las imágenes de todas las deidades religiosas parece que  si existen o eso me decía la experiencia

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       Yes     Si experimente que todo lo que uno  se imagine existe

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     Si yo experimente que  todo lo que practique en mi religión es real y se puede experimentar

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     Si experimente que todas las deidades religiosas existen y también demoniacas

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have become much more aware of that which we eat.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     Si yo experimente que sí uno es creyente y no ha sido violentó y se comporta lo mejor que pueda y desarrolla el conocimiento puede tener un resultado mejor después de la muerte de todas formas somos eternos

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Experimente qué todos  somos energía y que nadie se muere por lo tanto somos eternos sin importar a que nos vayamos

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     Si muchas cosas relevantes que nunca había sentido o experimentado o visto en mi subconsciente

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     Si yo experimente que si uno actúa bien y con conocimiento recibe el bien o la felicidad

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     Si yo experimente que cuando los médicos de aspecto muy hermoso que me rodearon en mi estado de entré vivo y muerto eran muy amorosos conmigo era una experiencia muy hermosa a pesar que fue el peor pasaje de mi vida

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Unknown

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Moderate changes in my life. I discovered that angels and miracles exist.     Moderate changes in my life. I discovered that angels and miracles exist.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Uncertain   There were occurrences, which were difficult to describe.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I developed a certain love for God.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, to value life more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Four months later I told my colleagues about it and they said if I had thrown myself in the pool I would have died and that death doesn't exist but God really exists, they didn't understand very well or didn't treat it with very much importance or credulity.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I was aware of previous lives.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Very traumatic and at times hard to describe, but very real.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I take it easy, and carefully. I felt the panic of fear of death by drowning.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       There exists eternity and we needn't fear death because I discovered it doesn't exist and we should believe in the Divine, on Earth and to have a spiritual basis. I understood that we are energy and no one dies, as we are eternal and if we go, it isn't important. I experienced all the Religious Deities that exist and also the Demons. I discovered that everything that we imagine exists. I discovered that everything that I practice in my religion is real and can be experienced. 

  I discovered that if you behave well and with wisdom you receive good or happiness. I discovered that the doctors around me were very beautiful and surrounded me in my state between life and death. They were very loving towards me. It was a very beautiful experience, in spite of being the worst event of my life. There were relevant things from my subconscious, which I had never felt, seen or experienced.  I don't know how much the Vedic religion had influenced all my experiences in this fateful, living God event. I experienced as a lesson or a teaching that you have to learn life in jolts certainly.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I believe that the way human beings share is very wrong, indifference and racism envy, intolerance, competitiveness, lust and ignorance that eats us like a cancer. Differences in religion, wars, everything comes from ignorance. I hope that one day we will evolve.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oswaldo_probable_nde.html