{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oscar_o_nde.html","mytitle":"Oscar O NDE 5350","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oscar O NDE 5350  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oscar O NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2815 Oscar O NDE 5350  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was swimming in the lake on a very hot summer day (I was not a good swimmer then nor am I now) and I got tired and thought I was close enough to shore that I could stand up but unknown to me there was a very deep drop off. My feet did not touch bottom and I kept going down and down and I began to struggle to get back up to the surface and soon realized I was not going to make it. I stopped struggling and I looked up and noticed that I was looking at a light through the far end of a tunnel and then I began to have a sense of peace and there was absolutely no pain nor discomfort. I have never felt that feeling before or since the drowning. The closer that I got to the tunnel the darker it became and then there was absolutely no light, only an absence of it as I passed through. It was at this moment I realized what David was describing in the 23rd Psalm. I felt no fear as I was heading toward the most intense white light that I have ever seen. It did not burn nor did it blind me. 

I finally reached the light after what felt like hours of traveling through that tunnel. I stopped before the light and we began to have a conversation not verbally but through some form of telepathy. I also noticed that we seemed to be surrounded in some void because the light was the only thing I could see and I realized the light was Jesus Christ. We began to review my life before the drowning. It was very similar to one of those old slide projectors where a scene would appear and then we would discuss it and then another scene would appear and we would discuss that one. 

I remember when I stood before my biologic father for getting into some mischief.  I had a sense of dread and fear because I knew the circumstance was going to earn me a spanking.  But this review with the light never once did I have this same sense of fear, it was as though I was being shown what happened in that scene and then what the outcome was. The Light then began to show me what was going to happen in my future in the same manner as the time before my drowning. I knew that I was going to have to return to my present life and if it had been left to me, I would have stayed. 

Then in a fraction of a second, I was being pulled from the water and I was back in this dimension perfectly fine with no side effects from the drowning, it was as if nothing had happened to my body. My life has never been the same. It took several years of reflection to understand what happened and how my life seems very different from other folks. I have no fear of death and I look forward to the day that I get to return to the light and once again enjoy that peace and comfort. I also seem to have a gift of knowledge that I can answer someone's question about a subject that I have never studied nor knew anything about. 

I don't know if this is common among people who have had this experience. I am just beginning to explore this event but then, maybe it's that I was given prior knowledge of events before they happen.  I knew two weeks prior to the bombing that there was going to be mass casualties in Oklahoma City but I did not seem to know exactly what it was going to be. There are so many other things that have taken place within my mind, body and spirit that I seem to have more questions than answers and I am not sure where to seek this knowledge

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Aug 1967

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No    Drowning  'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       In the Tunnel

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     No sense of time

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Once again all my sense were functioning at greater than 100%.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    We spoke through telepathy not verbally.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, peace and no pain or discomfort.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist   Cumberland Presbyterian

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I have issues with organized religions. They are good for people that need structure but they miss the real joy of understanding that our creator lives within us and that he wants to be in involved in all aspects of our life.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist   None

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I have issues with organized religions. They are good for people that need structure but they miss the real joy of understanding that our creator lives within us and that he wants to be in involved in all aspects of our life.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I have knowledge of things that I have neither studied nor prior knowledge of.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Uncertain I don't seem to have that need for individual attention. I feel more of a need to be connected with the entire world.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     I have a gift of knowledge and I have not fully explored everything that happens to me.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The knowledge that I was being sent back to help others and knowing that when my time is done in this dimension the next one will be more meaningful that words can describe.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    8 years later. They were amazed and they seem to want to learn more about that dimension and the light I spoke with.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I do not really know how to explain it.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Even now most of my life I have felt detached as though I am here but part of my mind is somewhere else. It is as though I am connected to two places at once.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I learned that we can live in peace with each other no matter what our race or religion. That in the near future we will be able to cure all diseases and with the knowledge we are gaining, we will be able to stop global warming. We must realize that the world is trying to make adjustments now for its survival. The greed of the world leaders is the greatest deterrence to peace and harmony in this world. Our children being born in this generation have more abilities with ESP and other gifts of the mind. That our creator will not allow races from other universes come to this planet until we do reach peace among all men.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oscar_o_nde.html