{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1olu_a_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Olu A Possible NDE 6030","mylang":"de"}
          	        Olu A Possible NDE 6030  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Olu A Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  			2850 Olu A Possible NDE 6030  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had dreamt days earlier of a woman, a friend’s wife, who I know in real life and had offered me food (I refused in real life). She was telling me I would pass away, and I told her that I wouldn’t. She told me that my driver would die instead. I did not and still do not understand this, even now. For years, I had been experiencing sharp pain within my body. That had nothing to do with the woman. On the very day I had this out of body experience I had gone to sleep in the three bedroom flat where I live alone, which is one of six in a block of flats.

I suddenly saw myself standing in a place beside a man standing by a boat or small ship. He looked like glass and white with a fluorescent like appearance.  This was how the boat and I looked too.  The man never said anything to me.  I wasn’t sure, but I felt he had brought me in the boat from Earth. It appeared that I was the only passenger.  I couldn’t remember getting into the boat, or off it, or how long the journey had been. Maybe I was never in the boat.  I remember vividly the point I started moving.  It appeared the man was waiting for something to happen, like he knew it would. Something moved me forward, though not violently. It was peaceful. I can’t remember making any effort, or my feet moving in a walk. I then saw a not too big tunnel, which went downward. I am six feet tall, and that tunnel may not have been more than twelve feet wide. It looked metallic, glassy and white. The place almost looked like a factory area, for it was clean and serene, although it was not as bright as the man himself.  There was a coolness to the light and it was not very bright. I then started flowing effortlessly down the tunnel. I could not see what was at the end. I heard no sound and no voice.  Suddenly I halted in space and ceased going down. Then I turned back and saw yet another man, more authoritative looking than the first. He was speechless and hoisted me very effortlessly from my garment and started moving me up.  As he lifted me out of the tunnel, I heard myself telling myself ‘So this is how I could have died’. Instantly I woke up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Last week of September 2011
    
  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was bleeding inside my body, but didn't know it then.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Both pleasant AND unpleasant and/or frightening

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Less consciousness and alertness than normal   I don’t really know for sure, but I was following a process I had no control over and couldn’t say no to. Nobody spoke to me, yet I was obeying.  I was not even out rightly afraid.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When I was moving towards the tunnel and started descending.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     My vision didn't differ.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    There was no single sound - no noise, just quiet.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     I started flowing down, but I didn’t get far before I was hoisted back by the second, apparently higher, being.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   The environment was cool.  There was no very bright light.  The men and I were brighter than any light, yet we were not covered in intense light.

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I knew I was not on Earth and this is how I was able to explain the presence of the boat after then experience, when I was awake. The tunnel appeared to be the next phase of the journey, and the second man stopped me entering that.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I had a submissive emotion with no anger, no adrenaline and no surge of energy. It was when I was waking up that I discovered I had almost died.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Greatly important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Christian (Pentecostal).But i believe i have not totally been faithfull to God

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant   I am doing my best to strenghten my relationship with God

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I WAS THOUGHT IN MY PENTECOSTAL CHRISTIAN RELIGION AND BELIEVE THAT AFTER DEATH THERE IS JUDGEMENT CARRIED OUT BY GOD AND JESUS CHRIST THE SON OF GOD

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I know even more than before that at the end of our lives all mankind has a destination, to be in the presence of the Creator and to be judged.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   SINCERELY, I AM NOT SURE.BUT KNOW LATER AFTER I WOKE THAT THE MAN WHO PULLED ME UP IS JESUS THE CHRIST.HE IS THE ONLY ONE WHO CAN SAVE FROM DEATH.IT WAS HOWEVER DIFFICULT TO KNOW IF THE MEN WERE CAUCASIAN OR BLACK AFRICAN.I ALMOST LOOKED LIKE THEM: WHITIS

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God definitely exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     I WAS SAVED FROM DESCENDING INTO THE TUNNEL BY A SUPREME BEING.THERE WAS ORDERLINESS AND PURPOSEFULNESS THAT COMES FROM A SUPREME BEING

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   That I had been halted from total death or passing through the whole course. I was brought to that realm as I was bleeding inside to death. I assume it was to be judged for my life on earth.

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Yes     THAT WE WERE TO LIVE AND AFTER THAT COME TO THE REALM WHERE I FOUND MYSELF.IT WAS EVIDENT THAT I WAS DIEING.ALL HUMAN BEINGS WILL SURELY DIE ONE DAY.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     YES , THE TUNNEL MUST HAVE LED TO ANOTHER ACTIVITY AND IS A DESTINATION TO A PLACE FOR LIFE , EVIDENTLY SPIRITUALLY AFTER DEATH ON EARTH

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I greatly fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Greatly fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     THE SECOND MAN'S ACT OF SAVING ME FROM DIEING AND ALLOWING ME TO RETURN TO BECOME A LIVING AGAIN

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more conscious that what I do with others now is very important for my future in another life.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   I am still stunned, because I almost died. I don't know how best to describe my experience.

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience as accurately as other life events that occurred around the time of the experience   I AM AWARE OF THE PREVIOUS DREAM I HAD.I KNEW IN A WAY THAT THIS IS A REVELATION , NOT ACTUALLY A DREAM.THIS FROM THE MOMENT I MOVED AWAY FROM THE FIRST MAN AND BOAT IS STILL VERY VIVID IN MY MIND.I WROTE IT DOWN IMMEDIATELY.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Willingness to serve God and worship him even more.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it at a Christian night vigil with church leaders, four days after the experience. They were really influenced. The Pastor pointed out that there is a thin separation between life and death, and we have to be careful as Christians.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   In written church testimonies and controversies.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I am still stunned by the reality, and knew without a doubt that I almost died.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     I am still stunned. My mind has not stopped telling me that I had a narrow escape. The reality registered with my faith.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       It is to reiterate that I am scared by the reality of my experience.

Did the questions asked and information that you provided accurately and comprehensively describe your experience?       Uncertain           				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1olu_a_possible_nde.html