{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1ollie_k_nde.html","mytitle":"Ollie K NDE 4130","mylang":"de"}
          	        Ollie K NDE 4130  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Ollie K NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2019 Ollie K NDE 4130  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had a very bad kidney infection, running 105 fever. I was refused medical attention at the hospital because we had no insurance. I was lying on the sofa, I had to go to the bathroom, and I held on to the walls and finally made it there. As soon as I got on the seat, I died.

I was about ceiling high and looking down at my body thinking how funny it will be for them to find me on the commode. I was so happy to be out of that horrifically painful body. As I was leaving, my little girl who was five at the time laughed outside of the bathroom window. I stopped ascending and tried to think of someone in my family to raise my children. I don't know how long I took, but it was clear to me there was no one to raise them. I said, 'God, please let me go back I have to raise my children.' I assume I knew he was allowing me to go back. I looked down at my body and I was dreading going back into it. I knew I had to and so I pulled myself back into it. It was a very hard thing to do. I was exhausted. I finally got the strength to get up and go lie down again. 

We were moving to Cheyenne Wyoming. I had asked the movers to take the sofa last. They finally told me I had to let them take it. I lay on the floor until my husband came home. He made me a bed in the car and we left. I have had at least four times when doctors have told me that God did the things to save my life that they were not able to do.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  October 1962

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       No  Illness    Other 'I had a very bad kidney infection, running 105 fever. Was refused medical care because of no insurance was at home. We were moved to Cheyenne Wyo. I was on the couch lying down. Had to go to bathroom, held on to the walls to get there. As I fell on the s

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    No    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       I was as aware then at all times, just as I am here writing this.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I believe that God had my daughter laugh loud enough and at the perfect time for me to not leave.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Until I knew I had to come back I was so happy, joyful, thankful and have never felt such love, peace and warmth. I knew God was there listening to me.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     I have always had my beliefs and I have always known that our God is an awesome God.

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     I have always had my beliefs and I have always known that our God is an awesome God.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I feel such happiness at the success of my children because I know that only through the love of my God that I am still here to love and cherish them and be so proud. I know that life is very fragile.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I have had many, I know when bad things happen to my family. I hear my spirit guide telling me when I must do things. I know what things are true or if someone is lying.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        That God knew a mother's love cannot be replaced.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Immediately. I was so excited about it. They were skeptical at first but I think finally they had to believe me because I told everyone and still do to this day.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I knew that we do not just die because we were promised a life here after.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I still know without a doubt that it was as real as me sitting here typing.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It is as real today as it was forty-seven years ago. I can recall it as though it was only yesterday.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have always been grateful to have had it.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1ollie_k_nde.html