{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oma_l_nde.html","mytitle":"Oma L NDE 2448","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oma L NDE 2448  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oma L NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						739  Oma L NDE  2448  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

The anesthesiologist wanted to block my left arm so that I may stay awake while the doctors performed surgery to attached my severed pinky and repair the tendons. Minutes after I was injected with the anesthesia, I went into a seizure and had a cardiac arrest. I found myself standing on an air of darkness. I can see myself, but everything around me was foggy and dark. All I could hear was more than a thousand voices talking to me at the same time. The words were not clear to me, but for some odd reason I knew what the voices were saying. All I could understand was 'Do you want to live?' I would go back and forth between the voices, and flashbacks in reviews of my life. It was a very frightening experience. I also saw a bright light white light as if someone is shining a flashlight in my eyes as if not to be viewed. I believe at that point, as if I knew what the voices were saying; I also knew that the light was the image of God or maybe that was what I wanted to believe. At that moment, I saw the light the voices became louder and stronger with the same question 'Do you want to live?' I wanted to answer 'YES', but I couldn't answer it. I knew I had to yell out 'YES' but could not utter a word. My speech ability was taken away from me. Until a voice from the operation room yelled out 'YES' causing me to come back to reality.  I found myself in the same room. I suppose at that time they had revived me brought me back and someone was happy to see me back and yelled out 'YES'. That one word I couldn't say was what I wanted to say, but yelled out by a nurse brought me back.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 06/20/1986  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related     Severed Left pinky surgery to re-attached tendons.  Other   Seizure from medication.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Frightening  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Hearing the voices.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening all at once  

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There was no color. Just darkness and a bright white blinding light at the end of the experience.  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Heard voices but knew what they were asking me.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Uncertain     Heard voices but didn't see anyone.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Neither       

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Very frighten. If death is what I've experienced, then I preferred to live as long as I can. Do not want to go through that experience again.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Neither  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Neither  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Past flashed before me, out of my control     Relived childhood life review in the refugee camp in Thailand back in 1975.  

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate     

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No       

What is your religion now?       Moderate     

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Unidentifiable voice     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No     

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared it with the doctors and nurses that asked me, did I experiencing anything. I told them I saw God and they proceed to mentioned that I was hallucinating. So I never shared it with anyone, but remains constantly on my mind.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real       

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real       

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oma_l_nde.html