{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oriana_r_fde.html","mytitle":"Oriana R FDE 4202","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oriana R FDE 4202  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oriana R FDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification FDE  			2046 Oriana R FDE 4202  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I was driving in a car and it seemed as if I was about to crash into a truck.  But, something took over the steering wheel, shot me upwards towards a bright light and I was surrounded by some loving beings. As I was going to the light as message was shared with me. 'No matter what you have done and not done you are loved. No matter what you will do and won't do, you are loved. The world is perfect and you are perfect.' I also recall a conversation where I had decided I hadn't achieved what I had set out to do, so I decided that as much as I loved this place, I would return to my body. And boom I was back in my body driving along with no truck in sight anymore. I was in tears of joy, the feeling of love radiated throughout my being; it was the most amazing point in my life to date.

In the weeks after this I went on a knowledge search, trying to read everything I could on what happened, on life after death, on spirituality etc., I was reading eight or so books at a time. I also knew that my job involved helping people.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1997

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other Car crash that didn't happen in the end.  Potential car crash with a truck.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   On the way to the light source.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       On the way to the light source.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Whilst I was there it seemed like a long time, e.g. five minutes, however, it must of only been five or seven seconds in our time.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Everything seemed very vivid.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Messages I received seemed to be just implanted in my brain. I don't know where they came from. Very clear and loving.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     I shot straight up, as if I had jets in my body towards a great white light. It was a strong, swift force that sent me upwards.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     They were surrounding me, and they were like balls of light sending me unconditional love. I didn't see any faces, just the light.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A beautiful bright white loving light.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Taken to the source of light and unconditional, all encompassing love.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Complete and utter love being sent to me from those I saw and the light stream I was in.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     It was like a judgment review of what had happened, but I can't recall the detail now, but it was a really quick flash and it came from a communal point of view, i.e. I was part of a community whose actions/past was being reviewed. In this life my family does see itself as belonging to larger groups of people, i.e. it's not just our parents and siblings, it's a huge extended family and more.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Only that which my parents chose for me.

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Always believed in a greater being/creator, less tolerant of those assuming you must attend their church to know God and get to heaven. Try to re-run what happened, in a sense to tune into that place again when in need of spiritual guidance.

What is your religion now?       Liberal   'No need for a human-controlled religion, am instead more Spiritual'

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Always believed in a greater being/creator, less tolerant of those assuming you must attend their church to know God and get to heaven. Try to re-run what happened, in a sense to tune into that place again when in need of spiritual guidance.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Uncertain   Yes, I received an inspiring message.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I had such a sense of knowing about stuff after it, I have found it difficult to stay in relationships that disbelieve. It's like I have relationships because I'm there for a healing/unlocking/teaching reason and then something happens which forces me to make a decision to move on. I tolerate violence even less now. I dislike seeing people in pain. Therefore, I a strong drive to ease the pain of others. I have made many new relationships probably because of this.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Words don't seem to allow you to share the beauty of the experience. The love is immeasurable and incomparable.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Dreams, flashes, knowingness, but I don't always understand them. Seeing things when I am too hung-over. Ability to control my dreams.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        The whole experience was such a gift.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Only with a hand-selected few people, only to help them through a difficult situation. A long time passed before I felt confident to share this experience. Some looked at me in shock and surprise, others in awe, who really felt my description.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   I can't recall if I had ever read about it. I'm sure I would have been extremely skeptical if I had.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Completely real, but was in awe of it, it was so amazing, I felt so honored to receive such an enlightening and loving experience.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     A spiritual experience that was completely real.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   I wish. :-)

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       Hi, I would love to see more questions (maybe a new survey) on Post-NDE, e.g. the types of experiences people have after that, e.g. how has this affected your relationships, work, day to day life, day to day conversations, day to day activities. Greatest challenges since and how you overcome them.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oriana_r_fde.html