{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1olivia_g_nde.html","mytitle":"Olivia G NDE 2046","mylang":"de"}
          	        Olivia G NDE 2046  		  		  		  		  		      		  		          		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Olivia G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						508  Olivia G NDE  2046  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		  		
            		Experience Description:   

During my last NDE, I was suffocating to death after surgery to my thyroid. My husband was informed that I was dying and nothing else could be done. I knew I was dying because I had an out of body experience and a deep feeling of peace while the doctors were working on me. I felt like 'no, this can't be happening, I have young children'. After, I was put into surgery and an airway was opened. This was different from my actual clinical death experience, which happened so fast that I was in one world and instantly in another. Like dreaming. I experienced love and ecstasy which I have never had the intensity of in this lifetime.

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Female  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 1959, 1989.1998  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes    Surgery-related     I have an abnormally strong vagal nerve response which causes cardiac arrest after surgery.  Clinical death (cessation of breathing or heart function or brain function) 1. Surgery  2. after surgery, clinical death  3. Suffocation after surgery  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness     

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the last time, it was when I was looking down at the doctors working on me while I was drifting off into a wonderful field of flowers.  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Neither     

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more so  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     More intense.  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Neither  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No       

Did you see any beings in your experience?       Neither  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     In my clinical death experience, I was with another being which gave me a feeling of love which reached ecstasy. I did not recognize the being.  

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       Neither  

Did you see an unearthly light?       No     

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Unfamiliar, strange place     can't really describe, but it was beautiful  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Intense love and peace. Ecstasy.  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Incredible joy  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     Neither  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe       

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       Neither       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Neither       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       A conscious decision to 'return' to life     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   was an active member of the Episcopal Church, but not "religious"  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I can't tolerate punitive controlling religious practices.  

What is your religion now?       Liberal   I do not feel that I have faith in one organized religion now, however, I feel a deep spirituality which is very different from belonging to an organized religion, and believing someone else's words.  

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I can't tolerate punitive controlling religious practices.  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       Definite being, or voice clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin     

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       Neither  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion   

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No     

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I am more loving.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Cannot describe the depth of emotion I experienced in the one experience I had at age thirty-three. Too wonderful for words. The peace I felt in the last one I had was extraordinary.  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     I am often psychic.  

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Yes, I felt totally loved.  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Uncertain about the time, most people seem interested, but that is all.  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No   No I was three years old at the first. I had never thought much about it before the second. After, I knew I had had one. It was clear.  

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     There was no doubt that it was real.  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     It was too real and intense to be explained away. No one could convince me otherwise.  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   Under hypnosis, I was with the same being I was with during the second NDE I had, it feels like he is a 'he' and I felt the same wonder love and ecstasy with him again. It was not planned to have this type of experience with this hypnosis, it just happened.     				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1olivia_g_nde.html