{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1omar_r_nde.html","mytitle":"Omar R NDE 7635","mylang":"de"}
          	        Omar R NDE 7635  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Omar R NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			3919 Omar R NDE 7635  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I want to explain that I had travelled to a region 1000 Km from my city of Buenos Aires, in Argentina. I went with a diagnosis of bronchial asthma, it was having problems breathing that was giving me high blood pressure (Hypertension) when I was only 25. They put me in the care of Sanatorio Nosiglia in Ciudad de Posadas. Later when I couldn’t hardly breathe, they sent me to UTI (ICU). I remember very well to this day because the doctors told me to remain calm.  I thought that this was an almost impossible thing and I knew it was not good. My wife, family, and others knew what was happening to me. They gave me typical broncho-dilators, oxygen, and medication to lower my blood pressure.  The doctors kept saying to relax, which wasn't always easy. They gave me some paper to write my address, family telephone, which I couldn't as I was shaking so much. Then they gave me what looked like electrical wires, which I can't describe, I couldn't write anything. I started to relate, in my hospital bed, and they again told me I had to calm down. I started to tell my story; I tried to find a way of meditating. I couldn't. They were running with me and another patient who was a doctor.  We were the same, us two, very ill. 

At a determined moment, I felt as if I was no longer in bed.  It was as if I was in the air, although I could still hear the doctors.  They were talking about whether the doctor was unconscious. They said they had already given him ‘two shots of adrenaline’, another said to him they intended to give one more, ‘we will try once more’. They were speaking of the medical doctor/patient, who had died; they put him on the respirator until the parents arrived. I continued listening from above.  

Suddenly, I started to see a bright white light, every moment brighter, as if I had travelled towards it very rapidly. I felt one with the light, as if I were part of the white energy, very bright like the white light of energy-saving lamps. I was part of this LIGHT; I was deep PEACE, so much peace and light.

This is all I remember, up to when I came back to the hospital bed, to the doctors and nurses. I hope that my experience helps someone. I swear to them on the most precious of my life, I am not lying, it's what touched my life, and from that moment I was calm and peaceful. For me it was my loved ones that made me return, feeling calm and I know they will also be embraced in a beautiful way.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Julio de 1991

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes      CPR given.     Other: Paro cardio , respiratorio  I went with a diagnosis of bronchial asthma, which was playing up and gave me high blood pressure (Hypertension) when I was only 25. They made me a patient far from where I live, kept in a hospital then passed me to ITU (ICU) with various resuscitations, seeing three of them at the height I had gone up to, having cardio-vascular arrest.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  I heard everything that happened, I heard them talking about resuscitating me, until the third attempt, I didn't know what was happening but, on leaving they told me I had been in cardiac (and respiratory) arrest, that which I heard about my tracheotomy and the death of the doctor/patient next to me, during this period, I had been unconscious, everything was correct, everything that had happened corresponded.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   The state of alertness was the main thing I felt, while out of my body, and hearing the doctors’ talk of my resuscitation, and thinking of my family, up to when I felt part of this Light and Peace.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Alert and conscious when the doctors told me to relax, then when I felt I was no longer in my body, but I heard them trying to resuscitate me, I felt part of this light or energy, I only felt Peace: only Peace.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It continued passing as usual but something was different: I had never before experienced this.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I never before experienced being part of the cloud of energy or of the light.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I listened very well to everything not just what they said about me, but everything that happened in the whole therapy room!

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a light and then quickly flew towards it. I finally felt part of a great light, while an integral part of infinite Energy.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     To be part of the light an immense energy linked to a total peace was something totally strange in my entire life.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Initially, I felt much anxiety in not being able to say good-bye to my family, then awareness that I was very ill, very ill. Then feeling myself go out of my body, something inexplicable. Hearing everything and realizing that the doctors talked while I was unconscious or sleeping, then later to look and see I was part of the cloud of light, and fundamental to the peace.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I felt Peace and Energy, and light as if we were everything.

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a definite conscious decision to return to life   I started to think of my wife and children, I think.  

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Moderately important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Catholic

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I believe in someone. I believe in the energy, the light, the universe. I continue believing in God and taking into account being Catholic, that I call Jesus Christ, but respecting the name others would give Him, this is what I believe, we are light, energy, spirit. I don't believe we return, seeing ourselves, at least not in the body, or the image we have, it could be that we find we are energy as ourselves or not? At least I feel an indescribable peace.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Catholic   Luego de la experiencia que vivi, si bien continuo siendo catolico, entiendo que quizas otras religiones que logran meditaciones muy fuertes quizas logren algo parecido a lo que me toco vivir. Es lo que creo

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     Previously I had believed in the resurrection of the body, everything the Catholic Church teaches; now I have doubts on this. I know that from that moment, I see death as something natural, and great peace, I don't believe in the cult of death, I am referring to those that give their culture of tombs. I believe that we are what we are and our energy, soul, spirit, or that which we should call ‘ourselves’ is secure in light. I learned to look at other religions, that use deep meditation, and to think that some of it is similar. It would be good to research Hindus or the masters that reach this level of meditation, or similar, to achieve what I have referred to see the light as I have seen it, or similarly.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I am much more solitary, I try to live and share all the possible moments with my family, up to recently touching Pope Francis, and that I should clean my feet on Holy Thursday, to be a good neighbor, something that surely would have to happen, more than considering myself a Catholic that agrees with everything assiduously, but much more than that: a spiritual person!

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       No

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I believe that all of us without doubt, go to, or end up in the same home.

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Uncertain     After the experience I knew that we are energy, that we are a great energy, I believe in the end and I continue to believe in something I call God the Creator.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God probably exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Something more exists for certain!

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       Uncertain     It will reward us, for our lives, to value or use wisely our time with loved ones, to be a better person, to enjoy every moment.

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     We continue in Light and Peace in infinite energy, something that religion teaches as reward, but I believe someone created that energy, the material, in the end.

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I moderately feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Are possibly meaningful and significant

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       Yes     To live fully to love and be loved, to travel, to know the beauty that nature always gives us, to go to bed on the floor, to look at a simple canopy of a tree, and to see its leaves dancing with a simple breeze and in the end enjoy every moment and all of nature, deeply.

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       Yes     It will reward us, for our lives, to value or use wisely our time with loved ones, to be a better person, to enjoy every moment.

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Moderately compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     It's similar to the previous answer, after this experience one will value greatly love, that is an expression or a feeling very beautiful and inexplicable to love and be loved!

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       AFTER THE EXPERIENCE I KNOW THAT WE ARE SPIRIT, LIGHT, AND ENERGY, WHATEVER WE SHOULD CALL OURSELVES.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes They have changed. I value those that I love much more, also those that I don't love. Today I represent thousands of workers, elected by them, to show to them a very important change in my life.    

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience.   I always remember it, and if I can I always want to share with anyone who is interested, in giving them peace, particularly to those who have lost a loved one.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I don't think so, but there were so many inexplicable things happening.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I think in years two and three, some reacted with attention, others liked it, and surely some doubted it. In the end that which worked best for me, was to not carry on living life the same way. Grab life because in the end you have to account for your life!!

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     Totally real is what I felt. Much has happened, much time has passed, I am 57 I will never forget, never!

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Because understanding is what touched my life, something strange but profoundly real, more than this, something that I always ask myself is why did I come back? Why?

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       I have COPD, (Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) I take care, and while we are able to go to the other side, and that it is beautiful, and is Peace. But meanwhile, I want to utilize, to the fullest time, with my loved ones and share this earthly life.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       I would like to share this experience with others. I am not interested in keeping it private. I am not ashamed of what touched my life, and neither have I any doubt of that which happened to me. It is a beautiful thing to share with others.        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1omar_r_nde.html