{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1odell_h_nde.html","mytitle":"Odell H NDE 6339\/5003","mylang":"de"}
          	        Odell H NDE 6339/5003  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Odell H NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2583 Odell H NDE 6339/5003  					  				  	    			  			  				  				  					Experience Description 6339  					</p>  					My dad was on vacation with us during the summer of 1952.  After doing things around the house for a few days, he decided to go fishing in the Brazos River, which were only a few miles from us. I asked to go along so I could go swimming. With mom and dad’s approval in hand, I then asked if my four neighbor friends could go with me.  Again, with their approval, we all put our swim trunks on and piled into the car.

Upon arriving at the river, we all ran into the water and started having the time of our lives. Dad took his fishing gear and went about thirty or forty yards away and started fishing. About half an hour later, he decided to move to another location, since the fish weren’t biting at all where he had been fishing. He came over to where we were and announced 'I’m going upstream to Red Bluff; you guys come and go with me.' We said 'OK, we’ll wade up there.'

As we were wading upstream, the other guys got about 15 yards ahead of me. I was following in their path in the water whose depth was up to my chest.  At this time, I did not know how to swim. As I was wading along, I suddenly went under water, way over my head. I had stepped into a hole in the river bottom that was too deep for me. It happened so fast and suddenly that I did not get a breath of air before going under.

I began struggling to reach the surface and was swallowing water at the same time.  When I finally broke the surface, I began spitting out water, but before I could get a breath of air, I sank underneath again. I continued struggling to get above the surface.  I was swallowing more water because I had no air in my lungs. I continued this cycle of struggling to get to the surface, spitting out water, and going back under without getting a breath of air.

Finally, my muscles became too tired to struggle anymore and I gave up trying.  Immediately my movements seemed to go into extreme slow motion and I could see my hands and arms moving agonizingly slow. At this point, I did not feel any more pain or tiredness from the struggle. I seemed to be an impartial observer watching the event play out.

I then started rising up until I was about 10 or 12 feet above the water and watched my body in the water continue to struggle in slow motion. I had no mental attachment to the body nor was I concerned that it was drowning. I was completely aloof about it.

As I turned my attention away from my body in the water, a bright penetrating light appeared before me. It was the brightest light I had ever seen, yet it did not hurt my eyes. I looked down at my new body and saw that I was clothed in white garments just like people wore in the days of the Roman Empire, except that the garment hung low enough that my feet were not visible unless I extended my foot and leg forward enough to reach beyond the hem of the garment. The light seemed to penetrate my garments and me such that my body and clothes became the purest white ever. The light was about the size of a basketball and the outer surface seemed to be crystal clear, all the more reason why the light within was so bright.  The light seemed to be churning, just like smoke churns as it rises, yet the churning was contained within the confines of the sphere as the rays of light radiated outward.

As I was studying the sphere of light, I suddenly saw a very black speck in the center of it. For some reason I knew this tiny speck was very important, and so I concentrated on it very intensely.  As I concentrated on it, it suddenly zoomed out toward me, and there standing before me was Jesus in all His glory, bigger than life itself.  He wore the same clothes as I did, and He radiated a powerful golden light in every direction from His body.  Light travels at 360,000 feet per second, yet with my spiritual eyes, I could easily see the rays of golden light emanating outward from Him toward infinity.  The color of this golden light coming from Him was so beautiful that the English language is incapable of describing its purity.

I immediately held up my hands and arms in front of my face to shield myself from His brightness and told Him to get away from me.  I almost fell over myself trying to get away from Him. He was so pure and clean that I was not worthy of being in His presence, nor anywhere close to Him. I was too adulterated and contaminated with the impurities of this world. I was contaminated with the impure deeds of the things that I had done: lying, stealing, fighting, all of the negative things that a little 11-year-old boy does. I was contaminated with all the mental impurities that I had done:  hatred, distrust, sarcasm, resentment, fear, narcissism, and anger. Even though I wanted to stay there in His presence, I couldn’t, because God’s law forbids everything evil from heaven.

Jesus stretched His hand toward me and immediately all my guilt fell away and I received the most overpowering feeling of love from Him. Although His lips did not move, He said 'Fear not. Peace.' He seemed to communicate to me through Extra Sensory Perception rather than a physical spoken word by mouth. He seemed to sense my question of why we could talk to each other without physically speaking. He told me that we communicate this way to eliminate errors in speech and understanding that is common with all spoken languages. In effect, while I was thinking something, it was magically transposed to Him immediately and he knew what I thought. I only had to think of something to say, and it immediately became word.

At this point, as we were conversing by ESP, a giant screen appeared next to us. It was so gigantic that I can naturally compare it to the large screens that used to be in the old drive-in theaters of the 40s, 50s, 60s, and early 70s. On this screen, in random order, different scenes of incidents that had happened in my life while here on Earth were being played out. Jesus would select one scene and it would expand to the point that it encompassed almost the whole screen. I could still see other scenes playing in the background around the edges of the main scene that we were reviewing. The scene we were reviewing was a most accurate depiction of an incident that I was involved in at that point in my life, and He questioned me as to why I did the things that I had done. 

At first, most of the scenes that we discussed were ones in which I had done something wrong or bad. However, He also pointed out scenes where I had done something outstanding. In the bad scenes, He chastised me severely and used it as a teaching moment to ingrain into me that I must always be truthful, loving, or good in all of my actions and words. While reviewing a scene in which I had done something bad or wrong, I could see that I had acted inappropriately and wanted to slant my answer to make the action seem less evil to Him. As soon as I started giving a slanted reason for my action, He would authoritatively stop me and correct me.  When He corrected me, I had to acknowledge His truth and correct my slanted reason. Did you know Jesus has a great sense of humor?  In some of the scenes where something funny happened or was said, He laughed with me, and with gusto. 

After reviewing many scenes of my past, I was very worried and scared that I was not going to be able to go any further into heaven with Him. Almost all of my past actions had been negative rather than positive or helpful. I had truly been a spoilt child, only concerned about the things that were important to a young child, e.g. toys, candy, food, etc. I was only concerned about me and no one else. Now I was desperately worried that I was going to be condemned forever.

Next, the large screen went away, Jesus took my hand, and we began moving through a long tunnel at a very high rate of speed.  What is strange about this is that we were not in a vehicle moving at a high rate of speed.  We were actually just standing still and holding each other’s hand, but our bodies seemed to be levitating forward.  We were just standing there motionless, yet we were zooming through the tunnel at an extreme rate of speed. While zooming through the tunnel, the sides of it did not zoom by like here on Earth. As you drive at a high speed down a road, all of the trees, signs, and any other objects that are close to the road will zoom by you and fade away in the rear as you continue down the road. In this tunnel the walls, ceiling and floor did not zoom by and fade away to the rear. Instead, they seemed to stay right there as if they were still or motionless. I know that’s hard to fathom, but that’s how I have to explain it.

After what seemed an extremely long time moving through the tunnel, I began to wonder how much longer we were going to stay there and continue moving. I looked ahead and saw a small light that seemed to be moving closer to us. I thought to myself, 'At last, we’re finally getting somewhere.' 

Suddenly, back in the water in the river, something hit my right foot.  Instantly, I was back inside my body fighting for a breath of air and struggling against the water. Next, I felt someone come up between my legs and raised me up to the surface of the water so I could begin breathing again. As I began regaining my ability to breathe again, I noticed that the person I was sitting on was swimming underwater toward shore and beginning to struggle also. I thought to myself that he needed to come up for air, and I knew that I might cause him to drown if I didn’t get off and let him come up. I swung one leg over and slid off his back and he came up gasping for air. 

We waded to shore and I started vomiting up all the river water that I had swallowed. I vomited up water again and again.  After vomiting several times, there was no longer any water in my stomach to vomit up. I continued dry heaving in an effort to expunge more water. Now my stomach started cramping from the over-exertion of heaving. Slowly my heaving subsided and I began to recover.  For the rest of the day I was wary about venturing very far into the river again. I was in a state of shock for a day or two after this and did not remember anything that I saw while in the water. I was in pain from all of the exertion of fighting the water and heaving up the water I had swallowed. Every muscle in my body was sore for almost a week.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  Approx. 1951

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Drowning    Life threatening event, but not clinical death   Nearly drowned.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  My body was drowning and continuing to struggle even after I floated out of it.  I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   After leaving my body I became spiritually conscious and alert to my surroundings. I now had no pain from swallowing too much water, nor from the over-exertion of trying to get to the surface to get some air.  I became aware that my eyesight was better than it had ever been and I could see details and colors that I had never seen before. I have always been hard of hearing, but now my hearing was superior to anything it had ever been. During the experience, the voices I heard were very loud and clear, and sounded almost like music rather than speech.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       At the time I stepped into the hole in the water, I became physically very alert and conscious of my dangerous situation. As I began rising from my body, I was spiritually alert and conscious of the events that were transpiring.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Faster than usual

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Time seemed normal except when we were in the tunnel, then we traveled at tremendous speed.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       More vivid than usual

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Better and clearer. As I stated before, light travels at 360,000 feet per second, yet with my spiritual eyes, I could easily see the rays of golden light emanating outward from Him toward infinity.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    My hearing was better than it had ever been while I was in my body here on Earth. I have always been hard of hearing, but hearing in the spirit was much more melodious, clear and loud, mainly I think because we conversed by ESP.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No

The experience included:       Tunnel

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes     Jesus took my hand and we began moving through a long tunnel at a very high rate of speed. See narrative above.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No     Standing before me was Jesus in all His glory, bigger than life itself.

The experience included:       Unearthly light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       An unusually bright light

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   A bright penetrating light appeared before me. It was the brightest light I had ever seen, yet it did not hurt my eyes.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       Some unfamiliar and strange place     I was in a place that was suspended in time and place. Somewhere between Earth and Heaven.

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Before the separation I felt fear of drowning, not getting a breath of air and tiredness from the struggle.  After the separation, I felt peace of mind, extreme love from Jesus, and happiness to be with Him.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     No

The experience included:       Special knowledge or purpose

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What importance did you place on your religious/spiritual life prior to your experience?       Not important to me

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Other or several faiths   I was too young to have any religious affiliation.  My parents were Protestants and took me to church weekly, but I was not "Saved."

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     At the time I was too young to have a religious belief. Now I know that God is real and I truly believe in Him.

What importance do you place on your religious/spiritual life after your experience?       Greatly important to me

What is your religion now?       Christian- Protestant

Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was entirely consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience     I was too young to have any religious beliefs at the time, but my parents took me to church all the time, so I had a vague knowledge of someone named Jesus, but was not clear on His concept.

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I now know that God and Jesus are real and the most important thing in life is LOVE for God, for our parents and family and for our neighbors.  Now, when someone asks me if I believe in Jesus, I tell them, 'YES!'  I tell them I believe in Him because I know He is real.  I know He is real because I have SEEN Him.  I have touched Him. I have talked to Him. I have held His hand. I have felt His love. I have heard His voice. Yes, I know He is real!

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin.

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       Yes   Standing before me was Jesus in all His glory, bigger than life itself.  He wore the same clothes as I did, and He radiated a powerful golden light in every direction from His body.  Light travels at 360,000 feet per second, yet with my spiritual eyes.

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       No

Did you believe in the existence of God prior to your experience?       God probably exists

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       Yes     There standing before me was Jesus in all His glory, bigger than life itself.  I have SEEN Him.  I have touched Him. I have talked to Him. I have held His hand. I have felt His love.  I have heard His voice.

Do you believe in the existence of God after your experience?       God definitely exists  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No

Did you believe in an afterlife prior to your experience?       I was uncertain if an afterlife exists

Do you believe in an afterlife after your experience?       An afterlife definitely exists     Yes     Jesus took my hand and we began moving through a long tunnel at a very high rate of speed.  He didn't say "OK, let's go to Heaven."  It was more like an accepted fact that we were going "Home."  After what seemed an extremely long time moving through the

Did you fear death prior to your experience?       I greatly feared death

Do you fear death after your experience?       I do not fear death

Were you fearful living your life prior to your experience?       Slightly fearful in living my earthly life

Were you fearful living your life after your experience?       Not fearful in living my earthly life

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant prior to your experience?       Unknown

Did you believe that our earthly lives are meaningful and significant after your experience?       Are meaningful and significant

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No

Were you compassionate prior to your experience?       Slightly compassionate toward others

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       No

Were you compassionate after your experience?       Greatly compassionate toward others

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Unknown     Now I have more patience than before.  Now I'm not afraid to die.  I'm afraid of the pain, but I know the pain will only be temporary, until I leave the body again.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?     No   No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The English language is not capable of describing the beauty of colors that I saw. How can you describe a million beautiful colors when our language only knows a hundred shades of five basic colors? How can you describe the sound of a melodious voice that has never been heard on Earth?

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I do not know how my remembrance of the experience compares to my remembrance of other life events at time

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    My first recollection that my whole life flashed before me was about five years after the event. My recollection of the rest was over a period of years that began about 29 years later.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     The drowning incident was definitely real and terrifying although I did not remember the rest of it until 20 years later.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Many years later, about 1978 or 1980, I read an article about a book written by Elizabeth Kubler-Ross titled 'Life After Life.'  The article told of a few incidents mentioned in the book where persons had been involved in a life threatening accident or had a heart attack, and experienced some of the same scenes of meeting Jesus and traveling in a tunnel.  This one article seemed to open the floodgate of memories in my mind of everything that happened that day when I nearly drowned. Everything came to me as clear as the day it happened.  I have attributed this to Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome (PTSD).

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     Yes   I have had a couple of auto accidents in which I went into the 'slow motion' experience.  In later years while a freshman in high school, I remembered my whole life flashing before my eyes. Many people have reported seeing their whole life flash before their eyes when they were involved in an accident and they came close to death. I don’t know when I first became aware of the fact that at some point in my life my whole life had flashed before my eyes, but when I did, I associated it with the near drowning experience, but did not remember any of the other things like seeing Jesus, or talking to him.

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Yes. When Jesus took my hand and we began moving through a long tunnel at a very high rate of speed, He didn't say 'OK, let's go to Heaven.' It was more like an accepted fact that we were going 'Home.'    

  Experience Description 5003  					</p>

On a summer day while my father was on vacation, he announced that he was going to go fishing on the Brazos River.  I begged to go along so I could play in the water while he fished.  I had four neighborhood friends and asked if they could go with us.   We all piled into the car and dad drove us to the river. 

Upon arriving at the river, we moved thirty or forty yards away from where dad was fishing and ran into the water.  After playing in the water for about an hour, Dad announced that he was going to move upstream, and told us to go with him.  We began wading upstream as he walked along the bank.  Only Carl and I did not know how to swim.  The other three boys did know how. 

As we were wading upstream, I was following about 10 yards behind everyone else.  Suddenly I stepped into a hole and went under.  It happened so quickly that I didn't have time to get a breath of air before going under. 

I started fighting to get up to the surface, and was swallowing water. When I broke through the surface, I began spitting out water, but didn't get a breath of air before going under again.  I again struggled to the surface and started spitting water, but went under before getting a breath of air.  This struggle repeated several times, and I was getting desperate for air.  I was also getting very tired from the struggle. 

As I struggled in the water, I became very angry at myself because I could not make myself take the necessary breaths of air during the many short times I was above water.  Finally I became so doggedly tired that I quit struggling and gave up.   

Immediately everything went into slow motion, and my movements seemed to be so agonizingly slow, just as we see on TV or in movies.  I became aware of my arms and legs moving at an agonizingly slow pace to the point of being insignificantly effective.   

At this point I was aware of rising up out of my body.  I looked at my body as it was struggling, and I was unconcerned that I was in two places at the same time.  Actually I wasn't in two places.  I was up here, and my body was down there.  I was looking at my body as it struggled in the water, but I was up here and didn't feel any struggle or water on me at all.   

I then began rising further and when I rose to about 10 feet above the water, I stopped and sort of hovered there.  I was amazed that I was here above the water, and also that I was no longer in pain from struggling and swallowing too much water, nor was I exhausted from the previous struggle below. 

As I pondered my situation, I became aware of a sphere of light about twenty feet away.  It was suspended at my height and was very, very bright.  It was about the size of a basketball and the light seemed to swirl around within its confines, similar to smoke swirling in air, yet it emitted very bright rays of light. 

Suddenly, in the very center of the light, I saw a small pure black speck.  For some reason, I was intensely concentrating on that speck.  As I stared at it, it moved toward me and zoomed out, and Jesus appeared from it and stood before me.  I immediately raised my hands as if to shield myself from Him, and told Him to get away from me.   

He was a pure, Holy being, and I was not worthy of being in His presence. I was a mere mortal person and contaminated with the sinful nature of this physical world.  He extended his hand toward me, and my sense of guilt or unworthiness evaporated.  

He stood before me in all His majestic glory.  He appeared to have a rich golden complexion and He radiated golden light in every direction.  Light travels at slightly more than 186,000 miles per second and we cannot see its' speed with our physical eyes, but I could see this glorious light radiating outward from Him in all its majestic glory.  My grasp of the English language cannot do justice to the beautiful radiance that emanated from Him.  Not only could I see this light, but I seemed to receive spiritual energy from it.  This light carried Jesus' love, wisdom, and grace, and radiated outward in every direction, and seemed to penetrate my soul.  I looked down at my body, and I was as purely white as the freshly driven snow. He stood before me with his long hair and beard, and wore the clothes that we see in paintings and drawings of Him, that was worn in His time here on earth 2000 years ago. 

Although I don't remember the exact words, He spoke to me.  He in effect said "Fear not. Be at peace."  His voice was moderately loud and very melodious.  I have been very hard of hearing since infant-hood, and have always struggled with hearing and speech.  I struggled to attend school and pass my classes.  My poor hearing affected my association with teachers and classmates, and I barely passed my exams and advancement to the next grade levels.  But when Jesus spoke to me, I heard Him very succinctly and clearly.  His voice was very melodious and sounded like music to my ears. 

When He spoke to me, His lips did not move.  When I spoke to Him, my lips did not move.  It's like we spoke through Extra Sensory Perception (ESP).  Another strange experience was that when I wanted to speak to Him, as soon as I thought of what I wanted to say, He heard me before I could even speak out to him.  It was as if He was reading my mind.  All of our communicating was done in this manner. 

At this point a large gigantic screen appeared before us.  This screen was so large that I compare it to the size of the old drive in theater screens that are no longer around these days.  He and I were situated close to the screen, so it was very large.  On  this screen were many scenes being played out, that were  experiences of what had happened during my short life here on earth.  There were so many scenes being played on the screen that it was as if my whole life was recorded there.  The scenes were in random order, and no two consecutive scenes were in any way related to each other.  It has been said many times that when we die, our whole life flashes before our eyes.  This was what was happening to me. 

When Jesus brought my attention to a scene, it zoomed out until it almost filled the screen, but I was aware of some other scenes still active around the fringes of the scene that was now the center of our conversation.  As we watched the main scene that was active before us, He asked me questions about what had happened.  He asked me why I had lied to my mother.  He asked me why I had pulled my sister's hair.  He asked me why I threw rocks at my dog.  He asked me why I pulled my neighbor's cats' tail.  We viewed many scenes where I had told someone a lie. Many scenes where I was bullying someone.  Many scenes where I had been at fault in insulting someone.  Scenes where I had torn someone's clothes just for the spite of it.  In every scene that we reviewed, He reiterated to me that I had seriously done something that was wrong, or in other cases, that I had done an extraordinarily good thing. 

As we discussed each scene, I had to answer to Him and explain why I had acted as I did at that time.  In explaining my actions in all the scenes, I was aware that I had done something very wrong, and when I tried to put a little spin in my answer to lessen the seriousness of my actions, He immediately stopped me and corrected me.  In scenes where I had done something good, he praised me profoundly.  Jesus has a great sense of humor.  In scenes where something funny happened, He laughed heartily and happily.  In totality, the number of scenes that involved good actions on my part were significantly smaller than the ones where I had done something wrong.  I knew I was in trouble with Him.  In fact, I was now really terrified that I would be condemned to hell. 

Suddenly the screen went away and He took my hand and we began gravitating at a tremendous speed through a tunnel.  The walls, ceiling and floor of this tunnel seemed to be actively churning, the same way you see smoke churning in the air above an open fire, except this was more dense.   

As one travels down a road at high speed, the trees, power line poles, and anything else that is stationary along the road, seem to flash by in a blur as you go past them.  In this tunnel, there was no sense of blur.   It was as if the walls, ceiling and floor was actually moving with me at high speed, yet I had no sense that the tunnel itself was moving.  I cannot describe the walls, ceiling and floor except to say that the word "Firmament" as used in the book of Genesis is the best description. 

As I took in these observations about the tunnel, I became aware that much time was elapsing as we sped along so quickly.  I then looked ahead and saw a light far ahead of me.  I thought "Ah! We're getting there finally!" 

But Suddenly, I wasn't there any more!   One of my friends had swam under me and in reaching for me, had brushed my foot with his hand.  At that instant, I was back in my body in the water.  I was again fighting for air and struggling desperately to the surface of the water.  My friend swam under me and came up between my legs and raised me to the surface and started swimming toward shore.  As I gasped for breaths of air, it was the sweetest tasting air I had ever breathed.  As he swam a short distance with me on his back, I realized that He was now starting to struggle too.  I realized that I was going to drown him if I continued to weigh him down, so I slid one leg over him and slid off into the water.  As my feet touched the river bottom, he came up gasping for air. 

We both struggled to shore and I collapsed on the bank.  I immediately began vomiting up the river water I had swallowed in the struggle. I had swallowed so much water that my stomach was stretched to the limit, and it was causing me to vomit, over and over again.  I must have vomited water fifteen times or more, and then began dry heaving another ten or fifteen times.  I was in truly agonizing pain all over my body.  My muscles were dog-tired from the struggle, my stomach, from the stretching by the excess water, and the long bout of vomiting and heaving.  I remained sore for two weeks afterward. 

My father decided we had been through too much for the day and took us all home.   

As I reflected on the experience in the next days and weeks, I never once remembered the scenes with Jesus, or the traveling through the tunnel.  The only thing I could remember was that my whole life had flashed before my eyes.  About thirty years later I was reading about someone in a newspaper article who had experienced a near death experience, and some of the scenes he described seemed to jog my memory.  After some reflection, I realized that I had suffered so much shock at the time, that I had suffered Post Traumatic Stress syndrome, and could not recall the scenes.  Only after searching my mind over many weeks and months did it slowly come back to me.

  					Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  1951

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    Other Drowning  Drowning

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   During the time I was separated from my body.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       During the time I was separated from my body.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     This experience seemed to cover several years of time, but in reality it was only a few seconds.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     Clarity, field of vision, colors, brightness, speed of light, and depth perception were all highly superior to normal vision.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I have been severely hearing impaired since infancy. During this experience, my hearing was vastly superior to anything I had ever been able to hear with normal hearing. In fact, speech was almost like joyous reverberating music.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Jesus

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Joy, love, peace, kindness, pleasantness.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Now I have more patience than before. Now I'm not afraid to die. I'm afraid of the pain, but I know the pain will only be temporary, until I leave the body again.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Conservative/fundamentalist

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Conservative/fundamentalist

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Everything we discussed was very well comprehended, even though I never knew much of it before.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        No   

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The emotions, sounds, and beauty cannot be expressed adequately with our language.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Thirty years later. Some were unbelieving. Others were sympathetic, or noncommittal.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1odell_h_nde.html