{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oklahoma_nde.html","mytitle":"Oklahoma NDE 4113","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oklahoma NDE 4113  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oklahoma NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			1984 Oklahoma NDE 4113  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					It was a hot August afternoon in Oklahoma when a friend and I were taking a walk to a fast food place. Traffic was clear from the left, so I stepped off the curb and began to cross with the anticipation that the traffic coming from the right would be clear by the time I got to the middle of the road. Unfortunately, as I was crossing and watching the traffic in the far lanes, a speeding car suddenly appeared from my left and mowed me down.

I slammed into the front bumper, slid up the hood, smacked the windshield, flew over the driver's side of the car, and landed on my head. My friend was still standing on the curb and saw the whole thing. She was horrified. I, however, had no idea of what hit me.

I was aware of sudden and intense pain and for some reason I knew I was dying. In my mind, I was screaming for God's help, telling Him I was dying. I felt like I was expanding, like I was filling up with air. I was floating, flying, racing upward. I became nothing but consciousness, if that makes sense. I didn't hurt any more.

Now I am surrounded by a field of blue. It was a luminescent blue like no other blue I have ever seen before or since. On the periphery was a golden glow - I couldn't look right at the gold area, it was just there on the edge of my field of vision. I'm thinking how beautiful this is. I don't really care for the color blue, but this is HEAVENLY. Oh my God, Heaven.

Just as I was starting to figure it all out, I'm starting to realize I'm really dead and I am on the way to heaven, I hear 'Ooops' and I am aware of a pressure on my head. I am now funneled into a pipe. I'm completely in it now; I'm being squeezed, it hurts, and I'm falling.  I see it's getting dark and my rapid descent ends with a rude thump.

Now I'm hurting bad and for some reason I feel like I'm on fire. 'Ooops,' must have meant I was supposed to go South. Now I'm screaming over and over, 'I'm in Hell! I'm in Hell!' Actually, I'm back in my body, it's August, in Oklahoma and my lifeless body has been lying on asphalt so hot that you could fry an egg on it.

Go ahead, laugh, you know you want to.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  august 1982

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident. Direct head injury    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   I was crossing a four-lane street, forty mph speed zone, and as I was getting to the middle of the road I was hit by a speeding car. The driver was late for a dental appointment. I suffered a concussion and crush wound to the scalp, abrasions and contusions to left arm, torso and leg. Amazingly, not a single bone was broken

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I lost awareness of my body

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      Normal consciousness and alertness   Throughout.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Throughout.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     Now that you ask, I don't think time or space existed or mattered. During my experience, I was just energy with consciousness. I guess you could call it a soul.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were so bright and unreal.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I wouldn't say I was hearing with my ears. It was more like I was hearing in my head. There were not really any sounds, just my voice/thoughts and the 'Ooops'.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     It was the sensation of being pressed through a tube on the way back down.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Uncertain   It was not a light from a single point. It was just brightness. Blue like I have never seen before or since.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

The experience included:       Strong emotional tone

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Confusion at first.  Curiosity about the adventure.  Disappointment, where are my loved ones who are supposed to greet me? Where is God, the tunnel, the light? What about the home movies of my life?  Sadness and Anger. Oooops? Oooops? What do you mean, Oooops? You're God. God doesn't 'Oooops'.  I felt fear just as I was coming to - but it was just because of the asphalt situation.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       incredible joy

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Liberal   Christian/no affiliation

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No     Ever since I can remember, I have always been fascinated with Christianity. After shopping around, I finally joined the Episcopalians a few years ago. I don't think it's because of my experience, just finally finding the right fit.

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Episcopalian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No     Ever since I can remember, I have always been fascinated with Christianity. After shopping around, I finally joined the Episcopalians a few years ago. I don't think it's because of my experience, just finally finding the right fit.

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    No

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes The most profound impact was in my adult relationship with my mother. While she was dying, she said family members who had passed were visiting her. She said that sometimes they would stand around her hospital bed and other times they would just float around the room and go out through the wall. Because of my brush with death, I guess she felt she could confide in me. It was good to be able to calm her fears, comfort her, to prepare her for her journey, and give her the 'permission' to join them when she was ready.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The colors and physical sensations were like nothing I have ever seen or experienced before or since.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Uncertain     Dreams. Some are prophetic in nature. Nothing earth shattering. Just messages that someone I care about is in need. I have learned to act on my 'gut' feelings.  Sometimes God talks and appears to me in my dreams. Some messages are cryptic, some are very direct.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        I had a hard time dealing with the rejection. Why would God be playing head games?

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I shared this with family soon after the event. They've always thought I was weird. This just confirmed it for them.  It was several years later when I shared my story with a friend. I found out her mother had a near death experience during a surgery. She said there were many similarities between our two stories. This helped solidify in my mind that this was indeed a NDE.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I had read some stories, news magazine about NDE and saw a documentary or something on them. I never really thought my experience fit the typical description.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was probably real     Something happened. What it was, I don't know. But I was changed afterward and it wasn't just because of the head trauma.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     After my mother's passing (see below) I have come to the conclusion that I did die. I'm certain. I don't think God called me up by mistake only to send me back. The lack of video reel, welcoming committee, etc. is because it was not my time. God called me up to give me a glimpse of things so I could help others.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No        				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oklahoma_nde.html