{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1tom_m_nde_9693.html","mytitle":"Tom M NDE 9693","mylang":"de"}
          	        Tom M NDE 9693  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		                      		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	   							  												  												  								  									  		  			    								  								</section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Tom M NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						5228 Tom M NDE 9693  					  				  			      			  			  				

  		              		Experience Description   

    I felt myself float out of my body. I could see my body lying on the road.  Yet, I felt so alive and so free of my body. It was strange because I could see myself on the road, but I could also see a bright light in the sky, almost like the sun. I was pulled up toward the light, and on the way toward the light I saw beautiful landscape.  It was almost as if I were looking out the window of a plane, but much larger than a window. I also suddenly felt like I was connected into a collective consciousness and felt like I knew everything and the why about everything. It was like a veil was lifted and I became super intelligent.   

  When I reached the light, I felt unconditional love coming from the light. I had never felt love like that before my NDE or since. No one asked what religion I was or if I believed in God. The love was truly unconditional. I heard a Female voice in my head say, 'you can stay or you can go back, if you decide to go back there are many things for you to do.' I told the voice that I wanted to go back. I then floated back toward my body. When I re-entered my body, I felt the pain in my head from hitting the pavement, and I also felt the loss of my super intelligence and the weight of being in the physical world again.   

  I have never forgotten this experience and I can see it in my minds’ eye today as if it just happened. Before my NDE, I had my doubts that God really existed. After feeling the love coming from the light, I’m certain that God does exist and that he touched my soul that day. I really wanted to stay in heaven that day, but I felt that God had sent me to earth to do many things and I did not want to disappoint God.  

Background Information:     

Gender: 	Male  

Date NDE Occurred: 	 7/15/1959  

NDE Elements:     

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident         Other Going down a steep hill on a bicycle, both brake cables snapped. Going so fast I was passing cars on  I was on a state highway bike trip. When both brake cables on my bicycle snapped my bike speed down a long hill, passing cars traveling 50 MPH. I could not stop. The front wheel started to oscillate, and then I was air borne. I was told that I landed on my head and a pickup truck missed running over my head by an inch or two.  

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Entirely pleasant  

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  As I left my body I could see a man and my friend trying to help me  I clearly left my body and existed outside it  

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   I knew everything about everything and why everything was  

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       On my way toward the light  

Were your thoughts speeded up?       No  

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     It felt like my NDE lasted for at least 30 min, but my friend told me that I was disoriented for less than a minute  

Were your senses More vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid  

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     The colors were vibrant and very clear  

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I could hear thought’s coming into my head, not coming from my ears  

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     No  

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Uncertain     I saw a light and I was floating toward it. I don’t know if I was in a tunnel. If I was in a tunnel, I did not see or hear anyone else in it.  

Did you see any beings in your experience?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       No       

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin  

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   I saw a bright white light that emitted pure unconditional love  

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     I did not go into the light. I stopped at the light, but the light emitting love was everywhere  

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Love  

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness  

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness  

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world  

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe     I knew everything about everything and why everything was  

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       No       

Did scenes from the future come to you?       No       

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:     

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Christian- Protestant   Went to church sometimes but not regularly  

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     I know that God exists and that God wants the best for us. I believe God is the only true entity and that everything else is a part of him. I believe that earth is a training base for souls and that the true reality is God and heaven  

What is your religion now?       Select   I am spiritual, but don’t go to church.  

  Did your experience include features consistent with your earthly beliefs?       Content that was both consistent and not consistent with the beliefs you had at the time of your experience.     I thought I would see God as a manly figure and be judged, instead all a felt was unconditional love coming from a very special light  
  
Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     I didn’t know what to think of my experience in my younger years, but as I grew older I realized that God put me through an NDE to show me that he really does exist. I pray more now and thank God for my NDE, my life, and His love  

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I heard a voice I could not identify   It was a Female voice  

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       No  

Did you encounter or become aware of any beings who previously lived on earth who are described by name in religions (for example: Jesus, Muhammad, Buddha, etc.)?       No     

During your experience, did you gain information about premortal existence?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about universal connection or oneness?       Yes     I was connected to the universal consciousness  

During your experience, did you gain information about the existence of God?       No       

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:     

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   I was told that if I decided to go back there were many things I needed to do  

During your experience, did you gain information about the meaning of life?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about an afterlife?            Yes     I was invited to stay or go back  

Did you gain information about how to live our lives?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about life's difficulties, challenges and hardships?       No       

During your experience, did you gain information about love?       Yes     I felt the love coming from the light  

What life changes occurred in your life after your experience?       Large changes in my life     After my NDE I am certain that heaven exists and that God does  exists. I try to be kinder to others. I have no fear of death. I still doubt the Bible as Gods word because it was written by men I really have no faith in religion, but a am a very spiritual person now  

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes I’m kinder and I share my experience with friends who are dying. When my friends get upset about earthly matters I help to put things in perspective for them.  

After the NDE:     

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   The feeling that I felt coming from the light was overwhelming  

How accurately do you remember the experience in comparison to other life events that occurred around the time of the experience?     I remember the experience more accurately than other life events that occurred around the time of the experience  I remember my experience as if it happened today  

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No       

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Connecting to the universal consciousness and feeling Gods unconditional love  

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    50 years before I mentioned it to anyone  

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     No     

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     It was a very profound experience. As a 14 year old kid, I knew it was real, but I did not realize what a profound gift it was  

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     My Experience was definitely real. There is no way I could have dreamed such an experience  

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No     

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       No         				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1tom_m_nde_9693.html