{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1oliver_w_nde.html","mytitle":"Oliver W NDE 4340","mylang":"de"}
          	        Oliver W NDE 4340  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Oliver W NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  			2150 Oliver W NDE 4340  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					After getting the image of the emergency medical technicians working on me, I was transcending to a grey whitish light and started to travel through the tunnel. I was looking down the tunnel, which was transparent. I saw little black dots, I can only assume that these dots were nothing more than souls, these dots were everywhere and the cross over I can only compare it to the River Jordan when I got through the tunnel.

I saw one of these dots coming at me and it grew very, very large. This huge massive silhouette told me to turn around this is not your time. So I turned around. I did not ask any more questions. I looked down again and saw the tiny little black dots, who were departed souls. 

I did not see any of my dead relatives. I do have a better understanding and consciousness of our relationships with our psychic nature, absolutely - and there is an afterlife.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Male

Date NDE Occurred:	  summer 0f 86

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  IllnessAllergic reaction    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death' insulin shock  I was going into a restaurant to get breakfast before going to work.  The restaurant was about seven minutes to my home. I had taken morning insulin before leaving. I made it to the doorframe of the restaurant before I fainted.  The restaurant called 911 and I began the experience in the ambulance. The next thing I recall was being out of body with emergency medical technicians working on me - and it began from there.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       When the massive entity, which could have been an archangel or the man himself appeared before me. I was definitely in an altered state.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     I kind of getting the opinion that our life is being played on a magnetic tape and it goes by very fast - now can we control speeding up or down, I think it can.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     I was not in human form I could not see myself.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    I had incredible hearing and I really don't think it was hearing but more of telepathy, of which I still have a residual amount. I think this is the reason why I am now a very good poker player because I know what other players might be playing because I can usually get into their minds - a good thing to have in sales too).

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       Yes

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     Mind mental telepathic.

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       Yes   Grayish, like looking into, not a white bright light, but like a grayish rain cloud all around foggy if you will.

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     like i said i really do beleive that i crossed over the river jordan looking down acrossing the river seeing dead souls below me which i described as black dots  and the other side is some would say heaven now do i believe that you come back yes i do believe in regeneration but can not confirm this

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       I was happy and did not care to come back.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     No events unfortunately but I do know now that there is the other side. I am not a churchgoer one or back then but on my dad's side, there are several church of God ministers. The only thing I can relate to is you are only saved by grace alone, which is my conclusion. I can now have more understanding and empathy for beings human.  I became a juvenile diabetic at age fourteen. I am now fifty-seven.  I have had close calls after this episode, but nothing like this!!

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     I seem to know now of events that are going to occur like I might have a dream about something and a couple of days later it will happen, sometimes not good ones.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       Yes     Every church and belief has a truth, every one of them, no reason to hate because one believes one belief so I do not practice one belief and try to listen to all of them.

What is your religion now?       Liberal

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       Yes     Every church and belief has a truth, every one of them, no reason to hate because one believes one belief so I do not practice one belief and try to listen to all of them.

The experience included:       Presence of unearthly beings

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   Just what I've stated previously.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes Don't take your loved ones and yourself for granted that we are all unique and tied together through collective consciousness. There is no reason for terror threats and to war in the middle east or anywhere because we are all tied by blood to each other and no reason to spill it.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       Yes     Like I previously stated.

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        When I met the big silhouette that told me to turn around because it was not my time.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    I still tell it and most people tell me this is now your second life. Some people don't believe me, some do, most are impressed.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   Heard of a couple cases, I took it with a grain of salt.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real     I think it means that there is something afterwards and there is nothing to fear, definitely unforgettable.

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real     Nothing to fear and live each day as best as you can.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       My sugar at that time was less than ten and my body was shutting down coming out of the tunnel I found my father paying my bill and checking me out of the emergency room. A few days later, he was diagnosed with Lou Sreigs Ales and I went home to take care of him, to help him die - I think this was the main reason why they sent me back. I am now fifty-seven and here taking care of my mom who is eighty-one.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1oliver_w_nde.html