{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1olivia_g_nde_3643.html","mytitle":"Olivia G NDE3643","mylang":"de"}
          	        Olivia G NDE3643  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Française - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Olivia G NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification NDE  						1655 Olivia G NDE 3643  					  				  			      			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					We had an accident on the road. My husband was driving and it had just begun to rain. We drove through some deep water, the car slipped and we flipped three times. My child and I were thrown out of the car. My husband and my two other children were unharmed. Lalo, my son, had a broken leg and his stomach was pressing on his lungs. I had five broken ribs, a ruptured liver and my right arm was broken in several places. None of this put my life at risk but when I got to the hospital, they weighed me and found that my lungs were full of fluid.

The most difficult part were the hospital tests: I fought to stay alive; I spoke with God and told him, 'Here I am Lord, You have me here, and whatever you want let that be your Will.' In that moment, I saw a dark void. I knew it was Him, and at the depth of the Void a sacred heart. He spoke to me and told me it wasn't going to be easy. I saw my children and the pain of the youngest one who would miss me terribly. I knew it wasn't easy but I kept fighting to live. 

I was out of my body, my whole hospital room was filled with religious statues and beyond my window, and I saw that there was a statue of Christ that was part of the hospital façade. Even though there were many nurses, I fixated only on one. Two male nurses who were there told me that the nurse I saw was not there - these male nurses came to check on me and fix the tubes that had not been placed properly in my body. I also saw another nurse outside my room who was praying for me. My decision and commitment to God to continue fighting for my life helped me to endure everything. I was terrified at the medical error happening, hearing was much more acute, I couldn't speak, only listen.

I had to be very brave. I am now fully recovered.  Yes, with scars and some minor problems, but I feel so good. I can say that I went through a period of depression, I prayed to God to be with Him. My depression was due to a lack of support and understanding from my husband. I wanted to separate from him but soon I felt embarrassed for wanting a divorce. He didn't try to calm me and he didn't understand my anger.

But the most painful perhaps, is that I think I had met my soulmate.  It's been ten years already. Although I think we recognize one another, we are both married with important family obligations.  Therefore, we have decided, at least I have, not to foster any kind of relationship. The situation between us was so intense, that without even our having discussed it with one another, his wife became extremely jealous - she was my friend, and this made my husband aware. All we had to do was look at one another. I understand that I have to live my life as it is. I love my husband with his faults, I have my faults also, and I love my children and my parents. I thank God for giving me more than what I deserve and I am very happy about what I accomplished and what I love and what I have - and that is what I will focus on.

Now I can tell everybody that being out of my body I know that we all have a soul, that God exists, He lives, the Virgin Mary, and that indeed that there are beings who come down to help us. Despite the difficulties of my accident, and for whomever placed all the religious artifacts around my room, these gave the atmosphere in my room a feeling of Peace that I cannot describe. God was looking after me, I cannot say more. When I couldn't sleep, the mantle of stars of the Virgin Mary touched my eyes so that I could rest. That there were people who knew about the accident and without even having any kind of strong relationships with them, they gave my husband religious medals, that there were people from whom I expected nothing, they prayed that I would recover from this accident, I feel very fortunate.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  26 de junio del 2004

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Accident    'Life threatening event, but not clinical death'   We had an car accident on the road.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Wonderful

The experience included:      Out of body experience

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes    I clearly left my body and existed outside it

How did your highest level of consciousness and alertness during the experience compare to your normal everyday consciousness and alertness?      More consciousness and alertness than normal   As above.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Still in hospital in intensive care, before moving to my room.

Were your thoughts speeded up?       Incredibly fast

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       Everything seemed to be happening at once; or time stopped or lost all meaning     When I was speaking with God. There was no time. After that, time went very slowly.

Were your senses more vivid than usual?       Incredibly more vivid

Please compare your vision during the experience to your everyday vision that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.     There were bouts of hallucinations, and fear.

Please compare your hearing during the experience to your everyday hearing that you had immediately prior to the time of the experience.    Increase my hearing, and the noise the nurses were making in Intensive Care bothered me.

Did you seem to be aware of things going on elsewhere?     Yes, and the facts have been checked out

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No     But I knew that beyond the sacred heart was a wonderful countryside.

Did you see any beings in your experience?       I actually saw them

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     When I left my body I spoke only with God, but soon spirits came and surrounded me in the hospital and they helped me get through the ordeal.

The experience included:       Darkness

The experience included:       Light

Did you see, or feel surrounded by, a brilliant light?       A light clearly of mystical or other-worldly origin

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       No

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Ethereal, my soul alone with God.

Did you have a feeling of peace or pleasantness?       Incredible peace or pleasantness

Did you have a feeling of joy?       Happiness

Did you feel a sense of harmony or unity with the universe?     I felt united or one with the world

The experience included:       Special Knowledge

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       Everything about the universe

The experience included:       Life review

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     My life flashed quickly before me. I realized I had been a good person. That I didn't do any damage during the most difficult parts of my life. I always chose to do no harm, not even to myself, and I felt at peace that I was able to deal with temptations in a mature manner.

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Not necessarily for this event. I always could tell what a person's intentions were. I could put together elements and draw conclusions of what might happen.

The experience included:       Boundary

Did you reach a boundary or limiting physical structure?       Yes     If I had crossed that line, I would have gone to a place where there was light and in that light a green countryside.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       I came to a barrier that I was not permitted to cross; or was sent back against my will     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate

Have your religious practices changed since your experience?       No

What is your religion now?       Moderate

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No

Did you seem to encounter a mystical being or presence, or hear an unidentifiable voice?       I encountered a definite being, or a voice clearly of mystical or unearthly origin

Did you see deceased or religious spirits?       I actually saw them  

Concerning our Earthly lives other than Religion:

During your experience, did you gain special knowledge or information about your purpose?    Yes   God does exist, the angels too along with higher beings, the Virgin Mary. Good beings exist and come to our aid; we all have a Guardian Angel. There also exists what we here call Heaven, we all should be thankful, take care of those who suffer, give thanks for our life, whatever is to be will be, all problems come to pass. Fighting for my life meant that I didn't want to leave yet.

Have your relationships changed specifically because of your experience?        Yes There are things that no longer interest me, like stress or fighting. Or arguing about little things.  

After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      No

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Those three where I took control and tried to calm myself down so that I would not leave this life, as God promised me.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Leaving the hospital I told my relatives. They were not unduly influenced, but they took in the information.

Did you have any knowledge of near death experience (NDE) prior to your experience?     Yes   I know that you enter a tunnel because on three occasions I was very ill and my heart was racing and everything was spinning.

What did you believe about the reality of your experience shortly (days to weeks) after it happened?       Experience was definitely real

What do you believe about the reality of your experience now?       Experience was definitely real

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No   Experiences, yes, like the frustration of not being able to get out of that accident.

Are there any other questions that we could ask to help you communicate your experience?       How we were before the event.      				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1olivia_g_nde_3643.html