{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/www.nderf.org\/Experiences\/1olivia_c_possible_nde.html","mytitle":"Olivia C Possible NDE 455","mylang":"de"}
          	        Olivia C Possible NDE 455  		  		  		  		  		      		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  	  	  		  		  			  		  		  			  				  				  					  						  					  				  				  			  			  			  			  			  				  					  						Home  						  						  							  				  			</nav>  		  		  		  			  			  				                   				    				  				  					  						  							  							  								  									  								  							   							  								  									  										  									  									  									  										  											  												Home  													  											                                                                                                             												Languages  													  												  												  												  													  														

Personal  															  															  																Français - French                                                                  Italiano - Italian                                                                  Srpski - Serbian  																Arabic - العربية  																 Polski - Polish  																  																ไทย - Thai  																Türk - Turkish                                                                                                                                    हिंदी - Hindi                                                                  تمل - Urdu  																Ελληνικά   - Greek  									  															  														  													  

Volunteer  														    														    															  Español - Spanish  															  Português - Portuguese  															  Român - Romanian  															  繁体中文 - Chinese  															  한국의 - Korean  																																	  Bahasa Indonesia                                                                                                                                        עברית - Hebrew  			Macedonian - Македонски                			Basque - Euskara  																	  																    																      																	   																    														    	    														

Language  															  															  																Deutsch - German                                                                                                                                    Svenska - Swedish                                                                  Farsi - فارسی                                                                                                                                    Magyar - Hungarian  																                                                                  Nederlands - Dutch                                                                  Hrvatski - Croatian  																Slovak - Slovak  																Український - Ukranian  																Việt - Vietnamese  																                                                                   														    													    														

Translations  															  															                                                              简体中文 - Chinese Simplified  																Pусский - Russian                                                                    																日本 - Japanese  																Dansk - Danish                                                                  Suomi - Finnish                                                                  Česky - Czech  																български - Bulgarian                                                                  Lietuvos - Lithuanian  Afrikaans - Afrikaans																    															  														        	  Share Your NDE  	  	             	    NDE Stories  	                      	Current NDEs      Exceptional NDEs      Site Index with Archive Pages    Archive List                                            	                                                     												  			  												  												  											  												Information  												  												  												  													   														Index/Sitemap  															  														                                                                        														Announcements  															  														  													  											        														General NDE Information  															  													  													  												    														FAQs  															  														  													  													  												                                                          														About us  															  														                                                              														Privacy  															  														  												    														Contact us  													  													  											    											  	  												Resources  													  												  				                                                                                                            	            NDERF Audio Stories/Podcast              NDERF.me              Reddit with NDEr Sandi T   			Facebook  			NDE Videos (YouTube)  			NDE Audio (Vimeo)              NDE Research Studies               Participate in Research  			NDE Bookstore              NDE Art  			NDE Poetry  			Volunteers  			NDERF Weblinks  															  														  											   											  	  	  Search  	  	  </section>  												  	</header>							  									  			  	  				  					Olivia C Possible NDE  					  					  						Home  						Classification Possible NDE  						1284 Olivia C Possible NDE 455  					  				  			        			  			  				  				  					Experience Description  					</p>  					I had been sick with the flu or something a day or two with a high fever. About 2:00 or 3:00 in the morning, I lay down in bed with weakness from the fever. My husband was already asleep. I don't remember my fever gradually increasing but I had suddenly realized my fever was much higher than before. I was much weaker, heavier and overly relaxed. I wasn't frightened by this but actually almost enjoyed it. I felt void, I was fully aware of where I was, and that I was too weak to move, yet I wasn't very concerned about it. I was emotionally and physically void. I did not feel sorrow, pain, fear etc., but I didn't feel any of those emotion's counterparts such as joy, pleasure etc. I felt like I was slipping away from this world and I was fine with that. Then I felt an urgent need to be and stay with my husband who was lying next to me. In my mind, I was screaming out to him and each time he didn't hear me I screamed louder. Then when I thought I screamed the loudest I finally heard a whisper come from my mouth then I realized I wouldn't be able to get his attention. I felt like I weighed a thousand pounds and was sinking into the bed, which wasn't a bad thing except I couldn't think of leaving my husband.

The next thing I remember was standing in a big void. There was nothing around me.  There was no light or darkness.  Except there was Him who was standing about six feet in front of me. He was in physical sense the size of an ordinary man but I kept wanting to look way up - straight up. I believe I was looking at his glory and I was frozen with the awe of it. He seemed to wait on me for something as if to give me time to soak this in. I immediately wondered why I didn't feel his everlasting love, mercy, and warmth and I was given the answer as soon as the question came to me. 'That's not what I was there for.' I accepted this 'answer' but I was disappointed at first then I felt angry and cheated of these feelings, then I felt undeserving of them. He told me He was going to show me something as if he were preparing me for something traumatic that would give me a heart attack or something if I had not had a warning.

He then showed me several thousand visions at once. The only way to describe this particular experience is to have a handful of beads, drop them onto the floor at one time, and as fast as they all hit the floor at once is the speed in which the visions came to me. I don't remember anything about any of these visions except the first one. I was instantly standing on a mountain top next to Him, which side I don't have any memory of. We were looking down on a valley with another mountain on the other side of it. The valley seemed to be at least ten miles away. There were people scattering back and forth in preparation of something of great importance (I don't recall what) that was about to happen. I immediately noticed my vision, my ability to see. Advanced is an understatement. For one, the color of the trees and the grass was a brilliant green that I've never seen before and haven't since - and I could see small details, even though I don't recall any. I can only remember thinking I could see small things miles away on the right of me and the left of me at the same time - in detail.

Then I remember being back in the bed again, and I could tell that my fever was much lower. I had some of my strength back and I could feel pain again - my throat and my head was hurting severely. I felt an unusual sense of peace and didn't seem to be concerned with what I had experienced. I felt my fever was lower but still very high. I was still a little weak and only slightly heavy. The feelings were coming back to my body, and I had to urinate with severe urgency. I sat up in the bed and took my temperature again with the digital thermometer, it was 104.3. I wasn't sure if this was a correct reading or not so I took it again and it was the same. I lit a cigarette and went to the bathroom, peed, splashed my face with cold water then went back to the bed. I took my temperature again, and a third time it was 103 even though I had only checked it a minute earlier. I'm still not sure if the experience was caused by a high fever itself or if I had actually died momentarily but I was well by the next morning a few hours after I woke up.

Background Information:

Gender:	 Female

Date NDE Occurred:	  1996

  NDE Elements:

At the time of your experience, was there an associated life-threatening event?       Yes  Illness  fever  Illness, trauma or other condition not considered life threatening   Dangerously high fever.

How do you consider the content of your experience?      Mixed

Did you feel separated from your body?    Yes  No memory of seeing myself.

At what time during the experience were you at your highest level of consciousness and alertness?       Asleep? Comatose from fever? Dead? Still not certain.

Did time seem to speed up or slow down?       No

Did you pass into or through a tunnel?       No

Did you encounter or become aware of any deceased (or alive) beings?       Yes     My Lord Himself.

The experience included:       Void

Did you see an unearthly light?       No

The experience included:       A landscape or city

Did you seem to enter some other, unearthly world?       A clearly mystical or unearthly realm     Described in testimony.

What emotions did you feel during the experience?       Void, fear, awe, confusion, disappointment, sorrow, angry, unworthiness, and then peace in that order.

Did you suddenly seem to understand everything?       No

Did scenes from your past come back to you?       My past flashed before me, out of my control     Vision described in detail of testimony.

The experience included:       Vision of the future

Did scenes from the future come to you?       Scenes from the world's future     Described in testimony.

Did you come to a border or point of no return?       No     

God, Spiritual and Religion:

What was your religion prior to your experience?    Moderate   Christian

What is your religion now?       Moderate   Christian

Did you have a change in your values and beliefs because of your experience?       No       

     After the NDE:

Was the experience difficult to express in words?      Yes   Certain details of the experience.

Do you have any psychic, non-ordinary or other special gifts after your experience that you did not have before the experience?       No

Are there one or several parts of your experience that are especially meaningful or significant to you?        Every part of the experience was neutral.

Have you ever shared this experience with others?     Yes    Not sure if they were influenced, but there wasn't any negative reactions. I've only told people who have asked.

At any time in your life, has anything ever reproduced any part of the experience?     No

Is there anything else that you would like to add about your experience?       Jesus is Lord.    				  			  			  			  			  				  				  				  	

©1998-2023 NDERF, Jody Long &amp; Jeffrey Long, MD. All Rights Reserved.  				If you have benefited from our work and NDERF.org, consider a monthly or one-time donation through our 501(c)3 non-profit organization. We Really Need Your Help. Click here for more information.</strong>  				  			</footer>  		  		  			  		    		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		  		   		  		  		  		         		  				  				   	  

[1] https://www.nderf.org/Experiences/1olivia_c_possible_nde.html