{"type":"link","mylink":"https:\/\/psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk\/articles\/g%C3%B6ran-brusewitz","mytitle":"G\u00f6ran Brusewitz | Psi Encyclopedia","mylang":"de"}
                     Göran Brusewitz | Psi Encyclopedia                                  Skip to main content                                                        	                  

Follow&nbsp;                                     Toggle navigation                                                                                       Home About Contents A-Z Categories New To Psi Research? Nigel Buckmaster Contributors                                                                                                                           Göran Brusewitz                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Göran Brusewitz&nbsp;is a Swedish researcher who has&nbsp;studied&nbsp;anomalous connections between twins. He is author of Conscious Connections (2010), a book linking parapsychology with holistic biology.   Contents   	Career 	Twin Telepathy  	Experimental 	Survey   	Detecting Remote Emotion 	Conscious Connections 	Evidence for Psi 	Literature 	Endnotes     Career

Göran Brusewitz was awarded a PhD for his extensive explorations of twin telepathy conducted over a ten year period. His thesis, titled ‘Attachment and Exceptional Experiences Among Twins', was&nbsp;supervised by David Luke at the University of Greenwich.&nbsp; Brusewitz has also researched the effect of remote emotion on receiver skin conductance, and has surveyed the evidence for psi phenomena.

Brusewitz&nbsp;has been president of the Swedish SPR since 1987. He acted as local host for the PA Convention 2006 in Stockholm and as program chair for the Euro-SSE Convention 2016 in Stockholm. He has regularly visited annual PA and SPR conferences, and has invited distinguished researchers in the field from Europe and the US to lectures and seminars in Stockholm.  Twin Telepathy

Brusewitz argues that to gain scientific acceptance for a psi effect, it helps to seek correlations with findings that are well supported in conventional psychology. For this reason, he chose in his PhD research to investigate telepathy in the context of attachment theory, an established element of &nbsp;developmental psychology, exploring the level of bonding between participant pairs.  Experimental

Brusewitz developed an experimental program involving English twins in collaboration with TwinsUK, a registry of adult twins based at the Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology, King's College, London. He carried out three studies with 14 pairs of twins in&nbsp;May&nbsp;2014 and&nbsp;in April&nbsp;and October 2015, the first at the University of Greenwich and the other two at the&nbsp;College for&nbsp;Psychic Studies in London.&nbsp;One twin, the ‘receiver’, was&nbsp;connected to equipment for measuring electrodermal activity (EDA); the other twin, the ‘transmitter’, was placed in a distant room to avoid any possibility of ordinary contact. The transmitter twin was then&nbsp;exposed to a surprise on&nbsp;five&nbsp;occasions&nbsp;(trials), each chosen randomly at moments within a thirty-second window period.&nbsp; These consisted of such stimuli as&nbsp;having a hand thrust in a bucket of ice-water, a burst balloon, or a loud bang. A hit was achieved if the EDA equipment detected when the distant twin was subjected to a surprise, and was taken to be support for telepathy. Eighteen hits were achieved in 91 trials where mean chance expectancy&nbsp;was 11.4 (p = 0.043), which is statistically significant.1  Survey

An internet survey of anomalous distant connection experienced by twins was made in November 2017 in collaboration with King’s College, which sent out&nbsp;individual&nbsp;emails to&nbsp;all&nbsp;5060 twins in their registry, with personal links to the survey.2 &nbsp;More than 2,000 twins participated, a high&nbsp;response rate&nbsp;of 41%.&nbsp;The survey contained two questionnaires on attachment,&nbsp;one that measured the degree of avoidance and a person’s degree of anxiety, and one&nbsp;that measured attachment based on&nbsp;Bowlby's attachment theory on four scales: proximity maintenance, separation distress, safe haven and secure base. The survey asked two additional questions, one about twin telepathy experiences, the other about anomalous experiences with other people.&nbsp;Exceptional experiences were defined as telepathy-like experiences; synchronous physiological response to illness, injury or accident; and feeling remotely the pain of the other twin, accident or mental state.

Identical twins were found to have significantly stronger connections than fraternal twins, female twins having stronger ties than men; the connection was strongest at a younger age, then slowly diminishing.&nbsp;Twins with a strong connection were found to have&nbsp;significantly&nbsp;more exceptional experiences than twins with a slightly weaker connection.  Detecting Remote Emotion

Brusewitz attempted for his master thesis (at the University of Stockholm) to replicate earlier research by Ramakers, Stevens and Morris3 exploring the effect of remote emotion on receiver skin conductance (EDA) between separated and shielded pairs of individuals.4 A series of 20 pictures (ten of highly negative emotional nature such as death scenes and accidents, and ten control blanks) were shown to the sender on a computer screen. Brusewitz hypothesized that there would be significantly more variance in the receiver’s skin conductance when the sender was exposed to negative arousing pictures than to the blank screens. However, results were well within chance.&nbsp; Brusewitz recommended that future replications allocate more prior relaxation time for the receiver than the one minute given in this study.  Conscious Connections

A book titled Conscious Connections: About Parapsychology and Holistic Biology was published in 2010, an extended version of Brusewitz’s PhD thesis including chapters on biomagnetism, biofields and holistic biology.5 &nbsp;The book, with a foreword by American parapsychologist Stanley Krippner, covers near-death experiences, quantum physics in biological processes, past life memories and other phenomena suggesting an afterlife. In the biology chapter, Brusewitz discusses: dowsing along the psi-track, research indicating the presence of electrical systems in the body needed to control development of biological organisms (with reference to the work of Björn Nordenström and Robert O Becker), the role of the heart (Rollin McCraty, Victor Inyushin), and an acupuncture meridian system. Krippner writes that an attempt to connect these two fields is unique in his experience.  Evidence for Psi

With Adrian Parker, Brusewitz discusses the enormous but mostly unrecognized evidential base in support of psi phenomena. Brusewitz and Parker are careful to avoid claiming proof of paranormal phenomena but make a strong case that mainstream academia should take them seriously. They note that the effects are neither marginal nor nonreplicable, although they appear to be dependent on certain experimenters and participants. The article includes classical studies, meta-analyses of replication studies, the testing of high scoring subjects, and proof-orientated experiments, and critical appraisal of this work.6

Michael Duggan  Literature

Brusewitz, G. (2005). The Effect of Remote Emotion on Receiver Skin Conductance: A Failure to Confirm.

Brusewitz, G. (2010). Conscious Connections: About parapsychology and holistic biology. VDM Verlag (Dr Muller). Riga, Latvia.

Brusewitz, G. (2020).&nbsp;The Effect of Remote Emotion on Receiver Skin Conductance: A Failure to Confirm

Brusewitz, G., Parker, A. &amp; Cherkas, L. (2010). Exceptional experiences amongst twins: A preliminary investigation. Proceedings of the 34th International Conference of the Society for Psychical Research.

Brusewitz, G., Parker, A. &amp; Cherkas, L. (2011). Exceptional experiences amongst twins: A further investigation. Proceedings of the 35th International Conference of the Society for Psychical Research.

Brusewitz, Parker, A., Cherkas, L. &amp; Harris, J. (2013). Exceptional experiences among twins. Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 77, 220-35.

Brusewitz, G., Parker, A., Luke, D., Friday, R. &amp; Puhle, A. (2016). An exploratory study of physiological connectedness among twins in relation to attachment. Proceedings of the joint 35th annual meeting of the Society for Scientific Exploration and 59th annual convention of the Parapsychological Association. Boulder, Colorado.

Parker, A. &amp; Brusewitz, G (2003). A compendium of the evidence for psi. European Journal of Parapsychology 18, 33-52.

Ramakers, P., Stevens, P. &amp; Morris, R.L. (2005). The effect of remote emotion on receiver skin conductance. Proceedings of the 29th International Conference of the Society for Psychical Research. University of Bath.   Endnotes 1. Brusewitz et al (2010; 2011; 2016). 2. Brusewitz et al (2017). 3. Ramakers et al (2005). 4. Brusewitz (2020). 5. Brusewitz (2010). 6. Brusewitz and Parker (2003).           			  			     			This page was last updated on: February 21, 2023   			 			                                               	       Search form        Search                   Article Information           	Author: Michael Duggan Word count: 1,100 Created: 11th June 2020 Last updated: 21st February 2023 May be cited as:Duggan, M. (2020). &lsquo;Göran Brusewitz&rsquo;. Psi Encyclopedia. London: The Society for Psychical Research. &lt;https://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/g%C3%B6ran-brusewitz&gt;. Retrieved 14 January 2024. Short URL:www.tinyurl.com/y8ljqkbn                   	                                                                              

                      	                                                                                                                      	                                                                                            ESP                                        Psychokinesis                                        Psi Healing                                        Possession &amp; Past Lives                                                                          Mediums &amp; Psychics                                        Hauntings &amp; Apparitions                                        Poltergeists                                        Out-of-Body &amp; Near Death Experiences                                                                          Scientists &amp; Researchers                                        General Psi Topics                                        Other Phenomena                                        Organizations &amp; Publications                                                                               	 	About 	Contact 	Copyright 	Login                    

Visit the Society for Psychical Research                

[1] https://psi-encyclopedia.spr.ac.uk/articles/g%C3%B6ran-brusewitz