{"name":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research 7847","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/\/.\/spr_journal_v3_n43_oct_1887.pdf","mytitle":"Journal of the Society for Psychical Research V3 N43 October 1887","mylang":"de"}
No~ XLllI.-VoL. In, OCTOBER, 1887.
JOURNAL·
OF THE
SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
New Members and Associates
Meetlnn of ConncD ..
Sommeil & Distance ..
Correspondence ..
CONTENTS.
PAGE
•. 149-
•. 149
.. 150
•• 158
NEW MEMBERS AND ASSOCIATES.
CORRESPONDING MEMBER.
DESSOIR, MAX, 21, Kothem!r Str!l.sse, Berlin, W.
MEMBERS.
BERENS, REV. RANDOLPH, 14, Prince's Gardens, London, S.W.
BIDDULPH, THE LADY ELIZABETH P., 19, Ennismore Gardens, London,
S.W.
ASSOCIATES.
COLCHESTER, REV. H. B., 1, Leinster Place, Paddington, London, W.
GELL, REV. A. W. HAMILTON, M.A., Winslade, Exeter.
MEETINGS OF COUNCIL.
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 22nd of July, the following
Members were present :-Messrs. George P. Bidder, Walter H. Coffin,.
Edmund Gurney, Frank Podmore, H. Arthur Smith and J. Herbert,
Stack. Mr. Stack was voted to the chair.
The Minutes of the previous Meeting were read and signed
as correct.
On the proposition of Mr. E. Gurney, seconded by Mr. F. Podmore,.
Herr Max Dessoir, of 27, Kothener Strasse, Berlin, W., was elected
a Corresponding Member.
Two new Members and two new Associates, whose names and
addresses are given above, were elected.
One volume was on the table as a present to the Library, for which.
a \'ote of thanks was passed to the donor.
The Cash Account for the previous month was presented in the
usual form.
It was agreed that the Council should meet again on Friday, the 29th.,
At a Meeting of the Council held on the 29th of July, the
following Members were present :--Messrs. Walter H. Coffin, Edmund_
Gurney, Frank Podmore, and H. Arthur Smith. Mr. Smith was voted
H
Digitized by Google
150 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct.,1887.
to the chair. The Minutes of the last Meeting were read and sign~
as correct.
At this and at the previous Meeting of the Council, and also at one
or two subsequent lfeetings of an informal character, the question of
future arrangements as to premises was under consideration, and the
results of numerous inquiries were before the Members.
It was finally decided to take a suite of rooms on the third floor,
at 19, Buckingham Street, Adelphi, W.C.; an agreement for which, for
three years from the 29th of September, 1857, with the option on the
part of the Society of continuing the tenancy on the same terms for
five or seven years, has been signed. The Library, &c., has now been
moved to the new rooms. .
It is desired to sub-let three of the' rooms, unfurnished, at a
moderate rent. Some reader of the Journal may perhaps know of a
possible tenant.
SOMMEIL A DISTANCE.
The following is a letter written to me last winter by M. Ch. Richet.-Ed.
J e vais vous donner quelques details sur les experiences de sommeil a.
distance que j'ai faites. Elles sont inedites ; mais eUes seront publiees d'ici
a.deux ou trois mois. Neamoins, faiws en tel usage que vous voudrez.
Vous connaissez Leonie (Mme. B); on en a parle assez souvent et F.
Myers 1'80 vue. Elle est venue a. Paris, chez mon ami H. Ferrsri, et j'ai pu
alors faire surelle diverses experiences. Je laisse de ooM tout ce qui n'est
pas sommeil a. distance. n y a eu assurement des faits curieUl!: ; mais ce qui
est Ie plus important c'est Ie sommeil a. distance. Voici comment j'ai procede.
J'ai d'abord essaye de 180 soumettre et de 1'habituer a. moi completement--
c'est-3.-dire, pendant 15 jours a. peu pres, tous les jours pendant deux, trois,
quatre, ou meme cinq heures, je 1'ai tenais magnetisee; Alors j'ai pu essayer
(sans 180 prevenir) de 1'endormira.distance, et j'ai eu 180 serie suivante :-
I" Exp. ........................... Le succes presque complet.
2" Exp. ........................... Demi-insuooes.
3" Exp. ........................... Demi-insucces.
4 Exp. ........................... Un succes complet.
5" Exp. ............................ Un SUCC6S complet.
6" Exp. ........................... Succes incomplet.
7" Exp. ................. ......... Succlls presque complet.
8 Exp................."......... Succ1ls presque complet.
go Exp. ........................... Un Buccal complet.
Si l'on laisse de coM la neuvieme experience, qui estdefectueuse pourune
cause speciale, que je connais, on voit qu'il y a eu une amelioration pro-
gressive, et assez regulierement progressive, dans les resultats.
Je vais vous raconter 180 sixieme experience, qui est probablement la
meilleure-c'est celle qui m'a Ie plus frappe, quoique je ne l'appelle que
succ1ls incompiet. Le soir (Lundi) entrant chez moi a. 11 heures du soir, je
Digitized by Google
Qct., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 151
me decide a. endormir Mme. B. Ie lendemain mann j mais je ne l'avais pas
prevenue de mes intentiolls, d'autant moins que je l'ignorais moi-m~me•
.Alora, Ie mardi matin, a. 8 heures, etant encore dans mon lit, je tire au sort
avec un jeu de cartes, pour savoir a quelle heure il faut l'endormir, en me
laissant une incertitude allant de 8 heures du matin a 8 heures du soir. Le
.sort-designe 9 heures. .A 9 heures de 9 heures 11.9.10. je fais effort pour
l'endormir; puis pour ne modifier en quoi que ce soit les habitudes de
Mme. B., je ne vais pas chez elle. .A 1 heure je vois un de mes amis ;
je lui raconte cette histoire, et jo lui fais Ie simulacre de l'action du
sommeil a distance de 1 heure 11.1.28. .A 5 heures je vais chez Mme. B. j
voici ce qu'elle raconte : A. 9.5 du matin, pendant qu'elle s'habillait pour
descendre dejeftner, elle est prise d'un mal de tete insurmontable, fatigue,
101lrdeur, paralysie des jambes ; elle ne peut pas se trainer. Elle descend
cependant, estimant que cette malaise va se dissiper. Point. Elle augmente
.si bien qu'a 9.20 elle est toreee de remonter dans sa chambre, de se coucher
tout habillee sur son lit. La somnolence dure ainsi, sans qu'on puisse la
decider a.descendre (a. midi) dejeftner, jusqu' a 1.15, 1.30 environ j alora elle
tombe en etat de somnambulisme, et elle y est encore a. 5 heures, quand
j'arrive, et que.je me fais raconter par elle ces divera details, sans qu'elle
puisse rien BOup90nner de mes intentions.*
La. septieme expelience est vraiment excellente. Le vendredi j'arrive
tard chez Mme. B. A 6 heures et un quart, comme je devais aller au the!tre,
et qu'elle etait encore tres souffrante, je lui dis qu'il ne faut pas Ia magnetiserj
et je m'en vais. Mais a peine suis-je sorti de Ia chanlbre, etant en
dehora de la porte, que je me repens de ma decision, et je dis: "Tant pis
pour Ie tbe!tre et pour les nerfs de Mme. B. La. science l'emporte ! je veux
-qu'elle dorme." Details enfantins peutetre, mais qui indiquent bien que
quand j'ai vu Mme. B. j'avais fermement l'intention de ne pas l'endormir.
Donc rien dans mes paroles n'a pu la mettre sur la voie. Je fais ainsi, sans
qu'elle puisse me voir ou entendre en quoi que ce soit, pendant vingt
minutes de 6.25 a. 6.45, l'ordre mental du sommeil j puis, sans faire de bruit,
a. 6.45 je constate de vis1' que Mme. B., qui ne peut pas me Yoir, est
endormie. Vers 6.40 elle s'etait sentie prise d'un epais BOmmeil, avait
trempe ses mains dans l'eau pour essayer de s'y soustraire (voyez son obser-
vation par M. Janet et par M. Ochorowicz), ma:s vainement; elle n'avait
pu resister au sommeil, et a. 6.45 elle dormait profondement, Ie coude
appuye sur la table, quoique il yeut autour d'elle des personnes allant et
Tenant.
Dans la huitieme experience Ie jour et I'heure ont 'eM tires au sort.
L'heure designee est 2 heures, heure qui est ausM incommode pour moi que
pour elle. De 1.38 a. 1.50 (etant chez moi) je fais effort pour l'endormir, et
quand j'arrive 11.2.5 je Ia trouve endormie, et disallt qu'elle a eM endormic
par moi vera 1.45. (J'ai etabli Is. concordance des heures en calcuIant Ie
travail de couture qu'elle a fait depuis Ie moment ou elle s'est mise au travail,
1 heure, jusqu' au moment ou elle a cesse de pouvoir coudre.)
* n faut noter que cette experience l'a tellement fatiguee qU'elle est restee
malade, et assez malade, avec un atroce mal de tete et un etat nerveux des plus
penibles, pendant trois iours.
Digitized by~6ogIe
152 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1887.
Telles BOnt mes trois expllriences importantes. J'espere que vous lea
trouverez satisiaisantes. CelIe qui m'a Ie plus fmpp~ c'est 1& sixieme, mais
je crois que Ia septieme est la meilleure. Faites-en tel usage que vous
voudrez, ct si vous avez besoin de quelque supplllment d'instruction, je
semis heureux de ,·ous l'envoyer.
In answer to inquiries, M. Richet adds:-
Quant a. l'action a distance sur Mme. B., je vous dirai que depuis Ie
jour on je l'ai vue, c'est-b.-dire Ie 26 Decembre jusqu' au 26 Janvier, pas
une seule fois elle ne s'est trouvee en ~tat de somnambulisme en dehors des
cas on je l'endormais voiontairement (pres d'eIle ou a distance). Deux fois,
cependant, elle s'est endormie dans les conditions suivantes: Une premiere
fois elle ~tait a. cote de moi, en voiture, et je n'avais pas Z'intention de
l'endormir. Malgre moi et ma.Igre elle, probablement, elle s'est endormie;
mais cela n'~st pas etonnant, car j'etais a. cOte d'elle, et pendant tout ce
temps il est possible qu'il y ait en une sorte d'auto-suggestion de 63 part, et
une suggestion inconsciente de la mienne.
La. seconde fois qu'~lle est tombee en etat de somnambulisme sans que je
Ie veuille, c'est Ie 25 Janvier, 1& veille de son depart. J'arrive a 2 heures
et je 1& trouve endormie, les yeux ouverts. ne repondant paS aUK questions.
Elle tenait' ala main une montre en or (qu'on l'avait donnee la veille) et
elle regardait fixement Ie couvercle. Elle m'a dit que ce qui l'avait
endormie, c'etait Ia montre; et en efret elle est sujette a litre ainsi actionn~e
par les objets brillants, et 1'0r lui donn", des crises, si bien qu'eIle ne peut
pas entrer dans 1& boutique d'un bijoutier sans avoir une sorte de crise
hystero-~pileptique.
Voici les dates des expllriences de sommeil a. distancc, avec les heures, et
les efrets obtenus (al'heure indiquee au dernier tableau).
J.
I" Exp. Mercredi 12
2" Exp.-Vendredi 14
lJe Exp.-Samedi 15
4" Exp.-Lundi 17
5" Exp.-Mardi 18
6" Exp.-Mercredi 19
7" Exp.-Vendredi 21
8" Exp. -Lundi 24
9" Exp.-Mardi 25
ElIol't d'action.
de 9h. it 9b. 10
de 3h. 10 it 3b. 45
de 11h. 1 a. lIb. 8
de lIb. a. 12b. 4
de 1111. it llh. 25
{ de 9h. 11 it 9b. 26
... de Ih. 15 it lb. 40
de 6b. 20 a. 6b. 52
... de Ih. 38 a. Ih. 50
... de 6h. 55 it 7h. 10
ElIet
rfssenti.
9h.20
3h. 30
llh. 4
Rien.
Rien.
9h. 18
Ih.35
6h. 45
Ih.45
Rien.
Retard.
10'
20'
3'
7'
20'
25'
7'
Ainsi sur sept expllriences il y a eu sept fois un retard-qui est en
moyenne de 12 minutes.
Si 1'0n prend la moyenne des retards dans les dix principales experiencea
de M. Janet et de M. Gilbert, on trouve un retyd qui a ete deneuf minutes
enmoyenne.
L'identiM tres saisissantes de ces deux chiffres. et la constance du
pMnomene retard, indiquent que n'y a pas Ia. une simple coincidence. Ainsi
sur 17 exp~riences de Janet et de moi, 17 fois il y a eu retard et pas une Reule
fois avance. N'est-ce pas un bien bon argument contra l'hypothbse de
hazard 7 Qu'en pensez·voUB 7
CHAltLBS RICBlIT.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1887.] Jou?"nal of Society fO?' Psychical &search. '153
CORRESPONDENCE.
To file Edito-r of file JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PsycmcAL REsBARCH.
DEAR Sm,-In my paper entitled .. The Poasibilities of Mal-Observation
from a Practical Point of View," published in Part XI. of the Society for
Psychical Research P"oceedings, I called attention on pp. 415, 416, to the
following editorial note in Light, September 4th, 1886 :-
., If he [Mr. Davey] or any other conjurer can produce the appearance
of the conditions which he seemed to observe with Mr. Eglinton, and the
writing under such apparent conditions, so as to induce an inexperienced
witness to write such " report as those he wrote himself, it will be time
enough to talk of mal-observation as a poasible explanation."
If it can be pointed out in what way I have failed to carry out the above
prescription in the essential details of my experiments with certain inex-
perienced witneBBes to my conjuring performances quoted in the PrOl'mingll,
Part XI., I shall then be happy to devote further time and study to the
question.
In the meanwhile, as no such attempt to my knowledge has been made,
nor to answer the clear charges of imposture already recorded against
Mr. Eglinton, a further expenditure of time on my part seems unneceBBal'Y,
for the conclusion to be drawn is obvious.
I have been asked to reproduce certain extraordinary results in the
presence of those who claim to have witnessed them with Eglinton.
Apart from other considerations, it does not seem to have occurred to
those who have recently made this proposition that it would be just as
difficult for me to duplicate under similarconditions certain avowed conjuring
performances, as for instance the following trick performed by Harry Kellar,
the American conjurer, before three of the Seybert Commissioners. (Seethe
.. Seybert Report on Spiritualism," pp. 78. 79.)
.. Professor Thompson was asked to write a question, which he did while
the side of the slate on which he wrote was turned away from Mr. Kellar.
'" The slate was not turned over,the written question remaining on the
under side, and it was held at the usual place under the table, Mr. Kellar's
thumb remaining above the table in full view, while the fingers held the
alate up under the table.
"A moment after the placing of the slate under the table, it was withdrawn
to admit of a small pencil being placed upon it, Mr. Fumesshaving remarked
the absence of the pencil. The slate was not otherwise withdrawn from
under the table above two inches until its final withdrawal, and the question
was always seemingly on the under side.
" When the slate was brought out a communication was found upon it in
answer to ProfeBBOr Thompson's question. The answer was on the upper
aide of the slate." (Mr. Kellar afterwards revealed his methods to Dr.
Howard FumeBB.) ,
I may also point out that there are, undoubtedly, methods for producing
elate-writing unknown to general conjurers. I have already quoted on
pp. 412,413 Proceeding.,Part XI., the testimony of a well-known profeBBional
conjurer in regard to certain experiments I performed before hinl. I may
Digitized by Google
154 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 188'j.
now supplement this by quoting the testimony of Dr. James Henry Lewis,
an experienced amateur conjurer, with whom, personally, I was unacquainted
prior to the .reance.
Staines.
Jtvne 16th, 1887.
Yesterday I attended a seance given by Mr. S. J. Davey, of Beckenham,
for slate-writing. The results were simply marvellous. Writing was pro-
duced on a lock~ slate with a genuine Bramah lock, and also between two
ordinary schoolillates unprepared, and which I thoroughly examined, tied
together myself, and sealed. Although I know nearly every conjuring
trick as applied to slate-writing, I feel quite convinced Mr. Davey did not
use any of these, and without an explanation from him I am at a loss to
account for the means of production.
JAMES HENRY LEWIS, Ph. D.
The following is the evidence of an amateur conjurer of exceptional
ability:-
" I have to-day seen Mr. Davey produce pencil marks within Mr. Spiel-
man's folded slate,*padlocked, corded, and sealed, and having rebates in the
frame,. so that nothing can be introduced between the frames, and I confeBS
that I cannot imagine any possible method of doing so.
"GEORGE HERSCHELL, M.D.
"June 25th, 1887."
Eglinton has asselied in Light, October 16th, 1886, that he refused an
offer of 2,000 guineas per annum to perform his manifestations nightly upon
a public platform, and he instances this as a proof that his manifestations are
not the result of conjuring.
A similar munificent offer was recently made to myself, if I would repeat
before a public.audience certain slate-writing tricks I had performed in a
private studio. I declined this offer upon the ground that conditions
eBSentia! for the succeBS of my performance could never be obtained in full
sight of a public aBBcmbly.-Yours, &c.,
S. J. DA.VEY.
August 24th, 1887.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-I wrote to you in June last, but as you informed me .. the July
number was made up before the arrival of my letter," I now write again, and
shall be glad if you can find room for this letter in your October number.
I need hardly say that I read the last Proceedings with great interest, but
I am free to confeBS that I cannot even now, after this rather long inter\'al of
time, see the object of your efforts to show that Eglinton is an impostor.
Even if you succeeded in doing 80 (and as yet you are very far from having
* This slate was specially prepared by a gentleman, with whom I am un-
acquainted, for a seance with Eglinton. I understand thatE~linton had failed tc)
produce any result whatever, and it was shown to me as bemg apparently trick
proof. After Dr. Herschell had secured it, as he describes, I requested a few
seconds non-observation to produce the result referred to.-S.J.D.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 155
succeeded-at least, in my judgment}, what would you have gained 7 I
presume it is not suggested, even by Messrs. Hodgson and Lewis, that all the
" mediums" that ever appeared have been the clever conjure!'S that they
would have us believe Eglinton is. Spiritualism does not stand or fall with
Eglinton, as you and some writers of the Society for Psychical Research seem
to imagine. Even if you could show to demonstration that he is all which
you suspect him to be, you would not have taken one step in advance. You
do not, I presume, expect your readers to believe that girls of fourteen, for
instance,can write in locked slates answers to questions which they have never'
heard or seen, and in languages which they don't understand, by their own
unaided powers of conjuring ; and, if not, what advantage would you have
gained if you could succeed in showing that Eglinton can do so 7 " His
phenomena may be taken as typical," you say, "of the evidence on which
the Spiritual belief rests, and an examination of his claims is, therefore, an
important step in the examinstion of the subject." This sentence is the
key-note of all that follows, and its argumellt is founded on a fallacy.
Whately would have denounced it as involving an "undistributed middle,"
and Mill as a "fallacy of ratiocination." If it can be shown that Eglinton
performs his feats by conjuring, then his phenomena are not "typical of the
evidence on which the Spiritual belief rests," unless it can be shown that
other mediums-the girl of fourteen, for instance, or the uneducated female
-are at least as likely as he is to do theirs by conjuring also. And this, I
presume, no one will attempt to show.
I am not concerned to defend Eglinton. I have no personal knowledge
of him whatever, but I have, I hope, an Englishman's love of fair play, and
fair play is just that which in my judgment he has not received at your
hands.
In a former letter I asked that Mr. Davey should do his feats in the
presence of some well-known Spiritualists. I find, however, that Mr.
Hodgson, who appears to be his .. guide, philosopher, and friend," will not
listen to such a proposal. He is afraid of the "psychical condition of the
Spiritualists." That condition "might be a bar to Mr. Davey's perfor-
mances," he says. Well, air, here we have surely discovered a new thing
under the sun-a conjurer depending for his ,uccess on the psychical
condition of his audience I If this does not out-Herod Herod, I should like
to know what does.
And in the last number of the JO'I.lII"IUil, I perceive that an answer has
been discovered that will meet any and every question that may be raised as
to the difficulty of accounting for Eglinton's phenomena, viz., Mr. Davey
can do something quite as wonderful, or even still more wonderful by mere
conjuring. And when Spiritualists modestly ask to be permitted to witneBB
those feats of skill, they are met with the rebuft'-" No, you must take our
word for it. We have no reason to regard you persons as experts for the
purpose of this inquiry. True, toe do not take '!lotVI' word for what is done
in Eglinton's presence, but that is a different matter altogether. We are
experts, and therefore every investigation for the ,\ubjoct of this inquiry
must be reduced to the well-known formula-Heads we win, tails you lose."
In a second letter I asked how the one word Boorzu was written. I
Digitized by Google
156 JO'U/Mull oj Society JOT P8ychical Resea:rch. [Oct., 1881.
confined my inquiry to one word in order that I might get, if possible, a
definite reply. .:\nd now it appears that after all the :flourish of trumpets
with which that word was paraded before our wondering eyes, no such word
was ever written at all. It was "books," we are told, and not Boorzu,
though what the word "books" happened to be doing there at that
particular time is another of the mysteries that still remain umathomed.
There is nothing whatever about books in the context. But whether it was
books or Boorzu we ought clearly to be thankfulfor its appesra.nce, inasmuch
as it has afforded Mr. Hodgson an opportunity of enlightening us as to the
classes and degrees into which conjuring may be divided. These degrees, it
seems, are three, aud of these three the highest and most wonderful is that
in which the spectator does the .conjuring for himself, and stands astounded
at his own mistake. Something has happened by chance, as, for instance, it
chanced that books looked like Boorzu. It is not owing to the conjurer's
design or foresight or cleverneBB that the thing has taken place. He
deserves no credit for it whatever it is, and the great triwnph of his craft
is to accept the credit which he knows he does not deserve, and assent by
his silence to what he knows to be untrue. Mr. Davey wrote "books," and
Mr. Padshah mistook the word for Boorzu-one of his own names known
only to himself, and the crowning act of conjuring consisted in reaping the
fruits that sprang from Mr. Padshah's mistake and pocketing the gains. So
much for Mr. Hodgson.
As to the seances of Mr. Lewis with Eglinton I turned to them, expecting
to find the charges of imposture so frequently made in your pages-not
established indeed, for I had met with no evidence to lead me to the belief
that those charges could be established-but at all events I expected to find
some new light thrown on the subject-something said to strengthen the
suspicion which may perhaps not unnaturally lUl'k in the minds of ·many of
your readers, I was disappointed, however, and with your leave I will state
the reasons why I was disappointed.
Mr. Lewis undertakes to show how Eglinton's writing is done in one
position only, viz., with the slate held under the table. Now if we are to
believe scores or rather hundreds of witnesses writing is often done in
Eglinton's presence while the alate is Ol~ the table, or held out from it
between Eglinton's hand and that of one of the sitters. But these conditions,
which are by far the most satisfactory and convincing, are altogether ignored
by Mr. Lewis; and thus his whole performance reminds one of the play of
Hamlet with the Prince of Denmark left out.
But still we may take his account, such as it is, and see what it amounts
to. I will ask your attention to the well-known book and slate "trick."
Mr. Lewis took a book at random from the shelves and then wrote on a slate,
"p. Zl, line 13, word 2 red, 3 white, 4 blue." He then turned the
alate upside down and called Eglinton into the room; the latter having
entered, put three bits of chalk, red, white, and blue, with the book on the
slate, "put the whole under the table, and taking my left hand in his !eft,
began the sOOonce."
Now let us just remember that this was done in broad daylight, and that
Eglinton had only one hand to hold both book and alate under the table.
Digitized by Google
Oct.,1887.] Jouf"fUil Of Society for Psychical Research. 157
In order to perform the trick, he had in the first place to tum the slate over
80 as to see the words on the other side, then he had to open the book, and
as it was not likely he could open it just at the page required, he had to tum
over the loaves till he came to p. Zl. This being done, he had then to
count thirteen lines from the top of the page, and find out the second, third,
and fourth words in the thirteenth line. Having done all this he had then
to select his piece of chalk three times in succession so as to write each word
in the prescribed colour.
Well, the thing was done. Mr. Lewis does not deny the fact, and what
has he to say about it 1 This is what he tells us. After the first pencils had
been jerked off the slate, I suppose by Eglinton's" shudderings," "fresh bits
were placed along-side of the book," and the seance began de fI.011O. "He"
(Eglinton) "pushes his arm with the slate far under the table and then,
bringing it back towards him again, Zook8 down" (as if to read the book).
"Now he brings the slate up against the under side of the table and puts
thumb above. I now hear the sound of writing."
This is all that Mr. Lewis has to tell us about the book and slate trick,
and he is astounded at the simplicity of the performance. It was all clearly
done by Eglinton's thumb-nail during that spasmodic thrust of his whole
hand under the table! Mr. Lewis does not tell us how long Eglinton'shand
was under the table; so it may have been half-an-hour or half a second.
Perhaps it did not suit his purpose to say how long; vagueness suited it
better. At all events he has presonted us with a picture well calculated to
excite our admiration. There sits Eglinton looking down with a quiet eye,
examining the slate, turning over the leaves of the book and deliberately
choosing out his bits of pencil, while Mr. Lewis sits furtively watching him
with the" tail of his eye" in dumb wonder. And all this time, good easy
man, it never seems to occur to him to "look down to see what Eglinton is
doing." Is he restrained by a high sense of honour and afraid of being
caught eavesdropping 1 Certainly, to an ordinary reader like myself who am
ignorant of the ways of experts, it does seem a little singular that when
he suspected Eglinton to be carefully turning over the lea.ves, or scrutinising
the page, it never occurred to him to take a peep even in that direction. Or
shall we think that he was too busy writing notes to have time to look after
what Eglinton was doing under the table 1 And does this also account for the
fact that hedid not join with Eglinton in holding the book and slate 1 This is
almost invariably done, I understand, and Eglinton never objects to it. Now
if Mr. Lewis knew that he should not be able to take this needful precaution
in consequence of his being otherwise engaged, why did he insist on being
alone with Eglinton 1 Why did he not take a friend with him who could
have either written the notes or helped to hold the book and slate against
the table, and so have made it impossible for Eglinton either to read the
writing or open the book1 Why did a professional conjurer adopt this slip-
shod way of investigating a great subject 1 I think I can tJ311 you why. Mr.
Lewis doubtless loved the discovery of truth much, but he lov,ed the display
of his own shrewdness and cleverness more. But what could add a taller
feather to his cap than to succeed in 1!nmaskingthe world-renowned medium,
EgIinton ~ Mr. Lewis did not take the most ordinary precautions against
Digitized by Google
158 Jowrnal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct~ 1881.
imposture, and why 7 Why, simply that he might be able triumphantly to.
tell us when and where acts of imposture might have been perpetrated.
But, after all,what does Mr.Lewis's account prove,grantingit to be correct
and trustworthy in every respect 1 It is clear that his experience with
Eglinton is an exceptional one. Eglinton's conduct, as described at the
seance-his thrusting his whole hand some eight' inches under the
table-his stooping do~ and looking earnestly at the slate, &c., could not.
have escaped the notice of the most careless observer, and it is incredible
that he could have acted in this way in the presence of the hundreds of
witnesses who have recorded their experience. Mal·observation on their
part is out of the question. Either those witnesses have told us what they
knew to be false, or Mr. Lewis's experience is an altogether exceptional one.
Granting it, therefore, all that you or he can claim for it, it does not go one·
hair's-breadth towards proving the non.reality of psychography in Eglinton's
presence. The most it can prove, then, on the most uncharitable hypothesis,
is, that Eglinton is not above having recourse to trickery when his psychical
powers happen to fail him.
. But if I were a Spiritualist I should (in view of Mr. Lewis's experience
being an exceptional one) adopt another line of argument, which, indeed, is.
easily pooh-poohed, but, on the Spiritualistic theory, is sufficiently valid for
all that. Mr. Lewis was alone with Eglinton-he had insisted on being-
alone. Here, then, we can conceive a struggle for the mastery between the
two personalities (or whatever the word ought to be) anti the weaker being-
dominated by the stronger. If this be so, and if the superiority was on .tlle>
side of Mr. Lewis, as it probably was, we can easily conceive that Eglinton,
though normally an honest man, was, when partially in the trance state,.
controlled for the time being by a spirit of trickery.
And now, sir, I should like to make aproposal,orchallenge if you prefer to.
call it BO, by way of conclusion. Mr. Davey has revealed to Messrs. Hodgson
and Lewis the secrets of his conjuring feats, and the mod'lUl op61'atldi, &c. As.
an ordinary reader, and as far as possible from being an "expert," I find it
exceedingly difficult to believe that Mr. Davey's tricks are done by mere.
conjuring. It is clear that he is what is called a "medium" or psychic, and
it seems difficult to decide where his conjuring powers end and his psychical
power begins. Now I will not challenge Mr. Hodgson to do the "tricks'"
which he says he has learned to do. He has not perhaps had practice•.
and I suppose practice is indispensable as well as theory. But Mr. Lewis is.
just the man fox the purpose. As a professional conjurer he cannot plead that
his brain is too sluggish and his hands too clumsy to learn to do any ''trick,",
however difficult, with a little practice. I propose, therefore, that in order to·
settle this question, Mr. Lewis will perform those feats which you tell us,
Mr. Davey performs by mere conjuring. I do not suspect Mr. Lewis of
being a medium, and if he succeeds in doing all that Mr. Davey is reported.
to have done it will be necessary to admit that it has been done by con-
juring. If he declines to do this, I would suggest that arguments against,
Eglinton, drawn from Mr. Davey's performances, should no longer occupy
the pages of the Society for Psychical Research.-I am your obedient
servant, GEORGE HARPUR.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 1590
[Mr. Harpur cannot have studied with much care the notices of the,
Eglinton phenomena to which he refers, or he would not have confounded
ProfeBBor Carvill Lewis with Mr. Angelo J. Lewis, or described either gentle-
man as a "professional conjurer"; nor would he have failed to observe that,
as long a.s Professor Carvill Lewis obviously paid strict attention to what was.
going on, nothing remarkable occurred (which accords with Mr. Angelo J.
Lewis's experience, as recorded in the Journal, for June, 1886); and that it
was only when he simulated the non-attention of which Mr. Harpur
complains that he obtained any "phenomena" at all.
Mr. Harpur's question as to the gain of showing Eglinton to be an
impostor is easily answered. The gain is the discovery of the truth in
respect of certain phenomena, the nature of which the Society for Psychical
Research expressly set itself to probe. In the original programme of the
Society, Mr. Harpur will find an expression of the belief of its founders.
that" amidst much illusion and deception" a nucleus of genuine phenomena.
might perhaps be found; and in every brsnch of the research the first.
obvious duty of the investigators has been to separate the phenomena due
to illusion and deception from those (if any such there were) which had some
other origin. For further reply on this head it will be enough to quote the,
sentence of mine which Mr. Harpur has misquoted. I say that" Eglinton's
phenomena may.fairly be taken as typical, so far as professional mediumship
is concerned, of the evidence on which the Spiritualistic belief rests." Mr.
Harpur substitutes" Spiritual" for" Spiritualistic," and omits the essential.
clause "so far as profeBBional mediumship is concerned."
Mr. Harpur seems to have missed the instructive point of the Boorzu
incident. What amount of adroitness and presence of mind Mr. Davey
displayed is a comparatively unimportant question. What is important is.
that an apparently inexplicable phenomenon-one which was expressly
emphasised as inexplicable by Mr. Harpur himself-proves to admit of an
extremely simple explanation.
Mr. Harpur speaks of a j7i.rl of fourteen who can write in locked slates
answers to questions' which she has never heard or seen, in languages which
she does not understand. If he really POBBeBBeS evidence of such a case, it.
is to be hoped that he will lose no time in sending the details, properly
authenticated, to Professor Barrett, the hon. secretary of the Committee for-
the Investigati.on of the "Physical Phenomena" of Spiritualism.-ED.]
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SoCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH.
Sm,-To shoW how difficult it is to arrive at any conclusion as regards.
Spiritualism, it should be noted that fiot only do the phenomena of the.
.reance-room seem in a state of flux, but also the opinions of persons who are
apparently calm investigators. It may be that the very fact of such people
unaccountably changing front while without doubt being perfectly honest.
about it, helps to show that there is something supernormal in Spiritualism.
I am now referring especially to the letter of Mr. J. G. Keulemans on
professional mediumship, in the JO'UINUll for last June.
Some two years ago now ormore, being anxious to inquireintoSpiritualism.
Digitized by Google
160 Jou/Mw,l of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1887.
I was advised to call at a house in Great Portland.street, on a certain evening,
when one of the members of the then Spiritualist Alliance would be there to
give advice to inquirers.
I went round with a friend, Mr. O. A. Fry (of 4, Hare Court, Temple,
barriater-at-law),who was as keen about the subject as m~lf, and we set out,
as many have done before us, determined to sift the subject to the bottom, if
it should cost UB weeks of time.
The evening we went round, we happened to find Mr. Keulemans present,
who gave us much kind attention, and answered pur crude questions at
length.
As neither of us knew anything of the subject what we gathered was
forcibly impreaaed upon us-at any rate I can speak for myself; and what we
were then told by him differed considerably from what is to be read in his
present letter. As the difference is more in gradation of opinion than actual
divergence, perhaps he would not be sorry to be reminded of his former
more hearty belief, and others may see in his change of opinion a rellection of
their own.
I cannot pretend at this distance to recall all that was said in a two hours'
talk. but there are some things which, from their novelty at the time, have
not been forgotten either by Mr. Fry or myself.
On referring to the letter in the Juurnal, it would app~, though it does
not actually say so, that Mr. Keulemans has no strong belief in the genuine-
Dess of the manifestations of John King and other so-called spirits.
I can well remember Mr. Keulemans telling UB that John King was well
known to him (Mr. Keulemans), and that he looked upon him inthe lightof a
friend, and on Mr. Fry asking the probable cause of J. King's death, Mr.
Keulemans replied that he would not think of .hurting his feelings by asking
such a question of John King, seeing that the life he had led on eartb, as a
buccaneer, might have been terminated in a manner unpleasant to acknow-
ledge, and he added that though John King had left the body, yet that was
no reason why he should be treated with disrespect ; he also told us that he
had observed a distinct in.provement in the moral character of John King,
and that such being the case it was not unlikely at some future date, sooner
or later, he would lea'\"e the sphere he was now in for a higher one, and we
might then seo him no more.
On the walls of the room in which we were sittingwere numerous pictures
of spirits, among whom figured John King, and these were drawn by Mr.
Keulemans himself, "from life," as he told us. Does he now think his
sitters were genuine spirits or was he "taken in " by appearances 1 One may
hardly believe this in so calm an inquirer as Mr. Keulemans is.
About one spirit, however, Mr. Keulemanll can have but little doubt, I
think, and that is the spirit of the Dutchman who used to come and visit Mr.
Keulemana while he was at work, and who used to materialise a voice and try
to persuade Mr. Keulemans to come out and drink, so that by a part obseBBion
he might gain a glimpse once more of a pleasure that was now beyond his
reach.
This was, be it noticed, told to us most circumstantially, and neither I
nor Mr. Fry am likely to be mistaken about the narration of the episode.
Digitized by Google
Oct., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 161
Has the Dutchman, too, gone where the rest of the broken idols are 1
Again, what has happened to the belief in the spirit drapery which Mr.
Keulemans told us he had cut off from the garments of the materialisationa
and had placed ill a glass box, and had watched the piece gradually melt
away and disappead Nor can I forget the story of the little spirit child,
who used to come and sit on Mr. Keulemans' knee and play with his
watch and chain.
Mr. Keulemans says in his letter he believes that genuine spiritual
phenomena occur sometimes. The above cited cases perhaps are what Mr.
Keulemans refers to, but with his advantages he would be doing good service
to bring prominently forward these experiences.of his. It must be
remembered that he was talking to novices when he had this conversation
with Mr. Fry and myself, and to more experienced persons he might have
more to tell.
There is no better time than the present to come forward, and he will
have no lack of listeners.-I rema.4l, Sir, obediently yours,
A. G. WITHERBY.
4, Hare Court, The Temple, E.C.
I have read Mr. Witherby's letter (printed above) and can fully corrobora.te
every word of it. Either Mr. Keulemans attempted wilfully to deceive us,
or else he is now deceiving the readers of your journal, or else his opinions
have undergone a most remarkable modification. In addition to what Mr.
Witherby has written, I should like to ask Mr. Keulemans what has become
of the little girl spirit which used to sit on his knee, and say to him by way
of proving its spirituality, "Put your finger in my eye." According to Mr.
Keulemans he used to do so, and the eye would then dematerialise
and allow Mr. Keulemans' finger to pass into the child's spiritualistic skull at
pleasure. This" fact" Mr. Keulemans gave us as "proof positive" of the
sviritual existence. I cannot say that Mr. Keulemans did actually deceive us
iD. all these matters, but we talked to him with open minds, and denied
nothing nor admitted anything.
OLIVER A. }'RY (M.A. Oxon.)
Temple, E.C., July 22nd, 1887.
To the Editor of the JOURNAL OF THE SOCIETY FOR PSYC!lICAL RESEARCH.
DEAR Sm,-" H. G. R." has been studying expectation in the percipient.
I considered it only in the agent, in the letters to which he refers.
" H. G. R.'s" observations of himself would not, therefore, in any case
confiict with my theory. If the percipiflnt's expectation of the event
facilitated the telepathy, it would be difficult to prove 'it, because such
expectation' would also tend to generate hallucination. Moreover, in
spontaneous telepathy such general expectation as would correspond to
.. H. G. R.'s" expecting to guess in experimental thought-transference
would be hard to distinguish from the malaise, the effect of telepathy: But
expectation is not essential in the percipient, though it is qui"te worth while
to observe if it has any efficacy.
Digitized by Google
162 Journal of Society for Psychical Research. [Oct., 1881.
With regard to .. H. G. R.'s" agents, I must gather broadly that where
their condition of mind is not stated it corresponded to the percipient's,
and that there is an accuracy as to it sufficiently close to be at any rate in
concordance with the general accuracy of conception of expectancy itself. It
has now to be shown that the facts stated by "H. G. R.," though apparently
'Opposed to, are really in agreement with, my views.
It is well no~ even to seem paradoxical. Let me, therefore, before
-explaining how this may be, cull two texts from authority. I once, in &
hospital ward, heard read a chemical analyst's report. The words occurred,
"Sugar is there, I believe." The physician present said, "That means he
.has considerable doubt about it."
And here is the converse, the hackneyed
" There lives more faith in honest doubt,
Believe me, than in half the creeds."
'This rises to the dignity of a psychological truth. Real belief is in inverse
ratio to conscious belief. Real belief is an unconscious thing. We had it
when we were unconscious that we had it. In knowing that we have it, we
know that we are habitually unconscious that we have it ; though in the few
moments we thus allow ourselves to think and know, our belief trembles,
even though it be the belief that 2 and 2 make 4. But in doubt there is no
-conscious belief: hence we may expect to find Unconscious or real belief.
All this becomes more obvious it: for" belief" be substituted" unconceived
negative." For what is the pseudo-belief of the analyst above mentioned
and of "half the creeds" 1 It is a conscious belief. The" unconceived
negative" is conceived, therefore, in it. It is, in fact, one conception
existing in the mind with its negative in antagonism to it, belief-belief, or
more exactly a quick alternation of mutually exclusive beliefs. And what is
doubt, and in particular experimental doubt 1 It is positive and negative
-conceptions existing in the mind, not in antagonism, belief and belief; but
'so that each may be conceived as possible and as true, and, at pleasure, the
'One unmolested and unnegatived by the other.
To apply this. It appears that ., H. G. R.'s" agents were successful
with him in first xperiments, though they did not expect to be, and
unsuccessful in subsequent experiments, though they expected to be
successful ; and when lhey varied the experiments they were successful at
first, though they did not expect to be, and unsuccessful afterwards,
although they expected to be successful. I should conclude so. The
condition of mind in first experiments is hard toO be retained for subsequent
ones. It is a condition of doubt. The consciousness is lazy, there is
suspense, doubt, but not antagonism of conceptions. The positive
conception secures activity in a dramatic reality, a hypothetical truth, which
the negative dolls not trouble itself to infringe upon. This state is
illegitimate, yet in its essence belief, as man is man under whatever nativity.
It is "not far" from belief. It runs in the dry bed of belief. But in
subsequent experiments the consciousneBB is aroused, it applies itself more,
it brings more in fOTO, more into direct antagonism, the positive and
negativa conce~tions. The positive, if otherwise strengthened by SUCceBB,
has its automatic crescive faculty weakened, the negative being strengthened
Digitized by Google
<>Ct., 1887.] Journal of Society for Psychical Research. 163
by the increase of attention. There is belief or expectation, but conscious of
itself; that is,again, the "unconceived negative" is conceived. Thus there is
impure belief, or two beliefs at war. The positive conception is not left
alone. It is momentarily annihilated by that very conception of the
negative. which is involved in the conscious negation of the negative. Hence
succesa diminishes, ceases. This agrees 'With what may be gathered from
the records of spontaneous telepathy. The agent never deliberately believes
that the percipient is or will be impressed. As 1 have endeavoured to show,
in a state of mind more or less of 0. dream state, he believes unquestionably
without a negative conception that the percipient is impressed, or that the
relation A to B which he conceives is a really existent relation.
"H. G. R." says that in the only case of a first experiment where there
was confidence of success, there was failure. This confidence (I submit) was
too deliberate, too foreed. The consciousnesa was too much aroused, the
negative conception thereby drawn inforo and rendered antagonistic.
The difficulty is in the use of the words expectation and belief, which ha\"'e
a twofold meaning, pure and impure, according as the negative conception is
absent or quiescent, or according as it is present or antagonistic. If
" unconceived negative" be substituted for belief, the presence or absence
of belief in its purity will be easy to determine; and it will generally be
found with the presence of such belief there was no present consciousness of
believing, but only subeequent recognition of having believed, and that in
experiment confidence of success is a factitious state of which the foundations
are undermined by the negative conception.
Again, "H. G. R." says that he occasionally guessed a card which the
<>perator had momentarily intended to choose, instead of that which she
did choose. 1 have observed this; and it has appeared to me one of those
happy accidents by which the unnegatived conception gets play. For here
the operator simply selects a card for the percipient to guess, and then drops
it before her mind applies itsl'lf to conscious expectation, that is to say,
before the advent of the negative conception. That" H. G. R." guesses
" instantly if ~t all " might be similarly explained.
It happens with suspicious frequency also that when the percipient is not
informed of the cards which are turned up, he guesses not the card which is
turned up, but the card turned up just before. This may actually be due
to the dying away of the conscious expectation of the agent (upon failure),
and to the mere presence in her mind of the unnegatived conception of what
might have been, of a card which nlight have been guessed, of a card
guessable.
Finally, let me ask if the conclusion at which "H. G. R." has arrived
really differs from mine. He thinks that the agent's success depends upon
her power of concentrating thought. But the utmost concentration would,
1 think, still include, along with the thonght, the thought of its transmission,
while it would exclude, along with all other thoughts, the thought of its
non-transmiBBion, so that the agent would have an unnegatived conception or
pure belief that the thought would be transmitted.
And even with regard to himself as percipient, "H. G. R. " thinks that
his success depends upon his power of ., excluding other thoughts," that is,
Digitized by Google
164 JO'Urnal of Society for Psychical Resea'l'Ch. [Oct., 1881.
except of himself as percipient, that is. except of an unnegatived conception
or pure belief that he will perceive.
Upon this last point, if the percipient is quite ignorant that any agent is
operating, this of course implies the absence from his mind of the negative
conception of non-transmission. If he has, with knowledge of the agent,
and with absence of the negative conception, the positive conception of
transmission, this may be a still more favourable condition of percipience.
But if the negative conception is present and active, opposed to the positive,
that is, if there is a conscious and impure expectation in the percipient, this
may be a very unfavourable condition.
But with regard to the percipient, I ha.ve no opinion. What I have
desired to enforce in this letter is that there is a pure and an impure expect-
an:Jy, and that pure expectancy implies the "unconceived negative." This
latter it is which seems to me a necessary mental condition in the agent.
But impure expectation I should conclude to be inefficacious in the ratio of
its impurity, that is, in the ratio of the agent's consciousness of expectancy.
If it be true that the .. unconceived negative II is a necessary mental
condition in the agent, then it is a pregnant truth. If it be true also that
the will is unconceived negative (see letter in Ma.y Joumal) then a modern
notion of the world as will and perception might be varied into a notion of
the world as perception and the unconceived negative. Such a notion might
both throw light upon and receive it from psychical research. However,
the unconceived negative is not anxious to ascend to this metaphysical estate.
It desires only that experimenters should put t.() the test its psychical efficacy.
-Yours sincerely,
C. DOWNING.
P.S.-Such a letter as" H. G. R.'s," so full of valuable facts, seems ample
excuse for toying with, by-the-way, not theory, but generalisation. I hope
this elucidation of what expectation appears to be in analysis may suggest
further observations, even if they tend to destroy the "unconceived nega-
tive."
*** It will b~ remembered that the earlies~ experiments in Thought-
transference described in the Society's Proceedings were made with some
sisters of the name tlf Creery; and that though stress was never laid on
any trials whero a chance of collusion was afforded by one or more of the
sisters sharing in the "agency," nevertheleBB BOme results contained under
such conditions were included in the records. In a series of experimenta
recently made at Cambridge, two of the sisters, acting as "agent" and
"percipient," were detected in the use of a code of signals; and a third
has confeBBed to a certain amount of signalling in the earlier series to which
I have referred. This fact throws discredit on the results of all former trials
conducted under similar conditiens. How far the proved willingness to
deceive can be held to affect the experiments on whieh we relied, whero
collusion was excluded, must of course depend on the degree of stringency
of the precautions taken against trickery of other BOrts-as to which every
reader will form his own opinion. A further notice of the facts here briell.y
stated will be published in the Proceeding••-ED.
Digitized by Google
