{"name":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V43 1935","type":"link","mylink":"http:\/\/iapsop.com\/archive\/materials\/spr_proceedings\/spr_proceedings_v43_1935.pdf","mytitle":"Proceedings of the Society for Psychical Research V43 1935","mylang":"de"}
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
VOLUME XLIII
(CONTAINING PARTS 139-143)
1935
The responsibility for both the facts and the reasonings in papers
published in the Proceedings rests entirely with their authors
THE SOCIETY FOR PSYCHICAL RESEARCH,
31 Tavistock Squake, London, W.C. 1
Agents for America: THE F. W. FAXON CO.
83 Francis Street, Boston, Mass.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
CONTENTS
PART 139.
Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research. By Professor page
Hans Driesch 1
Notes on “ Walter ” Thumbprints of the “ Margery ” Seances.
By Harold Cummins 15
Review : \)Ri.¥
i . V\. m^E,
Extra -
Seiuionj Perception . Ba R. H. Thouless 24
An Appeal for Co-operation in Further Experiments in Extra-
sensory Perception 38
PART 140.
A Study of the Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Medium-
ship, AND OF THE STATEMENTS OF THE COMMUNICATORS CON-
CERNING Process. By Gerald William, Earl of Balfour,
P.C., LL.D. 41
PART 141.
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities, II. By
Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. 319
Part I. Improvements in Analysis ;
Revision of Previous
Work ; Incorporation of Additional Material.
Part II. The Bbsterman-Gatty Experiment.
Part III. Countersimilarity of Controls ;
Connection
BETWEEN Reaction Times and Reproductions.
Part IV. Various Observations and Comments.
Part V. Interim Note ;
Apparent Autonomy of “ John
AND “ Etta.”
Part VI. Notes on Results.
294977
IV Conte7its
Note on Mk Carin&tOn’s Investigation. •
By J. Cecil Maby, B.Sc., page
A.R.C.S. 362
Reply to Mb MAi;y*g Note'. By Wha.tkly Cabington - - 367
The Wokd Association Test with Mrs Osborne Leonabu. By C.
Dbayton Thomas 371
PART 142.
Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy. By Professor
C. D. Broad, Litt.D. 397
PART 143.
A Proxy Case Extending over Eleven Sittings with Mrs Osborne
Leonard. By C. Drayton Thomas 439
Introduction . . . 441
Part I. Bobby Newlove 443
Part II. The Problem of the Pipes ----- 48I
Part III. Analysis of Success and Eailuke - - - - 500
Part IV. The Modus Opemmli- ,509
A Further Note on Mb Whately' Carington's Investigation.
By .1. Cecil Maby 520
Some Comments on Mr Maby’s “ Further Note.” By Whately
Carington 533
On “ The Quantitative Study of Tr-ance Personalities.” By
Hereward Carrington - 537
Reply to Mr Hereward Carrington’s Note. By Whately
Carington 540
Note on Professor Thouless’s Review of “ Extra-Sensory
Perception.” By Dr J. B. Rhine 542
Professor Cummins’s “ Notes on ‘
Walter ’
Thumbprints ” - 545
Review: J. C. Flugel, ^1 Hundred Years of Psychology. By T. W. M. 546
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 139
MEMORY IN ITS RELATION TO PSYCHICAL RESEARCH ^
By Professor Hans Driesch
So-called “ explanations ” of empirical facts are wont to be of
two different forms.
The first form of “ explaining ” consists of the demonstration that
a fact which at first glance seems to be new is only apparently so ;
or in other words, that it is nothing but a new case of a known class
of cases, differing from the known cases only in particulars. In
this way the law of gravitation as established by Newton “ ex-
plains ” the movement of the moon and “ explains ” Kepler’s laws
of the planetary movements. Very many explanations in the
sphere of physics and chemistry are of this type.
The second form of “ explaining ” may be called hypothetic
invention. There is no class of known cases with regard to which
the new fact is nothing but a modification, no class into which, so
to say, it may be inserted ;
the class-concept itself has to be estab-
lished as an idtimate principle. This is the case in the sphere of
biology, for instance, as soon as you have broken with the mechan-
istic theory of life and have accepted so-called vitalism in any of
its various forms. It has also been the case in physics and chemistry
whenever these sciences encountered radically new discoveries, as,
e.g., in the sphere of electro-dynamics about a hundred years ago.
We are accustomed to say that we “ understand ” a fact as soon
as it is explained. But this is not quite correct. For we never
understand any fact in the sphere of Reality in the deepest sense of
' This paper was read at a General Meeting of the Society on 24th October,
1934.
A 1
2 Professor Hans Driesch [part
the word “ understanding Understanding of this sort is only-
possible in the sphere of the theory of pure meaning, i.e. in the sphere
of pure logic and mathematics. We may say, however, that
“ explaining ” in the sense described gives us something we can call
“ secondary imderstanding ”, for in any case explanations are
simjilification guided by the principle of the economy of thinking.
But we never imderstand the explaining principles in the deepest
sense of the word. They can be acknowledged qua ultimate principles
of empirical Reality, but we never miderstand that they must be
what they are.
I said at the beginnuig that explanations are wont to be of two
different kinds. Please notice the words “ are wont ”. Their purpose
is to leave open the possibility that there might perhaps be still a
third kind of so-called explaining, and it is of this third form that
I shall speak to you to-day with regard to a particular problem.
Exjilanations of the first kind start, as I have said, from a group
of known cases, which we shall call the “ normal ” ones, and try
to show that a new fact which at first appears to be “ abnormal
”
is nothing but a modification of normality. But may it not happen
that facts which are very common and very “ normal ”, nay even
commonplace, may receive some light from facts which are very
rare, very abnormal or even “ paranormal ” ?
It seems to me that this may be the case with regard to
memory.
Let me first speak of so-called memory as being a fact within
the sphere of Reality ;
we shall soon be able to see that this “ fact
”
implies very many problems of a very enigmatic character, and it
is to the enigmatic character of these problems that my hypothetic
statement will refer. Psychical research should throw some light
on at least one of these problems.
We must make a sharp distmction between remembrance or
recollection on the one hand and memory on the other. By the
first word (in German Erinnerung, in French souvenir) we describe
a particular type of immediate conscious experience, by the second
a something that is generally called a potency or faculty of the
so-called mmd. This distinction is connected with another one,
namely with that between the conscious Ego and the something
which is “ unconscious ” and yet does not belong to the world of
matter, in short the “ unconscious-psychical ”. We have to start
from remembrance, for this is immediately experienced, whilst
memory may be said to be a theoretical construction.
What, then, is remembrance or recollection ? What do I experi-
ence whenever I remember ? In any case, remembrance is a form
139 ]
Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research 3
of my immediate experience, i.e. tliat whicli I consciously possess
or “ have ” in an immediate way. There are many other forms
or types : images, e.g., and wishes and thoughts and feelings, etc.,
belong here. What, then, is the very essence of remembrances,
that which distinguishes them from other experiences ? The
particular essence of remembrance is established by a certain
accent, as I should like to call it, which is absent in all the other
forms of immediate experiences. And this accent is denoted by
the word “ before ” or by the words “ this has already been ”. In
other words, we call immediate experiences, which carry on them
the accent “ before ”, “ remembrances ”.
The accent of “ before ” may be attached to all other classes of
experiences. I can “ remember ” that I have had this image, or
this wish, or this thought, etc.
Is not this accent of “ before ”, i.e. my possessing remembrances,
a very strange thing, a real enigma ? Think of the fact that I have
a remembrance always in a particular present moment of time or,
in short, in a “ now ”—but it means a “ before ”. In rememberiug
the past becomes present.
But certain distinctions in the field of remembrances are now
necessary and will be of great importance for what is to follow.
In the first place, it is necessary to distinguish between a mere idea
in the most general sense and a remembrance proper. If the image
of Westminster Abbey is standing before my conscious Ego, this
is not yet a remembrance ;
it only becomes a remembrance when
the accent of “ before ” is added to the content of that idea, i.e.
when I say “ This image of Westminster Abbey has already been
the content of one or of many of my experiences in former times ”.
This, of course, does not tell you anything new.
But less obvious, though not less important, is another necessary
distinction in the field of remembrances : the distinction between
dated and non-dated recollections. I have been m Great Britain,
having crossed the Channel on the way to it, a dozen times : and
I can remember each of my visits separately. Here the time accent
which is attached to my conscious content is not only the general
accent of “ before ”, but is a particular “ before ” in each case.
And each of these particular “ before ” accents stands in a very
strange relation to the others, namely, in a relation which is ex-
pressed by the words “ earher ” and “ later ”, and this in quite a
deternuned way ;
in my case, for example, connected with the years
1889, 1890, 1896, 1907, etc. This, then, is a dated remembrance.
Not only the past in general becomes present here, but the particular
past in the course of time.
4 Professor Hans Driesdi [part
So much about remembrance as an immediate form of experience
in general ;
so much, in other terms, about what may be called the
descriptive psychology or, to use the modern word, the “ phenomen-
ology ” of remembranced
So far we have faced a fact not a problem, but a problem, a very
important problem, comes upon the scene as soon as we are inclined
to ask the question—and all of us are inclined to “ ask ” it in this
form—What are the reasons for the genesis of my remembrances
in the course of my conscious life or, in popular terms, from where
do they come ? For that my remembrances are standing within
the temporal sequence of my conscious experiences, each of them
in its particular jdace, whether dated or not, is a fact.
Here the analytical study of our problem has to begin, for now
there is a problem before us, namely, as in the sphere of all sciences,
the problem of discovering order within a totality of facts. But
to try to discover order means to be in search of the relations in
which a particular fact, which for this very reason is called a problem,
stands with respect to other problems, and in particular with
regard to the question of its temporal genesis. Let us then try to
find out the genetic relations of the facts of remembrance.
I discover the first of these relations as soon as I compare my
remembrances with the sum total of all my other experiences in
the past. And here I discover the relation of similarity or even
identity. For remembering means that I experience a certain
content which has l)een already experienced at a former moment.
Apart from the accent of “ before ” which is a constituent of the
remembrance exclusively, the quality of the content of the remem-
brance is the same, or at least almost the same, as the quality of
the content of a former experience.
And this proves that there has been 'preserved a somethmg during
the course of my conscious life, that it has been preserved in a
non-conscious state, and is yet able to become conscious again ;
that it is permanent in a certain sense. But where is it preserved ?
Certainly not within the Ego, for quite apart from the fact that the
Ego is not a sort of pot in which there might be a something, the
Ego quite certainly does not possess the content in question as
long as it does not remember it. Are we allowed to say that “ the
mind ” is the place of preservation, that ever}fihing that has been
an object for the conscious Ego leaves its “ engram ” or a trace,
or a vestige, or whatever we may call it, in the Unconscious Mind ?
^ A very profound analysis of the phenomenon remembrance will be found
in J. B. Baillie’s book, Studies m Hummi Nature, chap, iv, “ The Nature of
Memory Knowledge ” (pp. 105-132).
139] Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research 5
This may be, and certain psychologists have thought so, as e.g.
Beneke in the beginnuig of the nineteenth century. But it seems
to me that it would be a little rash to accept this hypothesis, which,
once for all, would attribute to mind “ memory ” in the sense of
a faculty of preserving, and regard this statement as a definite
solution of our problem. In the first place it seems to me it would
not tell us very much simjily to reduce the actual phenomena of
remembrance to “ memory ” as a sort of faculty or potency. For
such a statement merely says that remembrance comes from the
faculty of remembering—think of the “ Virtus dormitiva ” of the
opium in Moliere’s Malade hnaginaire. And besides, we know
about certain relations of the phenomenon of remembrance to other
facts which must in any case be discussed before a definite answer
is possible.
It may be that in some sense we shall come back to the concept
of “ memory ” as a primordial faculty of the mind. But it may also
be that things will appear to be much more complicated.
Man is a dualistic creature, a psycho-physical being, whose
physical part is called body. I cannot develop here before you the
psycho-physical problem in its totality.^ Let me only say that
the doctrine of so-called “ psycho-physical parallelism ” in its
usual form, namely the doctrine that conscious life is “ the same ”
as the mechanics of the brain “ seen from the other side ”, seems
to me to be absolutely absurd. This theory, in fact, should definitely
get its place in the antiquity museum of scientific theories.
But some sort of relation between conscious life and states of
the body, and particularly of the brain, does certainly exist, of
whatever kind it may be, and it has a reference to that form of our
immediate conscious experiences which we call remembrance.
It is a well-known fact that lesions of the brain, whether they are
the consequence of an ojjeration or of an accident, are very often,
though not always, followed by disturbances of the conscious life,
and in particular of the faculty of remembrance. The defects of
memory may either reveal themselves in the impossibility of
rememljering something that normally would be remembered with
certainty, or in gaps in the sphere of recognition : objects which
in the state of normality would be recognised as what they are,
are not recognised if a lesion of the brain has taken place.
This is a fact. Another fact, however, is that in very many
cases such defects of remembering or recognising disappear after
1 Compare my books Mind and Body (English translation by Tli. Bester-
man) and The Crisis of Psychology (Princeton University Press). Also the
second edition of the German book Grundprohleme der Psychologic.
6 Professor Hans Driesch [part
a certain time, to the great benefit of the patient. You may say
that for this very reason the defects of memory have not been of a
fundamental character. But in any case they have been present for
a certain time after the lesion ;
and this fact is sufficient to prove
that a certain relation between remembering and the state of the
body, in particular the brain, does exist. It is just here that a
deeper analysis of what happens will have to be made later on, an
analysis which is to give us important results.
But the phenomenon of remembering does not only stand in
relation to other |)henomena of the conscious life itself and to states
of the lu’ain ;
it also stands in a relation of dependence in respect
to something else, that we may shortly call the modifications of the
state of mind, where the word “ mind ” is taken in the rather vague
and general sense in which I have used it, namely, as signifying
the unconscious substructure of conscious life.
In the state of hypnosis the faculty of remembering is always
greater than in the waking stage, very often in cpiite a curious
degree. Former experiences which long since have been completely
forgotten, and which could inider no circumstances be reproduced
in waking, are reproduced in hypnosis. The hypnotised person,
when woken from the hypnotic state, may not remember what he
has reproduced during that state. But in any case he must have
reproduced these things during h}q)nosis, otherwise he would not
liave been able to speak about them when in that state.
This, then, is the third kind of relation in which remembering
stands ; the faculty of remembering depends on the states of the
mind in the sense defined.
And now we are prepared to enter into theoretical considerations.
I shall ])egin by shortly explaining to you in the form of sketches
what may be called the usual and, so to say, “ official ” hypotheses
about the genesis of the phenomenon of remembering, aj^art from
the impossible theory of parallelism. These hypotheses, of course,
do not touch psychical research, for they are “ olficial ”.
We have already shortly mentioned the hypothesis of mental
engrammata. This is a purely psychological theory ;
it is insuffi-
cient, as it does not account for the dependence of remembering on
the condition of the brain, a dependence which, as we know, cer-
taiidy exists, and the relation l)etween the degree of memory and
the various mental states also remains miexplained. The matter
is certainly not so siniple.
Let us, then, argue as follows ; There are vestiges m the brain
corresponding with everything which the person in question has
experienced during his life. These vestiges or engrammata are of
139 ]
Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research 7
a purely material nature—miknown in detail. The unconscious
Mind, taken as an entity in itself, has also received vestiges during
life and preserves them all in the form of memory. But this memory
on the part of the mind does not greatly help the remetnbering on
the part of the conscious Ego, which is regarded here as being a
particular part or side of the Mind. Under certain circumstances,
however, the Mind wishes to give to the Ego a conscious experience
of the forms of a remembrance, and in order to do this it activates
a particular one of the mental vestiges of the brain—reading in a
book of these vestiges, as it were—and then the Ego remembers.
So far we have regarded the Ego as being a part or side of the
Mind. Another modification of the theory is, however, possible.
We may call it the Aristotelian modification, for it takes Mind and
Ego as two separate entities, corresponding to the Aristotelian
concepts of iffvxy and vovs, whilst hitherto we have regarded Mind
and Ego as being one entity at the bottom. From the Aristotelian
point of view we might now say that the entity which we have
called Ego is stimulated by certain states of the entity Mind to
“ read ” in the book of material engrammata of the brain—and
then it remembers. Mental engrammata would not play any role
in the sphere of this hypothesis.
Both theories are rather fantastic constructions. They are
necessary, however, in one form or another, as soon as you reject
parallelism but are not at the same time prepared to leave the
sphere of official psychology.
There is one particular difficulty common to both theories. This
difficulty, however, may be overcome.
I am thinking of the fact that both theories employ the concept
of material engrammata in the sense of particular material states
of the brain. Now all that is material exists at once ;
it always is
what it is at the present moment, but never what it has been.
Material states, in other words, qua “ material ” states never carry
their past history with and on themselves. How, then, may what
we have called a “ reading ” in the book of engrammata reveal
the particularly dated past to the reading Ego—whether we take
it as a part or side of the imconscious mind or as a particular entity 1
In fact, a grave difficulty seems to come upon the scene here, i^d
yet this difficulty is not so grave as it might seem at the first glance.
For the reading Ego might behave lilve a detective in a “ shocker
Certainly the engrammata are all present at once. But might they
not possess a different degree of freshness, just as foot-prints in
sand may show a corresponding difference 1 Then this degree of
freshness of the impressions would be a symbol of their relative
Professor Hans Driesch
8 [part
age. And the “ detective ”, i.e. the Ego, would be able to infer
the relative age from the relative freshness.
The simultaneous presence of all mental engrammata in the brain,
therefore, would not be a fundamental difficulty for the official
theories.
And yet the official theories of the genesis of remembrances are
not only fantastic, as we have said before, but insufficient, for they
give no account of our second and third t}^)es of relations between
remembering and something else, namely, the dependence of
remembering on states of the brain and on states of the 'mind.
Let us, then, in the first place, enter into a more detailed
analysis of the relations between remembrance and conditions
of the brain.
The disturbances of the faculty of remembering by lesions of
the brain are of a very peculiar type. They do not allow us to say
that the content of every particular former experience is represented
by a specially localised impression or “ engram ” in the brain.
For facts do not prove that particular former experiences are
eliminated from the sphere of possible reproduction in consequence
of a lesion of the brain ;
the defects of memory consequent on
certain lesions are of a very different type :
personal names are the
first thing that can no longer be remembered, and then come nouns
in general, and finally verbs, i.e. all words related with events.
This rule was first formulated by Ribot. His statements are most
decidedly opposed to the view that there is something like a particular
seat of each particular former experience.
And further : In very many cases the possibility of remembering
is restored after a certain time, even if the loss of brain-substance
has been very considerable. This fact also tells very clearly against
the theory of engrammata as far as these are regarded as specifically
localised material structures.
Rut, on the other hand, whenever we accept the concept of
engrammata or material vestiges at all, these engrammata must be
localised in one form or the other. It is impossible to assume that
they are not, as long as they are taken as particular material states
or conditions. For every state or condition which is material is
also localised in some way.
What shall we do in the face of these facts ?
Let me repeat : The defects of memory in consequence of a
lesion of the brain are, firstly, of a very j^eculiar type, as described
by Ribot and others, and are, secondly, iii very many cases
restorable, even if the loss of bram substances has been very
considerable.
139] Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research 9
For these reasons engrammata cannot be localised ;
but if they
are not localised, they cannot be material states and conditions in
the proper sense. And yet lesions of the brain do affect memory.
What, then, may this role of the brain turn out to be ?
It is at this point of our discussion that our hypothetic con-
siderations will enter the field of psychical research. Let me state
the hypothesis at once. It seems to me possible to assume hypo-
thetically that, with regard to remembering, the brain plays the
role of a so-called fsyclmnetrised object of rapport.
All my readers know what the word “ psychometry ” means, and
all, I am convinced, are also aware that this word is not approjiriate
when taken literally. For nothing is “ measured ”. But it is of
no use, as it seems to me, to introduce new technical terms if the
old ones are universally understood. The words “ physics ” and
“ physiology ” are likewise names which theoretically might be
abolished, for both of them mean the same literally, though they
are used for very different sciences. Let us, then, use the word
“ psychometry ”.
The centre of the concept of psychometry is the psychometrised
object of rapport. This is any object whatever which has belonged
to a human person, present or absent, living or deceased, and which,
when touched or merely seen by a sensitive, enables him or her to
tell us something about the former proprietor of the object. The
psychometrical object, then, reveals the past, reveals history.
But not, at least most probably not, the history of the object as
such, but the history of the former proprietor of the object. All
cases we know tend in this direction, and there are very many very
good cases in various volumes of our Proceedings as well as in the
works of Wasielewski, Pagenstecher, Osty and others.
That which seems to be at work here, I should like to call retro-
spective mind reading. I should not like to call it “ clairvoyance ”,
though certain writers have done so. For “ clairvoyance ” in the
proper sense of the word means the paranormal awareness of an
objective situation within the sphere of Reality. Now all the facts
the sensitive is aware of in the case of psychometry relate to the
past. But past situations qua objective situations do not exist
any more in the present. Past contents of consciousness, however,
do exist in the present, in the form of contents of memory of certain
persons, or may at least be assumed to exist in this form hypo-
thetically—either in the memory of deceased persons, if you are
inclined to accept spiritualism, or in the world-consciousziess as
advocated by James and Osty. I might even say that the hypo-
theses of spiritualism and of the “ conscience universelle ” have
10 Professor Hans Driesch [part
been invented in order to avoid such a strange thing as real retro-
spective clairvoyance.
There exists, as you know, also the hypothesis of so-called “ mind
travel ” or “ excursus This has been put forward in order to
give a siifficient reason for clairvoyance proper, as it is so often
connected with a telepathic stimulus. But this hypothesis can only
explain a clairvoyant awareness of a 'present objective situation,
never a paranormal experience of a situation in the past. For
you cannot “ travel ” in the past.
But let us now go back to our problems of remembrance. My
theory, then, is that the brain is a psychometrical object of rapport,
and that the Ego of the bearer or proprietor of the brain is the one
who used this rapport object, namely, his own brain, in order to
get information about his own past history : this would be just
what we call “ remembrance ”.
You may object here that it seems very strange to explain
phenomena which are so common and normal, as remembrance is,
by suljstituting this very strange phenomenon, psychometry.
And you may tell me that I myself on another occasion have
called psychometry the most enigmatic of all j^arapsychical
phenomena.^
Admittedly it is ;
and yet a certain theoretical simplification
may be gained l)y introducing this concept, for there are certain
facts in connection with the phenomenon of remembrance which
will now become understandable, at least to a certain degree. These
facts, moreover, are just those which have made it impossible for us
to accept any of the current and “ official ” theories of memory.
Thinlv of what I have said about certain kinds of relations in
which the phenomenon of remembering stands with regard to other
well-established facts.
The first of these relations was concerned with the body, the
brain in particular. The effects of lesions of the brain-matter were
foimd to be of such a kind that the hypothetic assumption of
material engrammata qua “ material ” impressions appeared to
be impossible : the so-called engrammata cannot be localised, and,
besides, the effects of a lesion, of a very grave lesion, disappear
after a certain time in very many cases.
The second kind of a relation to something else in which the
phenomenon of remembrance stands is its relation to what we
have called “ states of the mind ” : the faculty of remembering is
enormously increased duruig the hypnotic state.
1 Compare my “ Parapsychologie ”, 1932 : English translation by Th.
Besterman, Psychical Research, 1933.
139]
Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research 11
Now it is just these two kinds of relations wliich we should expect
to exist in the foundation of our psychometrical hypothesis ! As
to the dependence of remembermg on the brain, we know that the
something which a psychometrical object of rapport has “ on
”
itself, so to say, is certainly not a material modification qua material
;
for this reason it must not necessarily be regarded as being speci-
fically localised and may easily be taken as restorable after disturb-
ances. And secondly : in the state of trance the psychometrical
faculty of a sensitive is generally very much increased. Now the
hypnotic state is very similar to the state of trance, and thus we
are able to understand the great increase of the faculty of remem-
bering in the hypnotic.
We may also add still another feature that is common both to
psychometrical experience and remembering : it is a well-known
fact that we remember past events of our life with particular
clearness whenever they carry an emotional accent. Now emotion
seems to play a corresponding part in psychometry. In most
cases, at least, the sensitive who is in touch with an object of rapport
is especially aware of those past events relating to the former owner
of the object in which emotion has played a predominant role.
So we have acquired at least a certain understanding of thi'ee
peculiarities of the phenomenon of remembrance, which without
our hypothesis would remain completely imintelligible.
I am well aware that this kind of understanding is very pre-
liminary and very defective. And yet it seems to me that the
psychometrical hypothesis, as applied to the fact of remembering,
means a little more than merely the substitution of a “
y
” for
an “ X
In any case there is a certain feature that is common to both :
to the psychometrical object in the ordinary sense and to the
brain in its relation to remembering. This feature or character is
luiknown in detail at present, no doubt. We only know of it, that
it consists in the necessity of the actual presence of a particular
material object with a particular history, the peculiarity of which,
however, does not refer to material particulars qun “ material
”
ones. Some such’ object must exist, in ordinary psychometry as
well as with regard to the brain in its relation to remembering.
And this statement implies in any case a theoretical simplification.
It is hardly necessary to emphasise that the hypothesis of the
psychometrical role of the brain does not by any means imply that
this role is the only part played by the cerebrum. Such an assump-
tion would be very far from truth.
We know that the brain has a structure of enormous complexity.
12 Professor Hans Driesch [part
In this respect it serves the purpose of the realisation of correlated
movement, i.e.
“ action ”, connecting almost every part of the
organism with almost every other. Here it is the brain’s particular
material structures, taken qua “ material ” ones, that are of im-
portance ;
the brain in this respect is an apparatus of enormous
complexity, used by the mind for its purposes.
As far, however, as its psychometrical role is in question, the
brain counts only as one Unity with a particular history, just as
any inanimate psychometrical object does, say a watch given into
the hands of a sensitive person. The watch too does not count
here as a particular material structure serving the indication of
time, but as one Unity with a particular history. And so does
the brain.
1 do not, of course, at all believe that my psychometrical hypo-
thesis ex])lains the conscious life in its totality. It does not even
ex|dain everything that is connected with remembering, though
it may explain certain characteristics of this fact. If we call
“ memory ” a certain faculty of the mind which enables the mind
to preserve, so to speak, past experiences, we are forced to attribute
to the mind the faculty of pure preserving : i.e. niemory as an
elemental faculty apart from the psychometrical faculty which we
attribute to it. In other words, nmnory as an elemental faculty
becomes by no means superfluous in the face of our hyjDothesis.
But we burden the mind with the faculty of preserving mere
ideas, i.e. mere contents of former experiences exclusively, not,
however, with the faculty of preserving particular “ remembrances ”.
And this means that we attribute to the mind, under the name of
“ memory ”, nothing but the faculty of preserving the past in the
form of a mere material for its working, whether this be thinking,
willing or whatever else. To give an example ; The image of
W estminster Abbey is preserved by the mind in the general memorial
form. Not, however, the fact that I have experienced W'^estminster
Abbey before, that is to say, not the content “ Westminster Al^bey
”
with the accent “ before ”. Remembrance proper, i.e. my conscious-
ly possessing a something ivitlt that accent, be it dated or not dated,
is that feature of conscious life which calls our psychometrical
hypothesis upon the scene. With regard to remembrance proper,
the general preserving faculty of the mind, which is called memory,
does not, in my opinion, suffice. For this very reason I rejected the
“ official ” theories of memory in the beginning of this paper.
I thus made a sharjo distinction between the conscious possession
of mere ideas or contents, which of course also come from past
experiences, and the possession of the past as such, be it dated or not.
139]
Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research 13
It might be possible, perhaps, to draw the sharp line of distinction,
not between mere ideas and remembrances proper, but between
dated and undated remembrances. In that case, memory would
be the mind’s faculty for preserving mere ideas and non-dated
remembrances, whilst only with regard to dated remembrances
would the psychometrical faculty of the mind be at work. Memory
would be concerned not merely with my possessing mere contents
of former experiences without any 6e/ore-accent, but also with my
possessing “ before ” accents in general, though not particularly
dated ones. But ^lersonally I should prefer the other alternative.
The problem we have just now discussed is not without im-
portance for those who are inclined to accept the so-called spiritual-
istic hypothesis, i.e. the hypothesis of personal survival. If the
presence of the bram is necessary only for dated remembrances,
the disembodied spirit would not be able to possess such remem-
brances after death, though he might possess all mere contents
that were acquired by him during his embodied life, and also the
general “ before ” accent. This means to say that he might be able
to remember : “I have experienced this or that, when I was
living ”, but not “ this was earlier than that ”. On the hy|3othesis
that all remembering, dated and non-dated, depends on the brain
taken as a psychometrical object, the deceased spirit would, of
course, be only in possession of mere ideas or contents without
remembering any kind of “ before ”.
A few words may, finally, still be devoted to the concept of the
psychometrical rapport object in general, with particular reference,
however, to the brain.
Whilst speakmg from the platform of some of the usual and,
so to say, “ official ” theories of memory, i.e. of those hypotheses
which though rejectuig parallelism are not concerned with the
results of psychical research, we regarded the brain as if it were
a book in which engrammata of a symbolic kind were inscribed,
and we attributed to the Ego the faculty of “ reading ” m this
book and of interpreting what it has read. The engrammata were
taken here as being of a strictly material, i.e. of a physico-chemical,
nature in the narrow sense of this word. But it then turned out
that, for various reasons, the engrammata cannot be localised
material states or conditions of the brain. And yet the brain does
play a role in remembering. Thus we were led to our psychometrical
h}^q)othesis, no other theoretical possibility being left.
But what does it ultimately mean to regard the brain as an
object of rapport, revealing to its bearer his own past history ?
An object of rapport carries on itself the complete past at once,
14 Memory in its Relation to Psychical Research, [part 139
though not in the form of material localised impressions, as the
“ official ” theories of remembering were forced to assume. How,
then, may particulars with regard to the past be revealed here,
how may it be inferred that one past event has been earlier or
later than the other ?
You will be aware that we are here in face of the great problem
of psychometry in general :
What does the object of rapport have “ on ” itself ? Certainly
nothing of a material nature. But what ? May we say, perhaps,
that it has nothing “ on ” itself in the proper sense of the word,
but that it stands “ in relation to ” something else ? This, then,
is in fact the view of those workers who have deeply thought about
the problem of psychometry—let me only mention Mattiesen and
Bozzano. And it did appear inevitable to these thinkers to intro-
duce here the hy|3othesis of an universal world consciousness, even
if you are inclined to accejjt the spiritualistic hyj^othesis. For
the two great parapsychical hypotheses do not necessarily contradict
one another ;
both of them may be true.
But it is not my task here to discuss problems of psychical
research in general. My theme has been a limited one : memory
in relation to psychical research.
Within this limited field I have tried to develop before you a
hypothesis which is probably a new one—I, at least, do not know
of a predecessor here. I dehver this hypothesis to criticism, fully
aware that it is a hyj3othesis. But hypotheses—so it seems to me
in spite of the great Nevdon’s “ hypotheses non fingo ”
—hypo-
theses do not do any damage to science, as long as they are regarded
as hypotheses.
NOTES ON “ WALTEK ” THUMBPRINTS OF THE
“ MARGERY ” SEANCES
By Harold Cummins
Introductory Note by W. H. Salter
As many of our members may not have followed closely the con-
troversy regarding the genuineness of the “ Walter” thumbprints,
produced at seances given by “ Margery ” (Mrs Crandon), they may
be glad to have a brief explanation of the nature of Professor
Cummins’s subjoined report and of how he came to make it. Those
who wish to follow the controversy in detail may do so in the
publications of the American Society for Psychical Research and
of the Boston Society for Psychic Research ;
{See in particular
Proceedings, vol. xxii, of the former Society and Bulletins XVIII
and XXII of the latter Society). It is well known that the publica-
tions of the American Society for Psychical Research have, since
the issue in 1928 of the first number of Psychic Research, been
largely devoted to accoimts of sittings with “ Margery ” at which
her Control “ Walter ” is said to have produced impressions of his
thumbs in “ Kerr ” dental wax, and that numerous photographs
of the impressions said to have been so produced illustrated the
articles describing the sittmgs. A member of the American Society
for Psychical Research, Mr Dudley, took a prominent part, both
in supervising the sittings and in presenting the reports of them to
the public.
The controversy began when, in Bulletin XVIII of the Boston
Society, Mr Dudley made statements which may be summarised
as follows ;
(1) Shortly before the first sitting (30 July 1926) when “ Walter
”
thumbprints were produced, Mrs Crandon visited her dentist
(“ Kerwin ”, pseudonym) who made for her impressions of his own
thumbs in “ Kerr ” wax, and gave these impressions to her, together
with spare pieces of wax.
(2) In 1932 he (Mr Dudley) was obtaining for purposes of record
finger-prints of all who had attended “ Margery ” sittings ;
and
as “ Kerwin ” had attended some of the earher sittings, he asked
to be allowed to obtain his prints ;
“ Kerwin ” consented, and on
15
294977
16 " Harold' {JvMimins : Notes on [part
comparison it. was eyir’ent that liis thumbprints corresponded so
closely with txi any thumb impressions reproduced in Psychic Research
as “ Walter's ” as to make it certain that the impressions derived
(directly or indirectly) from the same pair of thumbs.
The reply to Mr Dudley is to be found in vol. xxii of the Pro-
ceedings of the American Society. In this volume the statements
set out in the last paragraph are not challenged but further state-
ments are made, which suggest inferences different from those that
might naturally be drawn from Mr Dudley’s statements. These
further statements, so far as they relate to impressions of the
right thumb (which is all that Professor Cummins’s report deals
with) are as follows :
(1)
“ Kerwin ” made his impressions on the afternoon before
the sitting of 30 July 1926 ;
they were shown by “ Margery ” to
Mr Dudley that evening and taken away by him.
(2) While the “ Kerwin ” prints and the impressions illustrated
in Psychic Research, exactly correspond, the real “ Walter ” im-
pressions do not ;
there is a resemblance in some respects, but,
among other differences, the true “ Walter ” thumbprints show a
“ staple core ”, while the “ Kerwin ” jnints and the impressions
tallying with them show a “ rod core ”. For an explanation of
these terms, see Professor Cummins’s report.
Mr Dudley’s rejoinder (Boston Bulletin XXII) is a flat denial
of having ever seen the “ Kerwin ” impressions in 1926, as alleged.
While various points in the controversy almost irresistibly invite
comment, there is only one point with which the S.P.K. is concerned
and to that point I shall confine my observations.
In Deceml)er 1929 the Council of the S.P.R. lent the Society’s
seance room to Dr Crandon who wished to give demonstrations of
sittings with “ Margery ”. Dr Woolley, then Hon. Research
Officer, and Mrs Brackenbury, his Assistant, were present as
observers. xWter one of these sittings a piece of wax was found
bearing an impression of one of “ Margery’s ” fingers. This incident
is reported and commented on by Dr Woolley and Mrs Brackenbury
in vol. xxxix of S.P.R. Proceedings (pp. 358-368). At the sitting
of the 7 December 1929 “ Walter ” produced two impressions of
his right thumb, one of these was presented by “ Walter ” to Dr
Woolley and the other to Mr Harry Price {See Psychic Research,
vol. xxiv). Dr Woolley put the impression given to him in a card-
board box inscribed (in Mrs Brackenbury’s writing),
“ ‘
Walter
’
impression obtained at seance held at S.P.R. 7 December 1929.
Medium. Margery Crandon.” The box was placed in a locked
cabinet, the only key of which was in Dr Woolley’s custody.
139]
“ Walter ” Tlmmbprints of the “ Margery ” Seances 17
On Dr Woolley’s resignation in December 1931, the cabinet and
key came under the control of Miss Newton. The box remained
there untouched until the 31 January 1934, when Miss Newton
found it and opened it in the presence of Mr Besterman and myself.
She then initialled and dated the wax, and also the liox, for the
purposes of identification. As this impression had been produced
before the present controversy began, and had been in the Society’s
possession under lock and key ever since, the question whether it
conformed to the “ Kerwin ” type with a “ rod core ” or to the
“ staple core ” type was obviously of the first importance to any
one wishing to form an opinion as to the merits of the dispute.
In August 1934 Professor Harold Cummins of the Department
of Anatomy, Tulane University of Louisiana, was visiting London
to attend a Congress. Professor Cummins is a recognised authority
on “ dermatoglyphics ”, and in that capacity had in December
1932 been invited by the American Society to report as to whether
two sets of prints sent him were identical. He was a quite inde-
pendent expert, not having previously been connected in any way
with the “ Margery ” mediumship. When he made his reports
(printed on pp. 201-208 of vol. xxii of the American S.P.E.
Proceedings) he knew nothing about the origin of the two sets of
prints submitted to him.
Professor Cummins wished to take the opjjortunity of his visit
to England to inspect the impression in the possession of the S.P.R.,
and any other impressions in England that might be open to inspec-
tion. He met Miss Newton and myself at the Society’s Rooms on
the 1st August 1934. There was also present Mr Stanley de Brath,
who brought with him a “ Walter ” impression belonging to the
British College of Psychic Science. Professor Cummins, in the
presence of Miss Newton, Mr de Brath and myself, carefully exa-
mined four impressions : (1) the impression given to Dr Woolley
on the 7 December 1929, (2) two impressions given by “Walter”
to Lord Charles Hope, and by him sent to the S.P.R. for the pur|)ose
of Professor Cummins’s inspection, and (3) the impression brought
by Mr de Brath. He kindly promised to give me a written report,
and this is the report printed below.
No good photographs of the impression in the possession of the
S.P.R. existed so far as I knew ;
a not very satisfactory photograph
sent by Dr Woolley to the American Society is reproduced as Fig. 7
to the Boston Bulletin XXII. Accordingly it seemed to me desirable
that the S.P.R. should have good photographs taken of the impres-
sion. Major Rampling Rose, a photographic expert, who is a
member of the Society, kindly gave me an introduction to an
18 Harold Cummins : Notes on [part
important firm of photographic manufacturers, to whom I took
the impression for reproduction. A negative was taken and devel-
oped in my presence, and a print is here reproduced (Fig. A, p. 20).
Unfortunately when a second exposure was being taken, the wax
did not prove hard enough to stand the heat of the projectors
while the focus and illumination were being adjusted, and the
impression became distorted in consequence.
W. H. S.
Foreword
Those who have followed the history of the “ Margery ” medium-
ship are akeady familiar with the controversy centring about the
thumb-print phenomena. The present note concerns the results
of a recent examination of eight “ Walter ” thumb-prints (negative
impressions in a dental compound) produced under this medium-
ship, the examples being severally in the possession of individuals
and societies in England.^ The findings have an important bearing
on two crucial issues of the controversy : (1) Is the right thumb-
print ascribed to “ Walter ” identical with that of the living man,
“ Kerwin ”?
(2) Is it justified to maintain, as do writers in vol. xxii of the
Proc. A.S.P.R., that impressions displaying such identity are
substitutions, and not authentic seance prints ?
The jResent note aims to deal with these prints purely objectively,
as evidences pointing the answers to the two questions. A full
presentation of finger-print evidence is necessarily technical, but
since this account is merely a supplement to the writer’s previous
technical contributions,^ its subject matter may be presented quite
briefly and simply. It is desirable, however, to provide a resume
of pertinent developments which have been previously recorded,
in so far as these concern the isolated question of identification.
1. Thumb-prints were first produced 30 July 1926 ;
these and
numerous prints of a right thumb made thereafter, over a period
^ It is a pleasure to mention here the generous and helpful spirit with which
possessors or custodians of the tablets have so freely placed the specimens
at my disposal for insjjcction. I wish, therefore, to acknowledge the co-
operation of the following : S.P.R., L.S.A., Mr W. H. Salter, Mr Stanley
De Brath, Mr Harry Price, Lord Charles Hope, Sir Ernest Bennett, and Prof.
F. C. S. Schiller.
2 (o) Proc. A.S.P.R., vol. xxii. pp. 201-208, 1933 (embodying two reports on
prints and photographs submitted by Thorogood for technical examination, with
testimony that the right thumbs of “ Walter ” and “ Kerwin ” are identical).
{b) Bull., B.S.P.R., xxii. pp. 1-26, 1934 (contesting Thorogood’s alleged
evidences of the non-identity of the “ Walter ” and “ Kerwin ” thumbs).
139]
“ Walter ” Thumbprints of the “ Ma;rgery ” Seances 19
of several years, proved to be identical, and were considered to be
the thumb of “ Walter Four prints of a left thumb, also regarded
by the investigating group as that of “ Walter ”, were rendered in
1927. It is important to note that this attribution of identity was
not based on comparison 'with known prints of “ Walter ”, such
records not being available. The “ only evidence is the declaration
of the ‘
Walter ’
voice ” {Proc. A.S.P.R., xxii, p. 4).
2. Dudley reported in 1932 (Bull. XVIII, B.S.P.K.) that these
right and left thumbs, impressions of which had been accepted since
1926 as physical manifestations of the dead “ Walter ”, are identical
with the corresponding digits of the medium’s dentist, “ Kerwin ”.
3. An entire volume of Proc. A.S.P.R. (xxii, 1933) is pro-
fessedly devoted to a reply to Dudley’s identification. With regard
to the right thumb, which is the only item considered here, it is
contended by Thorogood in this volume that the thumbs of “ Walter
”
and “ Kerwin ” are not identical. The present writer’s findings
to the contrary (see 1(a), p. 2) are cast aside, though published in
the report, while Dudley’s identification is dismissed with the claim
that the examples considered by him may be substituted prints
of “ Kerwin ”. Thorogood discusses at length the recently produced
(1932) whole hand prints of “ Walter ”. These right hand impres-
sions, curiously enough, have the “ Walter ” = “ Kerwin ” thumb,
though they are unlike the right hand of “ Kerwin ” in other
particulars. (The left hand prints bear a thumb quite unlilve the
earher independent left thumbprints, and here again the explana-
tion is advanced that the specimens used by Dudley are not authentic
seance productions.)
4. In Bull. XXII, B.S.P.R., the present writer reviews the
identification, proving point by point that the items detailed by
Thorogood as supposed evidences of non-identity of these right
thumbs (allegedly representing “ Walter ” as opposed to “ Kerwin ”)
are as a matter of fact only mechanical differences in the impressions,
or in some instances frank errors of determination. He discusses
certain patent evidences of artificiality in some of the “ Walter
”
prints and emphasizes :
“ It is a simple process to make with dies
impressions such as these attributed to ‘
Walter ’, and any critical
evaluation of the finger-print and hand-print evidences must weigh
the possibilities of this operation agamst seance records offered in
proof of supernormal production of the prints ”.
In August 1934, a visit in England afforded the writer an oppor-
tumty to examine the “ Walter ” prints which are here reported.
Of particular importance are the two examples made in 1929 at a
seance held in London, and these will be first discussed.
20 Harold Cummins : Notes on [part
The London Sitting of 7 December 1929 ^
The tablet from this seance first to be presented, in the possession
of Mr Harry Price, was examined on 3 August 1934, in the presence
of Mr Price and his secretary. At a later conference (7 August
1934) Mr Price very generously permitted me to retain the wax on
a long-time loan, so that I have been able since to make further
examinations with the facilities of my own laboratory, as well as
to photograph it. Mr Price attests to the authenticity of the wax
as the specimen which he obtained at the sitting, and the writer
is confident that he will vouch further for the fact that the specimen
as returned to him is the unaltered original and that the accom-
panymg photographs are of this specimen, which is now again in
his own hands. The wax originally bore no inscription, being only
marked at the seance by cutting notches at opposite edges ;
at my
request Mr Price made a notation (Plarry Price 7/8/’34) on the
reverse surface, so that he might the more readily validate the
specimen on its return.
Figure 1 illustrates the obverse of the wax tablet, a whole slab
of the Kerr impression compound with a single negative imprint
of “ Walter’s ” right thumb ;
the identifying notches are on the
upper and lower edges, toward the right. Figures 2 and 3 are more
enlarged views of the imprint, photographed with different illumina-
tions so as to bring out the delicate reliefs in contrasting appearances.
Figure 2 rej)resents the more favourable view in depicting the true
reliefs of this negative impression, while in Figure 3 the effects of
a different illumination are such as to lend a likeness to the reliefs
of a positive. Because of this appearance Figure 3 is the more
instructive for comparison with published reference prints of “ Ker-
win ”. Fifteen representative details are indexed, using the numbers
employed by Dudley {Bull B.S.P.E., XVIII, Fig. 4 ;
XXII, Fig. 6)
;
by comparison with Dudley’s illustrations the identity of these and
additional details will be apparent, and in the wax itself it is of
course possible to extend the comparison still further. Special
mention should be made of the fact that the core of this jmttern is
a rod' (for discussion of the point see the summary).
It will be readily apparent that this “ Walter ” print is identical
with the right thiimb of “ Kerwin ”. (Though the remaining seven
prints are not illustrated or discussed in detail, it should be made
^ For reports of this sitting see : Crandon, Psychic Research, June 1930 ;
Woolley and Brackehbury, Proc. S.P.R., xxxix. Part 117, 1931 ;
Price,
Leaves from a Psychisfs Case-Book, London, 1933.
Figure A.—A “Walter” print from the Loiulon sitting
of 7 Decemher 11129, in the possession of the S.F.B.
Figure 1. —A “Walter” print from the London sitting of 7 December
1929, ill the possession of Mr Harry i’rice.
Fkiures
-2
and
3.
—
More
eidargeil
views
of
the
thumb
imprint
of
tlie
tablet
shown
in
l-'igure
1,
pilot
ograiihed
with
different
illundnations.
Fifteen
details
are
indexed
in
hdgure
3,
with
the
numliers
employed
by
Dudley
in
his
illustrations
of
"
Walter
”
and
"
Kerwin
”
prints
{Bull.
J5.S.P.H..
X\'II1.
Figs.
3
and
4;
Bull.
B.8.P.R..
XXII,
Figs.
5
and
(i).
The
flexion
furrows
(joint
lines)
have
in
the
])hotograjihs
a
deceptive
appearance
of
being
depressed
;
on
the
wax
they
are
elevated,
being
of
course
negatives
of
the
original
thumb
furrows.
139] “ Walter ''
Thumbprints of the “ Margery ” Seances 21
clear that their identification as “ Kerwin ” prints is based upon
exactly the same procedure of comparing details.)
The other tablet from this seance is in the custody of the S.P.R.,
where, as explained to the writer by Mr W. H. Salter, it has re-
mained under conditions which guarantee the authenticity of the
specimen. It was inspected in the Society’s rooms on 1 August 1934,
in the presence of Messrs Salter and De Brath. The print is
illustrated in Fig. 7, Bull. XXII, B.S.P.R., wherein Goadby
remarks (p. 72) that three experts of the Xew York Police Depart-
ment certify to its identity with the right thumb of “ Kerwin
”
after examination of the photograph. Inscribed on the back of
the tablet, in pencil, is the notation : 7-12-29 in 34 31 (these letters
and figures following the date are not readily legible, and my
deciphering may be incorrect).^ The print itself is a clean-cut
impression, definitely a “ Kerwm ” right thumb. The impression
has an mtact core, a rod.
The Hope Tablets ^
For my convenience the two tablets next to be mentioned were
deposited by the owner. Lord Charles Hope, in the S.P.R. rooms,
where they were examined on 1 August 1934, in the presence of
Messrs Salter and De Brath.
One tablet is inscribed : 10-3-29 2. It bears a typical “ Kerwin ”
print with a rod core.
The second specimen, marked 10-3-29 3, bears two prints,
a larger impression which is a typical “ Kerwin ” print with a
rod core, and a smaller which is smoothed and defaced in the central
pattern area (this one not being subjected to a critical analysis in
the absence of requisite technical aids).
The Baggallay Tablet ^
This impression, now in the custody of L.S.A., was brought to
the S.P.R. rooms by Mr De Brath, where it was examined on
1 August 1934, in his presence and that of Mr Salter. The tablet
1 [Note by W. H. S. The first set of figures denotes the date of production,
7 December 1929 : then foUow Miss Newton’s initials, and last the date she
initialled the wax, 31 January 1934.]
^ The datings of these tablets are in error : the seance at which they were
obtained was that of 4 October 1929, instead of 3 October {Jour. A.S.P.R.,
December 1929, p. 661).
5 This and another wax from the same sitting are mentioned by Dudley in
Bull. B.S.P.R., XXII, pp. 33-43.
22 Harold Cummins : Notes on [part
is enclosed in a glass-fronted frame, the backing of which precludes
inspection of the reverse surface of the wax. The tablet is fractured
across the thumb impression, but the whole tablet is represented in
the two pieces mounted in the frame. The obverse of the tablet
is inscribed : 5-11-29. It bears a single “ Kerwin ” print with a
rod core.
The Schiller Tablets ^
Three tablets in the possession of Prof. F. C. S. Schiller were
examined at his home in Surrey, and in his presence, on 5 August
1934:. Prof. Schiller recognises the identifying marks which he
had placed on the slabs prior to the sittmgs.
One tablet bears the incised marks : 9-9-29 4. It carries
two imprints. One imprint is a clearly defined “ Kerwin ” right
thumb, with a rod core. The second is an irregular impression,
beset with upraisings as if there had been sticking of the digit or
die in imprinting ;
this pattern was not analysed in detail, though
it is evidently a “ Kerwin ” print.
A second tablet, inscribed 9-10-29, also carries two impressions.
One is a “ Kerwin ” right thumb, its core showing the “ routing ”
defect which characterises the “ standard ” of Thorogood (for
explanation of this point see summary). The second impression
is of a juvenile digit (a loop), made, according to Schiller, after his
request (voiced at the previous sitting of 9-9-29) for the print of
a child.
The thh'd tablet is marked : 9-11-29 7. This slab again
carries two prints. One prmt is a “ Kerwin ” right thumb. Its
core is a rod and the impression shows no artifact characteristic
of Thorogood’s “ standard ”. The other imprint is that of a child,
a loop which is definitely a different pattern from that of the
juvenile print of the preceding slab.
Summary
1. The eight “ Walter ” prints listed above, like other right
thumb prints ascribed to “ Walter ”, are identical with “ Kerwin’s
”
right thumb.
2. Examples obtained in the London sitting are of further
significance in showing that this identity cannot be explained away
on the theory (of Thorogood and others) that Dudley had confused
materials in his charge, madvertently or wilfully substituting known
See Psychic Research, December 1929, and Psychic Science, April 1930.
139] “ Walter ” Thumbprints of the “ Margery ” Seances 23
“ Kerwiii ” prints for the seance productions. Mr Dudley did not
attend the London sitting, nor has he even seen the impressions
there produced ;
these London prints are of authenticated seance
origin—and as noted, the prints are identical with the equally
authentic reference prints of “ Kerwin
3. Thorogood places much emphasis on the core structure of
what he terms the “ standard ” right thumb of “ Walter ” ;
he
asserts that it is not a rod, the rod core being a feature of the
“ Kerwin ” right thumb. Among the eight “ Walter ” prints now
reported seven display this rod structure clearly and unquestionably,
while the exception (Schiller’s second tablet) bears a core corres-
ponding to the “ standard ” of Thorogood. The distinction of
this “ standard ”, however, is merely a mechanical defect in the
print (as earher shown independently by Dudley and the present
writer) ;
when the core in these impressions does not appear as
a definite rod the area at the core head presents a depression in
the negative imprint, as from the effect of routing. Prof. Schiller’s
three tablets may be further mentioned in this connection. The
seance origin of these impressions being seemingly clearly established,
it is interesting to note that on three successive days “ Walter
”
produced prints m this order ; rod core—core with “ routing
defect ”
—rod core. The occurrence of a single imprint with such
a “ routing defect ” might be interpreted as due to some technical
mischance in printing, but since Schiller’s example is but one of
many “ Walter ” prints displaying precisely the same defect there
seems to be just ground for suspecting the use of artificial dies (see
Bull. B.S.P.R., XXII). A die marked by such a defect would
obviously reproduce its imperfection in each printing, just as a
perfect die with an intact rod core would uniformly imprint that
feature.
4. It is not within the j^rovince of this account to discuss im-
phcations of the identity of the “ Walter ” prints. Dingwall ^ has
recently stated the situation ;
“ The present controversy is not
so much on the supernormahty of the thumbprints as on then
nature. The material is ah-eady in existence. The prints are here ”.
The prints speak for themselves in establishing the identification ;
a sober view of the case must grant that this is a simple, concrete
issue, and one that cannot be evaded or obscured by fatuous
argument.
^ Light, 29 June 1934.
REVIEW
DR RHINE’S RECENT EXPERIMENTS ON TELEPATHY
AND CLAIRVOYANCE AND A RECONSIDERATION OF
J. E. COOVER’S CONCLUSIONS ON TELEPATHY i
By Robert H. Thouless, Dept, of Psychology, Glasgow
University
Dr Rhine’s investigation on telepathy and clairvoyance possesses
several distinctive features.^ One of the most startling of his results
is the very large number of successes he had amongst his subjects.
Most of those who believed in the possibility of extra-sensory per-
ception had supjrosed that it was rather a rare capacity. By
retesting his most successful cases, Dr Rhine has obtained so many
positive results that he has comjiletely got rid of the difficulty which
has often been the bugbear of this kind of investigation, the possi-
bility that a small preponderance of successful results might be
due to chance. He has evolved new experimental techniques for
the separate measurement of clairvoyance and telepathy. Most
important of all is the fact that his methods are so simple and
his results so clear that his experiments can easily be repeated,
and it will be possible without difficulty for other experimen-
talists to convince themselves whether Rhine’s conclusions are
valid or whether they are due to some flaw m his experimental
methods.
Dr Rhine himself is inclined to protest against the idea that
every new investigator in this field must set himself afresh the task
of proving the reality of extra-sensory perception, instead of being
allowed to consider that the matter has already been proved by
past researches. It must be remembered, however, that even
if the possibility of extra-sensory perception has already been
demonstrated, (which, whether rightly or wrongly, is by no
1 Read at a private Meeting of the Society, 30 January 1935.
1 Extra-Sensory Perception, J. B. Rhine, Boston Society for Psychic Research,
1934, 169 pp.
24
[part 139] Review 25
means universally admitted) yet past experimentation seems to
indicate that the capacity is rather rare, so that any particular
case of extra-sensory perception is still improbable and must
be examined very critically before it is admitted. This is par-
ticularly the case when we bear in mind how often flaws of
experimental technique have led to mistakes in this field in
the past. In any case, such a novel claim as that of measurable
telepathic and clairvoyant capacity in as many as one in three
or four persons must be regarded as intrmsically very im-
probable, by no means to be rejected if it is scientifically proved,
but as making necessary a very critical examination of the
procedure by which it is claimed to be proved and its careful
verification by other workers. If Dr Rhine’s results were estab-
lished, it would make a revolutionary change in our attitude
towards this subject, bringing us near to S. G. Hall’s ideal
that telepathic phenomena should be reproducible at will at any
time in any laboratory.
Dr Rhine gives a summary of previous work in supjDort of his
contention that extra-sensory perception has been already proved.
Amongst other investigations he quotes that of Coover ^ as providing
positive evidence of extra-sensory perception. Since it is a common
opinion that Coover’s results were entirely negative and show
nothing but chance distribution, I have thought it worth while to
re-examine Coover’s figures and will discuss these before proceedmg
with Rhine’s own work.
Rhine is undoubtedly right in saying that Coover’s results
actually show strong evidence against chance. There seem to have
been two reasons why Coover himself drew the opposite conclusion :
first, he adopted an absurdly high limit for the deviation from
mean expectation which might be attributed to chance, and,
secondly, he did not consider the possibility that clairvoyance
might be active where telepathy was impossible.
In what follows I am considering only the results that he obtained
with 10,000 guesses by 100 students of 40 playing cards (a pack
without court cards) in wRich alone there w^ere sufficient observa-
tions for statistically valid conclusions to be drawn. These were
divided into two approximately equal groups : one in which the
card drawn had not been seen by the experimenter when the subject
guessed, and one in which it had. Coover, looking only for effects
of telepathy and not for those of clairvoyance, treated the first
group as a control group in which the effect looked for was not
^Experiments in Psychic Research, J. E. Coover, Leland Stanford Junior
University Publications, Psych. Res. Monog. no. 1, 1917, pp. xiv -1-641.
Revieiv
26 [part
present and in which, therefore, chance factors alone were operating.
The following are Coover’s results :
Card. Colour. Number. Suit.
Card not seen Observed 141 2,491 488 1,252
Total 4,865 Expected 12U 2,4321 4861 1,216
Difference + 19| + 581 + U + 36
Card seen Observed 153 2,556 538 1,344
Total 5,135 Expected 1281 2,5671 5131 1,284
Difference + 241 -iH + 241 + 60
The general tendency of both of these series is clearly to exceed
mean chance expectation, and in approximately equal amormts.
Coover concludes that since the factor of telepathy cannot be
present in the first series, the approximate equality of the two
groups is due to the fact that the deviations of both are due to
chance. A safer conclusion would seem to be that if any factors are
present causing deviation from expectation, these are operating in
approximately equal amounts in the two conditions of experi-
mentation. At any rate, we shall be justified in lumping the two
groups together for statistical consideration. For the remainder
of the discussion of these results, I shall do this since it will give us
the advantage of the higher significance to be obtained by larger
numbers.
The result of throwing the two groups together is as follows :
Card. Colour. Number. Suit.
Total 10,000 Observed 294 5,047 1,026 2,596
Expected 250 5,000 1,000 2,500
Difference + 44 + 47 + 26 + 96
Probability of chance occur-
rence of difference •005 •4 •4 •025
In statistical enquiry, chance is generally regarded as sufficiently
excluded if the odds against the chance occurrence of a result are
fifty to one. If the odds against chance are greater than this we
can conclude that the residt is indicated with sufficient probability
for rational acceptance, although of course our degree of conviction
will be greater if the odds against chance are heavier. If, however,
the conclusion to be established is a negative one, we shall not
consider the absence of an effect sufficiently indicated unless the
observed result would follow from chance alone at least once in
ten times. If the odds against chance lie between 10 to 1 and
50 to 1, the results are to be regarded as inconclusive and must be
repeated until there is a definite indication one way or the other.
139] Revmv 27
The difference between observation and mean chance expectation
of the number of cards guessed altogether right by Coover’s subjects
shows a probability of chance occurrence very much below this
limit, being 200 to 1 agaiust. The existence of some factor favouring
correct guessing of the cards is strongly indicated. It might be
objected that any form of extra-sensory cognition is a priori so
improbable that we shall be right to insist on a much more severe
criterion of significance than we should need, let us say, if we were
tryiug to investigate the difference in fertihty of manured and
unmanured fields. To this objection, there are two replies. First,
the question at issue is not, at the moment, whether or not extra-
sensory cognition occurred amongst Coover’s subjects but whether
there was a factor in his experiments favouring correct guessing
(such a factor might be some unnoticed error of method). There
seem to be no grounds for regarding the presence of such a factor
as very improbable. A much more important consideration,
however, is that if we are convinced of the a priori improbability
of extra-sensory cognition, that will be a sound reason for accepting
the indications of a 200 to 1 odds against chance with less conviction
than we should otherwise feel ;
it is no reason at all for regardmg
heavy odds against chance as evidence in favour of the operation
of chance.
Coover’s conclusion is, however, not a verdict of “ not proven ”.
His conclusions are definitely negative :
“ That various statistical
treatments of the data fail to reveal any cause beyond chance
operating for R cases (p. 123). . . . That no trace of an objective
thought-transference is foimd either as a capacity shared in a low
degree by our normal reagents ... or as a capacity enjoyed in
perceptible measure by any of the individual normal reagents
(p. 124).” These uncompromisingly negative conclusions are most
certainly not warranted by Coover’s data. It is true that he con-
sidered only the evidence from the cards seen by the experimenter since
these alone provided evidence for telepathy, but the odds against
chance for correct guessing of the whole card in these experiments
alone was about 30 to 1, which also cannot reasonably be regarded
as evidence in favour of the chance explanation.
Coover does, however, also submit his result to statistical analysis
but makes the excessive requirement that a result shall only be
deemed valid if the probabihty of it not occurrmg by chance exceeds
0-9999779, i.e. the odds against chance are about 50,000 to 1.
For this, as Coover calculates, it would have been necessary to
have had 316 successes in the 100,000 trials instead of the 294
actually observed. If the same ratio of success had been main-
28 Review [part
tained, the required level of significance would have been reached
if the number of tests had been rather more than doubled. Coover’s
failure to go on is remarkable ;
particularly his failure to make
further tests with those subjects scoring most highly above chance
expectation. His negative conclusion is indefensible on his own
evidence. How can one conclude from a probability of 200 to 1
against a chance explanation of the observed deviations that “ no
trace of an objective thought-transference is found ” ?
I have dealt only with those guesses in Cfiover’s results which
were completely right—in colour, number and suit—since these
alone show a high significance. That there is a lower degree of
significance discernible in the results calculated separately for colour,
number and suit is of no importance since we find that this is simply
due to the fact that if we eliminate those cases in which the card
was guessed completely right, the remaining cases for colour,
number and suit, show only chance distribution.^ That is, whatever
capacity the subjects had for guessing right, when it operated at
all, led to complete knowledge of the card and at other times all
characters of the card were merely guessed at random. This is
what the modern ex]3erimental psychologist would expect. We
do not supj^ose that the recognition of a card involves separate
acts of perception involving colour, number and suit whose simul-
taneous activity gives comjjlete knowledge of the card, but rather
that total recognition of the card is a unitary process.
This leads to a principle of experimentation which it is well to
bear in mind. The general prmciple suggested is that whatever
character is used in this sort of experimentation, should have a
mean chance expectation not so large that the exj:)ected chance
deviations from it will be big enough to swamp the deviations due
^ Proof. Let us suppose that the 294 cards guessed completely right are
made uj) of some number x known (by E. S. P. or otherwise) to the subject
and 1/40 of the remainder guessed right by chance ;
x will then be 45, the
mean chance expectation from the remaining 9,955 being 249 (to the nearest
whole number). The 45 known altogether correctly wiU, of course, be right
in colour, number and suit. Of the remaining 9,955, the following are the
number of right guesses of these characters observed and expected :
Colour. Number. Suit.
No. expected - - 1,977^ 9954 2,489
No. observed -
5,002 981 2,551
Deviation -
+ 244 -144 + 62
Prob. of dev. - •6 •6 •15
In no case is the jjrobability of the deviation occurring by chance less than
one-tenth, so the results are consistent with all the observed successes (other
than the 45 completely right) being due to chance.
139]
Revietv 29
to the cause under investigation. 50 successes above expectation
in 10,000 would, for example, be clearly significant in a character
whose mean chance expectation was 250, b\it would be quite
insignificant in one whose mean chance expectation was 50,000.
This means also that it is inadvisable to try to calculate a single
index (as has sometimes been done) taking into account successes
in different characters with different mean chance expectation, since
this may result in the swamping of real successes by chance devia-
tions.
Rhine mentions that those subjects of Coover’s who did well in
the telepathy experiments also did well in the others (clairvoyance
conditions). If there were a significant relationship, this certainly
would be an important finding. It does not appear, however, that
the relationshi]) is any greater than might result from chance.
It is true that the one individual who did best in one set of experi-
ments also did best in the other set, but if we work out a correlation
for the whole group or for the best eleven subjects, the correlation
is found to be -1 in both cases, and is quite insignificant.
Rhine says that most of the correct guesses in Coover’s experi-
ments were made by a small number of people and that, if the
answers of this small number are considered separately, they
become enormously significant. It is, however, clearly illegitimate
to select the best answers and then treat them by a method of
calculation appropriate to an imselected sample. We can, however,
compare the individual sets of guesses in which 0, 1, 2, 3, etc., are
right and compare it with the frequencies with which these would
be expected on the hy]3othesis of chance distribution. This will
be a more sensitive method of detecting a tendency to guess right
which is found in only a few individuals, than will be the method
which uses the mean obtained from the whole group.
The expected di.stribution on the chance hypothesis is that
given by the terms of the expansion of 100 x (39/40-1- 1/40)^“°. The
comparison between observation and chance expectation is made
below :
No. right 0 . 1 2 3 4 5
Frequency observed 3 17 28 21 17 5
Chance expectation - 7-95 20-4 25-85 21-65 13-5 6-65
Deviation -5 -3i + 2 1
2 + 2i -li
No. right 6 7 8 9 10 11
Frequency observed 5 1 1 1 0 1
Chance expectation - 2-7 •9 •3 -07 -02 -0035
Deviation + 24 0 + 2 + 1 0 + 1
30 Review [part
There is a clear tendency for some individuals to guess right
more often than is to be expected by chance. Also it is to be noticed
that the improbability of a chance explanation is seen to be greater
by this method of examining the results. One individual, for
example, has 11 right and the odds against this one case alone
occurring by chance amongst 200 subjects are more than 200
to 1.
This table of frequencies suggests that about six of Coover’s
hundred subjects had measurable power of exceeding chance
exf^ectation in the guessing of playing cards. If extra-sensory
cognition is at work here, the number is greater, I think, than would
be commonly supposed although much below the number indicated
in Rhine’s exj:>eriments. There is some indication that whatever
power is measured may be widely diffused to a small extent, since
it is to be noticed that not only are there individuals guessing far
more right than is to be expected on the hypothesis of chance, but
also that the number guessing none right and one right is consider-
ably less than to be expected from chance. The observed distri-
bution is below expectation at the low end as well as above expecta-
tion at the high end. This is not merely the result of the fact that
the total number distributed on the curve of chance is decreased by
the few that have the power of guessing right to a marked degree,
since this number appears to be about six, and if the chance dis-
tribution were calculated for the remainder, it would mean only
that each of the “ expected ” values was reduced by 6 per cent,
which would still leave the zero end of the observed curve below
expectation. Unfortunately, however, the number of cases is not
large enough for it to be certain that this lowering of the zero end
is significant. We can only say that the curve as it stands suggests
a fairly wide distribution of a tendency to guess correctly in addition
to a well marked tendency in a small number of subjects.
The observed distribution is definitely not consistent with an
approximate equality of the tendency amongst all subjects, since
if we calculate the expected distribution about the observed mean
of 2-94, there are still significantly more high values than would
be ex]3ected (the odds against the occurrence of the one case of 11
would, for example, stiU be fifty to one on this assumption).
What is definitely proved, therefore, is that some subjects are
guessing more often right than is to be expected on the hypothesis
of chance. The indication is that the number possessing to a marked
degree this ability (whatever it may be) is about six. There is
also a possibility that the same ability may be present to a smaller
degree amongst a larger number of the subjects.
130]
Eeview 31
Coover’s results, then, do not show chance distribution. Do they
contribute positive evidence for extra-sensory cognition ? The
results may be due to this or to some uncontrolled error in Coover’s
experimental conditions. If he had not been misled by the use of
a too severe criterion of significance, he would presumably have
scrutinised and stiffened up his conditions to see whether the
effect would disappear. Presumably also he would have gone on
with the experiment imtil the probability against chance was
even greater than it is. If we think that the existence of extra-
sensory perception is probable on other grounds, we may regard
this as the most likely explanation of Coover’s results ;
as independ-
ent evidence they are not of much value. Certainly they leave the
field open for a reinvestigation of the possibility of demonstrating
telepathy amongst normal people by card-guessing experiments.
One of the most important changes that Ehine makes in method
is the abandonment of playing cards as material and the substitution
of a set of five kinds of cards suggested by Dr Zener showing respec-
tively a star, a circle, a rectangle, a cross and two parallel wavy
lines. A pack is composed of five of each of these, 25 cards alto-
gether. There is a possibility that the greater ease with which he
got positive results than other experimenters using playing cards
is due to the superiority of these cards for this purpose. They are,
for example, much more easily imaged than playing cards. Also,
instead of relyhig on average results for the large group of miselected
subjects, he selected those subjects for further investigation who
did well in preliminary tests. This method would, I think, be used
by any reasonable investigator who wanted to give extra-sensory
perception the best opportunity of demonstrating its existence.
Also he has devised methods for demonstrating telepathy and
clairvoyance either together or separately. If the experimenter
looks at a card, the subject may be guessing it correctly either by
clairvoyance or telepathy. If neither experimenter nor subject looks
at the face of the card, the subject is presumed to be getting it by
clairvoyance. If the experimenter thinks of a card and the subject
guesses it, it is presumed to be guessed by telepathy. The only
doubtful point here seems to be the demonstration of pure clair-
voyance. If a card can be guessed correctly without either experi-
menter or subject having seen its face, obviously somebody must
be clairvoyant, but why the subject ? Is it not possible that the
experimenter knows it by clairvoyance and the subject gets it
from him by telepathy ? This is a serious consideration when the
attempt is made to demonstrate pure clairvoyance at a great
distance. It seems more probable that the sidjject will be able to
32 Review [part
establish the necessary rapport with a mind many miles away than
with a pack of cards, and if the experimenter is present with the pack
of cards, his clairvoyance seems more likely than the subject’s.
We can best illustrate the kind of results obtained by taking a
few typical results. The following are the results obtained with
the subject Pearce up to
Clairvoyance (removing
cards) - - -
through ” the pack) -
Pure telepathy -
1 August 1933 (p. 85) :
Trials. Correct. Dev. from
m.c.e.
Dev./P.E.
8,075
"n
3,049 + 1,434 59
1,625 482 + 157 14-4
950 269 + 79 9-5
The first and third of these experiments were done by the methods
described above, the second by a particularly striking method in
which the whole pack was called through by the subject without
any cards being removed until the calling was complete (the D.T.
method). The last column shows the ratio of the deviation from
mean chance expectation to its own probable error, and is thus a
measure of significance. The smallest of these ratios (9-5) means
odds against chance of over 1,000,000,000 to 1 ;
the others even
higher. Chance, at any rate, is effectively eliminated.
Dr Rhine used an amusing variant of the usual method of experi-
menting when he asked his subjects to give the cards wrongly
instead of correctly. Extra-sensory perception was then of course
indicated by a score below instead of above mean chance expecta-
tion. An interesting point not noticed by Dr Rhhie is that an
examination of the results obtained by this method indicates a
falling below mean chance expectation greater than might be
expected from the positive scores of the same subject.
Let us suppose that the subject is able by some means (such as
E.S.P.) to know 5 of the 25 cards. These he will name correctly,
and of the remaining 20 he will get 4 right by chance, so that his
total number right will be 9. Now suppose that he is trying to
name the cards wrongly. On the assumption that he will only be
certain of naming wrongly the same number of cards as he was
previously certain of getting right, and that his other answers will
be right or wrong l)y chance, the number he now gets right will be
four. Expressing this generally, if he knows m cards and his other
answers are random, he will get m-}-(25 — m)/5 correct when he is
trying to guess right and (25-m)/5 correct when he is trying to
guess wrong.
Now Pearce is said (p. 40) to have averaged about 10 correct
139] Review 33
when trying to guess right and about 2 when trying to guess wrong.
This gives a much higher value for m in the guessing wrong series
than hi the guessing right, 15 when guessing wrong and only a little
over 6 when guessing right. We must conclude that whereas some
cards are well enough cognised to be correctly named, a much
larger number are less completely cognised and although the subject
cannot name them correctly, he can perform the easier task of
naming one of the four kinds that they are not. This is an interesting
point although, of course, it has no bearing on the main question
of the mode of cognition.
A curious result reported by Rhine is that forcing a subject to
go on when discouraged by failure seemed to make him score
significantly below mean chance expectation. This is odd since
it is, of course, necessary that the subject should have knowledge
of the cards in order to guess below mean chance expectation as
it is to guess above. He is no doubt right to speak of an inhibition
here. The first experiments reported on p. 62 are not conclusive
since Rhine made the curious mistake of not cutting the cards
between trials, apparently supposing that this would favour correct
scoring. Actually it would favour repetition of previous scores
whether high or low,^ and makes the estimate of significance entirely
imreliable. Apparently, however, the later evidence was obtained
imder satisfactory conditions.
On page 86, a distance experiment is reported with Pearce in
another building over 100 yards away. In a clairvoyance, experi-
ment with the cards removed from the pack for each guess the
following results were obtained in 12 runs : 3, 8, 5, 9, 10, 12, 11, 12,
11, 13, 13, 12. An average of 9-9 per 25. Dev./P.E. is here 12-1
and the odds are many billions against chance. There is also
reported a successful experiment over a distance of 250 miles by
two of Rhine’s collaborators. It is not clear, however, whether
this was properly checked by independent witnesses. Other very
long distance experiments were unsuccessful.
One last result may be mentioned. Pearce on one occasion had
25 successive right guesses in pure clairvoyance. The odds against
this occurring by chance are about 600 billion to 1 . This of course
is no better evidence than what has gone l)efore, but to some it
may appear more impressive. Several other subjects gave results
which do not quite come up to Pearce’s standard but are also entirely
inexplicable on any chance hypothesis.
^ That is, on the hypothesis that there is a correlation between successive
series of calls by the same subject. In my own experiments I have found
that this is not uncommonly the case,
c
34 Review [part
We need say no more abont the possibility of these results being
due to chance than that it is altogether excluded. Odds of a billion
to one against chance are really no better than odds of a million
to one. This is generally recognised by Rhine himself, although he
occasionally uses phrases which might lead to misinterpretation by
those not familiar with the limited purpose of statistical tests for
significance. For example, on page 67 he says :
“ This makes the
odds in favour of the E.S.P. factor and against chance away up
beyond the trillions again and well into the zone of entire safety.”
It must be remembered that all that a statistical calculation of
significance can do is to measure the importance of one and only one
source of error—the possibility of wrongly concluding that a genuine
effect is ]jresent from a numerical deviation which is merely due
to the chances of samphng. The number of experiments must be
increased until this source of error is negligibly small compared
with all other possible sources of error. Beyond that point there
is no further gain in increasing results under identical conditions.
It would be a very optimistic view of any set of scientific experiments
to suppose that when the chance of being misled by a sampling
error was reduced to, let us say, 1 in 1,000, it was not negligibly
small compared with other sources of error. Yet Dr Rhine went
on accumulating results under identical conditions when this
source of error was below one in billions. This unfortunate con-
centration on fantastic anti-chance ])robabilities seems to have
led him into paying quite insufficient attention to reporting the
precautions taken against other possible sources of error.
When we ask whether the experimental conditions were suffi-
ciently carefully controlled, we are met with the difficulty that it
is generally quite impossible to discover for any particular experi-
ment what the experimental conditions were. Very commonly
the subject’s guesses were checked after each five guesses. Appar-
ently this means that the subject was told what the correct figure
was on each of the previous five cards.
This procedure is oj^en to the objection that the subject’s know-
ledge of what cards have already been drawn gives him information
as to the changed probabilities of future drawings. Rhine makes
the curious mistake of supposing that this would only be effective
for the last five and only if they were all of the same suit. Actually
it coidd be effective any time after the first five were checked,
hlxcept in the very improbable case of all of the first five cards
l)eing different (the odds against which are about 15 to 1), it is
theoretically ])ossible for the subject to raise his expectation of
chance success by being guided l>y what has already turned up.
139] Review 35
Let us suppose, for example, that one or two diagrams have not
appeared in the first five. If he consistently guesses these dining
the next twenty, his exjiectation of success during that twenty
will be five ;
this added to the one chance success to be exjiected
during the first five exposure brings the total number to be expected
liy chance up to six. This, however, is on the supjiosition that
the suliject is guided by the first hve cards only. In fact, with this
method of experimenting, he has additional information from each
sulisequent five, and his expectation of chance success is increased
above six if he is guided in this way to an amount that is not known.
Dr Rhine has other replies to this possible criticism besides the
mistaken one already given. In grajih No. 3 (p. 137), the ratio of
successes by Pearce is shown separately for the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, etc.,
card in the whole series of 25 taken from a total of 1,375 trials by
this method. This graph shows clearly that even for the first five
cards, no less significant positive results were obtained than for
the others. Similar curves are shown for some of the other subjects.
This shows that this factor was not imjjortant for these subjects.
There remains the possibility that it may have been present for
others. Unfortunately it is not clearly indicated what series were
given by this method, so that for a considerable pro^iortion of the
subjects tested, there may have been an uncontrolled factor present
which might give a spurious indication of E.S.P. It is no doubt
necessary to keep subjects informed of their success, but it would
seem to be a less objectionable way of doing this, simply to tell
them when they have made right guesses without informing them
of what the cards were when they guessed wrong.
This, however, is a less serious objection to the method of checking
by fives than the fact that this seems to be an ideal way of teaching
subjects to recognise some of the cards from their liacks. This
last possibility is probably the most serious source of error in Dr
Rhine’s experiments. It might lie overcome by having a sufficiently
large number of packs and making successive tests of the same
subject with different packs. Dr Rhine apparently did have more
than one pack, Init it is not clear how often he took the precaution
of making successive tests of any one subject with different packs.
It is no answer to this criticism that successful results were obtained
with some subjects under conditions in which knowledge of their
backs would have been of no service to them (as, for example,
Pearce in the D.T. experiments). This proves that, at lea.st, a few
of his subjects were not succes.sful by this method. Indeed, there
seems no reasonable doubt that if the D.T. experiments were
carried out exactly as described, with adequately shuttled cards
36 Review [part
no other explanation than that of clairvoyance is possible. We
have, however, plenty of other evidence in favour of the view that
extra-sensory perce])tion is to be found as a very exceptional
mental power. The novelty of Dr Rhine’s results lies in his apparent
demonstration that this power is not uncommon and it is here
unfortunately that his evidence is quite inadequately stated.
The conclusions as to frequency of the capacity from the data
reported in the present book are summed up as follows in a later
article.^ “ The best results are contributed by eight major subjects
who showed both clairvoyant and telepathic alhlity, at approxi-
mately similar rates of scoring for the two conditions. In addition
to these eight major subjects there were at least ten more minor
subjects who scored signihcantly high in clairvoyance or tele])athy.
Then there were others, (a majority) among the remaining fifty-nine
subjects tested who scored at a good rate, but over far too short a
series to be evaluated. There were only seven failures among those
who were tried out to the extent of 1,000 trials. ... It is safe to
conclude that extra-sensory perception is not so rare as has been
supposed, and on the basis of the proportions mentioned above
ought clearly to be found in at least one in every four persons, with
a higher ratio most probable.”
This is an extremely important conclusion. It is a pity that the
evidence for it is so inadequately reported that it is quite impossible
to get any idea as to whether the experiments on all of these sub-
jects were carried out under critical conditions. If all or any
considerable ju’oportion of them were carried out with packs of
which the same suljjects had had previous experience by the method
of checking after each five, the conclusion would rest on a very
uncertain basis.
If Dr Rhine is to carry general conviction of the truth of his
finding as to the commonness of extra-sensory perception, it is
absolutely necessary that he should state clearly how many of his
18 subjects showing extra-sensory capacity were tested under
critical experimental conditions. The minimum requirement for
a critical experiment would seem to be :
(A) that an experiment
in which the card is visible to the subject should never be carried
out by means of a ])ack of which the subject has previously seen
the back of each card and been informed as to what was on its
face ;
(B) the sidqect should not be informed as to what cards have
))een drawn until the whole ])ack is completed ;
and (C) the back
of the cards should not be visible to the subject at all unless it is
^ “ Telepathy and Clairvoyance in the normal and trance states of a
‘
Medium ’
”, J. B. Rhine, Character and Personality, 1934, vol. iii. 94.
Review 37
139]
absolutely certain that the hgure on the face has made no perceptible
modification of the surface of the back. It is quite impossible to
discover from Dr Rhine’s book how much of his evidence is derived
from experiments of this kind and it is entirely possible that even
though one or two of his subjects had genuine extra-sensory power,
the others were getting successes through inadequate control of
the experimental conditions.
Another important conclusion is that the subjects who are good
at telepathy are also good at clanwoyance to about the same amount.
The evidence is shown in Table XLI on p. 148. Unfortunately the
evidence is not very good. The table shows results for seven
subjects (one of the major subjects being omitted) with a correlation
of -75 (calculated by the rank-difference method). Plainly no
conclusion can be drawn from a correlation between 7 subjects.
The data presented are no more than an indication of a conclusion
which may be established by examining a larger number of subjects.
It will be gathered that Dr Rhine’s procedure is by no means
free from objection, and that his presentation is open to the much
graver objection that the experimental methods are quite inade-
quately reported. This is a pity, since a little more care in reporting
and more careful discrimination between experiments obtained
under perfect and under imperfect conditions would have made
this work very much more convincing. It may be that all that
Dr Rhine reports is true, but much of his report will not carry much
conviction to those inchned to be sceptical. At least we may say
that Dr Rhine has shifted the burden of proof on to those who
deny that extra-sensory perception is a fairly common capacity.
If his results are to be tested it can only be by repetition of his
experiments. He has developed an easily applied technique, and
those who are not convinced may try the matter out for themselves.
It is to be hoped that there will be many carefully planned repetitions
of these experiments and that the results (positive or negative) will
be published.
AN APPEAL FOU CO-OPERATION IN FURTHER
ILXPERIMENTS IN EXTRA-8EN80RY PERCEPTION
A (iLANCE at Plianlasnis of the Living or tlie earlier Volumes of
Proceedings will shew that the Society in its early clays devoted
much attentioji to experiments in telepathy both wdth assessable
material, such as hgures and ])laying cards, and with “ free
”
material, in which the relation of success to chance probability
could not be exactly evaluated. During the greater part, however,
of the Society's existence it seems to have been considered that the
C[ualitative analysis applicable in experiments with “ free ” material
had advantages outweighing the lack of quantitative precision. In
fact the bulk of the experiments recorded between the early days
and the B.B.C. experiment of 1927 (Proc., vol. xxxviii) were with
“ free ” material, as the B. B.C. experiment itself in part was.
The results of these “ free ” experiments were interesting and
instructive, but there are undoid)tedly many persons who are not
impressed by ex])eriments unless the results are both measurable,
and also obtained under strict test conditions. A return, therefore,
to experiments with assessable material became desirable, and
between October 1927 and July 1928 Mr S. G. Soal conducted a
carefully planned series of experiments with a large number of
percipients : see his pa])er on “ Experiments in (Supernormal Per-
ception at a Distance ” in Proc., vol. xl. About the same time Miss
Jephson was conducting experiments in clairvoyance with playing
cards.
The results in both cases were mainly, if not wholly, negative, and
suggested a choice between three possible inferences : (1) super-
normal ])erce])tion does not occur ; (2) it occurs, but percipients are
so rare that even Mr Soaks widely cast net failed to secure a speci-
men ; (3) it occurs, but is not amenable to the technique of assess-
al)le experiments under stilct conditions. The high percentage of
success ol)tained by !)] Rhine in the exjxu'iments on which Dr
Thouless comments, suggests that these three possil)le inferences may
not perhaps cover the whole field, and the results obtained in London
[part 139] An Appmlfor Co-operation in Further Experiments 39
by Mr G. N. M. Tyrrell, an experienced investigator, and recorded
in the Society’s Journal for April 1935, point in the same direction.
The CoTincil consider it im])ortant that there should be further
experiments («) with assessal)le material, [b] under strict conditions,
and (c) in such a form as to distingui.sh between the different types
of extra-sensory perception. The Council have requested Mr Tyrrell
to conduct the new experiments, in which specially designed
apparatus will be employed. They hope that many readers of
Proceedings will consent to have their own supernormal faculties
tested, and invite any of them willing to co-operate in this way to
write to the Secretary of the Society.
W. Id. S.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I Page
Introductory -----------
Chapter I. Stages of Development 49
Chai’Ter II. Criteria of Different States of Consciousness - (36
Chapter III. Types of Communications
Chapter IV. The Double Task of Grasping and Giving out
Messages - - - - - - - - 1 1 7
Chapter V. Dissoci.ation - - - - - - - - 141
PART II
Introductory - - - - - - ' ' ‘ ' - 158
Chapter I. Telepathy, Telergy, Possession - - - - 164
Chapter II. Telepathy, Tel^sthesia, Excursus - - - 185
(Jjj^pter III. How some Scripts are Produced - - - - .....9
0JJAPTER IV. Supraliminal and Subliminal, and Myers s
Doctrine of the Soul ... - - 26.3
3 1
5
Appendix
D
A STUDY OP THE PSYCHOLOGICAL ASPECTS OF
MRS. WILLETT’S MEDIUMSHIP, AND OF THE
STATEMENTS OP THE COMMUNICATORS CON-
CERNING PROCESS.
By Gerald William Earl or Balfofr, P.C., LL.D.
PART I
INTRODUCTORY
The lady whose identity is concealed beneath the name of Mrs
Willett is already known to readers of the Society’s Proceedings
as an autoniatist with remarkable powers. I need only refer
here to the important papers by Sir Ohver Lodge and Mrs
Verrall in volume xxv. of the Proceedings on Mrs Willett’s
“ Lethe Scripts ”, and to two papers of my own in volumes
xxvii. and xxix. respectively entitled, “ Some Recent Scripts
affording Evidence of Personal Survival ”, and “ The Ear of
Dionysius ”. The bulk of Mrs Willett’s automatic output is
too private for pubhcation. The four papers above mentioned
relate, how’ever, to matters in the natm’e of episodes, separable
from the main themes of the scripts. To a very considerable
extent tliis also apphes to the subject of the present paper,
though there must still remain withheld from publicity a good
many passages which I would willingly have quoted by way of
illustration had it been open to me to do so.
The materials for the account here presented of the jisycho-
logical aspects of IMi-s Willett’s mediumship have been derived
from three different sources of information. These are ;
( 1 ) Observation of the phenomena ab extra by the small group
of investigators, especially by those of them who have had
frequent sittings with the automatist.
(2) Mrs Willett’s own statements concerning the nature of
her experiences in the exercise of her faculty, whether such
statements were made during the actual course of automatic
43
44 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett: s Mediumship [part
production, or volunteered at other times when there could be
no doubt about her being in an absolutely normal condition.
(3) Dogmatic statements, for which the scripts alone are re-
sponsible, respecting methods and processes of communication.
Tt is upon the first and second of these sources of information
that I shall mainly, though not exclusively, rely in Part I. of
tlie present paper. The third will occupy our attention later.
The material here collected is not put forward either to prove
the possession of supernormal powers by Mrs Willett or as
evidence of survival and of spirit communication. The posses-
sion of supernormal powers I take for granted, nor do I think
anyone will care to dispute it who has read the papers relating
to her scripts that have been already published in our Pro-
ceedings. Survival and the possibility and reality of spirit
communication are far more debatable questions. My personal
belief, arrived at after much study and reflection, leans strongly
in favoui' of an affirmative answer, and I have argued in this
sense in both the above-mentioned contributions to Proceedings
.
But 1 wish to make it clear from the outset that to establish
the reality of such communication is not the object of the pre-
sent paper. All I ask is that its possibility should for the time
being be treated as an open question.
It may be charged against me that in the pages which follow
the language used is not always consistent with leaving the
question open. No doubt for purposes of exposition and the
ljulk of what I have to say will be descriptive and expository
—
it is difficult to avoid adopting the dramatic standpoint of
scripts themselves, and speaking of tlie communicators as if
they really were the departed sjjirits they profess to be. So
far as the narrative is concerned, it would be impossible in any
other way to present a faithful picture of the observed and
recorded facts. If elsewhere the language employed seems
sometimes to pi'ejudge the issue and undidy to favour the
spiritistic interpretation, I can onlj^ say that this was not
done with intention. Convenience and simplicity of expression
must be my excuse, and I must leave it to the reader to supply
whatever qualifications and reservations he may deem to be
necessary.
It must be remembered that I am not undertaking to produce
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship 45
a treatise on mediumship in general, but only a study of the
psychological aspects of mediumship as exemplified in one
particular case. It would be impossible to do justice to the
argument in favour of spirit communication on the basis of
the Willett phenomena without violating confidences which
I am bound to respect. That is one consideration that weighs
with me in leaving this controversy on one side so far as may
be practicable, but it is not the only one. It seems to me that
an inquiry into the evidence for spirit communication must of
necessity carry one beyond the province of psychology proper ;
and further I hold the view that our ideas concerning “ process
”
and the modus operandi of communication need not be seriously
modified howsoever the controversy be decided. What I mean
by this will be made clearer presently.
From the psychological standpoint it is now very generally
admitted that some sort of mental cleavage exists even in the
normal individual. In the phenomena of mediumship this
cleavage becomes pronounced. “ Supraliminal ” and “ sub-
liminal ”, the conscious and the subconscious self, are terms
which have now passed into ordinary usage. They are generally
conceived of as being different levels, or strata, or phases, of one
and the same personality. I do not think such descriptions
carry us very far. What these different elements of personality
really are, either in themselves or in their relation to each other,
remains a problem as obscure as it is deeply interesting. The
study of mediumistic phenomena is no less important for the
elucidation of the problem than is the study of dreams, hypnosis,
hysteria, hallucination, and multiple personality.
The type of mediumship which has attracted most attention
is that of which Mrs Piper is the most conspicuous example.
The medium lapses into a state of unconsciousness in which
all sense of her own personality is apparently lost, and her
conscious self is replaced by what claims to be an invading
personahty from the world of spu’it. Mrs WiUett is perhaps the
most remarkable instance on record of a difierent type, which,
although it has been on the whole less studied, seems to me to
be of at least equal or even greater interest. The characteristic
feature in her case is that, unlike Mrs Piper, the automatist
retains a consciousness of self during the whole process of
automatic production. Orthodox psychology may dismiss her
46 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
alleged “ communications ” as merely subjective in the sense
that all the factors producing them are to be found within the
personality of the medium. To dismiss them as subjective in
any other sense than this is to leave altogether unexplained
the kind of objectivity that belongs to them by virtue of their
appearing to the medium as communications—i.e. as having their
origin in something not herself. Any hypothesis that provides
an adecpiate explanation of the sense of objectivity that
accompanies these communications must, I think, go at least
so far as to ascribe them to the activity of some intelligence
sulficiently dissociated from the self that receives them to
produce in that self the impression that an alien agency is at
work, even though the two “ selves ” may normally be united
to form a single personality.
I believe that interaction between dissociated selves belonging
to the same bodily organism does, in fact, go a considerable way
towards explaining the phenomena of Mrs Willett’s medium-
ship. In some cases it may be the whole explanation. Observe,
however, that it does not exclude, but is quite compatible with,
the rival explanation which regards the communicators as
distinct individual minds, ^ wholly independent of the medium
and unconnected with her bochly organism, but interacting
with her mind telepathically.
My own view is that there is truth in both explanations,
—
that communications may be received in some cases from a
dissociated self, in other cases from an external agent, in others,
again, from both agencies acting in co-operation.
The distinction between independent minds and temporarily
dissociated intelligences or “ selves ” must, of course, be of
great importance from many points of view, and of vast and
vital importance if the independent minds are held to be dis-
' Tlie expression “ distinct individual minds ” covers both incarnate and
discarnate minds. But so far as Mrs Willett’s automatic jiroductions are
concerned it is to all intents and purposes the discarnate that I have here in
view. Instances in which it is reasonable to conjecture that her scripts owe
anything to information supemormally imparted by or acquired from either
the sitter or any other mcamate mind are in my opinion so rare as to be
practically negligible. I believe, however, that they do occasionally occiu- ;
and the possibility should never be lost sight of. The existence of telepathic
communication between Mrs Willett and Miss Alice Johnson is the subject of
the tranco-.script of May 11, 1912, parts of which are quoted on 102 below.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumshiji 47
carnate spirits. But must distinctions which hold good between
chfferent classes of communicators necessarily imply corre-
sponchng chlferences in the modus operandi of communication ?
Let A and B be chssociated selves connected with the same
physical organism, and let C be an independent mind, whether
incarnate or chscarnate. If A or B receive a message from G
otherwise than through the recognised channels of sense we call
the communication telepathic. If A receive a communication
from B otherwise than through the recognised channels of sense
which appears to A to come from a source other than himself,
by what process is the communication conveyed ? I do not
think Myers ever sufficiently faced this question. My answer
would be that here also the process is telepathic ;
and that if
telepathy be, as I believe it to be, a direct interaction of mind
with mind, it matters little qua process, whether the communica-
tor be an independent external mind or a dissociated self of the
mechuni. It is this conception of “ process ” that constitutes
my justification for suggesting that, as regards the psycholo-
gical aspects of mediumistic phenomena, at all events in Mrs
Willett’s case,i the question of the reality of spirit communica-
tion may, without detriment to the inquiry, be left an open one.
In my Presidential Address to the S.P.R. for the year 1906 ^
I put forward the idea that the human individual is an ordered
association of psychic units, or centres of consciousness, tele-
pathically interconnected. I cannot pretend that the idea has
met with any general acceptance. It has, however, received
the powerful support of Professor William McDougall, who
adopted it in his Presidential Address to the Society for the
year 1920,^ and has once more emphatically maintained it in
his Outline of Abnormcd Psychology
^
I still look upon it as a
^ The case of Mrs Piper and other mediums of a similar tyjDe raises con-
siderations of a somewhat different order, although here also I see no reason to
suppose that there is any essential distinction, so far as process is concerned,
between “ possession ” of the organism by an invading spirit—if such a thing
can really take place—and “ possession ” by a dissociated self ;
or that in
either case the modus operandi is different from that of the familiar but wholly
mysterious control exercised over the organism by the normal self.
^ See Proceedings, vol. xix ;
also an article which I contributed to the
Hibbert Jouryial of April, 1913.
^ See Proceedings of the S.P.R. , vol. xxxi.
^ An Outline of Abnormal Psychology, by William McDougall, F.R.S. (192(i).
48 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Medmrnship [part 140]
simplifying and unifying hypothesis which may help to explain
much that is mysterious and perplexing in the region of
Psychical Research. To what extent it is either confirmed or
invalidated by the accoimt of Mrs Willett’s mediumship given
in the following pages it will be for the reader to judge.
F'or the rest the Willett scripts will be found to provide a
fidler and more ambitious attempt to explain the modus
operandi of communication in her own case than any automatic
productions with which I am acquainted. Whatever view we
take of the “ communicators ”, and whatever value we may
attach to their statements, I shall be disappointed if students
of the subject fail to find in some part of the matter now for the
first time submitted to them much that is both ilhiminating and
suggestive.
In concludiiTig these introductory remarks, let me say that
1 make no attempt in what follows to approach the subject of
my j)aper from any other than the purely mental standpoint.
For this 1 offer no apology. I do not contend that the inter-
action of mind and body has no bearing upon the questions to
be discussed. But the phenomena with which I am specially
concerned relate not to the interaction of mind with body, but
to that of mind with mind, and I do not believe that much light
is likely to be thrown upon them by attempts to correlate
thought with brain function. The doctrine of psycho-physical
parallelism 1 am unable to accept in any form.
CHAPTER I
STAGES OF DEVELOPMENT
In her early girlhood Mrs. Willett discovered that she possessed
the power of automatic writing, but, having no one to guide or
advise her, she soon gave up the practice of it. In the second
half of 1908 circumstances into which I need not enter led to a
renewal of her interest in the subject. A correspondence with
Mrs Verrall ensued, and in August and September of that year
she read the then recently published Report by Miss Johnson
on Mrs Holland’s script, and felt an impulse to try for scri]A
herself. Of her first essays she gives an interesting account in a
letter to Mrs Verrall dated October 8, 1908 ;
After a few feeble attempts [she writes] the script seemed to
come very rapidly, but it is too definite, and therefore I distru.st
its being from an external source. There are, however, one or
two curious points in it (I have torn it all up). What worried
me was the words seemed to form in my brain before the pen set
them down, just before, as if tripping on the written word—
a
sort of hair’s-breadth beforeness.^ Most are signed Myers or
F. W. H. M., but I can’t say I think them of value. . . .
The first recorded script dates from October 9, and from that
time records were regularly kept. We may therefore say that in
the case of Mrs Willett, as in that of Mrs Verrall, Mrs “ Holland ”,
Mrs Salter, Mrs Wilson and Mrs ‘
‘
King ’
’
(Dame Edith Lyttelton)
,
we have a practically complete history of her mediumship from
its inception onwards. The history of Mrs Willett’s automatic
activities has, however, a peculiar interest arising from the fact
that it exhibits a marked course of development not found, or at
least not found in equal degree, in the scripts of the other five
I have mentioned. The different stages of this development I
will now try to describe.
^ Compare the experience of a friend of Henry Sidgwick, recorded in Human
rersonality, v'ol. ii., p. 123.
49
50 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'’ s Mediumship [part
During the first stage the communications reach the auto-
matist when she is alone, and in a condition normal or hardly
to be distinguished from the normal. They take the form of
automatic script in a hand different from Mrs Willett’s ordinary
hand-writing.^ Biit it does not appear that the act of writing
is fully automatic in the sense that the hand seems to be moved
for her by some external influence and without her co-operation
—though something of the kind did apparently occur on one
unique occasion (see pp. 123-4 below). According to her own
account the words seem to form in her brain “ a hair’s-breadth
”
before she sets them down ;
biit this does not mean that her
mind anticipates the sense of what is coming, but only each
individual word as it comes. As to her recollection, when the
script is finished, of what she has written, it is not easy to form
any ])recise estimate, and probably the extent of it varies con-
siderably. I have no doubt, however, that she remembers
much more than Mrs Verrall was able to do of her own script
(see p. 68 below).
The second stage begins early in January 1909. Mrs Willett
had been anxious about her son’s health.
I was at dinner, she records, when I felt strong impression of
F. W. H. M. scolding me. I can’t explain—but I felt disapproba-
tion and felt it coming from him, and that he was wishing me to
know that there was no need for any anxiety. I had the impres-
sion that he was conveying to me that if I doubted the impres-
sion I was receiving I was to try for script after dinner. I was
quite normal. I was silent, I suppose, for a few minutes, but I
continued my dinner and later—8.40—did try for script, when
the following came ;
“ Myers yes write now no cause for any anxiety none
yes let him go back to school no anxiety.”
In this incident rve have the first attempt to convey a mes-
sage otherwise than by automatic writing. A more deliberate
attempt followed a few weeks later :
Jan. 29, 1909 {Script).
. . . Gurney ... I am always keeping in closest touch with
' For tlie cliaracteristics of Mrs W.’s “ scriptic ” hand, .see pj). 74- 7S below.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’’ s Mediumship 51
you try for a minute in your own hand to set down thoughts
only ^
{In my own ivriting) try and set down thoughts can’t you
hear me speak it saves troul)le I want to say something
Gurney yes
{Here I left off writing and held a sort of imaginary conversation
with E. O. . . . I ivas perfectly riormal.)
A fortnight later Myers ^ writes (Feb. 14, 1909) :
... I am trying experiments with you to make you hear with-
out writing therefore as it is I Myers who do this deliberately
do not fear or wince when words enter your consciousness or
subsequently when such words are in the script. On the con-
trary it will be the success of my purpose if you recognise in yr.
script phrases you have found in your consciousness. 1 know
this must be for a while disconcerting and be filled with the fear
of that eternal S.S. [subliminal self"\ which I hope we have suc-
ceeded in dethroning to some extent. Therefore be agreeing to
be disconcerted and do not analyse whence these impressions
which I shall in future I’efer to as Daylight Impressions,—come
from, they are parts of a psychic education framed by me for
you. . . .
Mentally received communications of this kind, that are
consciously apprehended, and either noted down at the time or
subsequently remembered and recorded, I shall describe as
Silent B.I.s {D.I. being the abbreviation habitually used by the
communicators for Daylight Im/pression)
,
in order to distinguish
them from Spoken D.I.s, in which the messages as they come
are repeated aloud by the automatist in the presence of a sitter.
Some confusion has arisen from the use of the term D.I. to
describe both silent D.I.s and spoken D.I.s. The silent D.I.
doubtless served to prepare the way for the spoken D.I., but
^ Compare with this the First Holland Report, Proc., vol. xxi., pp. 186, 232,
which Mrs Willett had seen.
Mrs King habitually records in this way when she is not dictating to a sitter.
^ I give to the communicators the names they claim, and have not thought
it necessary to add the cautionary suffixes and describe them as Myers w,
Gurney anti so on. The reader will understand that I am not thereby
assuming the rightfulness of the claim.
52 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mednimship [pabt
the spoken D.I. belongs, as we shall see, to a later stage of
development.
The term silent D.I. might be used to cover every kind of
impression presumably telepathic but not contemporaneously
externalised either in automatic writing or in automatic speech.
In practice, however, I shall confine it to definitely worded
messages, or at least to cases where such messages form part of
the experience. Impressions of a vaguer character, of which
there are many varieties ranging from the sense of a “ presence
”
down to a mere unexplained impulse to action of some kind, are
not included under this heading.
Mrs Willett’s own account of her experience in two instances
makes clear the nature of the phenomenon :
{Extract from a letter to Mrs Verrall dated February 18, 1909)
Last night ... I was sitting idly wondering at it all . . . when
I became aware so suddenly and strangely of F. W. H. M.’s
presence that I said “ Oh !
” as if I had run into someone
unexpectedly. During what followed I was absolutely normal.
I heard nothing with my ears, but the words came from outside
into my mind as they do when one is reading a book to oneself.
I do not remember exact words, but the first sentence was “ Can
you hear what I am saying ?
”—I replied in my mind “ Yes
Again in a letter received by Mi-s Verrall on September 27, 1909,
with reference to a previous silent D.I. Mrs Willett writes :
I got no impression of appearance, only character, and in
some way voice or pronunciation (though this doesn’t mean
that my ears hear, you know !). That is always so in D.I.
[i.e. in silent D.I.]. I don’t feel a sense of “ seeing ”, but an
intense sense of personality, like a blind person perhaps might
have—and of inflections, such as amusement or emotion on the
part of the speaker. If you asked me how I know when E. G.
is speaking and not F. W. H. M., I can’t exactly define, except
that to me it would be impossible to be in doubt one instant
—
and with E. G. I often know he is there a second or two before
he sj:)eaks. ... I then sometimes speak first. ... To me, by
now, there isn’t anything strange in D.I.s except when I try
to explain anything about them ;
then I realise suddenly they
are unusual ! But otherwise it gives me no more sense of odd-
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship 53
ness to be talking to these invisible people than it does to be
talking to my son for instance. But I don’t think I mentally
visualise any sort of “ appearance ” with regard to them—it
is as “ minds ” and “ characters ” that they are to me, and yet
not at all intangible or not-solid realities. . . .
It should be noted that these early methods of communica-
tion, namely by means of lone scripts or silent D.I.s, have never
fallen into disuse. The further development which we have to
trace consists in the addition of other and supplementary
methods.
The next new departure dates from the time when Mrs
Willett, at the special request of the communicators, consented
to “ sit ” with another person present—in the first instance with
Mrs VerraU, and a little later with Sir Oliver Lodge. At these
sittings both script and D.I.s were produced, but from the nature
of the case spoken D.I.s took the place of silent D.I.s, the
automatist repeating the message out loud and the sitter either
taking notes or recording verbatim. As a rule a short introduc-
tory script preceded speech, but this ride was not observed on
the occasion of the first “ sitter-sitting ” and has been departed
from once or twice since. During the period of which I am now
speaking script written in the presence of a sitter and not
followed by a D.I. was also rare, though at a later time it
became fairly common.
Throughout the remainder of this paper the term “ D.I.”
unaccompanied by an adjective is to be taken as meaning
spoken D.I. Where silent D.I. is meant it will always be
expressly so described. The use of the term “ script ” to apply
both to “ lone script ” and to script produced in the jmesence
of a sitter is not likely to give rise to confusion. But I must
bespeak the indulgence of my readers if I often employ the con-
venient phrase “ the scripts ” to cover the whole automatic
output, and not merely that part of it which takes the form of
writing.
Even more important than the introduction of a sitter, and
closely connected with it, was a gradually increasing tendency
on the part of the sensitive to pass into a condition of “ daze
”
or partial unconsciousness.^ She had sometinies experienced
^ The comiruinieators claim to have power to induce varying degrees of daze
in the automatist.
54 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
a feeling of daze even when alone and had, with an effort, pulled
herself together in order to avoid “ going off.” Failure to
retain normal consciousness would probably make the continu-
ance even of script impossible for any length of time, unless
someone were there to look after the supply and disposition of
WTiting materials. For the recording of a spoken D.I. the
presence of a sitter is obviously indispensable. I do not suppose
that Ml’S Willett sitting entirely alone could ever have become a
trance -medium. This consideration was, 1 believe, the motive
of the communicators in lU’ging her to agree to sittings with an
“ experimenter in charge ”. At all events, whatever the
influences which led to the new departure, they certainly did
not have their source in Mrs Willett’s normal inchnations. She
was far from welcoming the experiment of sitting even with a
friend like Mrs Verrall, still less with Sir Oliver Lodge, whom
she met for the first time on May 17, 1909. Any idea that she
might lose consciousness in the process would have made her
still more reluctant.
The first suggestion of a D.I. in the presence of a sitter (Sir
O. J. L. was mentioned by name) came in a script from Myers
of April 13, 1909, and the exj^eriment was first actually tried
on May 21, about five weeks later. The sitter was Mrs Verrall,
and this is her contemporary record of the ?nise en scene :
On May 19, 1909, I called on Mrs Willett . . . and had some
general talk. It was arranged that I should see her again on
the morning of May 21. When I arrived on May 21, she said
almost at once that F. W. H. M. wanted to speak to me, and
thereupon I was witness of the first “ D.I.” in which Mrs Willett
repeated aloud the impression she received. I had made no
preparations and could only take very brief notes. . . . Mrs
Willett sat at some little distance from me near a table. . . . She
rested her elbows on the table and her face in her hands for a
few moments ;
then lifted her head, keeping her eyes shut, and
spoke as if in answer to someone, saying that she could hear
and would repeat. She then spoke slowly aloud, without the
“ He says ” which is characteristic hr later developments, and
with very much less freedom than I have observed since.
There is nothing either in this account or in the record of the
D.I. itself to suggest that Mi’s Willett was in anything approach-
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'' s Mediumshi]} 55
ing a state of trance, though some abnormality may fairly be
suspected.
Next day a message came in script from Myers to say that he
was satisfied with the results obtained, but did not intend to
repeat the experiment for some time to come. Accordingly no
further attempt at a spoken D.I. was made until January 1910.
On the 27th and 28th of that month, and again on April the 5th,
sittings took place with Mrs Verrall as recorder. No loss of
normal consciousness is noted by the sitter on any of these
occasions, but towards the end of the first sitting the communi-
cator, addressing the sensitive, says to her, “ You are getting
dazed. Don’t be agitated.” Some of the phrases used in the
course of the sitting were remembered by Mrs Willett after it
was over—a sure indication, in my opinion, that the “ dazed
”
condition still fell far short of anything hke deep trance.
The communicators had several times indicated a desire for a
D.I. with Sir Ohver Lodge. Opportunity was found to satisfy
the desire in May 1910, when a series of three sittings took place
in his presence (May 1, 6, and 21). In the second and third of
these an undoubted departure from normality occurred, and
probably this was the case in the first also, though to a less
degree. In the second of the series the D.I. is opened by
Gurney saying, “ Tell Lodge I don’t want tins to develop into
trance. You have got that, we are doing something new. Then
he says telepathy ” ;
and the sitting closes with the following
exphcit statement : “You can tell Lodge that you are not
unconscious or too dazed to know who you are, what you are,
and, as each word comes, what you say. That’s aU. Good-bye.”
I beheve this remark of Gurney’s, though it has only the
authority of the communicator to vouch for its truth, does
fairly represent the mental condition of the automatist at the
time. It was a condition of partial trance. And this is con-
firmed by what follows. The recorder notes that after the word
“ Good-bye ” was spoken, “ for about a minute Mrs Willett
continued wfith her eyes shut. Presently she said, speaking to
herself, ‘
Pull yourself together and open your eyes and wake
yourself up ’. She then came to, and looked about her.” Sir
Ohver apparently took this injunction as having been addressed
by the automatist to herself. I think she is only repeating the
words of Gurney, who retmns, as it were, for a moment in order
5() Psychological Aspects of Airs Willetfs Alediumship [part
to bring her back to normal consciousness. Probably we may
see in this incident the rudiments of a waking stage.
Trance is, of course, a difficult term to define, nor is it easy in
any given case to determine the point at which partial has
merged into deep trance. When, however, the communicators
tell us that they do not desire trance in Mrs Willett’s case, we
must recognise that they are using the term in a very narrow
and restricted sense. By “ trance ” they mean trance d la
Piper ;
and, as vdll appear in the sequel, they are emphatic in
distinguishing between Willett phenomena and Piper pheno-
mena. The distinction, as they see it, is so carefully observed
that I doubt whether in the whole of the scripts it would be
possible to find more than one example of the use of the word
trance to describe the Willett phenomena. I am bound to say
that such a limitation of the term seems to me both inconveni-
ent and misleading. From 1911 onwards I have witnessed
many D.I.s, and I certainly should not hesitate to accept them
as belonging to the order of genuine trance.
W’liat 1 have described as the third stage in Mrs Willett’s
mediumistic development is essentially a period of transition.
It begins with the first introduction of a sitter, in May 1909.
Its course is a progress towards deeper and deeper trance. It is
perhaps rash to try to determine with precision the point at
which really deep trance makes its first appearance. But if
I were pressed to fix a date I should be inclined to name
September 25, 1910. There had been two long sittings for
script followed by D.I., one on September 22 and another on
September 24, with Sir Oliver in charge, at both of which the
autoniatist had been in a state far removed from normal. It
was contrary to the rule laid down by the communicators to
attempt D.I. on two days in succession, and the original inten-
tion seems to have been that the sitting on the 25th should, in
spite of the presence of a recorder, be for script only—probably
for script unattended by any change of consciousness. At the
outset the autoniatist appeared to be quite normal, but the
script had not proceeded far when signs of trance began to be
noticeable. The sitter’s attention was called to what was
happening by the communicator himself—in this instance
UO] PsychohyicaJ Aspect’'^ of Mrs Willett's Mediumship o7
Gurney. The account of what ensued I quote from Sir Oliver’s
record :
[Script]. She is very dazed Look (0. J. L. looked and saw her
apparently slightly entranced, so he said, “ Ought I to wake her
up ? ”)
^
[Script]. I will I don’t want her to develop into a second
Piper
{The way in which the hand imndered over the paper was no^v
reminiscent of Piper conditions. O. J. L. said, “ No, I know
you consider we have had that and that now you are arranging
something different ”.)
[Script]. New.
{Then Mrs W. ivoke up, or rather went through a quite brief
“ linking stage ”, saying,
“
He said that’s all now, I’ve
arranged it all with Lodge ” {waking up more).
“
Have you
had a D.I. ? ”)
{O.J.L. No, only script.)
Why do I feel as if I had had a D.I. ?
{0. J. L. I suppose because you were a little more dazed than
usual ;
you have done quite a fair amount of script.)
{Mrs W. was now normal. On te.sting her slightly it appeared
that she remembered none of the script after the early portion.)
It will be observed that this contemporary record uses
language implying that the automatist was only “ slightly
entranced ”, “ a little more dazed than usual ”. I suspect that
Sir Oliver was misled by his knowledge that the communicators
did not want “ trance Failing—as I think all the investiga-
tors at that time failed—to realise that the “ trance ” which
they deprecated was hmited to the strictly Piperian variety, he
would naturally be slow to recognise that, in the wider and more
usual sense of the term, the automatist was deeply entranced
already. “ Slightly entranced ” seems a very inadequate
description of a sensitive who wakes up in the belief that she
had had a D.I. when nothing of the kind had happened.
I give for what it is worth the conclusion to which a close
study of the Willett scripts has led me. The communicators
more than once claim that they are putting Mxs Willett through
a systematic training in mediumship. I believe that, far from
not desiring trance in the wider acceptation of the term, they
E
58 Psychological Aspects of 3Irs Willett’s Alediumship [part
were bent from the outset on ediicating her to become a trance-
medium, but a trance-medium of a new kind. The training
process had to be gradual, and the word trance was avoided,
pai'tly perhaps from fear of alarming her and provoking a
resistance which might frustrate their plans, but also to mark
the im])ortance which the communicators attached to the
contrast between Piper phenomena and the new variety of
mediumship which they aimed at developing.
Let me at this point briefly recapitiilate. In the first period
of Mrs Willett’s mediumship lone scripts were the sole method
of communication. The second period is marked by the intro-
duction of the silent D.I. As a ride no obvious disturbance of
normal consciousness accomj^anied either of these processes.
In the third period silent D.I.s and lone scripts continue as
before ;
but a combination of script and spoken D.I. with a
recorder XR’esent comes into prominence as something new. In
the course of these sittings the autoniatist develops a tendency
towards trance, liardly noticeable at first but becoming pro-
gressively more and more marked as time went on.
As we have seen, a conchtion of deeji trance was jDrobably
reached for the first time on Sejitember 25, 1910, but only
towards the end of the scrijit, and no D.I. followed. Between
that date and May 24, 1911, only one “ sitter -sitting ” took
])lace. It resulted in the usual type of combined script and D.I.;
but so far as can be judged the automatist was not deeply
entranced and there was no waking stage. A condition of deep
trance maintained tlu’ough both stages of a sitting was not, in
my opinion, reached until May 24, 1911.
With the jiossibility of trance communication now firmly
established the fourth and final period is entered. After nearly
three years of training Mi-s Willett’s mediumship has reached
matui'ity so far as form is concerned. From now onwards no
new dejiarture of primary imjiortance remains to be noted,
though there was considerable variety of practice in the emjiloy-
ment of the different forms of communication at chfferent times.
The combination of trance-script followed by D.I. as initial and
secondary stages of the same sitting is freely resorted to up to
July 1912. An interval of u])wards of eighteen months ensued
during wliich no spoken D.I. was attemjDted. Regard for the
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Medivmship 59
health of the medium was probably the determinmg considera-
tion ;
for the greater strain on the vitality of the medium
involved in spoken D.I. as compared with script is fully recog-
nised by the communicators. To compensate for the temporary
loss of spoken D.I., scripts written in the presence of a sitter
become comparatively common. The condition of the auto-
matist during some of these sitter-sittings tends to pass into
trance of varying depth. The writing is sometimes interrupted,
and the sitter requested to take down a passage from dictation.
A return was made to the regular combination of script and
D.I. (but with occasional interpolation of written passages in
the D.I.) in February 1914, and use continued to lie made of
this type of sitting up to August 19, 1915. Since that date there
has been only one example of it, and its place seems to have
been taken by trance -scripts in the presence of a sitter not
followed by D.I. I do not think that this change carries with it
any important significance. Probably the D.I. condition
implies, on the whole, a deeper trance than is often reached in the
trance-script ;
but the same ends are served in both, namely (1)
to get rid of the checks and inliibitions of the normal conscious-
ness, and (2) to enable messages to be conveyed to the sitter of
which the automatist is to be kept ignorant. I may here add
that, where these objects are not in view, communications
made by way of lone scripts do not seem in quality and interest
to fall short of those conveyed in trance.
Some Compaeisons
No account even of the external characteristics of Mrs
Willett’s mediumship would be complete which failed to note
certain features that differentiate it from that of mediums of
the type of Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard. Some of these will
engage our attention more closely when I come to deal with the
phenomena in the light of statements made by the communi-
cators themselves. For the present our concern is rather with
such contrasts as are apparent to the observer from outside.
One obvious point of difference is that Mrs Piper and Mrs
Leonard are essentially trance-mediums, whereas Mi’s Willett’s
automatic faculty is active in every phase of consciousness
from normahty to deep trance. But the most striking
fiO P.si/chological Aspects of Mrs WiUetf's Mediuniship [part
point of difference is the absence in Mrs Willett’s case of
anything corresponding to the Phinuii, or the Rector, of Mrs
Piper, to Ml’S Thompson’s Nelly, or to the Feda of Mrs Leonard.
Mrs Willett always appears to be in direct touch with her trance-
personalities, though occasionally one of them may be found
helping or speaking for another who is represented as less
exjierienced or as having less aptitude for communication. It is
true that certain of the trance-personalities of Mrs Piper or Mrs
Leonard, like “ G. P.” or “ A. V. B.”, or the father and the sister
of Mr Drayton Thomas, also purport to communicate directly
without the intervention of a Phinuit or a Feda respectively.
But here again there is an important distinction. It is Mrs
Willett herself, in propria persona, who is in touch with the
communicator. Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard when in trance
seem to lose all sense of their personal identity, whereas, so far
as the observer can judge, this is never the case with Mrs
Willett. Her trance sittings abound with remarks describing
her own experiences at the moment, and occasionally she will
make comments, not always complimentary, on the messages
she is asked to transmit. The communicator often addresses
her directly, and she him. Even when the communicator,
speaking in the first person, refers to the automatist as “ she
”
or “ her ”, interspersed phrases like “ He says ” reveal that she
is all the time conscious of herself and of her part as a reporter.
iSid^tle questions may no doubt be raised concerning the exact
relation of the “ I ” of the Willett scripts to the normal “ I ” of
the sensitive ;
but any distinction between the two “ I’s
”
discernible to the observer leaves them still both identified with
the same personality. IVL’s Willett’s trance sittings generally
end in a “ waking stage ” like Mrs Piper’s. In the waking
stage Mrs Piper regains her consciousness of self, and this, even
apart from any change from writing to speech, clearly marks
it off from the stage which precedes it. Mrs Willett, on the other
hand, retains a sense of personality throughout, and in the case
of trance D.I.s, where no change from writing to speech helps to
mark the transition, it is sometimes hard to say just where the
D.I. ends and the waldng stage begins.
Another point of contrast between Mi’s Willett and profes-
sional mediums like Mrs Piper and IVIrs Leonard lies in the
widely different conditions under which they work. Sitters
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship 61
with Mrs Piper and Mrs Leonard have been, from the nature of
the case, many and miscellaneous ;
and the comnnmicators,
purporting for the most part to be deceased relations and
friends of the sitters, have been correspondingly many and
miscellaneous. Mrs Willett’s scripts—using that term in its
widest meaning to include all her automatic records—have been
produced in a wholly dissimilar atmosphere. Those who have
actually had sittings with her are very few in number—some half
dozen or so—and, speaking generally, their object has been a
purely disinterested study of what the scripts have to say. In
this they have been assisted by another and equally small grouj)
of investigators to whom the scripts have been shown. All of
these are intimately known to the automatist and pledged to
respect her anonymity, and to treat the records as private and
confidential except so far as she may decide otherwise. A con-
siderable proportion of her automatic output she has never seen
herself, for records of her trance sittings have been in the past
systematically withheld from her. Her consent was, of course,
required for the publication of the present paper, and many of
the passages from the scripts quoted or referred to in it have
never until now come within her conscious knowledge.
As the number of sitters with Mrs WiUett has been strictly
limited, so also the personahties professing to communicate
through her form a very smaU group. Myers and Gurney were
the earliest, and for a considerable time the only communicators,
but certain others have been added since, including Henry
Sidgwick, S. H. Butcher, A. W. Verrall, and one whose real
name is concealed from her but whom she knows as the Dark
Young Man. Some at least of my readers will have no difiiculty
in identifying him. Indeed I should be surprised if ]\Irs
WiUett herself, to whom the first draft of my paper was shown,
has not now realized who he is, though she has not volunteered
any statement to me on the subject. Another important figure
among the dramatis personae is that of a lady who died in early
youth more than fifty years ago. She will be referred to in this
paper as “ the young lady in the old-fashioned dress ”. Her
family name never appears in the scripts, and the normal Mrs
Willett has probably never heard of her existence. These all
play their part, not as isolated individuals but as members of a
band working together with a common pm’pose. Theii’ co-
02 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'’ s Mediumship [part
operation gives to the Willett scripts a unity which it would be
idle to look for in the automatic utterances of Mrs Piper and
Ml’S Leonard, but which, we are not without ground for behov-
ing, embraces also the scripts of Mrs Verrall, Mrs “ Holland ”,
Mrs Salter, the “ Macs ”, Mrs “ King ” and Mrs Wilsond
Combination of Script and D.I. in the same Sitting
The combination in which D.I. is regularly preceded by
script in the same sitting is pecuhar, so far as I am aware, to
Mrs Willett. The presence of a recorder or “ experimenter in
charge ” is, of course, a necessary conchtion of the spoken D.I.
But why should the spoken D.I. be so constantly preceded by
script, and script, when a recorder is present, have been—at
least during several years—so constantly followed by D.I. ?
The combination is not, indeed, absolutely invariable. The
very first “ sitter-sitting ”, of May 21, 1909 (see ante, p. 54),
produced a D.I. without preliminary script ;
and there have
been one or two instances of the same thing since. Of scripts in
the presence of an investigator in charge and not followed by
D.I. there were three cases, and only three, ^ up to dime 1913.
The first of these was the script written in the presence of 0. J. L.
and quoted on p. 57 above ;
in the second case D.I. was not
attempted because on that occasion the medium was judged to
be physically unequal to the strain ;
the tliird case was a
deliberate experiment in which the automatist was expressly
instructed to try for a script in my presence without going into
trance.^ It is true that from June 1913 onwards the rule was so
far relaxed as to admit of sitter-sittings, which resulted in script
without D.I., although mixed, it might be, with occasional
passages of dictation. But why was the combination of script
first and then D.I. so long and, on the whole, so consistently
maintained ? What purpose, if any, did it serve ?
That the communicators attached some importance to the
^ To this list may be added Mr and Mrs Kenneth Richmond, from whom
scripts have been received from time to tune since 1919.
^ I do not here include two earlier scripts written in the presence of the
automatist’s jnother, and one wi’itten in the presence of her husbaml on
December 24, 1911. For this last see below, p. 75.
® See below, p. 75.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’’ s Alediumship 68
rule during the earlier years of Mrs Willett’s mediumship is
proved not merely by the strictness with which it was observed,
but by sundry passages in the scripts themselves. Thus on
March 10, 1910, Gurney writes :
“ Tell Mi’s Verrall I want her
to try another D.I. with me some day via you of course to open
with script Again on May 1, 1910, at a sitting with Sir
0. J. L. present, Myers writes :
“ Try for a D.I. and come back
to Sc if I tell you ”. But the most explicit statement on the
subject is contained in a lone script of July 22, 1911 :
Tell Gerald I want to experiment upon one pomt I want to
find the proper balance between Sc. and D.I. proper what I
mean is I want to find out the connection—not the word I want
but let it stand between the state [sic] of Sc— I am speaking
of the Sc which is the initial stage of I) I proper—and by D I
proper I mean the spoken words—the stage of Sc and the stage
of D I It may be said that in one case the impression exter-
nalises itself by the hand and in the other case by the voice
But that is not the way it looks to me from here I want to
speak of this later My present point is to note that I must
experiment to find the balance What amount of Sc facilitates
the emerging into the secondary stage viz D I—and what
amount of Sc—at what point does the continuance of Sc make
that emerging difficult or delayed the relation which the
proportion of Sc bears to the secondary stage Say that that is
nearer it Without experiment nothing can be learnt I want
to experiment in several directions and this is one of them.
It is evident from this extract that the experiments in which
the communicators were engaged were experiments relating to
method. No doubt is cast on the utility of the combination.
But the initial step, that of script, is treated as subordinate to
the second stage, that of D.I. The centre of interest is the D.I.
as an instrument of communication. From the point of view of
method the chief use of preliminary script is to lead up to D.I.
—
to “ facilitate its emergence ”. The thing of real value is the
D.I. itself.
That this was the view actually held by the communicators
up to the date of the extract is confirmed by an examination of
the previous sitter-sittings, whether we consider the relative
length of the two stages or the matter contained in them. In
()4 Psychological Aspects of Airs Willett's Alediumship [part
every case save one the scrij)t-stage had hitherto been relatively
short and the D.l. stage relatively long—often as much as ten
times as long as the other. In the one exceptional case (of
February 9, 1911) when the sittings opened with a fairly long
and interesting script, the D.l. seems to have suffered, for it
was short and comparatively unimportant.
Similarly as regards content ; the short preliminary scripts
had in almost every case been concerned with matters of secon-
dary importance—brief conversations with the sitters, instruc-
tions with respect to future sittings, the dates at which they
were to be held, the length of time which they were to last, and
so forth. Communications of sidistance were for the most part
reserved for D.L, and with the change from writing to speech
there iisually came a change of subject also.
I think the evidence leads to the conclusion that so long as
the trance condition even in the D.L was imperfect, in the
preliminary script it was lighter still. 1 suggest two possibili-
ties : ( 1 )
that the lighter stage may have been used in order to
induce the deeper stage ; (2) that it may have been intended to
serve the further purjDose of helping to keep Mrs Willett’s
trance within the limits aimed at by the communicators, and
secure it from any danger of passing into the Piperian variety
in which the normal consciousness is entirely submerged and its
place taken by what purports to be a wholly different per-
sonality.
If these conjectures are well founded, the utility of the
method may have continued even after the achievement of
deep trance in both stages, of which I count the sitting of May
24, 1911, to be the first example. But not long after that date,
and possibly as a result of the experiments referred to in the
extract quoted above, the stage of jDreliminary script began to
assume greater importance and extend to greater length. It is
more and more used for the conveyance of messages of a kind
formerly reserved for the D.l. stage, and the distinction of
subject-matter as between the two stages becomes less frequent.
Ultimately, as we have already remarked, this general
tendency developed into a real change of practice. The rule of
“ No D.L without preliminary script ” continued to be observed,
(hi the other hand sitter-sittings at which script alone, or a
mixture of script and dictation, was produced became common.
140] Psychological As^jects of Mrs Willett's Alediimiship 65
In some of these sittings the autoniatist was practically normal
throughout, in others she seemed to pass gradually into trance ;
in others again the trance, so far as one can judge, was fully
established from the outset. Nevertheless the combination
of script and D.I. has never been definitely abandoned,
though it became very rare as the years went on. It represents,
I believe, for the communicators the high-water mark of
successful method in communication. Throughout what I have
called the fourth period of Mrs Willett’s mediumship a deep
form of trance is its invariable characteristic.^ There are
indications that it was the method preferred by the communica-
tors for all messages which it was desired to withhold from the
normal consciousness of the autoniatist. On the other hand
the strain imposed upon the autoniatist by D.I. in the presence
of a sitter is admittedly greater than that involved in other
processes. 2 It was this consideration, I suspect, coupled with
a growing experience of trance-script not followed by D.I., and
the realisation by the group on the other side that it might be
made to serve their purposes almost as well as D.I. itself, that
led in the end to the nearly complete disuse of the combination.
^ In making this statement 1 do not count the sitting of December 17,
a.s falling imder the description of combined script and D.I. The long dictated
passage in that case is altogether sui generia. It does not seem to have been
regarded as a D.I. by the communicators themselves. See below, j:). 69.
- There was a wide gap in the production of D.l.s, extending from July 6,
1912, to February 28, 1914, which is probably to be accounted for by reasons
connected with the health of the medium at the time. It was certainly not
caused by lack of ojjportunities, for there were seven or eight sitter-present
sittings held during the same interval.
CHAPTER II
CPvITERIA OF THE DIFFEPvENT STATES OF
CONSCIOUSNESS
(
a)
Memory of Message received
(
b )
Indications from HANDMMtiTiNG
(c) Externalisation of Presences
(
d)
Indications from the Waking Stage
My paper on The Ear of Dionysius contains a brief statement
concerning the different psychical conditions in which the
Willett scripts are produced. This statement is not exactly
what I should make to-day in the light of fuller experience and
further study of the subject. I then wrote :
“ Many of these
[scripts] are written when the antoniatist is alone, awake, and
fully aware of her surroundings. The remainder, produced in
the presence of a ‘
sitter ’, fall mainly into two classes. Either
the antoniatist is in a normal or nearly normal state of con-
sciousness, much as when she writes scripts by herself, or else
she is in a condition of trance. There have been a few inter-
mediate cases, when it is hard to say whether the sensitive is in
trance or not. But these are a very small number : in general
there is no difficulty whatever in distinguishing.”
Apart from the fact that in this statement I do not dis-
tinguish between script proper and D.I.—the distinction being
irrelevant to my purpose at the moment
—
I should not now say
that the intermediate cases are very few in number, or that in
general there is no difficulty in determining how any given
script should be classified. The modifications of consciousness
exemplified in Mi’s Willett’s jihenomena range over the whole
scale from practical normality through partial trance to deep
trance. Her automatic productions may be conveniently
arranged into classes corresponding to these three descriptions
of mental conchtion. But it must be reahsed that no clear line
of demarcation separates them : the first shades into the second
66
[part 140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’ s Mediumship 67
and the second into the third. Extreme cases at either end of
the scale can, of course, be readily classified. Silent D.I.s and
lone scripts may all be placed in the nearly normal class.
Similarly it is, in my opinion, safe to say that all D.I. sittings
subsequent to that of May 24, 1911, are of the deep trance
order. On the other hand D.I. sittings before that date, and
sitter-sittings without D.I. of a subsequent period, are often
not easy to place, and even in the course of the same sitting
there may be changes from one state to another. The line is
often hard to draw, and I have to confess that in several cases
I have felt constrained to draw it differently at different times.
Where the question is of just a little more or a little less, clear-
cut conclusions are best avoided. One has to be content with
general impressions and a considerable margin of uncertainty.
Good indications may be gathered from the external demeanour
and appearance of the medium when at work, especially by noting
the expression of her face, whether she keeps her eyes open or
shut, and how far she requires assistance from the sitter in the
management of pencil and paper. But there are other signs and
tokens which have a psychological interest of their own ;
and
in what follows I propose to examine certain of these at some
length, choosing my illustrations as far as possible from records
which may at the same time help to give an idea of the more
striking characteristics of Mrs Willett’s mediumistic activities.
(a) Memory of the Message received
Silent D.I.s, unless they are written down at the actual
moment of reception, which hardly ever occurs in Mrs Willett’s
case, can, hke ordinary dreams, only be recorded from memory.
In scripts and spoken D.I.s, on the other hand, we have a con-
temporaneous record which can afterwards be compared with
the recollections, if any, of the content of the messages con-
veyed. Power to recall such content, or any part of it, after the
sitting is over is an important test of the state of consciousness
of the automatist during the sitting. It definitely rules out the
condition of deep trance. But even complete amnesia of the
content of messages caimot, in my opinion, be taken as proof
positive of deep trance. In Mrs Willett’s case it probably
always imphes some degree of trance, but this is not true of ail
68 Psychological As'pects of Mrs Willett's MediumsMp [part
automatists. IVIrs VerraU’s automatic writing, for instance,
clearly belongs to the nearly normal type. Yet so far as her
experience in script-production is concerned this is how she
describes her first successful attemifis :
^
“I was writing in the
dark and could not see what I wrote ;
the words came to me as
single things, and I was so much occupied in recording each as
it came that I had not any general notion of what the meaning
was. I could never remember the last word ;
it seemed to
vanish completely as soon as 1 had written it.” And again :
“ After the first two or three times of writing I never read what
had been written till the end, and though I continued to be
aware of the particular word, or perhaps two words, that I was
writing, I still retained no recollection of what I had just
written and no general notion as to the meaning of the whole.”
Obviously IVIrs Verrall, when she sat for script, was aware
that she was writing, was aware of her sensations during the
process, and conscious of what was happening round her. All
this she remembered. The failure of memory applies only to
the content of her script. Even this degree of amnesia, limited
as it is, does not seem to be experienced to anything like the
same extent by Mrs Willett in the production of her lone
scripts, though I would not go so far as to say that it never
occurs. But in her sitter-sittings the case is rfifferent. Thus in
an early D.I. (May 6, 1910) we have the assurance of Gurney,
already cpioted, to the effect that the medium is not uncon-
scious, nor too dazed to know who she is, and, as each word
comes, what she says. The same assurance is repeated in a D.I.
of August 10, 1910, where we are told that she “ is not uncon-
scious—she is fuUy conscious of each word as it comes, but the
last word is effaced, wiped away ”. In the light of Mrs Verrall’s
experience we need not hesitate to accept this as a true
account of the facts—so far, at least, as the normal self is
concerned.
Both these early D.I.s I count as examples of partial trance ;
for though the amnesia, so far as regards the content of the
message, is similar to that experienced bj^ Mi'S Verrall, I judge
from other indications that in these sittings Mrs Willett’s state
was very decidedly fui’ther removed from the normal than was
ever the case with IVIi's Verrall herself.
^ Froceedinys, vol. xx., pp. y, iO.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs WiJleAfs MeAinmship 69
I now proceed to quote in extenso the record of a sitter-sitting
of considerably later date (December 17, 1913). I do so not
because it was a typical sitting—on the contrary it was in some
respects singular if not unique—but because it illustrates in an
interesting way some of the topics dealt with in the present
chapter. If we regard this record from the jDoint of view of form
alone, we might suppose that we had before us an example of the
famihar combination of preliminary script and following D.I.,
except that the sitting ends with a reversion to script after an
untimely interruption caused by noise outside the room. But
in character the clictated portion is wholly unlike any D.I. in the
entire collection. I have never regarded it, nor do I now regard
it, as a D.I. proper. There is good evidence to show that
neither did the communicators themselves reckon it as such.^
The allusions in the short prehminary script are obscure even
to the investigators. I do not advise the reader to trouble
himself with tr\dng to understand them, but he should note the
abrupt change of style which marks the transition from writing
to dictation.
Script, followed by dictation, of December 17, 1913. {Present,
G.W.B.)
Gurney—yes, say this
Prometheus and the divine fire, the gift of gods to men
Bearing aloft in folded hands of prayer
Safe through the windy world the fire divine
The ground flame of the crocus
fiamentia liliacque The lilies of flame a flame floats above
the lily a Pillar of fire, beacon and guiding Daemon
Socrates
{At this point Mrs W. began dictating to me :)
It’s a picture—a picture that I love and often see.
^ If we exclude the sitting in question, no D.I.s are recorded between July U,
1912, and Febiuary 28, 1914, an interval of over eighteen months. It is to
this long interval that Gumey must be referring when, at the opening of the
sitting of February 28, 1914, he warns the investigator in charge that “ these
first retumings to D.I. need very careful handling and some confusion may
appear in the matter transmitted ”. He could hardly have spoken thus liad
he counted the dictated portion of the comparatively recent sitting of December
17, 1913, as a D.I.
70 Psychological Aspects of ilfrs Willett's Mediumship [part
Marble pillars everywhere—a most heavenly scene. A com-
pany of men—small company, discussing everything in heaven
and earth, and really reaching the heights of reason—almost
unconscious of their visible surroundings. It is a sort of parable
of life.
There was such intercourse of the hiiman mind going on in
that room, and I know it so well I almost fancy I must have
been there, though it happened a long time ago.
Fred uses an expression somewhere—a small company of
like-minded men. ^ That’s how those men were ;
and, you know,
they never die [Here I asked for the dictation to be a little
slower.) Oh, I wish I could say it quickly, because it’s all
floating past me.
There’s a poem of Matthew Arnold’s about Christ, that
wherever the feet of mercy move up and down where poverty
is, Christ is actually present in them now.’
Oh, how I wish I could tell what I know. You know, to
ordinary people those men who sat talking there long ago are
just historical figures, interesting from a hundred points of view,
but dead men. Do you know, there’s nothing dead in greatness,
because thei'e can’t be, because all greatness is an emanation
from the changeless Absolute. That’s why I know those people
as if they were alive to-day. I know them much better than
many of the people I live with—especially the older man, the
Master. He had disciples, you know, and whenever—What
I said about that Matthew Arnold poem was becaiise I wanted
to say that what was true of Christ is true of that man I’m
speaking about.
Oh, do you know that Knowledge isn’t the greatest faculty of
the human mind. There’s a deeper faculty, deriving its—some-
thing or other, I missed that—through a more central zone.
It’s Intuition. It’s in Intuition that the Soul acts most freely,
and it’s by Intuition that it best demonstrates its freedom.
There’s something about that in Paracelsus.'^ Paracelsus is a
great allegory.
'Obituary Notice of H. S. See Fragments, p. 113. Cf. llie “ companion.s
of Socrates ” in same Notice, p. 99.
“ I have not been able to trace this reference.
^ Cf. Browning, Paracelsus, v.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetf's Aleduimship 71
Wliat a long way IVe got from my picture that I like to look
at, or rather from my room where I choose to walk. The meal
is for the most part over, and there’s a sort of hush of the spirit ;
because in that quick interchange of thought new ideas have
arisen, and the man that they all look up to, he’s borne very
far aloft on the wings of the Spirit. And suddenly on the quiet
of it all there bursts the sound of revelling coming nearer and
nearer—flute players !
{ecstatically) Oh ! is it Bacchus and
his crew ? ^ Anyhow, there’s something rather Bacchanahan
about it. They’re getting nearer and nearer, and they’re
hammering on the door, and then in they come. My people
are all disturbed, and there’s great toasting. They take it all
in very good part, and they revel away. There are wreaths of
flowers, and cups passing, loud jokes. And then, do you know,
by degrees some of the crowd melt away, and some of the
people go to sleep. And then the whole thing ends up with such
a majestic thing, I think ;
just that one figure, when the inter-
ruption is over, he stays there, like some great beacon shining
out above the clouds, walking on the heights of thought ;
and
the absolute silence reigns, and there he sits.
Do you know that man’s as real to me as if I could touch
him ! He’s an ugly man, oifly I feel he’s sublimely great. You
know I’ve not got to be tied up always to myself. I can get
up and walk about in other worlds ;
and I very often like to
walk through the room where that scene took place.
Have you ever seen the shadow of the Parthenon 1 ^ Oh !
[pause) It’s all very beautiful there. Do you know Edmund
would have been very happy in that world. It was the sort of
world he wanted, and he strayed into such a hideous age.
( While the last sentence was being spoken a cart was driven up
to the neighbouring door, and loud voices of men were heard. This
visibly disturbed Mrs Willett, and quite threw her off the track.)
1 Probably a reminiscence of Keats’s Song of the Ijidian Maid, from
Endymion :
“ And as I sat, over the light blue hills
There came a noise of revellers . . .
’Twas Bacchus and his crew.”
2 F. W. H. M., Fragments p. 194.
“ And over Plato’s homestead fell
The shadow of the Parthenon.”
72 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willeffs Mediumship [part
Oh !
—Oh !
—Oh !
[pause)
I’ve lost the thread, I’ve quite lost the thread.
[At this point a further interruption occurred, and voices were
distinctly audible outside the front door. Prese7itly Mrs W.
resumed writing, beginning in her “ script ” hand [which always
indicates a nearly iiormal consciousness) but passing gradually
to her natural writing.)
I’ve lost the thread. It’s all gone. I was so happy I was
seeing visions and I did not ever want to leave Fred was with
me F. W. H. M. 1 also saw Henry Sidgwick he had a white
heard
Do you know who the young man was I only just caught
sight of him for a moment
How nothing time is
All human experience is One We are no shadows nor do we
pursue shadows ^ Pilgrims in Eternity
We few we few we happy band of Brothers ^
To the above record I appended a note, written on the same
day, giving my general impression of the psychical condition of
the automatist at the time of production. This note I here
reproduce.
Note to Willett Script of December 17, 1913, try G. W.B.
.During the greater jjart of this sitting Mrs Willett, although
not in a condition of trance, was certainly further removed than
usual from a normal state of consciousness. On my showing
her, about an hour later, the part which I had taken down from
dictation, she said, “ I haven’t the faintest recollection of all
this, nor do I know what it means ”. I then told her that it
described a famous scene in Plato’s Symposium, to which
allusion had already been made in another script of hers, nearly
three years ago (January 3, 1911). The word Syfnposium.,
however, seemed to convey no meaning to her, though I re-
minded her that she must have seen it in Mrs Verrall’s account
(in vol. XX. of the Proceedings) of the attempt to reproduce
* Burke, Speech at Bristol :
“ What shadows we are and what shadows we
pursue ” :
quoted in a Holland script of February 9, 1910, which Mrs Willett
had seen.
”
Henrij V., Act TV., Scene Hi.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Medmmship 73
Myers’s posthumous message. She has certainly read this, and
she remembered something about Diotima. The name of
Alcibiades amused her, but recalled no memories. I think we
must assume that her conscious knowledge of the Symposium
and its contents was in all probability greater at one time than
at the date of this sitting.
It will be seen that in spite of her complete faihu’e to recall
the content of the script,^ my contemporaneous judgment was
that Mrs Willett was “ not in a condition of trance ”, although
“ certainly further removed than usual from a normal state of
consciousness ”. No doubt I formed this judgment largely on
what I noticed of the external behaviour of the automatist, as
contrasted with what I was familiar with in undoubted cases of
deep trance. I believe I was right in not taking the failure of
memory as a proof of deep trance ;
but I should not now hesi-
tate to describe the sitting as one of partial trance.
Incidentally, I may call attention to three other points of
interest
:
(1) The change of style when dictation begins seems to
indicate a new communicator. Who is this new communicator ?
No hint is given in any part of the dictated passage that it is a
message conveyed by any member of the communicating group.
The automatist mentions both Myers and Gurney, but refers to
them, as it were, independently and on her own account.
(2) When, on my asking that the dictation should be a little
slower, she rephes, “ Oh, I wish I could say it quickly because
it’s all floating past me ” ;
and again when she says, “ There’s
a deeper faculty, deriving its—something or other—I missed
that—^through a more central zone ”, the “ I ” seems to be the
self to whom the description is given and who at times has a
difficulty in giving it out. The exclamation “ Oh, is it Bacchus
and his crew? ” uttered “ ecstatically ” should also, I think, be
attributed to the recording “ I ”. The “ I ” who is responsible
for the description, and seems to be relating its own experiences,
must, on this interpretation, be an “ I ” different from, or at
least distinguishable from, the first. If it is not one of the com-
municating group this second “I” would seem to be a dis-
^ It is possible that the failure might have been less complete had the
automatist been interrogated as soon as the sitting was ended, instead of after
an hour’s interval.
F
74 Psychological Asi^e-cts of Mrs WiUetfs Mediumshi'p [part
sociated self, and to be conveying, for expression through the
recording self, knowledge acquired either normally and subse-
quently forgotten by the waking self or supernormally from
some (presumably) spiritual source. The question here raised
will call for consideration more at length hereafter.
(.4) If that portion of the script which follows the interrup-
tion by noise had been spoken instead of being written, it might
easily be mistaken for a waking stage, since the first few
sentences have a curious resemblance to a waking stage in
point of style. But apart from the fact that a written waking
stage woidd be of extreme rarity, if not altogether unique, the
su])position is further negatived by the change, to which atten-
tion is called in the record, from the autoniatist’s “ script hand ”
to her natural wiiting. For that change, as we are about to see,
denotes not an awakening or progress towards normality, but
a movement in the reverse direction to something nearer a
condition of trance.
[h) Indication.s from Handwriting
Very little, if any, attempt is made in Willett script to
imitate the known handwriting of the several communicators.
It is true that in the notes which the autoniatist is in the habit
of appending to her lone scripts, when forwarding them to the
care of the investigators, she occasionally uses language imply-
ing a distinction between the Myers script and the Gurney
script ;
but this seems to refer to the rajiidity and vigour of the
writing, and to the size of the letters, rather than to any
characteristic form of the writing itself. On the other hand her
scripts exhibit two well-marked styles of handwriting which,
though they bear no relation to any jiarticular communicator,
do appear to have a direct connection with her state of conscious-
ness at the time of writing. An examjile of the transition from
one to the other has already been noticed in the iumiechately
preceding paragraph.
Mrs Willett herself became aware, for the first time, of these
two distinct styles of handwriting in circumstances recorded by
herself when sending me the script which brought the distinc-
tion to her notice. It must be remembered that she had never
been shown the scripts written by her when in a condition of
deep trance. Her account is as follows:
75
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'’s Mediumship
Script of December 24, 1911, icith Mr Willett present.
Note by Mrs W
.
Mr Willett having frequently expressed a wish
to see script coming, I had for some time been making up m_y
mind to try for script in his presence. ... I had not expected his
presence to make any difference in script, if any came. I did
think it might probably prevent any script coming. But what
did happen was this : after the first two sheets of script I found
I was going off into unconsciousness, was, in fact, going into
D.I. The writing ... is for some sheets not in my script hand,
but in something which is almost my ordinary handwriting,
except that the f’s are not crossed nor the i’s dotted. There
are also punctuation marks in the script, which my script
never has. My eyes were shut, and it was only by a great and
continued effort that I got out of the D.I.ey state. I succeeded,
but I felt dazed and heavy.
I may supplement this account by some observations of my
own, recorded immediately after the sitting of April 18, 1912,
to w'hich they relate. It was in February 1911 that my acquain-
tance with Mrs Willett began. My first sitting with her was on
June 4 of the same year, and from that date onwards it had
fallen to me to be the principal “ experimenter in charge ”.
Between June 4, 1911, and April 18, 1912, I had witnessed a
good many sittings of the combined script and D.I. type, in all
of which the automatist had been deeply entranced, but I had
not until the latter date seen her produce a script in a normal
or quasi -normal state of consciousness.
Note ivritten by G. IT. B. immediately after the Sitting of
April 18, 1912 ;
^
The day before this script was produced Mrs Willett had
arranged for a sitting with me, at whicli it was proposed to try
for script and D.I. in the usual trance conditions. Next day,
however, she told me she had had a “ flash D.I.” [silent D.I.]
instructing her to try for script in my presence, but without
going into trance. The instruction was duly followed, and the
present script re.sulted.
I was glad to have this new experience, never having seen the
modus operand! of Mrs Willett’s automatic writing except in
1 This was one of the three exceptional sittings with an investigator in
charge, mentioned on p. 62 above, that were not followed by D.I.
7T) Psychological Aspects of 3Irs Willett's 31erUu7nshij) [part
trance conditions. It will be remembered that she once tried
for script in Mr Willett’s presence, and on that occasion had the
greatest difficulty in resisting a disposition to pass over into
unconsciousness. No such difficulty was observable on the
present occasion. She sat with the block on her knee, holding
two or three primroses in her left hand (taken from a bowKul
which had been sent us from Whittinghame), and managed the
turning over of the leaves without assistance from me. Some-
times she looked at the page as she wrote, biit for the most part
seemed to be gazing out vacantly into space. Occasionally she
closed her eyes altogether. Pauses were not infrequent, but
the writing when it came was usually rapid, and sometimes
extremely rapid. The character of the handwriting varied.
Mrs Willett’s “ trance-script ” is always, I think, written in her
own natural hand, and often punctuated. The script which
she gets when she is alone, so far as I have seen it, is very differ-
ent—the letters longer and more regular, the words runnmg
more continuously into each other, and stops conspicuous by
their absence. When she wrote in Mr Willett’s presence and
had to struggle to retain consciousness, she noticed a tendency
to pass over into the trance style of handwriting, i.e. into
something more like her own natural hand with stops inserted.
There are few or no stops in the present script, but the hand-
writing changes a good deal ;
and I am inchned to think that
the more closely it resembles her normal style, the further
removed she has become from the completely normal con-
sciousness.
Since the above note was written I have had many oppor-
tunities of observing the correspondence between the hand-
writing of the automatist in script and her psychical condition.
There can be no doubt that, broadly speaking, the nearer she is
to dee]) trance the more closely does her script approximate to
her ordinary handwriting. Punctuation marks are also a sign,
though not an infallible one, that she is deeply “ under
Another distinguisliing mark of script written in trance or
partial trance is the use of erasure to correct errors in writing.
In ordinary lone script any faulty or superfluous words which
it is desired to alter or omit are left standing. The script just
flows on and provides a corrected version without crossing out
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediiimship 77
what has been wrongly written. I do not think a single erasure
is to be found in the scripts, numbering two hundred or more,
written before May 24, 1911, the date of the first deep-trance
combination of script and D.I. This is the more curious inas-
much as the underhning of particular words in order to
emphasise them is freely resorted to. After that date erasures
become fairly common, but they are almost entirely confined to
sitter-present scripts in which, on other grounds, a conchtion of
at least partial trance may be reasonably inferred.
An interesting example of erasure which occurred on May 1 1
,
1912, may be cited here because it fimnshes at the same time
an ilhxstration of the distinctions in handwriting. The sitting
was for script and D.I. and it opens thus :
Gurney I cant attempt much today the need for repose
and peace, which she has not had, that is wanted for definite
The above had been written, filling one page, when the whole
was crossed out and a fresh page begun. The opening words
were then repeated in a slightly different form :
Gurney G. I can’t do much here to-day, she needs solitude
and rest, and the life of confused and jarring elements in which
she has been breathing is a bar
The “ Gurney ” in the first page is in the handwriting
characteristic of lone script : then the style gradually changes,
and by the time the second page is begun the transition to the
trance-script hand (similar to Mrs W.’s ordinary writing) is
complete. Possibly the communicator did not wish to proceed
until he was satisfied that the automatist was fully entranced.
The return to the natural way of writing in proportion as the
normal condition of consciousness gives place to trance is not
what one might have expected a priori, but is, I think, capable
of explanation. Mrs Willett sits for script with the point of the
pencil resting on the paper, and lifts it as little as possible.
Hence the continuity of line which is the most characteristic
feature of the writing. Tins is the method recommended by the
communicators themselves, presumably as that best suited for
automatic expression through the hand. Why is it abandoned
when the medium is presumably not less but more under their
control ? The explanation I suggest is that the artificial
78 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Medmmsliip [part
character of the handwriting when the automatist is quite
conscious of what she is doing depends upon her giving atten-
tion to this rule of practice, and that, when the normal con-
sciousness is lulled, attention to the rule is weakened and
ordinary habit reasserts irself. Save in a single exceptional
case I do not think Mi’s Willett has ever experienced the feeling
that her hand was being moved for her by some influence
external to herself. Her script-writing is not automatic in that
sense.
(c) Extjernalisation of Presences
Mrs Willett’s perception of her communicators (I use the
word perception deliberately) ranges fi'om bare awareness of a
“ presence ” void of all sensory content to complete sensory
hallucination. There is an intermediate form in which what
may be called a psycho-sensory element is involved, and in
which bare awareness merges into less or more vivid visualisa-
tion. But both the bare awareness and the awareness re-
inforced by mental visualisation dift'er from ordinary ideas,
memory images, and fancy pictures, in being independent of
the percipient’s volition. They are, as it were, inqjosed upon
her from something not herself, and create a sense of the
objectivity and reality of that which is perceived, not indeed
identical with, yet not wholly unlike, that which is associated
with ordinary sense perception of external objects.
To this intermediate form of externalisation the term
“ pseudo-hallucination ” has been applied. The term may not
be altogether free from ol^jection ;
but I shall continue to use
it as a convenient class name enij)hasising the essentially
conij)elling and involuntary character which the phenomenon
shares with true sensory hallucination.
^
^ Conijiare William James, Principles of Psychology, vol. ii., jjjj. 115 ff.,
and Proc. S.P.R., vol. x., pp. 86-87.
The imjjortance of pseiulo-hallucination was not suffleiently recognised when
Gurney wrote his chapter on hallucination in Phantasms of the Living.
The sense of objectivity which characterises both bare imjjressions of presences
and so-called pseudo-hallucinations raises cjuestions of the greatest theoretical
interest. These will occupy oin attention later on. In the present chapter
I am inore concerned to describe the experiences themselves than to suggest
any theory in explanation of them.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Aledmmship 79
Some connection undoubtedly exists in Mrs Willett’s case
between the ascencbng scale of externalisation and the different
states of consciousness—ranging from all-but-normality to deep
trance—which characterise her mediumistic experiences. 1
should hesitate to affirm that the correlation is regular and
invariable, but it is sufficiently marked to be of some psycho-
logical interest.
I have already quoted (pp. 52-53 above) two descriptions
given by Mrs Willett herself in the early days of her mediumship
of the way in which, in silent D.I., she becomes aware of the
presence of a communicator and of the message which he wishes
to convey to her. My object then was to give a general idea of
the characteristics of these silent D.I.s. It will be convenient
to repeat the descriptions here with a somewhat different
puiq^ose in view.
Extract from a letter to Mrs Verrall dated February 18, 1909.
Last night ... I was sitting idly wondering at it all . . . when
I became aware so suddenly and strangely of F.’s presence that
I said “ Oh !
” as if I had run into someone unexpectedly.
During what followed I was absolutely normal. I heard nothing
with my ears, but the words came from outside into my mind
as they do when one is reading a book to oneself. I do not
remember exact words but the first sentence was “ Can you
hear what I am saying ?
”
—I replied in my mind “ Yes ”...
Extract from a letter received by Mrs Verrall on September '21,
1909.
I got no impression of appearance, only character, and in some
way voice or pronunciation (though this doesn’t mean that my
ears hear, you know !). That is always so in D.I. [i.e. w silent
D.I.f I don’t feel a sense of “ seeing ”, but an intense sense
of personality, like a blind person perhaps might have—and of
inflection, such as amusement or emotion on the part of the
speaker. If you asked me how I know when E. G. is speakmg
and not F., I can’t exactly define, except that to me it would
be impossible to be in doubt one instant—and with E. G. I often
know he is there a second or two before he speaks. ... I then
sometimes speak first. ... To me, by now, there isn’t anything
even strange in D.I.s except when I try to explain anything
80 Fdychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Alediumship [part
about them ;
then I realise snddenly they are unusual ! But
otherwise h gives me no more sense of oddness to be talking to
these invisible people than it does to be talking to my son for
instance. lint I don’t think I mentally visualise any sort of
“ appearance ” with regard to them—it is as “ minds ” and
“ characters ” that they are to me, and yet not at all intangible
Of not-solid realities.
The first sentence in this extract refers to a silent D.I. of
some months earlier (May 8, 1909), one of the very rare occa-
sions when the “ presence ” was that of an unrecognised
stranger. Mi’s Willett’s contemporaneous record was as follows :
Got impression of a young man, fashionable, conventional,
sporting, very nice, a thorough gentleman, cheerful ”. At a
later date Mrs Verrall, having formed a guess as to the possible
identity of the stranger, asked Mi’s Willett for further particulars.
The letter quoted al)ove was written in answer to this inquiry.
Such experiences are no doubt difficult to define and express
in langiiage, and one may be in danger of attributing to Mrs
Willett’s statements on the subject a precision beyond what it
woidd be fair to look for in them. The two accounts I have
quoted relate to different occasions. Both may be accurate.
But some interest attaches to a jjoint of difference between
them respecting the way in which the words of the communi-
cator reach the automatist. No hearing with the ears is admitted
in either case. But whereas the first account compares the
coming of the words from outside into her mind to the experi-
ence of reading a book to oneself, the second account suggests a
mental impression not only of meaning, but of the peculiarities
of voice and pronunciation. If to this kind of mental hearing
there was a corresponding mental seeing, there should by
analogy residt some kind of image or rei:>resentation of external
appearance. IVli’s Mdllett, however, denies having any such
representation in the typical silent D.I. “I don’t think
I mentally visualise any sort of ‘
appearance ’
with regard to
[the communicators]—it is as ‘
minds ’
and ‘
characters ’
that
they are to me, and yet not at all intangible or not-solid realities.”
This last phrase I take to be an attempt to express the sense
of objectivity which the experience brings with it. To the
percipient the communicator is an iiidependent reality
—“ a
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Alediumskip 81
presence not to be put by It is possible that some faint and
vague idea of appearance is not so wholly absent from her mind
as her description seems to imply. But this much, at all events,
is clear, that no distinctly visualised picture forms part of the
phenomenon, much less any such full-blooded phantasms as
most of us are famihar with in our dreams.
The bare awareness of presence may be regarded as the
minimum degree in the scale of externalisation. But there is
evidently a tendency to develop a higher degree in the scale by
the addition of what I have called a psycho-sensory element.
Even in the early days of Mi’s Willett’s mediumship she records
a case of silent D.I. in which she was conscious of a presence
commg toivards her, though she was unable to describe how.
This at least implies definite localisation in space, which seems
to be a first approach to mental visualisation.
Definite localisation in space ajDparently without visualisa-
tion is well illustrated in the following case :
Writing from the Lake of Geneva on September 17, 1922,
Mrs Willett records
—
I had a strange experience to-day—seemingly meaningless,
and yet it made such a deep impression on me that I send it on
to you. I was so tired this morning . . . that I decided to go
by the early boat to Thonon and back—fresh air and rest. It
was a radiant morning—haze on the mountains—but coming
back, as I was leaving Nyon, I saw a great white mass—so high
I took it at first to be cloud. As we steamed towards Geneva
it came more fully into view, and I suddenly realised it must be
Mont Blanc—longed for but not seen by me since my arrival.
Seen across the intense blue of the lake, and over a range of
lower mountains, it was wonderfully beautiful.
I sat down and gazed—then suddenly I heard the words
“ the Dark Young Man ’’—not with my ears but inside my
mind—as if someone had said it to me in a world where thoughts
pass without speech—I hadn’t thought of the Dark Young Man
for more than a year I am sure—and have been thinking and
reading about nothing likely to revive the thought of him.
Someone said, “ He’s helping you ”, and quite suddenly
I seemed to tumble into a pool of knowledge
—“ Of course he’s
been helping you all the time ”.
82 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
I got no sense of who was the speaker, but the Dark Young
Man in the flash of a moment was there—quite close to me. . . .
We stood there side by side looking at Mont Blanc and the lake
and the colour of it all—but especially at the great tower of
snow—All sorts of things kept passing through my mind too
quickly to seize—a precious moment of human companionship
—I don’t know how long it lasted—It was like a day-dream yet
more real than any reality of waking life.
Why he came or how or where he went I know not.
When cross-examined by me at a later date concerning this
incident Mrs Willett assured me in the most positive way that
visualisation, or seeing with the mind’s eye, formed no part of
the experience. Yet her habitual description of this particular
communicator as “ the Dark Young Man ” suggests that at
times she must have visualised his presence in a pseudo-
hallucinatory form.
In the silent D.I. next to be quoted something of visualised
appearance seems to be implied in the descriptive phrase “ a
piercing glance ”. But there is an ambiguity even about this
—
as if somehow it were possible to be aware of appearance
without “ seeing ” even with the eye of the mind. For the rest
the impression of personality is for the most jjart of things
impalpable.
January 21, 1911. {Silent D.I. recorded on the following day.)
Last night after I had blown out my candle and was just
going to sleep I became aware of the presence of a man, a
stranger, and—almost at the same moment—knew it was Henry
Butcher. I felt his personality, very living, clear, strong,
sweetness and strength combined. A piercing glance. He made
no introduction but said nothing. So I said to him, “ Are you
Henry Butcher ?
” He said, “ No, I am Henry Butcher’s
ghost ”. I was rather shocked at his saying this, and said,
“ Oh, very well, I am not at all afraid of ghosts or of the dead ”.
He said, “Ask Verrall (or A. W., or Dr Verrall, I can’t remem-
ber which, but I think it was ‘
Verrall ’
tout court) if he remembers
our last conversation (or meeting) and say the word to him.
Ek e tee.”
He said it several times. I said “ Very well ”. He seemed
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship 83
only to want to give that message and then he went in a hurry.
I never heard tlie word Ek e tee in my life and don’t know what
it means, but record this. He was alone, to the best of my know-
ledge. I never felt a greater sense of vitality and strength than
that which seemed to flow from him.
P.S.—I hadn’t been thinking about him at all.
Concerning this experience Mrs Willett, on January 23, 1911,
wrote to Mrs Verrall as follows :
“ Will you let me know whether the following word (if it be
one !) has any meaning or associations for your husband.^
I only heard it spoken (D.I.), so don’t know how to write it,
but the sound is Ek e tee. First syllable ek to rhyme with peck.
Next one e short as one would say a if saying quickly ‘
I saw a
man ’
; in fact perhaps ‘
Ek a ti ’
would be nearer. Tee or ti to
rhyme with tea, and long.”
Both the preceding incidents occurred when the percipient
believed herself to be normal and fully conscious of her sur-
roundings. In this, of course, she may have been mistaken.
Not improbably there was some departure from normality, just
as there seem to have been in both cases signs of a transition
from the bare awareness of a presence to the stage of pseudo-
hallucination.
In the next examples the departure from normality is more
clearly evidenced, and is recognised by the automatist herself.
She is in a state approaching trance, but not so far entranced as
to be unable to recall the experience which she describes. In
these experiences the psycho-sensory element has become more
pronounced. They are, in fact, typical visual pseudo-halluci-
nations.
Script of Sep)tem,ber 8, 1913. .
{Present, Mrs Verrall)
Mrs Willett notes :
“ When this script was ended, I felt I did
not want to open my eyes and quite ‘
come back ’. I had a
strong impression of the presence of Dr Verrall. He seemed to
1 The word Ek-a-tee (Hecate) is a possible reference to a paper by Verrall
published in the Classical Review for June 1908. But this must remain eon-
jeetui’al. I have no doubt that Butcher had read the parser.
84 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Medlumship [part
be standing on the opposite side of the table—but my impression
was not exactly as I had known him in life. He was now much
larger, broader, much darker—very clear-eyed. I told Mrs V.
of this impression.”
Script of Januai'y 30, 1921. {Present, G. W. B.)
Note by G. W. B. This script began with the words “ Hexa-
meter Hexagonal no Octagonal is the word ”. It purported
to come from E. G. At the end of the writing I asked how much
of it she could remember. She said she could remember nothing
except the word “ octagonal ”, and inquired what this meant.
She added that she recollected having had a vivid vision, or
picture, of E. G., clearer as to every detail of the face than in
any experience she had had for a long time past.
Script of September 23, 1925. {Presevt, G. W. B.)
Note by O. IF. B. After the sitting was over Mrs Willett told
me that when the script was finished she perceived the Dark
Young Man standing by her side. He had on a cape, or what
appeared like a cape, a costume in which she did not remember
ever having seen him before.
Script of October 1, 1926.
Note by Mrs Sidgwick. [The sitter] told us that when the
above script ended Mrs Willett opened her eyes. She was at
first extremely dazed and unable, it seemed, to realise where she
was or who the sitter was. This lasted for a short time, and
then she began to regain normal consciousness and to speak.
She said everythmg seemed small to her. She had been very
far away—further than she had been for a long time ;
that it
was a heavenly experience, from which she hated to return.
She had been with the Dark Young Man and a woman. She
could not describe the latter—did not fully see her, apparently ;
but was aware of skirts. They had had a delightful conversation
d trois.
N.B.—There was nothing in the script itself corresponding
to a “ conversation d trois ”. Mi’S Willett seems to be here
describing an experience foUoxved the script and constituted
a kind of waking stage.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's MedimnsMp 85
Sitting of October 16, 1929. [Present, G. W. B. and another.)
The circumstances of this case were peculiar, and in some
respects unique. I have called it a “ sitting ”, but there had
been no idea or intention of obtaining a script or communica-
tion of any kind. Mrs Willett and I were seated side by side,
hstening to the great Beethoven trio in B flat, which was being
played on the gramophone outside the open door. Another
person was in the room, lying on a couch, also hstening to the
music and paying no attention to us. He was the same who
had sat with Mrs Willett on the occasion last mentioned, when
the script of October 1, 1926, was obtained. Presently, to my
siu’prise, ]\Irs Willett shut her eyes and wliispered to me, “ This
room is full of presences ”. She proceeded to describe to me,
still in whispers, what she was seeing, or, rather, mentally
sensing—for though she spoke as if she was seeing a phantasm,
she explained that it was with her mind’s eye only that she saw.
Her whole attention was concentrated on a single flgure—that
of a lady in an old-fashioned chess, young, and with thick and
beautiful hair. She was standing beside the couch, a brilliant
light streaming round or from her whole figure. . . .
Towards the end of the slow movement of the trio Mrs Willett
remarked that she had been almost in trance, and only with
much effort had succeeded in retaining consciousness.
It was impossible to make an absolutely contemporaneous
record, but the above account is taken from a statement
written down by me on the following morning. I can vouch for
its substantial accuracy, and it was independently corroborated
by Mrs Willett’s own recollections of what happened.
The experiences described in these cases go beyond bare
awareness of a presence, and beyond the definite localisation of
a jjresence in space. The element of visuahsation is so promin-
ent that one might be tempted to class them as fully developed
hallucinatory phantasms. But that is not how they appear to
the automatist herself. In the course of preparing this paper
I have endeavoured to elicit her views on this question, and find
that she draws an absolute distinction between sensory phant-
asms (apparitions) and mentally visuahsed personalities. Every
one of the five cases I have just cited she unhesitatingly assigned
to the second of these categories. In fact it is possible to say
8(1 Psychological Aspects of M7'S Willett's Mednimship [part
that in the whole coiirse of her mediiimistic experience Mrs
Willett has never had a genuine visual hallucination which she
urns afterivards able to re^»,e?«6er a7id describe.
Mrs Willett assures me that in her normal state she is a very
])oor visualise!’. It seems probal)le that her powers in this
direction are markedly increased as she passes towards a state
of trance. But any visions which she can recall on returning to
normal consciousness have invariably for her the character of
mental pictures. They are pseudodiallucinations, not hallu-
cinations. And the difference is of kind, not merely of degree.
Like presences these visions have an objectivity of their own,
but not exactly the objectivity associated with sense perception.
It is qiiite jjossible that when in partial trance Mrs Willett
may have visions of her communicators which she does not
remember, and that these also may take a pseudo-hallucinatory
form. In forming a judgment upon this point, however, we
have to fall back u])on the records themselves, since the
automatist cannot afterwards comment on, or be cross-exam-
ined on, experiences of which she has no recollection.
In forming a judgment on the nature of her experiences in
deep trance we are under a yet greater disability in this respect
;
for whereas the visions of her light trance are occasionally
recalled, of what has hapjjened in deep trance she never seems
to remember anything. I think, however, that there can be
little doubt that when in deep trance she is in a kind of dream-
land, and that the personalities of her trance have the genuine
hallucinatory character of the personages in vivid dreams.^
It may be difficidt to furnish conclusive proof of this from
the records ;
but certainly that is the impression which the
study of them produces, and which is forced even more clearly
upon the experienced sitter. When she is in deep trance Mrs
Willett seems to lose all consciousness of her actual surroundings
—always with the very important exception that she remains
in touch with the sitter—and to live for the time being in a
world of her own in which her communicators appear to her as
palpable and life-like human beings, of whose features and dress
she can take note, whose touch she can perceive, and in whose
presence she feels “ at home ”, as in a company of friends.
Something has been added to mere mental visualisation—some-
1 Mrs Willett tells me that her owti dreams are of this realistic character.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mecliuw,ship 87
thing different in kind. No doubt this difference is physio-
logically conditioned ;
but into this region of inquiry I am not
competent to adventure.
In support of the view here taken of the apparently sensory
objectivity of the personalities of her deep trance I refer the
reader to the D.I.s quoted in “The Ear of Dionysius ”, and gener-
ally to the many other passages from D.I.s cited in this paper.
The following example of a waking stage is also not without
interest as bearing on the question :
Waking Stage folloiving Trance-script of September 8, 1918.
Present, 0. J. L.
I see a young man I don’t know. He’s standing near a very
tall man, with a moustache, the man has. The tall man has
got his hand on his shoulder. I’ve seen that tall man before in
a dream. He’s got gloves with gauntlets and fur inside them.
The other young man said to me, “ I haven’t worn my brass
hat lately ”. He hasn’t got much voice, he doesn’t seem to
know how to speak very well
—
[Pause).
They’re so icily cold. As I look at them I feel as if my fore-
head were resting on a solid block of ice. It’s like a freezing
wind blowing from them to me. [Pause.)
This room’s full of ghosts. There are three there, two there,
and one over there. Men, all of them. Three of them are young.
I can’t see them, but I know they are there. I can even tell
the places where they are. One of them seems to have been
mixed up with rivers. . . . My power is getting dimmer. One
of them seems connected with a band, a military band. I don’t
mean that he played in it, but in his mind just at present is that
thought. I don’t know what music it is I hear, loud and
delicious. He seemed to think about it a propos of nothing very
much
.
The waking stage is, as the term implies, a transition from
trance to normal consciousness. In the above example we find
a corresponding transition from what I take to be hallucinatory
phantasms to presences located in the room in which the sitting
took place, but apparently not otherwise externalised. It is
not absolutely clear that the one transition is causally connected
with the other. But I think some connection between them
may be inferred with a high degree of probability.
88 Psycliologicnl Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
A striking passage occurs in the Avaking stage following the
D.I. of March 5, 1912. {Present, G. W. B.)
. . . Good bye : thank you
Oh ! what a heavenly thing a world of souls is. Oh ! They’re
going—They’ve gone—Seem[ed] like minds only, just as they
were going. Tliey were solid before ;
then they got transparent
;
then they got dim, and I got so heavy . . .
The transition in this case also may correspond to a transition
from trance to comparative normality, but as the waking stage
continued for a short time after the utterance quoted, the more
natAiral interpretation may be that the change represents the
effect of a diminution of rapport between the communicators
and the medium. It is not so much that her condition alters, as
that the communicators are, so to speak, taking their departure.
Enough has perhaps now been said to justify the statement,
made at the beginning of this section, that a correlation can
be traced in Mrs Willett’s case between the different states of
consciousness in which her mediumistic phenomena are pro-
duced and the different degrees in which her communicators
appear to her to be externalised. That her psychical condition
is an important element in determining the degree of exter-
nalisation seems to me fairly well established. Probably it is
the most important, though not the only one.
{d) Indications from Waking Stage
All trance-sittings must end in a return to normal conscious-
ness. It is only when the transition is accompanied by a
continuance of utterances bearing some affinity to trance-
utterances, yet distinguishable from them, that we apply to it
the term “ waking stage ”.
A study of the Willett scripts leads to the conclusion that
sittings during which, judging from other indications, the
meflium has been practically entranced are sometimes followed
by a waking stage, and sometimes not. Hence while the
occurrence of a waking stage necessarily implies some degree
of trance in the preceding part of the sitting, absence of a
waking stage cannot be taken as proof of normahty. Again,
while deep trance is jirobably always followed by a waking
140]
Psychological Aspects of 3Irs Willeff\s 3Ierlimnship SO
stage, the occurrence of a waking stage is not of itself sulhcient
to distinguish deep trance from partial trance.
In these circumstances it is impossible to attach high im-
portance to the waking stage taken by itself as an indication
of the psychic state of the medium during the i^receding part
of the sitting. Nevertheless it would be a mistake to ignore it
altogether. Both the fact of its occurrence, and the length to
which it extends in any given case, may be of real help in forming
an opinion when considered in conjunction with other criteria.
CHAPTER III
TYPES OF COMMUNICATIONS
( )
Impressions of “ Presences ”, and the more or
LESS VIVID EXTERNALISATION OF THESE
() Mental Images
(c) Feelings and Emotions
(d) Impulses and Inhibitions
(e) Verbally conveyed Messages
The characteristic form of the communications exemplified in
the Willett phenomena is that of mental impressions that
a]ipear to the sensitive to have their origin in an agency which
she distinguishes from her conscious self. The communicators
declare that these impressions are telepathically conveyed, and
this account of them I think we are entitled to accept, unless
another and a better can be found.
The impressions in Mrs Willett’s case may he conveniently
divided into the classes enumerated below :
(a) Impressions of “ presences ”, together with the more or
less vivid externalisations of these.
(h) Mental images.
(c) Feelings and emotions.
(d) Impidses and inhibitions.
(e) Verlially conveyed messages.
(a) Impressions of “ Presences ”, and the more
OR less vivid EXTERNALISATION OF THESE
The subject of “ presences ” and their externalisation has
been dealt with at some length in the preceding chapter, but
there are one or two further observations which it may be
worth while to make.
A presence pure and simple represents, as we have seen, the
lowest grade of externalisation ;
and the impression of such a
90
\vAB,T ^‘^(^']Psycholor|icnl Aspects of j\Irs Willetfs MedinmsMp D1
presence may l>e described, for tlie purpose of this chapter, as
a mental percept of an individual intelligence or self, more or
less defiiiitely located in space relatively to the percipient, but
otherwise void of all sensory or psycho-sensory element.
Here it may be well to repeat the warning already given in the
introduction to this paper. Where I use language appropriate
to the standpoint of the scripts, and write as if I assumed the
impressions of the autoniatist to Ire due, in accordance with their
face claim, to the agency of independent discarnate minds, I have
neither the intention nor the desire, whatever my own views
may be, to exclude any other hypothesis which can adequately
account for the sense of objectivity which the impressions carry
with them. In particular the possible effects of interaction
between chssociated and independent, or quasi-independent,
“ selves ” within the personality of the medium slioidd never be
lost sight of.
Objection may perhaps be taken, even from the standpoint
of the scripts, to applying the word comnvimication in connec-
tion with the bare awareness of a presence. A presence may
suggest a potential communicator, but can the mere fact of its
being perceived entitle us to treat the impression as an actual
communication ?
“ Communication ” would seem to imply
purjDOsive agency ; can the bare awareness of a presence carry
with it the impression of a pm-posive agency—or, indeed, of
agency of any kind beyond that which a material object may
be supposed to exercise as a factor in producing the perception
of which it is the object ?
It is true that in IVIi’s Willett’s case the impression is seldom,
if ever, that of a perfectly indeterminate entity in some sense
external to herself. It is as “ minds and characters ” that
presences are apprehended by her. Yet even so a doubt
remains concerning the parts respectively played in the experi-
ence by what we usually call agent and percipient. Are these
impressions of “ mind and character ” to be regarded as com-
munications intentionally conveyed by the personality con-
cerned, or is the activity really on the side of the percipient
alone ? Or is the phenomenon in some way a l)lend of both ?
^
1 The question here propounded is of more importance tlian miglit at first
sight appear. For it cannot be confined to the mere perception of “ jDresenees ”.
Similar doubts may be raised in coimection with more developed forms of
92 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's 31ediumsJiip [part
Another point to be noticed is this : Mrs Willett claims to
be able to distinguish between one communicator and another
without any kind of visualisation, and sometimes independently
of the reception of any verbal message. Writing to Mrs
Verrall on Sej)tember 27, 1909 (see p. 52 above), she says,
“ I don’t feel a sense of ‘
seeing but an intense sense of per-
sonality like a blind person perhaps might have—and of in-
flections, such as amusement or emotion on the part of the
speaker. If you ask me lioio I know that E. G. is speaking and
not F., I can’t exactly define, except that to me it would be
impossible to doubt one instant—and with E. G. I often know
he is there a second or two before he speaks.”
Now if the means of identifying the communicator is already
given in the mental apprehension of a “ presence ”, the question
at once suggests itself whether its externalisation either as a
mental picture {i.e. a pseudo-hallucination) or as a sensory
phantasm really adds an3rthing that is at once new and ob-
jective. Is the externalised form a something contributed by
the communicator, or is it due to the subjective activity of the
percipient building by association of ideas on the objective
foundation provided by the mental percept, much as, in the
case of ordinary perception, we build subjectively on the data
immediately provided by sensation ?
Readers of Phantasms of the Living will recollect the elaborate
discussion which Giirney devotes to this question in connection
with veridical apparitions. The conclusion he arrives at is that
a veridical apparition is the hallucinatory shape in which a
telepathic impulse from the mind of a distant person is em-
bodied for the percipient. As such it is subjective. All that is
veridical in it is packed into the telepathic impulse in the form
of “ a nucleus of a transferred impression ” ;
the embodiment
telepathy—doubts involving the distinction between what may be described
as active thought-communication by one mind to another, and active thought-
acquisition by one mind from another. We shall find, when v/e come to deal
in Part II of this paper with statements made by the commimicators them-
selves, that great emphasis is laid upon the distinction in tlie Willett scripts.
A fuller consideration of the subject will then be called for. In the meantime
I shall assume that the commimications, of which typical examjjles are given
in the jiresent chapter, are communications in the strict sense of the term—that
is to say, mental impressions felt by the sensitive to proceed from an intelligent
agency disthiet from herself.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship 93
is the percipient’s own creation. In the main I do not dissent
from this view. It is obvious, however, that in cases where the
apparition is recognised the telepatliic nucleus must at least
contain some element that makes for identification. And this
element must be psychical.
I suggest that the “ telepathic nucleus ” is something analog-
ous to the impression received by JVIi’S WiUett of “ mind,
character, and personahty ” in connection with her impressions
of “ presences ”.
This would not, I think, be incompatible with Gurney’s view,
though I do not say it was the view he would actually have
accepted had he been acquainted with the Willett phenomena.
Concerning the nature of the “ telepathic impulse ” and the
“ nucleus of a transferred impression ” he is studiously inde-
finite. But he is obviously unwilling to admit that it can be
anything hke an idea or mental picture of the living agent
formed in the consciousness of that agent, and transmitted
from his mind to that of the percipient. He points out that
in experimental telepathy the image transferred resembles the
precise object thought of, and not anything not consciously
occupyhig the agent’s mind, whereas his own personal appear-
ance is certainly not what we shoidd expect to be consciously
occupying the agent’s mind in moments of crisis or of death.
There is force in Gurney’s argument, though less, I think,
when apphed to what we are assuming to be disembodied
spirits than when apphed to telepathy from the hving. For
disembodied spuits, if such exist and can communicate, are
presumably free to choose their own times and seasons, and
may have good reasons for consciously and deliberately using
a recollection of their personal appearance when in the body
as a means of identification by the percipient. I do not think
we can exclude this possibihty, although, for my own part,
I inchne to the view that all visualisations of communicators,
and a fortiori all fully developed hallucinatory phantasms, are
to be regarded as siibjective constructions—symbolic, it may be,
of some objective reahty, but stiU subjective constructions
—
except in so far as there is evidence for attributing to a communica-
tor a definite intention to transmit a pictorial image of himselfd
^ It must be admitted, however, that some spontaneous cases, especially of
apparitions about the time of death, in which veridical details of personal
94 Psychological Asiiccts of Mrs Willeffs Mediumshij) [part
It must he remembered that the communicators who form the
elective dramatis personce of Mi’s Willett’s automatic experi-
ences are very few in nunibei', that of these few she had known
Myers and A. W. Verrall while still living, and that she had seen
photographs of Edmund Gurney, Henry Sidgwick, and also of
the Dark Young Man and of the “ lady in an old-fashioned
th-ess ”, though in the case of these last two she has never
identified them as persons of whose existence and history she
had any normal knowledge. The material for a subjective
externalisation was thus ready at hand for her to draw upon.
It must be admitted, however, that in the case of the Dark
Young Man the externalisation did not slavishly follow the
automatist’s recollection of the photograph of him which she
had seen. More than once in trance-sittings has she commented
upon the photograph as being in certain details an incorrect
copy of the original as known to her from direct observation.
It is open to us to conjecture that something more than jjurely
subjective construction was here at work.
(6) Mental Images
Cases in which the scripts give evidence of a deliberate
attempt on the part of a communicator to recall his own
personal appearance when in the body, and to transmit an
impression of it to the medium, are very rare ;
but there are at
least two instances of it. The record of the earlier and more
striking of these is worth reproducing at some length. The
passage in cpiestion is taken from a sitting with Sir Oliver Lodge
on September 24, 1910, which combined script with D.I. in the
manner usual at that date. I judge the autoniatist to have
been in a state of light trance.
The preliminary script ends with an intimation from Myers
that “ Gurney wants to give some data bearing on the telepathic
impact ”. D.I. follows, and the passage I am about to quote
takes the form of a conversation d trois, Mrs Willett repeating
out loud what Gurney says to her and interposmg her own
observations. To assist the reader I have indicated in square
appearance and circninstance are correctly conveyed, sncli as conld not be
known to or guessed by the jjcrcipient, are diiticnlt to explain either as ini-
[jrossions tclc()athically Iransniittetl or as [mrely .subjective elaborations.
Experiences of tliis kind have no place in the records of Willett phenomena.
140]
Psychological Asi^ects of Mrs Willetfs Metliumship 95
brackets the speakers to whom tlie various utterances properly
belong.
[Mrs ir.] E. G. is talking.
[E. 6r.] Don’t feel oppressed. You’re gouig to do well. . . .
{To O. J. L.) I want you to see the passage of thought, not
ocular nor aural. Mediums. (To Mrs If.) Now come, how
does it seem to you now ? Answer out loud. What, he says,
do you often say ? Well, say it to Lodge.
[Mrs ir.] I see what he wants. I’m to tell you what I feel,
my thoughts. He’s very very near. I feel him just there (in
front near face). I can only think of those words, they come
running in my head ;
“ Nearer he is than breathing closer than
hands and feet ”. I’m all as if I was in hght. I’m not seeing
with my eyes (eyes closed all the time), but it feels as if he was
holdmg both my hands and looking down at me. I’m not seeing
his face by I’m feeling it there. It’s always got that look
of having known pain. And he says to me, go over it just as it
strikes you. I think it’s the eyes, the hds are so
[E.G.) Stop a moment, and tell Lodge the thought. I’m
throwing in the recollection of what I took my bodily semblance
to be, incarnate ;
see how she catches it. How dangerous
analogies are, and yet you could get something by thinking of a
magic lantern shde.^ Dependence on the vividness of my
recollection ;
it’s a calling up on my part, a conscious effort,
not involuntary. Lodge, are you seeing %
[O. J. A.] Yes.
[E
.
(?.] Go on.
[Mrs TF.] I see the lids drooping over the eyes, and how very
restful thej^ are to see, like something strong, something that
makes me not afraid. Very sad, and yet at the back of that
sadness somethmg else ;
strength, and something else. Next
thing I think about, it seems, the delicate backward sweep of
the nostrils and the mouth, not quite straight, but oh, how
humorous it can look. Not with eyes, this sight.
[E. G.) Go on, go down.
[Mrs IF.] And it’s a, yes, how thui his face is ;
then the
ears rather low on the head, and how the chin balances all the
face, and such
^ Cf. Holland script of November 7, 1903, in wliich the same illustration is
used. This script was published in vol. xxi. of Proceedings, p. 186 (Jime 1908),
and had been read by Airs WiUett.
9() Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetf s Alediumship [part
[E. Gi] Yes, it was my chiefest attitude to life, that com-
passion.
[Airs ll'h] And then
[E. G.] Yes, say it out loud, that’s what I want Lodge to know.
[Airs W.] It’s what I feel, I feel it’s good to be here.
^ ^ ^
Evidently what we have here is an attempt to illustrate the
telepathic transmission of a memory-image from the communi-
cator to the percijDient. The impression is without doubt
meant to be understood as a deliberately communicated im-
ju’ession involving not only intention on the part of the agent
but effort. The case seems to stand on a widely different footing
from the more ordinary examples of visualisation of a jjresence
which it is possible to attribute to the jiurely subjective activity
of the percipient.
I pass to what pui'port to be transferred mental pictures other
than visions of the communicators themselves. Such pictures
occur much more sparingly in Mrs Willett’s mediumistic
experience than, for instance, in that of Mis King or Mrs
Wilson, and rarely except when she is in trance. This may be
due to her comparative lack of visualising jiower when in a state
of waking consciousness, for neither Mrs King nor Mrs Wilson,
with whom this method of communication is abundantly
employed, is a trance -medium. Sometimes the pictures are
accompanied by explanatory verbal comments ;
sometimes it
is left to the unaided ingenuity of the investigators to discover
a signiffcance in them. Significance of some kind I thin k they
always possess—that is to say, they are invariably symbolic of
something beyond the scenes immediately reiiresented. For
the most part this inner meaning is hidden from the autoniatist,
and intended to be so. Indeed it is- probably with this very
intention that the symbolic form is adopted.
The following may be cited as examjiles ;
Extract from the IJ.I. of May 15, 1912. {G. W. B. present and
recording.)
He [i.e. the Dark Young Man] speaks about a lady. She
doesn't understand very well how the thing is worked. He
says. She’s been here longer than 1 have, and I’m helping her
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumshij) 97
now. She wants to get a thouglit conveyed. I’ll try in this
way ; Some day—he says this not to be taken as a prognostica-
tion, but eventually, when the sum of all things is complete.
(He’s showmg me pictures and explaining them to me. It
seems to be a sort of gallery we’re walkmg through. . .
.) A
long grey sheet of water, rushes swaying
—
{gesticulates with her
hands) the lapping—It’s very beautiful. “ They are waiting on
the shore for the bocxt to bear them o’er.” Who shall ferry
them 1 He need bring no coin [looking very happy) Oh ! it’s
wonderful—it’s like something I know about, but it’s different.
It is confusmg. There’s a boat—a sort of barge. One figure,
one ;
a crown [puts her hands round her head), black, black
draperies, I think. It’s coming nearer.
OH ! When you said that, of course I’m remembering, of
course. He said, “ And from them rose a cry which shivered to
the tingling stars ”. But what is the detail that’s different in
what I’m showing you ? he says—There’s only one Queen !
It’s an allegory
\G. W. B.) Yes, I imderstand.
“ and on the mere the ”—it’s not “ waiLuig ” [long pause,
during part of which the lips move silently). He says to me.
Don’t hurry, bvit don’t give up. (Pause) Give me time.
[Strikes the palm of her left hand emphatically with her fist, then
says triumphantly :) I’ve got it ! Contrasts [pause) that—con-
ception of Tennyson’s with the conception embodied in the
other poem, ” Opal into rose melts in that morn no heart
imagineth ”.
The percipient is in this case able, with a little assistance from
the communicator, to identify the literary source from which
the scene impressed upon her mental vision is derived. She
also reahses that the vision is concerned with a death, and that
a contrast is intended ;
—the mournful ch’aperies of the barge
that received the dying King Artluu’, and the wailing of the
three Queens, on the one hand ;
on the other the conception
embodied in Myers’s poem, “ On a Spring Morning at Sea
”
[Fragments of Prose and Poetry, 54) :
“ And such a sight as this is, I suppose
Shall meet thee on the morrow of thy death ;
And pearl to sapphire, opal into rose
Melt in that morn no heart imaguieth
98 Psychological Aspects of Mi's Willetfs Mediumship [part
Wliat the automatist does not understand is the inner
significance of the vision, its application to real individuals, and
the reason of the substitution of “ one Queen ” for “ three
Queens These are matters reserved for the interpreters to
unravel.
Extracts from the D.I. of February 28, 1914. {Present and
recording, G. IF. B.)
Someone’s showing me a picture and talking at the same
time.
jj; ^
Oh, if I could only say it quickly and get done with it. It’s
about a cave and a group of men. Somebody then—a trident,
rather like a toasting fork, I think.
Poseidon, Poseidon.
Who was it said. It may be that the gulfs will wash us down
—find the great Achilles that we knew ?
He’s got a flaming torch in his hand. And then someone
said to me. Can’t you think of Noah and the grapes ?
Now I seem to be walking about a school, and I meet a dark
hoyf and—it’s the name of a Field Marshal I’m trying to get,
a German name. And then something says. All this is only
memories revived : it’s got nothing to do with the purely
literary
—
[sighs] There are two people in that literary thing
—
chiefly concerned in it. They’re very close friends [sobs]
—
they’ve thought it all out together.
-ii
[Waking stage] Oh, what a beautiful lake ! I’m standing on
a sort of projecting part running out into it, and there are olive
trees all round me.
That little boat, you know.
How beautiful those mountains are. I like the wild part of
them above the tilth.
The first three of these extracts have already been published
in my paper on “ The Ear of Dionysius ” [Proceedings, vol. xxix.),
to which I refer the reader for explanations. The last two, from
the waking stage of the same sitting, have nothing to do with
^ The “ dark boy ” is A. W. V. as a school-boy at Wellington.
140] Psyclwlogical Aspects of Mrs WiJletfs Mediumship 99
“The Ear of Dionysius,” but are connected with the Dark
Young Man, of whose identity the normal IV'Ii’s Willett is kept in
ignorance. They are quite intelligible to the investigating group.
A very special form of significant mental pictures is provided
by cases in which the automatist apjDcars to “ see ” something,
and ch’aws a copy of what she is “ seeing I do not say that
wherever a drawing occurs in her scripts we are to infer that the
thought of the communicator has been impressed upon her in
pictorial form. But there is good evidence that this sometimes
happens, and it is of specially frequent occurrence when the
object drawn is a symbol approjjriate to one of the communi-
cating group and is used for the piu’pose of identification.
There is an interesting variant of this type in which the
communicator, endeavouring to transmit a difficult word, seems
to the automatist to spell it out letter by letter to her in visible
form. Thus in the D.I. of October 8, 1911, of which I was in
charge, after a reference to the “transcendental self”, the
record continues as follows :
Oh, he says, back of that again Ues somethuig I dimly reach
after and you [i.e. the sitter'] would call, he says, the Absalom
—
not Absalom—I’ll spell it you, he says : A B S 0 L and he says
O M and rubs O M ovit and puts instead U T E . . .
In this case the medium apparently sees the letters written
iqj, as it were, on a black board.
The next example is taken from a trance-sitting of June 19,
1916. It was a sitting for script, not for D.I., but in the extract
here given spoken remarks are interpolated by the automatist
on her own account, or else as repeating what the communicator
says to her.
[Spoken] A man holds up before me letters ... I have never
known him, but I call him the Dark Yomig Man.
(Sitter) What sort of letters ?
[Spoken] Big square letters—would you like me to copy
what he showed me ?
[Written] OX OXFORD
[Spoken] He holds another letter up.
[Written] Lux Mundi (here follows a drawing of a lighted
candle).
100 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
[Spoken] I say this belongs and candlestick He laughs and
says G. W. B. will explain. . . .
The “ I ” in the last spoken words I take to be the Dark
Young Man, whose remark is repeated in the first person. In
drawing a candle the automatist is probably copying what she
sees, just as in the case of the letters. Candle and candlestick
are among the identification symbols referred to above.
The extract next to be quoted combines the characteristics
both of drawings and of letter-spellings in the form of a mono-
gram. It is further noteworthy as affording an instance of a
distinctly visualised mental picture “ seen ” by the automatist
while in a state of normal or nearly normal consciousness. For
the script from which it is taken is a lone script, and the record
shows conclusively that Mrs Willett was throughout awake ami
aware of her surroundings.
From the Lone Script of Segdember 26, 1922.
There are two who are m all this Both young a man & a
woman and hers the influence you feel Hers is the influence
of which you feel the pressure A young and very gracious
lady ... I hear the word Perseus & she draws for me the
lettei's
that is a J ,
not a T.
This is only foi' the jmrjjose of identifying her . . .
Ml'S Willett jii'obably recognises that the allusion in this
passage is to Bmne Jones and the Perseus series of pictures
painted by him, but she does not know, supraliminally at least,
who the lady is, or how the allusion can serve “ the purpose of
identifying her ”. The identification is not for her benefit, but
for that of the interpreters. The foregoing are examples of
visuahsed pictures which, when the medium is in deep trance,
probably tend to take for her the form of fully developed
sensory hallucinations.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship 101
Communications which are primarily dependent for their
significance on impressions of sounds (other than verbal sounds,
which form a class apart), of scents, and of physical pain are
rarely found in Willett script, but do occasionally occur. In
these cases also the impressions may take a hallucinatory form
in deep-trance sittings.
The subjoined passages, relating to the sense of sound and
the sense of smell respectively, are of some interest. They are
both taken from the deep-trance D.I. of February 28, 1914, and
have ah-eady been published in my paper on “The Ear of
Dionysius ”, together with other extracts from the same sitting
belonging to the literary puzzle there described. This puzzle,
as my readers may remember, purports to have been devised
by Henry Butcher and A. W. Verrall in the spirit world, and
consists in bringing together by gradual instalments a number
of apparently disconnected topics whose inner connection is
only revealed when the final instalment provides the key to the
whole. Among the various topics is the siege of Syracuse by
the Athenians, and the fate of the unfortunate captives im-
prisoned and set to work in the stone quarries after the defeat
of the besiegers. The normal ]\Irs Willett, be it noted, was
entirely ignorant of any part of the story.
. . . Lots of wars—A siege I hear the sound of chijjping
(Strikes the fiyigers of one hand repeatedly against the palm of the
other) It’s on stone.
The sound in this case is not an unmeaning noise. It possesses
a distinctive quality which the automatist proceeds to associate
with the chipping on stone by hammer and chisel. No doubt
the interpretation of the sound, as well as the idea of the sound
itself, must have been in the mind of the communicator, and
may have formed an integral part of the message he wished to
transmit. But the record as it stands suggests to me that for
the automatist the sound is primarjq and the interpretation of it
an immediate inference ch'awn by herself.
Having regard to the fact that Mrs Willett was deeply
entranced throughout the sitting, I think it probable that the
case was one of genuine auditory hallucination. She hears the
sound as with her bodily ears, and not merely as with the
“ inward ear ” of the mind. But it does not follow that the
102 Psj/cJwloffiral Aspects of 3Tr,<t Willeff's Medivmship [part
message was received by the percipient in the first instance in
the form of a sensation of sound—still less, of course, that it was
in the form of a sensation of sound that it existed in the mind
of the communicator. Rather, I think, should we conceive it
as both sent and received in the form of an idea of sound, though
at once transmuted, in the case of the percipient, into sensation
by a psycho-physical process such as operates in dreams.
Much the same observations apply also to the second of the
two passages referred to, which concerns the sense of smell.
. . . Somebody said something about Father Cam walking
arm in arm with the Canongate. What does that mean ? Oh !
(sniffs) What a delicious scent ! No rosebud yet by dew
empeaiied . . .
“ Father Cam ” and “ the Canongate ” walking arm in arm
symbolises the co-operation of the two friends Verrall and
Butcher. 1 The automatist is wondering what the meaning can
possibly be, when suddenly she stops and sniffs. She is smelling
something, declares it to be “ delicious ”, and finally recognises
it as the scent of roses.
^
The case follows in every way the analogy of the previous
one. In the mind of the commimicatior the idea of roses must
have accompanied the idea of the smell. But for the automatist
the smell appears to be prior to the interpretation of it. It is
recognised as “ delicious ” before it is recognised as the smell
of roses. Again, the experience seems to be clearly one of
sensation—hallucinatory, doubtless, but still of sensation and
not of imagined sensation. The “ sniffing ” alone makes it
difficult to draw any other conclusion. One does not sniff an
idea. But this does not compel us to suppose that the message
of the communicator started with, or even inclnded, an actual
sensation experienced by himself.
I know of no cases in the Willett records in which a definite
claim is made to the sympathetic transference from the com-
municator to the percipient of a sensation, or rather of the idea
1 For explanation see my jjaper on “ I'lie Ear of Dionysius ” (Proceedings,
vol. xxix., p. 211).
^ The rose and the scent of roses m Willett scri2Dt are symbols of S. H.
Butcher. The normal Mrs Willett was cjuite ignorant of then inner meaning.
140] Psychological As'jyects of Mrs Willetfs Medmmship 103
of sensation, of physical pain.^ There have been, however, two
occasions when it seems probable that this is what we are meant
to infer. If I am right in my interpretation the same incident
is referred to on both occasions, namely the accident by which
the Dark Young Man lost his life when climbing in the high
Alps.
Waking Stage of D.I.
of May 11, 1912. {Present, G. W. B.)
OH, oh, if I could only rememljer you when you’re gone
away. I always forget you. I can’t make out how I ever came
to know you, and why you will never tell me your name, and
why you’re so kind to me. That’s the man—that’s my new
friend. He’s young and—he’s got people belonging to him . . .
Oh ! I fell down, I fell down. Oh ! my head, my head, my
head. Oh, oh, oh. {Groans) Oh, oh, oh, I bumped my head.
Oh, it’s all here {putting her hands to her head below and behind
the ears).
{Pause : heavy breathing) Oh, I wish my head would get
empty . . .
My contemporary note is as follows :
“ All this was so
dramatically uttered that for the moment I thought Mrs W.
had really hurt her head. Apparently, however, it is only the
idea of the Dark Young Man’s fall, and consequent injury,
passing into a sympathetic feeling so strong that the automatist
imagines it to have happened to herself.”
What I take to be a second reference to the same incident
occurred in the D.T. of February 28, 1914, from which I have
already had several occasions to quote. The D.I. had been
occupied with the “ Dionysius puzzle ” when the subject was
abruptly broken off, and the automatist burst out on her own
account ;
Oh, oh, it’s like frightful explosions going on all round me.
[There was no sound otdside to account for this exclamation.)
Oh, you’ve come back. I was frightened for a minute.
{Pause) Why didn’t you ever speak ?
^ The phenomenon is often met with in Piper and Thomjjson records.
Cf. also H.P., vol. ii., p. 220, where Myers speaks of it as suggesting “ incipient
possession ”. It is interesting therefore to note that Mrs Willett’s communi-
cators absolutely deny possession in her case. See Part II., Chapter I., p. 169
below.
104 PsyrhoJoqical A fipects of Mrs Willett's Mejlhmishvp [part
Oh dear ! oh, my head, oh, my head [same words repeated five
or six times). Stamp, stamp, thump, thump—Oh, it makes me
shudder.
Why didn’t you ever speak to me through all those long hours
when you stood there taking care of me ? .
It is to be observed ( 1 )
that on neither of these two occasions
is any explicit suggestion made that the pain in the head had a
telepathic origin of any kind, still less that it had its source in
the mind of the Dark Young Man ; (2) that on the first occasion
Mrs Willett had already in the course of the sitting complained
of her head being “ fidl to painfidness ”, and again, just before
the end of the waking stage, exclaimed that she wished “ her
head would get empty Similarly on the second occasion,
after the sitting was over, and she had returned to normality,
she comjjlained of an uncomfortable feeling in her head “ as if
the inside of it had been knocked about
In these circumstances it is impossible to be quite sure that
the experiences described had not a purely physical origin.
Nevertheless I have a strong conviction that underlying them
there was a telepathic communication of some sort, although
it must be admitted that the automatist gives no sign of
realising it as such. The peculiar nature of the pain, the associ-
ation of it with a “ fall ” or a “ thump ”, the introduction into
both contexts of the Dark Young Man, and the complete
absence of any external disturbing cause certainly make for
this conclusion.
If the interpretation I have put upon the above incidents is
correct, the Dark Young Man’s contribution to the experience
must have been the idea of pain as it presented itself in con-
nection with the mental picture of the accident. It was
presumably received as idea in the mind of the percipient and
at once transmuted into actual sensation. If this be so,
nothing could more clearly illustrate the nature of sensory
hallucination. The pain felt by the automatist was real enough.
We call it hallucinatory solely with reference to its origin. It
was mentally initiated, instead of having as its starting point the
condition of the bodily part apparently affected. If and in so
' Tliis refer.? to a time when Mrs Willett was seriously ill and was conscious
of the presence of the Dark Young Man watching over her.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Medvumshvp 105
far as it reproduced an idea in the mind of the communicator
it was a veridical hallucination.
(c) Feelings and Emotions
Mrs Willett, as we have already seen, claims that her im-
pressions of presences commonly include not only a sense of
personality and character, but also of “ inflections such as
amusement or emotion on the part of the speaker Waiving
the question raised a while back (p. 91) of the parts respectively
played in these experiences by the communicator and the
automatist, I proceed under the 2
iresent heading to give a few'
speciflc instances in illustration of the claim.
Her first experience of the kind (of date January 7, 1909) has
already been quoted (p. 50) as the earliest example of a silent
D.I. Mrs Willett had been anxious about her son’s health.
I was at dinner, she records, when I felt a strong impression
of F. W. H. M. scolding me. I can’t explain—but I felt disap-
probation and felt it coming from him, and that he was wishing
me to know that there was no need for any anxiety. I had the
impression that he was conveying to me that if I doubted the
impression I was receiving I was to try for script after dinner.
I was quite normal. I was silent, I suppose, for a few minutes,
but I continued my diimer and later—8.40—did try for script ;
when the following came :
Myers yes write now no cause for any anxiety none yes
let him go back to school no anxiety.
The above record is of additional interest as furnishing an
example of a thought conveyed without the assistance of verbal
or pictorial exjiression. It is not until the automatist tries for
script that the message takes a definitely verbal form.
Silent D.I .
of February 18, 1909. (E.vtract from Mrs WilletFs
record.)
About 11.30 to-day (February 18) I began to feel that very
restless feeling ... At 11.45 I sat down, close to a cheerful
window, with a feeling of “ heavy ” impression that F. was
waiting. I felt as if it were somebody else’s impatience.
The first words that came into my mind were ;
“ Myers yes
106 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
now take a sheet of paper only for notes no script but make
notes of what I say ” I enclose the notes I made. . . .
I'lie whole conversation ended by F. saying he did not want
to tire me, and so “ farewell I just got a flash of an impres-
sion of E. G. wanting to make a joke and F. not letting him
—
but it is all very dim that, I am clear up to “ farewell
'I’he last sentence appears to ])rovide another example of
thought without words oi' mental imagery.
February 21, 1909. {Lone Script', Flyers comrnunicating .)
{Note by Mrs Willett concerning her feelings during the writing.)
“ 1 was restless during writing, as if feeling intense eagerness
pouring on to me and I not keejhng pace with the dictation.”
Pelmiary 1 ,
1910 . {Lone Script.)
Gurney it is quite a short script I want to wiite Myers says
a note made re i).I. of Friday may give rise to . . . inaccurate
deductions. . . . Myers wishes the record AMMENDED {sic)
by a note
Myers yes let me go on . . .
Mrs Willett notes :
“ During all this sciipt I felt very muddled
and confused. The wilting came in bits. Just before the [name
Myers] I got a sense of F. being there and then of his brushing
away E. G. and starting off the script himself with great im-
patience and in a very peremptory mood.”
June 18, 1911. {Lone Script ', E. G. communicating.)
. . . the passionate desire to return to drive into incarnate
minds the conviction of one’s own identity the partial successes
and the blank failures and the failures to help I know the
burden of it the burden of it to its uttermost fraction
Note by Mrs W
.
“ There was a terrible sen.se of struggle
—
almost of pain—that I got here.”
July 15, 1915. {Ijone Script at .) E.rtract from Note by
Mrs Willett, written after the Script was finished :
I reached the house about 11.40 and was taken to the
Room, where jomed me. After a few muiutes conversa-
tion she left me alone in the room. I wandered about it at first
and looked at the pictures, and then I seemed to pass beyond
140] Psychological As’pecfs of Mrs Willeft's Medivmship 107
them, as it were, into the spirit of the room—full of remembered
peace and happiness and rest—a strange sense of familiarity
and homelikeness.
The room seemed full of unseen presences and of their bless-
ing ;
it was as if barriers were swept away and I and they
became one. I had no sense of personality in the unseen
element—it was jiist there and utterly satisfying . . .
I can’t explain at all why the place moves me so deeply with,
as I have said, that feeling of coming back after long absence
to loved and remembered surroundings. I have only been in
the room once before when I tried for script some time in April
or May.
All the above examples of communication of feelings and
emotions rest upon statements made by the automatist when
awake and normal, and are concerned with impressions ex-
perienced by her when in a state of practically normal conscious-
ness. In the case of her unreniembered trance-experiences, we
no longer have her waking comments to help us and have to
fall back on the records themselves. It is worthy of note that
I can find only one example in the trance -records that is at all
closely comparable with the examples ah’eady given. The
emotion in this case is that aroused in a husband when re-
calling the grief into which he had been plunged by the early
loss of a much-loved wife. The husband himself had by this
time passed over, and the grief had become a far off memory,
but a memory vivid enough, it would seem, to act telepathi-
cally on the automatist.
Extract from D.I. of April 12, 1914. {Present, G. W. B.)
. . . Oh, how my heart aches—Oh, I’m in where there’s been
such awful grief, and I can feel the old pain streaming all ovei'
me. It’s someone else’s pain. It’s just heart-breaking. Oli,
Che faro senza Euridice ...
In this, as in the previous examples, the automatist feels the
emotion as pure emotion, and at the same time is conscious of
it as somebody else’s emotion. In other trance-sittings the
communicated emotion always seems to take some symbolic
external form. For instance in the following examples, in
which the communicator is presumably visualised in bodily
108 Pstjchological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mednmiship [part
shape, amusement on the part of the communicator finds
expression in laughter, j)ity in a sigh ;
and the antomatist
herself laughs or sighs in sympathy.
D.I. of October 8, 1911. {Present, G. W. B.)
8ee the passage from this D.I. already quoted on p. 99.
The antomatist has made the absurd mistake of giving out The
Absolute as The Absolom. Gurney is amused by the mistake ;
whereupon the antomatist remarks, “ Edmund, when you laugh
I can’t help laughing too ”.
Extract from Trance-script of August 2, 1915. {Present,
Mrs V.)
. . .
[Dr Verrall communicating^ Woiild it hurt you to give
my chair away ?
{Mrs V. We’ve given one away.)
No the other cushions {drawing of chair with sloping back)
only I see as in a dark glasly [sic] the {Here Mrs W. sighed
deeply, and the sitter suggested that she was tired, and should stop.)
that was my sigli if you can understand The {Here Mrs W.
paused and with some distress said) “ 1 can’t write it (“ Can
you say it ? ” the sitter asked, and she replied :) It’s about those
boys that will never walk again.
In another case (D.I. of May 13, 1912) the sadness of a
communicator takes the form of tears, and the antomatist
responds by bursting into sobs.
{d) Imfulse.s and Inhibitions
An impulse to try for script is not uncommonly felt by
automatists, and at times has been experienced by Mrs Willett
with almost irresistible force, even when the circumstances
made it awkward or unpleasant to yield to it. Thus early in
the morning of December 8, 1908, while she was still in bed, a
strong impulse came uj)on her to get up and write. She notes
in a contemporary record :
“ Room cold and I very sleepy
—
resisted and tried to settle off—no good. At last got up.
Writing began almost before pen touched paper.” ^
* Compare tlie experiences of Mrs FTolland, described in Proceedings, vol,
xxi., p. I 74.
140] Psychological AsjMCfs of Mrs Willeft’s Mednimshi'p 109
On i^ugnst 28, 1910, she wi’ites, “ Felt compelled by feeling of
‘
weight ’
to try for Sc. in midst of great confusion of packing,
sorting, and making arrangements for—and going to
—
London
Again on August 23, 1911 ; “About 8.30 a.ni. I felt so
strong an impulse for Sc. that I sent downstairs for note -block
and pencil. I cannot remember a single occasion on which 1
have had Sc. at such a time, viz. whilst I was still in bed.”
A iiote appended to her lone scrij^t of June 12, 1913, is of
some interest from other points of view as well.
[The script] was quite unexpected by me. I was just going
to begin to dress for dinner, but thought I had time to write my
diary . . . As 1 was closing my diary, I suddenly felt an over-
whelming rush of script coming. 1 looked at the watch lying
on the table in front of me and thouglit there was no time ;
but
I had to sit there and let it come. It just poured out, and was
what I call a very “ happy ” script, coming easily and without
effort. It conveys nothing to me, but in one part it interested
me, as an exciting incident in a book one is reading interests
one. I had that sense of lookmg on at somebody else’s experi-
ences and of reading rather than writing the words. I have
marked the passage with two asterisks. ... I did not read the
script (at the moment) and had only a vague idea of what was
in it.
One of the strongest expressions of urgency occurs in a
statement accompanying the lone script of February 6, 1920 :
Heavy with Sc. all day— & finding no uninterrupted time
(because of letters, workmen & so on) until 9.30 p.m. when
I felt an absolute rush as if someone were hterally dragging me
. . . my bad arm making writing a trial . . . Imt the Sc. came,
often slowly, often with pauses.
^
Impulses directed to action other than that of trying for
script are comparatively infrequent, probably because it was
easier and simpler for the communicators to obtain what they
^With the above descriptions compare also the account given by
Mrs. Willett of the strange experiences preceding the production of the
“ Dorr ” script, when the mental impulse was accomijanied by certain very-
exceptional physical effects {Proceedings, vol. xxv., p. 125).
110 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mecliumship [part
wanted by means of verbal instructions given through script or
silent D.I. The following incident, however, provides a case
in point, besides being in other ways instructive. The auto-
niatist’s account of what happened is contained in a letter
written on March 23, 1910, to Sir Oliver Lodge, part of which
has already been published in Mrs Verrall’s paper entitled
“ Notes on Mrs Willett’s Scripts ”, in Proceedings, vol. xxv.,
pp. 215-16. I reprodiice it here in full :
This is not a case of Sc. or D.I. I was sitting quietly after
dinner, alone, when I realised that I was beginning to feel dizzy
—rather light-headed and generally “ queer ”—somewhat the
sensation that the first few breaths of laughing-gas give one.
I could not iniderstand it, for I was quite well. I wondered
vaguely what I had eaten for dinner ! I tried to throw it off
;
then my hands seemed to feel rather odd, and I suddenly
remembered I had felt like that when the “ Dorr ” Sc. was
written. Hoping I might get rid of the feeling I at once tried
for Sc. The words were instantly written. “ Myers no script
to-mght do not be alarmed.” Having read the Sc. I tore it
up, there seeming to me to be no reason for keepmg such a
meamngless sentence.
I then began to somehow “ feel ” that it was something else
wanted of me, though I did not know what.
I felt an impulse to get Mrs V.’s Oct./06 “ Report ” [Proceed-
ings, vol. XX.] and I turned over the leaves “ trymg ” various
places, but felt I had not got “ it ”, whatever “ it ” might be, and
yet I felt I was on the right track. At last the word “ Syringa
”
struck me (p. 310). I read the page ;
it conveyed nothing much
to me, though the word “ Asphodel ” which occurs on the same
page did ;
but I somehow felt satished that I didn’t need to look
anywhere : the word was Syringa. Then I felt there was more,
but not in that book. After a little time I fetched Mr Pidding-
ton’s “ Report ” (Oct. 1908) [Proceedings, vol. xxii.]. It is a
good long time (months) since I had looked at it. I keep it in
a drawer where I also keep Miss Johnson’s “ Report ” (June,
1908)—I took both books out and went and sat down.
Something in me rejected Miss Johnson’s, so I took up Mr
Piddington’s. I wondered if more about Syringa was to be
found there ;
I looked the word up in the index ;
it was not
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship 111
there. I then thought I had better turn the pages carelessly
and see if I “ felt ”, as I did over Syringa, that I had got “ it
It was some minutes before I lit on what 1 knew (though how
I can’t explam) was wanted ;
—p. 268 in big print,
—“ The
River of Lethe The words preceding are :
“ Dante enters the Terrestrial Paradise and reaches ” (the
River of Lethe).
To sum up : my two—I don’t know what to call them
—
impressions or round-about given words (for I seemed led to
the words) were
Lethe—with Dante.
Syringa.
(Note : The combination of Dante's Lethe with Syringa has
a meaning for the interpreters, though it had none for the
automatist.)
The above account suggests to me that Myers was here
making an experiment in a special type of telepathic communi-
cation in order to see whether a sensitive could be impelled to
look up a particular passage in a particular book without being
directed thereto by definite verbal instructions. The experi-
ment seems to have been successful, but, so far as I am aware,
was never repeated. On the several other occasions when the
automatist was “ sent ” to a literary passage, the volume con-
taining the passage and sometimes even the page on which it
occms were previously indicated in silent D.I.
Her instinctive recognition that the wanted jjassage had been
found may very well rest on a feeling of satisfied assent trans-
mitted to her from the communicator. “I ‘
knew ’
she
writes on one of these occasions, “ at once—like a divining rod
over the water ;
something in me gave the unmistakable sign
that ‘
it ’
had been reached ”.
Inhibition, in the sphere of action, may be regarded as a
negative impulse. Socrates, in the Theages of Plato, describes
his “ daemon ” as a voice which, whenever it occurred, warned
him to abstain from doing something that he was about to do,
but never took the initiative in urging him to action. The
Willett records contain a striking experience in which this kind
of negative push (not, however, in the form of a voice) was
presently followed by a positive pixsh acting—so it seemed to her
112 Psychological Aspects of Mrs WUleiVs Mediumship [part
—not through the mind but directly upon the physical organism.
The case throws so much light upon certain aspects of Mrs
Willett’s medinmship, as well as upon her own attitude with
regard to the whole inquiry, that I make no apology for repro-
ducing in full the long letter of October 30, 1913, to Sir Oliver
Lodge, in which she describes the incident :
October 30, 1913 {Impression). Statement by Airs Willett,
October 30, 1913.
I am usually called at 8.15 a.m. To-day it was rather later.
The housemaid placed my letters on a table in my bedroom ;
and a few minutes later I got up. I did not look at my letters
then, as I had only just time to do that part of my dressing
which 1 do before my breakfast if 1 was to be ready for it at
8.30, at which time it is brought to my bedroom.
It was only after my breakfast had been brought and I had
eaten a few mouthfuls that 1 began to open my letters. I opened
one or two which I found contained receipted bills and letters
from shops. 1 then saw a larger envelope beneath the little
])ile and, taking it up, saw it was addressed to me in Mr Briscoe’s^
handwriting and had “ Birmingham ” postmark. I at once
opened it, as I had been correspoufling with Sir 0. J. L. about
his coming or not coming to .
I found the envelope contained some largish papers and a
letter. I took out only the letter, which was smaller than the
papers and dropped out on the tray.
After reading it through (I did this rather hurriedly, and am
not able to say what the whole of its contents were about),
I picked up the envelope to take out the enclosures when
I suddenly felt a thundering sort of knock-down-blow conviction
that I must not do so.
I looked at Sir O. J. L.’s letter again, and I now (2 p.m.)
remember of it this much : that he sent me a copy of a script
of mine (I believe August 13), having been directed by Mr G. W.
Balfour to do so. I think he said I was to compare it with the
original.
But still I felt that not to be conquered “ push ” not to take
out of the envelope the enclo.sures.
Then an odd thing happened. I did not know clearly what
'
Mr Hriscoo was Sir Oliver Lodge’s Seeretaiy.
140 ]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs WiJlett^s AleeUumship 113
I was going to do and iny mind seemed not to work—or rather
tivo minds seemed to be at work and not to be acting together.
Mind No. 1 got my body up and walked it across the room to
the door and put me outside (I only use this wording to indicate
that I seemed to be acting like a machine), but Mind No. 2
(which was “ me ” as I know myself) couldn’t make out why
it was that I was there. I stood a few seconds and then looked
down at my hands, and saw I had Sir O. J. L.’s envelope in
one and his letter in the other.
Mind No. 1 took my hand and put the letter back into the
envelope and walked me tlown a flight of stairs and up another
flight. Mind No. 2 looked on and wondered. But when
I reached the outside of Mr Willett’s door the two minds flashed
together, and I at once knew, somehow, what I was to do.
1 went in and handed him the envelope, made him fetch a
pencil and write down the time and date and what 1 told him
—
viz. : that I had read a letter it, the envelope, contained but
not the enclosures.
He asked me why I did this, f said, after a pause, that
I didn’t feel I was to read the enclosures. I then in silence
hunted about in my mind to find a reason, and then I got hold
of it ; —I thought that accidentally Mr G. W. B.’s notes on my
script might have been included by Sir 0. J. L., and that they
might not be intended for my perusal.
So I told Mr Willett this. He said, “ Your giving me this
envelope and my writing this on it proves nothing—it does not
prove you have not read all the enclosures ”.
I saw the force of this, but I said, “ I can’t help that. Keep
the envelope and I will tell you later what to do with it.’’
I then went back to my own room and fimshed my breakfast.
The impulse not to read the enclosures in Sir 0. J. L.’s
envelope got stronger as the morning wore away, and I have
now decided to ask Mr WiUett to send the envelope with its
contents to Mrs Sidgwick in order that she may see whether
there is any of Mr G. W. Balfour’s notes included in the copy
of the script.
I very much hope that it may prove this is not so, because
I see that there is no evidence, other than my word, that the
contents of the envelope were not read l)y me during the 10
minutes it remained in my bedroom.
114 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
I expect I am making a fuss about nothing, because Miss
Johnson definitely arranged with Sir O. J. L. by letter that all
copies of S.P.R. papers or scripts intended for me were to go
to her in the first instance, that she might go over them before
sending them on to me.
I remember she asked that Mr Briscoe might receive definite
instructions to this effect, and I wrote to Mrs Sidgwick about
this point only a short time ago.
In any case, to avoid a repetition of these kinds of “ pushes
”
or impulses, I should like in future that the arrangement above
referred to should be carried out. I am sending this to Mrs
Sidgwick, on the same day as Mr Willett sends her Sir 0. J. L.’s
letter.
I lately (the latter part of September) had an exactly similar
feeling of having two minds, one of which moved my body about
whilst “ I ” looked on, and in that case very grave results
would have happened if I had not acted on the impulse, as
I was thereby saved a serious danger. This makes me feel
that I am right in not asking Mr Willett for the return of Sir
O. J. L.’s letter, though I quite see that I cannot prove that I have
not read the enclosures it contains.
I do not like to ask Mr Willett to look and see if Mr Balfour’s
notes are there, so that it seems best to have the things sent by
him direct to Mrs Sidgwick.
Note by Mrs Sidgwick. Nov. 1, 1913.
On October 31. 1913, by second post 1 received from Mr
Willett the following note dated October 30th, 1913 :
“ My wife has asked me to send you the enclosed, which she
gave me at 8.35 a.m. this morning—since which time neither
she nor any other person has had access to it. It has remained
in my custody under lock and key.”
The enclosure consisted of an open envelope containing two
type-script copies and her own MS. copy of her script of August
13th, 1913, with her own notes thereon. To each was also
appended a note by 0. J. L. giving information and clues which
it was not desired that Mrs Willett should at present possess.
This I cut off' from each copy before returmng them to her.
Eleanor Mildred Sidgwick.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumsliip 115
Extract from Letter written by 0. J. L. to E. M. 8.
The incident of inhibition is certainly interesting, and if by
hypothesis we attribute it to “ them ” I should like more clearly
to understand their reasons. It might be (a) that the bargain
about sending through A. J. had not been adhered to ;
but in
that case it would be probably Mrs W. herself, not even her
subliminal ;
or it might be (6) that “ they ” feared that some-
thing connected with * * had been put in and wanted to make
sure ;
or (c) that “ they ” were somehow aware of my note and
perceived some reason why it shoidd not be read.
The last hypothesis is the most interesting, because it would
show a curious amount of knowledge about things done quite
apart from and oiit of the neighbourhood of Mrs W.—things
with no particular feeling or emotion behind them. But I con-
fess I incline to hypothesis (a), which is practically a normal one.
I cannot altogether agree with Sir Oliver’s diagnosis. It
seems to me that we have here a clear case of dissociation, and
that the immediate “ inhibitor ” was a dissociated self which
normally would form a subconscious factor of the medium’s
personality. Quite possibly it may have been acting entirely
on its own account. But while there does not appear to be any
necessity to invoke the intervention of the group on the other
side, and no claim of the kind is made, there does seem to be
some ground for supposing the motive of the inhibition to have
been a knowledge supernornially acquired of the contents of
the envelope. The question would then arise. By whom, or
through whom, was this knowledge obtained ? Was it obtained
directly by the dissociated self, or was the dissociated self
prompted by some external agency ? There is no doubt that
Sir Oliver’s notes did convey information which, from the
point of view of the investigators, should not have been allowed
to reach the automatist.
(e) Verbally conveyed Messages
It is held by some that thought and language are inseparable.
I do not think so extreme a view is tenable. So far as I am able
to examine my own experience I seem to be clear that thought
is possible not only without the assistance of verbal or other
conventional symbohsm, but without even that of mental
imagery. No doubt all such thought is vague, shadowy, ill
no Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’ s Medimnshi2) [part 140]
determined, and elusive : any attempt to hold it fast and fix
it tends to convert it at once into words.
Of course if thought without language or mental images were
impossible the telepathic transmission of such thought would
be more impossible still. I do not believe it to be impossible.
Flashes of meaning may reach the automatist unclothed in
symbols of any kind. Probable examples of an experience of
this natiire will be found on ]>p. 105 and 100 above. But in all
cases the meaning mnst be given verlial expression if it is to be
condensed into a specific message. Whatever the theoretical
interest of this type of communication may be, its practical
importance in our records is almost Jiil.
( )ji the other hand verbally expressed messages far exceed in
bulk and importance all other ty])es of communication put
together. In Mrs Willett’s case, as in that of other mediums,
they constitute the characteristic form of the phenomena,
whether uttered through script-writing or speech or appre-
hended l)y the inner ear and subsequently recorded. The
differences referred to are ])robably connected with differences
in the process of communication, but language is the essential
instrument of communication in all. Moreover as it is in verbal
form that the messages are given out, so it is fair, I think, to
assume that it is in verbal form that they are sent, unless there
is evidence to the contrary. The assumption may not in every
case be justified. We can imagine, for instance, a communi-
cation sent in the form of a mental picture being automatically
translated by the recipient into a verbally expressed meaning ;
and there are actually one or two cases in which the communi-
cator complains that a “ sound ”, i.e. a word or a collocation of
words, has emerged as a “ form-symbol ”. But the evident
surprise and interest which he exhibits on noting the change
show that he regards it as something quite exceptional in his
experience. I need not say that, besides the possibility of a
radical transformation of this kind, allowance must be made for
what the communicators call “ sophistication ” of the message
by misunderstandings, confusions, omissions, additions, and
even rejections on the part of the automatist. The numerous
records quoted in this pajaer will, I hope, illustrate these and
other shortcomings sufficiently to render their further elabora-
tion in the present chapter unnecessary.
CHAPTER IV
THE DOUBLE TASK OF GRASPING AND GIVING
OUT MESSAGES
(a) General Conditions oe Seccessfdl Transmission
(
b )
Difficulties of Reception
(c) Difficulties of Emission
(a) General Conditions of Successful Transmission
The gift of mecliumship is a natural endowment possessed in a
noticeable degree by comparatively few persons. It is capable
of improvement by practice, and likely, in the opinion at
least of the communicators, to become more wide-spread and
more developed as time goes on. Successful communication,
however, would seem to depend as much upon the communi-
cator as upon the recipient of the message. Among the hmited
number of personahties who play a part on the Willett stage
there are some who appear unable to communicate without help
from others, or only able to do so with the greatest difficulty.
Indeed if we are to accept a hint given in one of the sittings,
there is a mediumistic faculty on the other side analogous to
that of mediums here. The passage is somewhat cryptic, but
it clearly imphes that there are inequalities of natural aptitude
on the communicating side as well as on the receiving.
Given natural aptitude there are certain conditions favour-
able to communication which are probably common to all
sensitives of Mrs Willett’s type, and which are repeatedly
insisted upon in her scripts. The chief of them seem to be
absence of disturbing noise, a sense of security from interrup-
tion, a good state of health, serenity of mind, and freedom from
fatigue and worry. Apart from these general conditions, and
from faith in the reality of the communicators, the mental
attitude requisite in Mrs WiUett’s case for the successful dis-
charge of the double task of grasping and giving out seems to
117
IIS Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetth Mediuniship [part
vary with tlie style and subject-matter of the communication
itself. Sometimes a concentrated effort of attention on her
part is called for ;
at other times she is instructed deliberately
to relax and “ let the pen run free The minimixm of effort
is apparently required in scripts of an allusive and disjointed
type, which are not intended to convey any connected meaning
to her, and which largely consist of fragmentary material lying
ready in the mind of the sensitive, and brought, as it were, to the
surface by telepathic action from the comnnmicators.^ In
other scripts, and especially in spoken D.I.s, the degree of effort
required seems to depend very much on the difficulty of the
subject-matter, and to reach a maximum when the subject-
matter is highly abstract and beyond the automatist’s ordinary
powers of comprehension.
In a sitting of June 4, 1911—the first of a series of sittings
with me largely occupied with expositions of “ process ”—the
severity of the effort demanded of her, and of the strain resulting
from it, becomes almost pathetically apparent. A passage
towards the end of this record may be taken as a characteristic
though perhaps extreme illustration. The communicator is
Gurney.
Oh he says, now say this for me. He says you want to foster
ill sensitives a sort of dual attitude—belief in their capacity
—
Oh ! say it slowly—I’m so tired, I’m so tired—oh I’m climbing.
Oh ! I’m climbing—belief. Oh I will say it, I will say it—behef
in their capacity to have access to the mind of the communica-
tor, together with a wholesome sense of discrimination in regard
to the expressions—not right—regard to something to which
that access leads—productions.
Oh, he says, you mayn’t know it, there’s a natural bent to
extreme scepticism heie. Oh he says, there are such a lot of
things I want to tell you, and there's the longing to know when
one has struggled how far one has succeeded in making oneself
—Oh he says, I mustn’t go much further now.
Oh he says, don’t give me up, Gerald—help me—and help her.
Oh I can’t go on, I’m so tired.
Oh he says, only one more thing—only one more thing for
him. He says it over and over. I’m tiymg (almost sobs)
’ See further concerning this type of script in Part II., Chapter III.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’ s Mediumship 119
Being is antecedent to—Oh he says, You’ve not got the word
I want, but say it—it’ll suggest—Yes, that’s it, action.
Oh ! that’s done. (^4 pause, after which the waking stage
follows.) ^
Tn this sitting the automatist exhausts herself in the effort
to repeat words conveying a consecutive train of ideas. She
feels they have a meaning, and though she has no interest in the
subject on her own account, she strains her attention in an
endeavour to understand what nevertheless continually escapes
her. Effort of this kind may end in defeating its own object ;
and it is worth noting that on a later occasion the communicator,
after a thoroughly mystifying discourse, advises her to try
“ going bhndly which I take to imply that she will do better
if she ignores the meaning and concentrates upon the mecha-
nical repetition of each word as it comes. If the reader will
take the trouble to refer to the very striking passage which
thereupon follows (see p. 298 below), I think he will agree that
the advice was on that occasion justified by results.
The specific difficulties of mediumship with which I propose
to deal in the present chapter fall, as the title of the chapter
implies, under two headings—difficulties of reception and
difficulties of emission.
Let us consider these in the order named.
(b) Difficulties of Reception
It has often been noticed that mediums find it hard to grasp
proper names. In language the sign and its meaning tend to
merge into a unity so complete that we no longer think of them
separately. But this ceases to be true of an unfamiliar sign in
proportion to its unfamiliarity. Words sjioken in an unknown
tongue convey no meaning whatever. They are mere sounds,
not signs. Single unlmown words in a sentence may, of course,
gain a kind of significance from their context. Thus even an
unfamiliar proper name occm’ring in a sentence will probably
be immechately recognised for what it is, namely a proper name.
But in distinguishing one unfamiliar proper name from another
^ The D.l. from which this passage is taken is given in full on pp. 232-235
below.
2 See p. 245 below.
120 Psychological Aspects of 3Irs Willett's Mediumship [part
we have ultimately only the sound (or the corresponding written
symbol) to fall back upon. In verbally expressed messages
from a communicator to the medium it must, I think, be as-
sumed, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, that it is a
sound-image, apprehended by the “ inner ear ”, that reaches
her. If, as seems probable in Mrs Willett’s case, the sound-
image gets transmuted when she is in deep trance into something
indistinguishable by her from sound heard, this must be set
down (according to my view) as a subjective psycho-physical
efPect. Most people experience a similar effect in vivid
dreams. They seem to hear as they would hear with their ears
when awake. But I see no reason to suppose that the difficulty
of catching a sound-image telepathically conveyed differs in any
essential respect from the difficulty of catching a sound heard
in the course of orchnary speech or dictation. In fact the
failures experienced by Mrs Willett in catching unfamihar
words such as strange proper names, Latin or Greek phrases,^
and technical terms are just such as the analogy of dictation
would suggest.
The subjoined illustrations of methods employed by the
communicators to get over the difficulties thus caused present
various points of interest. A lone script of August 25, 1912,
ends with the following passage :
Now another thought
No no try again
Doocalon
Dewacorn
{this umd ended in a scribble)
Dewacorn
NO DEUCALION
the sound is DEW
K
LION not Lion
Write it slowly
Deucalion
I want that said It has a meaning
The stones of the Earth shall praise thee
Mrs Willett is hardly ever able to reproduce Greek or Latin words correctly.
140] PsycJiologkal Aspects of Mrs Willett's ^ledimnsh ip 121
that is what I want said it is I who say it and the word is
Dencalion
tliat was well caught
Good Child
That sort of thing makes one feel ont of breath doesnt it
on both sides
—
I am going Say too this word He set his bow in {illegible)
in the clonds ^
In a note appended to this script Mrs Willett writes :
This part of the script was very odd. Though there was
a great deal of effort about it, it was extremely interesting in
the same sort of way that it is interesting to get a Patience
out. It was written rather like this, as near as words can
describe it : After “ now I want another thought ” there
was a pause, then “ Doocalon ” written slowly and very
deliberately, then “ No no ” written impatiently but good-
temperedly. This leads me to suppo.se that it was not Fred
who was writing, because I get a sense of irritability and
grumpiness when I am trying to catch a word in this sort of
way and he is writing. “ Try again ”—this seemed to me
encouragingly written. “ Dewacorn ", this word started off
quite gaily up to about the c, when the next three letters
:iemed to be beginning to go into scrawls. It ended in a
scrawl and a complete stop. Underneath was written again
quite plainly " Dewacorn ”, but whether meant to be in two
words or one is not clear to me. I have never heard the ex-
pression “ dew acorn ”. After this, on a new line, was wi'itten
an emphatic NO : then a word was written in very big letters
which appear to me to be DEUCALION ;
however, I send
a tracing of it in case it may be anything else. [Not repro-
duced here, as it is clearly Deucalion—m large letters, though
not in capitals.'] The script then went on about the sound
of the word. “ DEW ” I read as rhyming with pew ;
“ K ”
as rhyming with pay ;
“ LION ” as the animal. That did
not seem right, as the script wrote “ not Lion ”.
^ Deucalion is the Noah of Greek Mythology. There is probably an allusion
to the legend of Deucalion and Pyrrha in the words “ the stones of the
earth shall praise thee^”
122 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
Mrs Willett further states that the word “ Deucalion ” is
unknown to her, though she supposes it to be Greek or Latin.
She appears not even to recognise it as a proper name—the
context in this instance giving no indication one way or the
other. In order to ensure the correct recording of the word the
communicator adopts the expedient of stressing the pronun-
ciation syllable by syllable, though whether this is done
directly through sound-images, or indirectly by means of
visualised words whose pronunciation is known to the automat-
ist—Dew, K (the letter) and Lion—or by an indeterminate
combination of both methods, is perhaps open to question.
That recourse is sometimes had to the visual representation
of a word of which the automatist has failed to catch the sound
is beyond doubt. A good example of this has already been
given on p. 99 above, where the word “ Absolute ” is heard in
a spoken D.I. as “ Absalom ”, and the communicator corrects
the mistake by writing up ABSOLOM letter by letter, as it
were, upon a black board, then rubbing out the last two letters
and substituting for them the letters UTE.
A somewhat similar example is provided by a passage in the
D.I. of June 4, 1911. The communicator is explaining that a
message may lie dormant in the mind of the automatist for
some time before it emerges in script.
Often there is a fairly long period of—don’t get that word
—
it contains a g and an s and a t and an a [G. IT. B. suggests
“ gestation ”, hut no notice is taken of this) Say incubation he
says—and then comes the uprush.
“ Don’t get that word—it contains a g and an s and a t and
an a ” is clearly a remark made by the automatist on her own
account. The word in the mind of the communicator was
evidently “.gestation ”. As it conveys no meaning to the auto-
matist, he siipplements the thought of it as pronounced by
the thought of the characters as written. When even this
fails he substitutes another word of similar import in its
place.
In another case, which I quote from the D.I. of January 21,
1912, the wanted word is supplemented by a mental representa-
tion of the thing signified. The waking stage had begun, and
had proceeded for some minutes in the usual way, when the
140] PsychoJogicnl Aspects of Mrs Wilhites Medivrnship 123
communicator seemed to return, and the following was uttered :
He says to me, Write : only that. The shield, the mother.
Oh, he says, on the shield there were different scenes, but there
was one scene round the centre—and he says, say the word
Knob, if you like, it’s not the proper word—that’s what I want
an allusion to—round the extreme centre. Oh, he says, what
an expression, extreme ! He says, Please remember, my
thought of the central pomt comes out through her as the
extreme centre !
“ The shield, the mother ” is almost certainly a reference to
the description in the Aeneid {Aen. viii., 607 seq.) of the shield
forged by Vulcan for Aeneas at the request of his mother, Venus.
On the shield was represented a series of scenes from famous
episodes in Roman history, with the battle of Actium as a
centre-piece. The word wanted is apparently “ Boss ” : but
either the communicator failed to get hold of the right word
himself or he failed to impress it on the autoinatist. Faute de
mieux he offers “ Knob ” instead ;
but (if I understand the
passage rightly) supplements it with a mental picture of the
central point of the shield. “ The extreme centre ” is the
automatist’s interpretation of the mental picture, and does not
represent words spoken by the communicator, who indeed
disavows the expression with some indignation.
Perhaps the most suiq^rising expedient resorted to by the
communicators in order to get a proper name recorded was the
production in script of the name Dorr by operating on the auto-
matist telergically instead of telepathically.^ At least that is the
account of their procedure given subsequently by themselves,
as is shown by the following extracts :
From the D.I. of May 6, 1910. {Present, 0. J. L.)
Edmund Gurney. Tell Lodge I don’t want this to develop
into trance.
(0. J. L. Oh !)
You have got that, we are doing something new. Then he
says Telepathy. If you want to see the want of sviccess—no,
not that—the labour of getting anything telergic done here, he
1 For a full account of this incident, and a facsimile of the script, see Sir
Oliver Lodge’s paper on the “ Lethe Scripts ” in Proceedings, vol. xxv., p. 125 ff.
124 Psycliolociiral A ftpecfs of Mrs Willett's Medhmiship [part
can see the word DORR. That was a ease of that word with two
Vs and a t ^ That word [i.e. Dorr] had to Ije given in that way,
after efforts liad f)een made to convey it telepathically without
success. It was a great strain on Ijoth sides. We don’t want to
move any atoms in the brain directly.
[0. J. L. Am I to understand that when you do it telergically
you do move atoms in the brain ?)
No, we bring to bear certain currents. He says Thunder and
Lightning.^
From, the Lone Script of June 5, 1910.
... I MYERS made a pun I got in a WORD I wanted by
wj'apping it up in a QUOTATION Later I got the WORD
itself after an effort which disturbed my machine and which
Gurney deprecated as being an exemplification of the End
j
ustifies the Means . . . Myers I got the WORD in by choosing
a quotation in which it occurs and which was known to the
irormal intelligence of my machine.
The quotation in question ,
“ There was a door to which
I found no key ”, had been given in the first “ Lethe script ” on
February 4, 1910. The Dorr scried followed on the next day.
Ml'S Willett’s own description of her experiences on the
occasion of the j^roduction of the Dorr script will be found in
Proceedings, vol. xxv., p. 125. It is not inconsistent with the
account given by Gurney and Myers, though naturally it does
not use the same terms. There can be no doubt that the word
Dorr is written in a hand utterly unlike either the ordinary
script-hand or Mrs Willett’s normal handwriting. The experi-
ence was a unique one up to the time of its occurrence, and
I lielieve it has never been repeated.
1 remarked above that the expedient employed by the com-
municators on this occasion was a surprising one. How sur-
prising will be more fully realised when we come to deal in
Part II with their own explanations of the modus operandi used
by them in communicating through Mrs Willett, and with the
sharj) distinction, founded on this very difference of telepathy
^ 7.e. That was a case of telergy. In a serij^t of August 20, 1909, the
word “telergical” liad been spelt “ tellergical.”
2 See p. 16G below.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetf s Medmmshig) 125
from telergy, which they draw between her mediumsliip and that
of Mrs Piper. It is quite true, as Sir Oliver Lodge has said, that
the appearance in the script of the name Dorr at this precise
juncture was of high evidential value ;
but it is very strange
that they should have been unable to secure this otherwise than
by a complete abandonment of their avowed methods.
I conclude this series of examples by quoting in extenso a
short script, written in my presence but not in trance conditions,
which may serve to illustrate more than one of the points
already touched upon, besides showing that the difficulty
experienced in grasping unfamiliar words may also be felt in
relation to phrases and quotations, even when these are
normally known to the automatist.
Script of June 22, 1913. {Present, O. W. B.)
To pace beside the waters What does that mean
Cor Coral no Coronals Why plural try agam
It is only said for purposes of identification to [scribble] identify
the communicator
small green blant {here Mrs IT. burst out into a hearty laugh
and said, “ I spelt a word wrong, and he laughed ”)
plant
That is better the wearing of the green
at last !
Now for the message quite a short one a message of
remembrance and hope turn over
The unsleeping watcher say that When God of old our
fathers have told us
try again the Syrian blue that should lead by an associa-
tion of ideas to the passage which I wish to never mind go
on try again
Music might help Israel and his seed for ever Israel watch-
ing over that is it go on She will understand Slumbereth
not nor sleepeth now say it give her time Gmuey said that
126 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
shes just touched it How like a trout nibbling at a fly He
watching over Israel slumbereth not nor sleepeth good
To conclude the Sc with a
{Here Mrs W. stopped as if at a loss for a word and presently
said, “ What do you call the beginning of a piece of writing ?
”
I suggested preface, proem, preamble : she accepted none
of these, but almost immediately after fomid what she was
seeking, and said out loud, as well as wrote down. Prologue.
“ And what is it comes at the end ?
” she asked. “ Epilogue,”
I said. “ Epilogue,” she repeated, and wrote it down. I have
little doubt that what the communicator meant to say was,
“ To conclude with an epilogue ”.)
Prologue and Epilogue
a {scribble) An island temple,
{Here Mrs W. again stopped and said :
“ I can see the
thoughts, but it’s so difficult to get the words. What is it you
say when a criininal takes refuge in a Cathedral ?
” “ Sanctu-
ary,” 1 suggested, and this was accepted.)
Sanctuary priests
{Another pause, and then she said, “ It’s Latm, and I can’t
quite get it ”. I encouraged her to try her best and write down
something. Nothing, however, was written, though the words
opus and corona were uttered out loud. I asked if it were
“ Finis coronat opus ”, but she answered, “ No ;
there is no
finis and the word is distinctly corona not coronat ” .
“ Enough ’ ’
was then written, and the script came to an end.)
Enough
This script is wholly taken up with a message to Mrs Verrall
on the occasion of the anniversary of her husband’s death,
which occurred on June 18 of the previous year. The communi-
cator is S. H. Butcher. He is not named, but his identity is
indicated at the outset by allusions to Demosthenes and to
Ireland. (Butcher was an Irishman, and he was engaged upon
an edition of Demosthenes at the time of his death.) The
script proceeds with its “ message of remembrance and hope ”,
and concludes with further allusions to Demosthenes—this time
to his death in the temple of Poseidon on the island of Calauria,
where he had taken sanctuary. The opening words of the
script, which refer to the story of Demosthenes j)i‘actising the
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Alednimship 127
art of oratory by declaiming on the seashore with pebbles in
his mouth, give the “ prologue ” to his career, the allusion to
his famous speech De Corona represents its culminating
triumph, his suicide in the “ island temple ” the “ epilogue
So much it is necessary to say by way of explanation in
order to make the script intelligible. Our present concern,
however, is with the difficulties experienced by the automatist
in getting the phrase “ the wearing o’ the green ”, the text from
Psalm cxxi., the words “ Prologue ”, “ Epilogue ”, and
“ Sanctuary ”, and the final message in Latin.
The failure over the Latin calls for no comment except so far
as the distinction insisted on between “ corona ” and “ coro-
nat ” suggests that the word must have reached her—whether
as an auditory or as a visual image—in a quite definite form,
for I do not think she had the least idea of what the script was
driving at.
As regards “ the wearing o’ the green ” the rough drawing
representing a shamrock leaf is probably the reproduction of a
picture impressed on the mental vision of the automatist. The
communicator may have tried to give the word shamrock
without success, and afterwards attempted to convey the
meaning by the help of a visual image of the thing signified
and the description of it as “a small green plant ”. The
transition to “ the wearing o’ the green ” is then effected by an
association of ideas ready provided in the mind of the auto-
matist.
Association of ideas is again made use of to enable her by a
roundabout way to arrive at the quotation from Psalm cxxi
—“ He watching over Israel slumbereth not nor sleepeth
Why there should have been so much difficulty in getting “ the
wearing o’ the green ” or the biblical quotation is something of
a puzzle, especially as both one and the other had appeared in
earlier Willett script. Indeed “ He that watcheth over Israel
slumbereth not nor sleepeth ” had affeady been sent as a message
to Mrs Verrall in a script of May 13, 1912, about a month before
^ The actual words of the verse both in the Authorised Version and in the
Prayer Book are “ He that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleej)
Mendelssolm’s Elijah (English version) has :
“ He watching over Israel
slumbers not nor sleeps “ Music might help ” may be a reference to the
Elijah.
128 P»ijdiulu(ikul Aspects of Mrs Willett's Medvuniship [part
Dr Verrall died. I'here was no difiiculty about its reception on
that occasion. But the actual communicator was then Gurney,
who gives the message on Butcher’s behalf. On the present
occasion Butcher was himself the communicator, and some
allowance should perhaps be made for his comparative inex-
])crience. It is also possible that quotations, as such, really are
hard to get through ;
and it is certainly noteworthy that
neither in Mrs Willett’s script (which abounds in quotations)
nor, I believe, in that of any other automatist of our group, can
any quotation—as apart from a literary reference—be found
which there is good reason to think had never been known to
their normal selves. Nevertheless such explanations seem
unconvincing where, as in the present case, not only was the
quotation a very familiar one, but no less than four other
quotations
—“ When God of old ”, Our fathers have told
us ”, “ the Syrian blue ”, and “ Israel [Abraham] and his seed
for ever ”
—are pressed into the service before the required one
is achieved.
There remains the difficidty of getting the words “ Prologue ”,
“ Epilogue ”, and ” Sanctuary ”. “ I can see the thoughts ”,
Mrs Willett says, “ but it is so difficult to get the words ”. The
experience of feeling after a word which seems just out of reaeh
is familiar to everyone. It is not a case of thought without
language, Imt a failure to recall a particular conventional sign
the recovery of which does not add to the thought or make it
really clearer than before. Is the aidmnatist’s difficulty in this
case simply that of which we all have experience ? If so, in
what form had the thought come to her, if it truly conveyed a
message from the communicator ? Had the communicator
himself failed to find the appro] )riate Avord, and had he trans-
mitted his thought by means of a periphrasis, leaving it to the
automatist to lill in the blank ? Or had he used the correct
word but failed to inqjress it on the mental hearing of the
automatist ? I leave these questions unanswered, but it seems
to me they are not withoAit bearing on the process of com-
munication.
The difficulties we have been considering so far are such as
arise from the unfamiliarity of jjarticular words and phrases.
Another, and, from the ]»oint of Anew of the perfection or imper-
fection of the records, probably more important souree of
140] Psychological Aspects of Airs Willett's Meiliuviship I2i)
trouble and confusion, is inability on the part of the autoniatist
to follow and grasp the too-rapid flow of the communicators’
thoughts.
Here are a few passages which indicate the nature of the
difficulty :
Lone Script of November 13, 1910. {Alyers communicating.)
Let thoughts flit past you. Cease [seize] what you can.
Make records that others may delve . . . thoughts escape me
and you get them confused . . .
Lone Script of December 3, 1911. {Myers communicating.)
In my eagerness . . . the thoughts come so quickly that
they slip past you and you do not grasp any one quite clearly
Resist that sense of general understandmg as of an onlooker
watching and come here and grasp my words.
D.I. of March 13, 1912
—
Waking Stage. {Present, 0. J. L.)
It’s so very tiresome to have lots of thmgs you can’t catch
running through your mind, lots of isolated words . . . no, it’s
no use.
Script of June 26, 1913. {Present, G. W. B.)
Such a flow of words flitting past me try to seize some . . .
[“ Try to seize some ” is, of course, a request by the com-
municator.]
D.I. of February 28, 1914. {Present, G. IT. B.)
... I am so confused. I’m all with things flitting past me.
I don’t seem to catch them . . . That one eye has got some-
thing to do with the one ear. That’s what they wanted me to
say. There’s such a mass of thmgs, you see, rurming through
my mind that I can’t catch anything.
Trance-Script of February 28, 1914. {Present, G. IT. B.)
So many thoughts and none caught.
It is evident that for omissions and imperfections in the
records arising from a rapidity in the flow of ideas that exceeds
the receiving capacity of the autoniatist, a share, and perhaps
the larger share, of responsibihty must rest with the communi-
130 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willettis Mediumship [part
cator. Sometimes the automatist begs the communicator to
speak more slowly. But it seems that this is not always easy
for him to do. Myers would appear to he the greatest sinner
in this respect. On one occasion (in the D.I. of March 15, 1912)
he is represented as saying that he cannot get a series of
quotations through “ because they jostle each another, and
I stand speechless and impotent from the very force of my
longing to utter ”. On this Gurney comments, “ Myers doesn’t
manage things as well as I do. He takes more out of her. He
doesn’t shield off from her sufficiently ;
he let’s the whole blaze
come out in his impatience ”.
(c) Difficulties of Emission
A message must be grasped before it can be given out, and
therefore in a sense every impediment to effective reception is
also an impediment to effective emission. It would seem,
however, {a) that the power to receive does not, in the view of
the communicators, carry with it the power to give out, unless
certain conditions are fulfilled ;
and (6) that even where the
power to give out is actually in operation, special causes may
be at work to hinder or prevent particular parts of a message
from duly emerging.
The clearest exposition furnished by the communicators of
the general conditions to which the giving-out power is subject
is contained in a lone script of April 16, 1911 :
[Myers communicating^ . . . The point we have to study is
to find the line where the incarn^e spirit is sufficiently over the
Border to be m a state to receive and yet sufficiently controUmg
by its own power its own supraliminal and therefore able to
transmit We don’t therefore desire the kind of trance that is
of Piper essence though we could and sometimes have induced
much the same thing ^ Get this clear We want the operator
to be so linked with its mechanism as to control that mechanism
herself We want her also to be so linked with us as to be able
to receive definite telepathic write the word radiation There
is one glory of the sun and another of the stars there is the
mediumistic gift of emitting and the other gift of receiving . . .
‘ This can hardly refer to the Dorr sc ript (see ji. 1 24 above), since the mediuni
was not in trance on that occasion.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship 131
According to this statement the twofold gift of mediumship
depends for its successful exercise in Mrs Willett’s case upon a
maintenance of rapport on the one hand between the communi-
cators and “ the incarnate spirit ”, on the other hand between
“ the incarnate spirit ” and “ its own supraliminal It is
through control of its suprahminal that the spirit of the medium
is linked with its mechanism of utterance, whether by speech
or by writing. To lose that control is to lose the power to record.
The above account of one aspect of “ process ” rests, from
the nature of the case, almost wholly on the authority of the
communicators, and the fixller treatment of the subject of which
it forms part must be reserved for Part II., to which it properly
belongs. But it could not well be passed over without mention
in the present chapter.
The most striking instance of an alleged failure to record,
ascribed by the communicators to a break-down of the con-
ditions affirmed by them to be essential to success, occurs in a
D.I. of March 13, 1912, when Sir Oliver Lodge was “ in charge ”.
Somewhat earher in the sitting Myers had worked himself up
into a state of passionate eagerness. “ He’s trembhng ”, says
the automatist, “ I see him trembling ”. A pause follows, and
then an interval during which other communicators take their
share of speaking. Presently Gurney says :
Lodge, did you notice just now she was so completely over
the border [that] though in those instants things swept into
her consciousness, she couldn’t pass them back ;
he says I want
Gerald to be fully told of this because he says it throws hght
upon the method.
{0. J. L. All will be told him.)
She projected herself in a rush of sjrmpathy.
(O. J. L. I saw her do it.)
And I must use symbols, he says, m describing what occurred,
but the blaze of light and the revelation was so tremendous in
its force and effect that the lesser thing, the power to commimi-
cate thought, lessens the—the power of acquiring it.^ Thought
^ There is obvious confusion here. What is meant is that the lesser thing,
the power to communicate the knowledge acquired, suffers from the very fact
that the power of acquiiing it has been increased. Tlie word “ communicate ”
in this passage is employed in the unusual sense of " utter ” or " pass on foi'
the benefit of the sitter ”.
132 Psycholo(jic(d As'pects of Mrs Willetfs Medi'umsJdp [part
is not tile right word, but you can let it stand ;
put the Primacy
of the knowing faculty, and the secondariness of the trans-
mitting, the communicating, faculty ;
the soul’s instinctive
recognition of truth far out-leaping the possibility of the
condensation of it to that point where it can be grasped and
framed in language. That’s what happened then. We have
to keep her at the point where both sides can be touched, but
then she let go on your side and by the power of, not to be
measured in words, of (to frame a clumsy expression) recognitive
sympathy she broke away and passed, and knew, but could not
utter.
In the main the explanation here given by Gmney accords
with the more general exposition quoted above from the script
of April 16, 1911.1 An overwhelming rush of sympathy has
swept the incarnate spirit so completely “ over the border ”,
and into such close rapport with the communicator, that for
the time being it loses its control over the supraliminal. With
that loss goes also loss of the faculty of emission, while the
facidty of acquiring knowledge is actually enhanced. Compare
also the opening passage of the
1 I say that the explanation accords in the main with that previously quoted,
because the words “ Thought is not the right word ” and the statement that
“ the soul’s instinctive recognition of truth far outleaps the possibility of the
condensation of it to that point where it can be grasped and framed in language ”
show that what is here in question is not the reception of a telepathic
message, but the acquisition of knowledge by telcesthesia in the very peculiar
sense of that term adopted in the Willett scripts. Compare the statement in
the D.I. of October 8, 1911 :
“ Oh, he says, telepathy’s one thing—that’s
thought communication : telsesthesia is knowledge, not thought, acquired by
the subliminal when operating normally in the metetherial ”. For a full
discussion of this important subject I refer the reader to chapter 3 of
Part II.
I may fm'ther note that faihu’e to record tlmough inability to control the
mechanism of utterance is one tiling ;
failure to record because the knowledge
acquired camiot be condensed into language is another. Are we to understand
that in tliis instance there were two groimds of failure, the second being
additional to the fii'st and independent of it ?
A third explanation differing from both the others is given by Ginney in a
script of October 26, 1926. “ The real truth ”, he says, “ is that the intense
emotion of the communicator blends witli the intense emotion in a sensitive
receiver—so that notliing is done but the setting up of a violent vibration
in which concrete ideas disappear ”,
140] Psychological Aspects of My's Willett's Medmmship 133
Script of Jnly 22, 1917. {Present, G. W. B.)
There is a difficulty of margui—To-day one touch would draw
you so deeply within our influence that the result would be
nil for others you would be unable to record or carry back
only one touch & we unite & I want them to understand that
I purposely hold you away—at arms length as it were so that
you may record.
Turning now to the cases where there is no general suspension
of the power to give out, but where nevertheless the emergence
of particular messages or parts of a message appears to be
inhibited, we have first of all to remark that Mrs Willett herself
claims to exercise a conscious discretion in the matter of what
she records and what she rejects.
In a note written by her on February 10, 1923, with reference
to a script produced on the preceding day she says :
I was very much interested when last night spoke of
Memory—because it ties on to my Sc. of earlier in the day.
I had rejected several times this sentence
“ Memory, a wreathed shell
” “
with the impres.sion of a quotation & a hesitation as to “ Keats ”.
My Sc. was so full of effort & muddle to me that I didn’t put
down everything that came to me. ... I was hesitating,
rejecting and accepting all the time
Another Memory point I rejected was “ The stream of
Memory ”—Neither of these points seemed to come clear to
me. The first one recurred more than once, the other I only
received—or half-caught—once.
A conversation with Mrs Willett which took place on Sep-
tember 22, 192.5, and was recorded by Mr Piddington from
notes taken while she was speaking, bears upon the same
question.
* Browning, In Three Days :
“ Feel where my life broke off from thine,
How fresh the splinters keep and fine,
—
Only one touch and we combine !
”
^ Oscar Wilde, The Burden of Itys :
“ O Memory, cast down thy wreathed shell ”.
134 PsycJiologiral Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
In the course of conversation [writes Mr P.] I referred to the
fact (already known to Mrs Willett) that Mrs Salter for a year
or two past goes into trance ;
and I said that her trance
phenomena show how many of the impressions she receives
fail to get expressed. Mrs Willett asked if Mrs Salter rejected
much of what she received ;
and after I had made a brief reply
to this question, she went on to say that she herself often
rejected impressions that came to her as useless or uninteresting.
She gave as an example an impression she had had at some time
between 3 and 6 p.m. on the preceding day, September 21, 1925,
and which she described to me in more or less the following
terms :
“ The first sentence was ‘
The Sanctuary ’. The next sent-
ence was a reference to the Lamp hanging in the Sanctuary ;
and the third sentence was a reference to the Flame in the
Lamp hanging in the Sanctuary ”.
(Here she said something about the thing being rather hke
the House that Jack built.)
“ And then I saw this lovely Flame. My conscious instinct
was to reject as useless ;
but the impression conveyed to me
was that it came to me from someone who thought it good.
If anyone had said ‘
You’re quite wrong, and the person con-
veying this message is right ’, I should have got oceans of
script
Conscious and deliberate rejection of impressions duly
received may, one can well believe, be the cause of a good many
gaps and incoherences in the scripts. But there is a class of
cases which it will not cover, namely where there is an obvious
desire and even effort to give out, accompanied by a strange
and almost mysterious inability to do so.
Such expressions as “ I can hear the words, but I can’t make
my lips say them—they won’t say them ” (D.T. of July 16, 1911)
imply an inhibition which mere selective preference of one item
of a communication over another is insufficient to account for.
^ The impression here recorded seems to have been an experience on the
border-line between a silent D.I. and a lone script. I do not gather that
Mrs Willett was sitting for script at the time, but had she proceeded to do so
I have little doubt that a script would have resulted. As a matter of fact, the
main ideas conveyed in the imjjression did actually emerge in a script produced
on the following day (September 23, 1926) in my presence.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumsli
ip 135
The following D.I. illustrates the point, and has besides an
interest of its own which I trust may be held to excuse my
quoting it at considerable length.
I should explain that the evening before this sitting I had
been reading a paper to the Cambridge Branch of the S.P.R.
on Parallelism and. Telepathy. “ Epiphenomenalism ” was also
touched on incidentally, and, of course, in any discussion of
these two doctrines, the third psycho-physical doctrine—that
of “ Interactionism —must be implicitly referred to, though
I do not think the word was actually used. I had, however,
dealt with all three in a paper contributed to the Hibbert Journal
(April, 1910) ;
and it is possible that Mrs Willett may have
seen this paper, though I do not think she had. There are some
numbers of the Hibbert Jotirnal in her country house, and
I asked her to give me a list of them. The one containing my
article was not among the number. It is, of course, also
possible that she may have read about Epiphenomenalism,
Parallelism, and Interactionism elsewhere : references to all
of these had occurred previously in scripts and D.I.s.
Mrs Willett was not present at the meeting of the Cam-
bridge S.P.R. the night before the sitting ;
but she knew about
it, and some hint of the subject of the paper had probably been
given in her presence.
D.I. of May 11, 1912. [Present, 0. W. B.)
Yes . . . Oh, how did I get here ? It’s like Alice in the
looking-glass. I see a glass that seems to shut out, and then
someone seems to put out a hand and pull me through
Sweet after rain ambrosial showers ^
(Pause) Oh I’ll try. Tennyson. (Pause) I’m seeing
thoughts but I’m not catching them. What are the three
tenable—I don’t get that next word and then it goes on—in
regard to the phenomenon of consciousness ? Somebody asked
a question. Do you know Henry Sidgwick has sometimes such
a quizzical look in his face. He said to me. Don’t make
two bites of a cherry, but bolt this whole and see what
happens.
(Sighs) Sounds to me very stupid. I’ve hunted about in my
mind and I don’t find anything else. What does it mean ? It’s
^ Tennyson, “ In Memoriam,” Ixxxvi. “ Sweet after showers, ambrosial air.”
130 Psycholociiral Aspeds of Mrs Willett's Medivmship [part
only words. {Gesticutating with both hands) There, just like
that—is—then there’s a word that long
—
{motioning loith hands)
consciousness.
I’ve got it—Oh, it’s disappointing when my lips won’t say it.
L touched me, and I can say it now.^ Epiphenomenal
—
that’s the last of the three words.
Oh ! Sidgwick said {tvaving her hands) something to do with
a room and a lot of people
Listen not to the specious lure of the pai’allelistic phantasy,
hut nail unto the mast that complicated fragment of truth
—
nail unto the mast ? —the flag of—Oh, I’m so sorry, I’m afraid
I’ve lost it. [“ Nail unto the mast ” urns spoken interrogatively,
as if the automatist was asking whether she had the right
rvordsi]
Don’t go {entreatingly)
,
I’ll try again. Oh, how gentle and
strong he is."
He says. Tell him to nail to the mast the flag with one word
on it, which is a symbol for a complicated fragment of truth
—
hut he says it’s the right line, he says like that,—though
baffling and perplexing, cleave thou to it. It’s because it’s only
partially apprehended that the timid anfl the lazy mind slips
back from it into the barren and easy and al)solutely worthless
t heory, he says, of a dual {placing her two hands parallel to each
other) dual side by side, presumably independent. Oh, he
says, the whole thing’s full of fallacies, you can’t stretch it
to that, he says.
He’s telling L something. It’s so odd. L ’s knowing
something which I’m not knowing, but I’m knowing that when
L touches me I shall know it too. It’s the flag word.
{Triumphantly) I’ve got it ! Oh, but now I’ve got to give
it out.
Oh, I’m all buzzing. {Waving hands) I can’t think why
people talk about such stupid things. Such long stupid words
{Sighs and stretches herself : then places her hands side by side
again, saying) That’s gone away now.
1 L is a deceased relation of Mrs Willett, who, though hardly ever
communicating in propria 2xrsona, occasionally intervenes to facilitate the
process of communication by others. See also the extract from the sitting
of January 21, 1912, p. 149 below.
- The Dark Young Man is here indicated.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mednvmship 137
Now it’s a thing like this [drawing with, her finger in the air)
Oh ! I see it a hundred ways, but I can’t get it outd
(6r. W. B. “ I understand.”)
Somebody says, Don’t help her.
Oh, I think I can draw it better [takes my block and draws ns
below, except the word INT UR AC SHUN which is added, later]
Edmund makes me laugh. He says. Well, think of Ur of the
Chaldees. He’s making a joke, and they’re very angry with
him ;
but the point of it is the terrible effect of disembodiment
in one singularly sensitive to shades of sound. He says that
Ur would make Fred shudder.-
I must try it you know, it’s perfectly ridiculous.
[Here INT UR AC SHUN ivas added at the foot of the drawmg)
Henry says. Thread the maze, but don’t lose that strand.
There’s a lot of confused thinking suggested by that word to
many minds. You’ve all of you only been fingering at the
outsides of the theory, but it’s there where the gold lies.
Consciousness [waving hands) and matter, mind and matter ;
and he says. There was a line about the will that felt the fleshly
screen. Oh, oh, there are some very mystical [word omitted
from the record here : perhaps “ meanings ”] wrapped tip in
those lines of Tennyson’s. He says, I’ve quoted Browning, but
the mind of Tennyson playing on the mysteries of consciousness
1 The difficulty in getting out the word “ interaction ” is rather curious,
seeing it was twice written in the script immediately preceding the D.I.
2 UR for ER. The joke is thoroughly characteristic of the living Gurney
as I knew him.
^ Browning, The Last Ride Together.
It’s like a plait—it’s woven strands.
iMT UR AC Shun
K
138 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Alediumship [part
—the phenomena of consciousness—is extraordinarily inter-
esting to anyone studying the mysteries—oh, what a word—of
in-ter-ac-tion-alism {pronounced slowly, syllable by syllable).
What is the parallelistic theory 1 (Exgyression of great disgust)
To have to come all the way to talk about these things ! He
says, >lust to say that. He says that Frank,^ I and Frank, he
says, are a splendid combination in studying the interaction of
mind and matter, becaiise you want biological and philosophical
knowledge. But, he says, I can’t now say what I want to.
I simply cannot go on any longer ; that must be all.
[Probably a remark by the aadomatist on her own account ;
at
least, so I thought at the time from the tone in ivhich the words
were uttered.)
{Laughs heartily) Edmund says. This is really the last bite.
The interaction—I’m not sure that word’s quite right. It’s
either action or interaction. It isn’t interaction [? int ur ac
shun], though he says it might be interaction for the inter-
actionalist.
The light cast upon interaction by the researches into human
faculty. It’s very odd ; do you know they can have machines
for telling you the pressure in boilers ? Well, there’s a machine
they’ve got to find out what’s the pressure in me, and all
that {putting her hands to her head) is too full. It’s full to
painfulness.
(Cr. IF. B. Hadn’t you better stop, Giumey ?)
He says. Just let me throw this, and then that’s all.
You can’t make ])arallelism square with the conclusions to
which recent research points. Pauvres parallelistes ! They’re
like drowning men clinging to spars. But the epiphenomenal-
istic liosh {pronouncing loith difficulty) that’s simply blown away.
It’s one of the blind alleys of human thought.
Oh ! I don’t want to hear any more : I’m tii’ed.
And the other and perhaps more specious kind of bosh has
got to go too.
{Laughing) Edmund spoke of the philosophic omelettes.
He said research was breaking lots of eggs, and some schools
had best get their egg-wliLsks ready.
[At this point the waking stage began.)
1 Chi’istian name of the Dark Young Man. It i.s seldom given in the scripts,
and only when the automatist is in deep trance.
140] Psychological Aspecf-<^ of Mrs Willetths Medinmship 139
I have no obvious explanation to offer of the difficulty of
emission exemplified in this D.I., hut I suspect it to be connected
in some way or other with a lack of harmonious co-operation
between the different elements in the personality of the medium,
whether we call these elements the subliminal and the siipra-
liminal or regard them as distinct centres of consciousness
whose relation to each other varies from all but complete
independence to at least an appearance of complete unity.
The communicators declare that a general suspension of the
giving-out power results from the “ incarnate spirit ” losing
control of “ its own supraliminal ”, and therewith the control
of the medium’s mechanism of utterance. The supraliminal
ceases to record because it ceases to receive from the subliminal.
I suggest as one possible explanation of the incapacity to give
out particular parts of a message that it may be due to active
resistance on the part of the supraliminal. It receives, but is
unwilhng to transmit. Why it should be unwilhng in any given
instance may be difficult to say. In the case before us the
reluctance might arise from sheer irritation and disgust at being
called upon to play a part in the exposition of a subject in winch
it takes no interest, and the technical terms of which it does
not understand. Readers of “ The Ear of Dionysius ” will re-
member the passage in which the automatist gives vent to her
annoyance at the task imposed upon her ; “Oh, Edmund says
powder first and jam afterwards. You see it seems a long time
since I was here with them—and I want to talk and enjoy
myself {spoken querulously). And I’ve all the time to keep on
working, and seeing and listening to siich boring old—Oh '
Ugh !
”
A more frequent cause (it may fairly be conjectured) of
unwillingness to record is the fear whicli often, especially in
the early days of her medinmship, used to assail the automatist,
that the message which reaches her comes not from the osten-
sible communicators but from something in herself. The com-
municators are, in fact, well aware of this sceptical attitude,
and more than once complain of the obstacles which it places
in their way.
Another possible explanation would be to suppose that the
rapport between the subliminal and the suprahminal, though
not wholly destroyed as in the case of the complete suspension
140 Psycliolnriical Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Medinmship [part 140]
of the giving-out power, is nevertheless at times too imperfect
to permit of the subliminal effectively impressing iipon the
supraliminal those j;)arts of a message the reception of which
might in any case have been expected to prove difficult. Some
apprehension of the general sense might be imparted, but not
the expression of it in precise terms. The remedy would then
be to make the rapp)ort more perfect ;
and the intervention of
L ,
described in the D.I. we have been considering, would
be directed to this end, just as, on the other supposition, its
object would be to overcome the reluctance of the supraliminal.
Perplexing doid^ts may easily be raised with respect to both
explanations ;
but these are of a kind that are bound to
confront us so soon as we try to face the fundamental question
that has been haunting the background of our inquiry all the
time—Who or what is the “ I ” of the scripts ?
CHAPTER V
DISSOCIATION
When describing the coniiiiuiiications characteristic of Willett
phenomena as mental impressions which ajjpear to the auto-
niatist to have their origin in an agency w'hich she distinguishes
from her conscious self, I was careful to leave room for the
hypothesis which would ascribe such impressions to the action
of one dissociated element of the personality upon another.
That this hypothesis will suffice to cover the whole of the
phenomena of mediumship I do not believe. But if by dis-
sociation we mean no more than that in certain circumstances
a plurality of conscioiisnesses manifests itself where previously
there had been at least an appearance of unity, the evidence
for it is overwhelming ^
;
and I am far from denying that inter-
action of the dissociated elements may be the complete explana-
tion of some mediumistic experiences, and may enter as a
factor into many more.
There is undoubtedly something of a paradox in describing
communications as impressions which appear to the aiitomatist
to have their origin in an agency other than herself, and then
including in the scope of the term impressions which have their
origin in a part of herself. Can there be a part of herself which
is not her very self, yet may in some sense claim to be herself
in virtue of being a co-conscious element in the make iip of her
total personality ? Two consciousnesses, each with the attri-
^ “ Di.ssociation ” natui'ally suggests a precedent condition of association ;
but it would be unsafe to assume as certain tliat Ijefore dissociatioir (or after
it) the dissociated elements of a j^ersonality are in closer relation than during
dissociation. During dissociation, and while commimication is going on, they
at least interact. It is conceivable—though this is not my own view—that in
the normal state preceding and following dissociation their relation may be
that of mutual indifference and latency, and the sole bond of connection the
fact of their being asssociatod witli the same bodily organism. It is jjossible
to question even the very existence of secondary selves when not in process
of manifestation.
141
142 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
butes of a self, are manifested during dissociation. Has one
of them a better title than the other to be regarded as the true
self of the automatist ? If so, is the true self of the automatist
the consciousness which impresses, or the consciousness which
receives the impression, the agent or the percipient ? Or should
we reserve the name of true self to the unduplicated normal
consciousness which the ordinary man habitually identifies
with himself ? What, in any case, is the relation of the dis-
sociated selves to the normal consciousness before and after
dissociation ? These are difticidt questions, and to ask them
is to start other questions no less difficult. The whole subject
belongs to a region of mystery, and any attempt to unravel its
complexities must probably be for a long time to come pro-
visional and speculative. I am fully aware that any suggestions
1 may be able to offer are necessarily of this character ;
but
I am not without hope that a careful study of Willett phenomena
may at least add a few stones to the foundations on which a
satisfactory theory of human personality may eventually be
built.
In the Willett records the great majority of communications
purport to come from the spirit world. There are a few cases,
however, in winch no claim of this kind is made, and which we
may prima facie assume to be cases of impressions produced in
one dissociated element of the personality by the agency of an-
other. The lengthy passages cited on pp. 69-74 and pp. 112 ff.
are instances in point. I am afraid I must ask the reader to re-
read these with some care with a view to their bearing on the
subject of the present chapter. Let us designate the passages
in question by the letters A and B respectively.
In A, if my interpretation is right, which I admit is by no
means certain, two “ I’s ” are in evidence, an “ I ” that com-
municates certain of its experiences past and present, and an
“ I ” that receives the communication and is responsible for
reproducing it vocally. To the receiving “I ” it would appear
that the communication was being conveyed to it by an agency
other than itself. Yet the experiences described seem certainly
to be presented in a form which suggests that they are to be
taken as experiences of the automatist herself, while we have
also to identify with the automatist herself the “ I ” which
receives and utters.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willettis Meclmmship 143
On the whole I am inclined to regard the “ I ” who tells the
tale of her vision in this script as a secondary self whose com-
munication is repeated verbatim in the first person by the
receiving and recording self. Repetition in the first person of
the remarks of a communicator is a frequent occurrence in the
case of messages purporting to come from Gurney or Myers ;
and if my interpretation is right it would tend to confirm my
idea that the modus op>erandi is the same whether the communi-
cator be a secondary self or an independent spirit.
I should add that throughout the spoken portion of the
sitting I judge Mrs Willett to have been in a state of partial,
but not profound, trance.
During the experience described in B she was clearly wide
awake and fully aware of her surroundings. The drama so
vividly related by Mrs Willett begins with the self in what
I suppose we may assume to be its normal nndnplicated con-
dition. Dissociation first shows itself in a “ knock-down
”
conviction that an action contemplated by the norznal self
must not be carried out. This inhibitory impression we are
entitled to treat as a form of “communication ”.
In the next phase the dissociation is carried a step further.
Two contrasted “ minds ” appear on the stage together. (3ne
of these (called by Mrs W. Mind No. 1), which I take to be the
source of the inhibition, proceeds to cause certain movements
of the body and limbs which, from its own point of view, are
evidently purposeful. Mind No. 2 (described by Mrs Willett as
“ me as I know myself ”) plays no part in the production of the
movements, does not understand their object, and looks on at
them with wonder and incomprehension. Finally, the two
minds seem to “ flash together ” ;
normality is restored, and
“ I at once knew ”, says Mrs Willett, “ what I was to do ”.
This very remarkable experience contains several points of
special interest.
One of the questions which I mooted at the beginning of the
present chapter was whether the true self of the automatist was
to be identified (1) with the consciousness which impresses, or
(2) with the consciousness that receives the impression, or (3)
with the unduplicated normal consciousness which precedes
and follows dissociation. Mi’s Willett’s experience described
above suggests a part answer to this question by identifying the
144 Psychological Aspecis of Mrs Willetfs Alediimiship [part
mind receiving the impression (Mind No. 2) with “ me as I know
myself ”
—that is to say, with the normal consciousness. For
her these two I’s are one and the same self. If that view be
accepted—and for my part I am ready to accept and to adopt
it as my own—the position is considerably simplified. The
three selves with which we started as possible competitors in
the claim to be regarded as the true self of the automatist have
been reduced to two. It is possible, no doubt, to draw a dis-
tinction between the normal self in normal conchtions and the
same self as modified during dissociation. There may even be
some convenience in using the term “ primary self” to signify
the normal self as thus modified—provided always we are on
our guard against the mistake of treating the normal and the
primary self as distinct jisychical entities. They are the same
self—the same Ego or centre of consciousness—only with
different environment and a changed content of consciousness.
They are not two Egos, but successive states of one.
Mrs Willett’s identification of Mind No. 2 with her normal
self stands in strong contrast with the sharp distinction which
she draws between Mind No. 2 and Mind No. 1. Note that she
does not actually use the expression “ me ” or “ I ” of Mind
No. 1 at all. It might even be contended that Mind No. 1 is
not really a dissociated self, but an independent entity outside
the personality altogether. Nevertheless this was clearly not
the view of it held by Mrs Willett, nor do I believe it to be the
true view. Her own instinctive conception is implied in the
words “ The two minds flashed together, and I at once knew
what I was to do ”. She pictures to herself the two minds
joining together so as to form one mind. But the one mind is
still Mind No. 2. It is Mind No. 1 that has ceased to be in
evidence. This account of the phenomenon may not be its
correct interpretation ;
but it is clear evidence that she
regarded Mind No. 1 as part other own personality, and not as
an intrxider from outside.
Another point of interest is provided by the automatic
physical movements caused by Mind No. 1. If Mind No. 1 and
Mind No. 2 are to be regarded as roughly equivalent to the
subliminal and the supraliminal of the scripts it would seem to
follow that the subliminal is able to produce intelligent move-
ments of the body quite independently of the su|)raliminal,
140] Psychological Asjjects of Mrs WillettA Mediumship 145
and perhaps even against its will. On the other hand, in the
passage quoted on p. 130 above we are given by the communi-
cators to understand that the externalisation of messages
through voice or hand is only possible in Mrs Willett’s case to
the subliminal acting through the supraliminal. Are the two
views consistent with each other ? They do not seem easy to
reconcile. But the action of the mental on the physical is so
mysterious, and so little light is really thrown upon it by the
Willett phenomena or by the statements of the communicators
respecting “ process ”, that I prefer to leave the question
unanswered.^ So far as I recollect, the only other automatic
movements recorded among Willett phenomena which the
automatist is not only not conscious of producing, but is
conscious of not producing—are those which occurred in con-
nection with the Dorr script.- But in that case the movements
were claimed by the communicators as a telergic effect brought
about by themselves. It is very difficult to get from automatists
any precise account of the sense in which they feel their scripts
to be automatic ;
but I believe the cases in which they appear
to themselves to be looking on while the hand is being moved
by an apparently independent agency are rare. In the Willett
records the Dorr script seems to be the only clear example.
But an experience of December 8, 1908, may be w'orth noting,
when the automatist tried for script in obedience to a strong
impulse, and records that “ writing began almost before pen
touched paper ”.
I have next to call attention, but rather by way of contrast
than of resemblance, to another Willett record, as remarkable
in its way as either of those which we have just been considering.
The incident described occmrred towards the end of the waking
stage following the trance D.I. of May 13, 1912.
The automatist had already remarked that the communi-
cators were “ aU gone ”, and after a pause had opened her eyes
and looked round her, though she failed at first to recognise the
room in which we were sitting. She was still in a condition of
^ In the D.I. of May 11, 1912, quoted on pp. 135-1.38 above, the epipheno-
menal and parallelistic h5rpotheses concerning the relations of mind and body
are rejected in favour of interactionism. Othei-wise the subject is very
slightly touched upon in the Willett scripts.
- Sec p. 123 above.
146 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
partial trance, and continued to ramble on with dreamy
reminiscences of things seen and heard in the course of the
D.I. The account of what ensued is taken from a note ch’awn
up by me within two days of the sitting. I had supposed the
waking stage to be coming to an end when
—
Mrs Willett proceeded to talk m what might, save for two
pecuharities, have been taken to be a cpiite normal manner.
The two peculiarities were : (1) that, instead of looking at me,
she seemed to be for the most part deliberately looking in
another direction, or, when she did occasionally turn her eyes
straight towards me, to be focussing them on something
beyond and not on me at all ; (2) that, although the conversa-
tion was carried on between us in the ordinary way, and lasted
at least ten minutes, she never during that time seemed to
realise who 1 was, oi’ to take any trouble to do so. At one
moment I asked her point-blank to look at me and say if she
knew me. Upon that she turned towards me and answered
that she did not, but thought she might be able to make out
who I was, if she tried sufficiently hard ;
adding that she did
not wish to try just then, becau.se she wanted to go on talking
about Henry Sidgwick. In effect, the conversation was chiefly
upon H. S., though in the course of it she remarked that she
seemed to see me between two others, and thereupon took up
the pencil and drew the figure given below.
o~l o—
o
I
The middle circle, she said, was me, and the two outer ones
the others with whom I was connected. I asked whether either
or both of “ the others ” had already “ passed over ”.
“ I make the division there ”, she said, drawing the vertical
line. “ This one ” (pointing to the circle on the left), “ is on
the other side ;
you and the other are still here ”.
Her remarks about H. S. were qiiite interesting, but I made
no attempt to take thenr down in writing, as the conversation
between us was too rapid. She described the impression which
she had gathered from her suiDernormal experience of him.
Among other things she said she thought he was rather deficient
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumshi'p 147
in a feeling for things of beauty in his surromidings ;
and
pointing to the tiles of the fireplace of the drawing-room at
Grange Terrace, Cambridge, where we were sitting, she said
“ For instance, he would not mind those, whereas they would
be impossible for me She called the house Hemy Sidgwick’s
house, and on my saying it was Mrs Sidgwick’s house, insisted
that it was his, not hers, that his books were there and that he
frequently came and looked at them !
She said H. S. often put questions to her on philosophical
subjects expressed in simple language in order to find ont how
a particular view was likely to strilm the ordinary common-
sense mind. His attitude as a thinker when in the body had
been much misunderstood. He believed it woidd be many
ages before humanity reached anj'thing like a basis of certainty,
and in the mean time vast assumptions must be made. But
he did not Idte making assumptions, and often objected to the
assumptions made by Myers.
A good deal more was said, which I do not remember with
sufficient clearness to record. But the point is, that it was all
quite coherent, and that, apart from the peculiarities I have
mentioned, there was nothing to make one suspect that she
w’as not in a perfectly normal condition. No waking stage
within my experience has at all closely resemided this one ;
but some of its features appear in those of March 13th and 15th,
1912, when 0. J. L. was in charge. These cases show a similar
coherence of thought, so much so that when I first read O. J. L.’s
account I wondered whether he had not set down a good deal
that Avas uttered after Mrs Willett had become completely
normal again. In the light of what I have now myself AAutnessed,
I am more doubtful about this. It is worth noting that during
the waking stage of March 13th, 1912, Mrs Willett, although
she does recognise 0. J. L., hesitates a little, and seems not
quite confident that she is right.
The case here recorded (let us designate it by the letter C)
has one marked featime in common with both A and B. It is
not suggested in any of the three that a communicator from
outside is taking any active part in the proceedings. On the
other hand, whereas in both A and B two dissociated selves
manifest themselves simultaneously, we have apparently one
148 Psychological Asjjects of Mrs WilleWs Medium,shvp [part
speaker, and one speaker only, on the stage in C. In other
words A and B are cases of co-conscious intelligences interacting
with each other, whereas C presents the appearance of a single
intelligence chscoursing upon its own past and present experi-
ences. Does the intelligence manifesting itself in C correspond
to Mind No. 2 in B, i.e. to “ me as I know myself ”, or to Mind
No. 1 from which Mind No. 2 expressly distinguishes itself ? My
own view is that it corresponds to Mind No. 2, but to Mind No. 2
in a state of gradual transition to normality. The communica-
tors—in this case claiming to be the spirits of deceased persons
—
are said to have “ gone ”. If, instead of being what they claimed
to be, they were in reality dissociated secondary selves belonging
to the personality of the automatist, we might describe the
situation by saying that, dissociation having come to an end,
the secondary selves have vanished from ken, leaving the
})ercipient or “ primary ” self in solitary j^ossession. But this
percipient or primary self is none other than the normal self
in an abnormal phase. The identity of the “ I ” is maintained
throughout the waking stage, at the end of which it is unmis-
takably Mrs Willett’s normal self. In the transition to
normality a change has undoubtedly taken place. I hold that
this must be regarded as a change in the content of conscious-
ness of a single self, not a change from one self to another.
Probably the present case is but an outstanding example of
something that occurs in a more or less pronounced form in
every waking stage, especially when the automatist has been
deeply entranced. Even after dissociation has completely
ceased the single self may still retain some memory of its
experiences during dissociation—a memory which tends to fade
away like a dream as consciousness of its normal surroundings
returns.
To return to A and B : up to this point we have treated
dissociation as being a division of the personality into two
components, roughly corresponding to the supraliminal and the
subliminal of Myers. What warrant have we for limiting the
number of components to two ? Myers himself^ regarded
human personality as in some sense “ polypsychic ”, and
considered it “ permissible and convenient ” to treat “ a
siddiminal self” and “ siddiminal selves ” as interchangeable
'
Human Personulilt/, vol. i., sect. 112.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs WiJletfs Alediumship 149
terms. His conception of the different “ selves ” as so many
layers or strata of a single psychical entity is, as I have said,
one which I cannot accept. Bnt on the question of multi-
plicity versus duality I think he was right. Certain passages
from Willett records, in which the antomatist, speaking in the
first person, describes her experiences at the moment, either
during trance or in the course of emerging from trance, may be
quoted in support of this view ;
and we shall come across it again
later in statements attributed to the communicators themselves.
D.I. of January 21, 1912. {Present, G. W. B.)
I never saw that person before {Pause) Oh, he says, note
this—very dim. He holds up a hand. The unrecognised
strand—oh, he says, perhaps partially recognised would be
more accurate. It’s very odd, I’m only seeing him when he’s
touchmg Henry Sidgwick, and only seeing Henry Sidgwick
when he’s—Oh ! I look through L ^ at him. It’s like a
chain. Oh, there’s a chain of me’s, and then L ,
and then
him and then the dim man ^ . . .
A little later in the same sitting she says :
Oh, I understood that and I lost it. Oh, there is a me that
understands what they say, and in handing it on to the next
ME it slips and my hands are empty.
Again at the end of the waking stage in the same sitting she
remarked ;
It all seems to be whirling about—a number of me’s whirhng
round and joining to make one me.
D.I. of March 13, 1912. {Present, 0. J. L.)
[Spoken during waking stage) Oh, dear me. I don’t seem
able to arrange myself somehow—I seem all bits. Where is
me 1 Where is me ? aU whirling.
D.I. of February 28, 1914. {Present, 0. W. B.)
[Spoken during waking stage] I can’t remember who I am.
I know I’m somebody ;
and I’m all coming together, yon know,
and the bits don’t ht.
^
See footnote on p. 136. 2 The “ dim man ” is the Dark Yoiing Man.
150 Psyclioloqical Aspects of Mrs WiUeti' s MeclivAnsliip [part
[t is hard to say how far we should attach literal credence to
these statements, but J am strongly inclined to believe that they
represent at least a symbolic adumbration of the truth. The
conception, to which they clearly point, is that of a personality
consisting of a multiplicity of selves normally co-operating so
as to ])roduce the appearance of a single self, but capable of
dissociation into more or less independently-acting psychic
elements. To some such conception I think we are almost
driven ;
but the nature of the selves and of their mutual
relations remains a very obscure proldem.
A chain of mo's is represented in the first extract as connecting
with another apparently analogous chain of spirit communica-
tors ;
and in the second extract a message from the communi-
cators is said to be handed on from one me to another with
possible loss in the process of transmission.
The idea of a chain of me's may not be fundamentally incom-
patible with Myers’s conception of a unitary soul differentiated
into distinguishable strata, but nevertheless essentially one.
This is the doctrine expounded, though not, I think, with
perfect consistency, in Human Personality ;
and it is also, as
we shall see in Part II., the doctrine expounded by the group
who piu’port to communicate through Mi’S Willett’s medium
-
ship. It does not, however, appear to me to be the most
natural interpretation of Mrs Willett’s own experiences as
described by her in the passages I have quoted. Such phrases
as “ a number of me’s whirling round and joining to make one
me ” seem to apply much more aptly to individual psychic
units than to “ strata ” of a unitary consciousness. Moreover,
the description of a chain of me’s continuous with a chain of
spirit communicators surely points to a relation between the
me’s similar to the relation assumed to exist between the spirit
communicators and the medium, and between the spirit
communicators themselves—in other words, to a relation
between distinct psychic entities. The validity of this inference
does not depend on the assumption that the communicators
really are the spirits they purport to be, but rests on the
undoubted fact that that is what they are taken to be by the
auto7natist. The argument would still hold good even if we
choose to regard tfie communicators as so many adchtional me’s
masquerading as spirits.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs WIedimnship 151
Incidentally I may remark that if the relation between the
units in any place in the combined chain is telepathic, there is
good reason for supposing that it is telepathic throughout.
Whatever may he the method of communication between
the different me'
s
which form links in the chain, the chain itself
is represented as terminating in a me which observes the other
m,e's, and is the ultimate recipient of the message that is being
conveyed through them. It continues to observe the other
me's on the breaking up of the chain in the early stages of a
return to normality ;
and when the automatist uses the first
person to describe her own experiences it is always the observing
me that speaks. I have no hesitation in treating it as a phase
of the automatist’s normal self—in fact as the me to which, in
discussing the experience described in B, I have applied the
term “ primary self ”. The primary seif, I once more repeat, is
the same self as the normal self ;
but by reason of dissociation
the environment is different, and therewith the mental content
likewise.
The reader wiU not be surprised when I add that for me this
same self is also the automatist’s true self. Myers, however,
thought otherwise, holchng that the true self is to be found in
the subhminal ;
a doctrine that appears to be accepted by the
communicators in Willett scripts. The subject is one that calls
for further examination, but I prefer to leave it alone for the
present with the intention of retmaiing to it in a later chapter.
The question may be asked, Does the control of the bodily
organism during chssociation remain throughout with the
primary me, or does it on occasion pass either to a secondary me
or to a genuinely external communicator ? Whatever may be
the case with sensitives of the Piper type, my impression about
Mrs Willett is that even in trance her primary self is never
cUsplaced from general command of the organism, though some
partial chsplacement appears to have occurred in the excep-
tional instances described on p. 145 above. It is to be noted
that in both of these exceptional instances the automatist was
awake and aware of her surrounchngs.
The degree of departure from normality exhibited by the
primary self during dissociation varies widely in different cases.
Broadly speaking, it is greatest when the automatist is deeply
entranced. It is reduced almost to the vanishing point in
1")2 Psychological Aspects of Mrs WillefPs Medimnship [part
silent D.I.s and lone scripts. Here an interesting question
arises. If communications are accepted as coming from a source
within the sensitive some degree of dissociation must needs be
presumed in order to account for the fact that they appear to
reach her from an independent agency. But now let us suppose
that the communications are really what they purport to be,
namely, messages from a genuinely external source. In that
case I see no absolute necessity for postulating any degree of
dissociation however slight. An external communicator im-
pressing his message on the normal self should be at least as
effective in creating a sense of alien origin as a secondary self
communicating with a primary self. Myers, indeed, took it for
granted that a telepathic message from an external source can
only reach the supraliminal through the subhminal as inter-
mediary. This would make dissociation an invariable factor in
the process of communication from whatever source. I can
well believe that it is a frequent factor in the process, but where
the possibility of an external communicator is admitted I see
no reason for sxipposing that it is a necessary one.^
That the passage from normality through dissociation to
restored normality is a passage from at least apparent unity to
duality or plurahty and so back again is not likely to be dis-
puted. But the nature of the unity, and the relation of the
dissociated elements to the normal self before and after dis-
sociation, offer a wide field for doubt and speculation. If my
identification of the primary self with the normal self is accepted,
the problem is really concerned only with the secondary self
(or selves). When Mrs Willett in Extract B describes the
“ flashing together ” of the two minds, and in the D.I. of
January 21, 1912, speaks of a number of mPs whirling round
and joining to make one me, what is the true interpretation of
her experience ? Is it that, when combined, the various me’s
will have lost their individual identity and collapsed into a
single unitary self ? Or are we to suppose that, although they
continue to exist as individual psychic units and to interact
with the primary self, consciousness of that interaction has
ceased at least so far as the primary self is concerned ? Or,
again, should we carry tliis idea still further, and suppose that,
when the sensitive.retmms to a normal condition, the interaction
1 See pp. 276 ff. below.
140] Psi/rJinlofiiral Aspects of Mr-'f Willett's MeAiumship 153
between the primary and the secondary me's conies to an end al
together, leaving the primary me in sole occupation of the field ?
I doubt whether we are yet in a position definitely to answer
these questions, or to feel confident that even the formulation
of them is not inadequate and misleading. All three hypotheses
may be wide of the mark. But if we are to choose between them,
my own view, for what it is worth, inclines strongly to the
second as at least likely to be nearer the truth than either of
the others.
If we consider the various types of mediumistic communi-
cations as distinguished from the content in any given case, are
we driven to regard any of them as beyond the competence of a
dissociated self to produce by its own unassisted agency ? I do
not think we are. The wide range of phenomena extending from
simple dream experiences and ordinary automatic writing to
the hallucinations imposed on iVIiss Beauchamp by “ Sally ” in
the famous case described by Dr Morton Prince, seems to point
to the activity of a dissociated self as the sufficient explanation
of every type of message. True, we have still to account for the
curiously persistent claim—on that sup]3osition, fraudulent—-of
communicators to be discarnate spirits. But it is the super-
normal element in the cotitent of communications,^ coupled with
the general evidence in favour of telepathy, that chiefly throws
doubt on the all-sufficiency of the explanation.
Its insufficiency would be partly remedied if it were legitimate
to assume the existence of dissociated selves endowed with
powers of “ independent clairvoyance ”. An entity so endowed
might, out of its own resources, and without the co-operation
of any other mind, become a communicator of knowledge
supernormally acquired. I would not venture to pronounce an
explanation on these lines of certain mediumistic phenomena to
be impossible, though it could not be stretched to cover the
whole ground. But it involves an incursion into the marvellous
at least as great as the hypothesis of telepathy. The evidence
for it is insufficient in quantity and quality : in Mrs Willett’s
1 Cf. H.P., vol. ii., pp. 198-9.
- Written before I had seen Professor Rhine’s work on Extra-sensorij
Perception, which certainly establishes a prima facie case in favour of “ pure ”
clairvoyance.
154 Psychological Aspects of Mrs WilletPs Mediumshig) [part
case it is, in my opinion, wholly wanting. Certainly there is no
manifestation in her records of knowledge supernormally
obtained that could not be more easily and simply accounted
for by telepathic interaction with another mind.
Short of crediting a dissociated self with the faculty of
clairvoyantly acquiring knowledge on its own account, it is
possible to sxippose that in certain cases and in certain directions
it may possess exceptional capacities exceeding those exhibited
by the normal self. Much automatic utterance is of so feeble a
character as to suggest that the intelligence responsible for it
is inferior in capacity to the normal self. If we could be sure
that this inferiority is invariable, we should have to seek else-
where for the source of any automatic product that clearly
surpassed the limits of the automatist’s normal capacity. There
does not seem, however, to be any good reason for assuming
that dissociated selves are necessarily either inferior or superior,
mentally or morally, to the normal self. As Myers says, “ Hid-
den in the depths of our being is a rubbish-heap as well as a
treasure-house ”.
The most notable instance that I know of in the history of
psychical research, not even excepting the famous case of
Helene Smith, of a mediuniistic product exceeding what we
should expect from the known intellectixal abilities and mental
equipment of the axitomatist, is that presented by the case of
Mrs Curran, now' Mrs Rogers, an American lady who, without
going into trance, dictates in rapid and apparently unpremedi-
tated flow long novels and pieces of poetry of literary merit very
far beyond the recognised capacities of the normal self. In the
case of Helene Smith, Myers himself attributes the automatic
product to the activity of a secondary self.^ In the case of Mrs
Curran, the ostensible communicator is a discarnate spirit
calling itself Patience Worth, and claiming to have lived its
earthly life in England in the latter half of the seventeenth
century. Here also an exjxlanation has been sought in purely
subliminal insjxiration ;
and though in this particular instance
the explanation bristles with difficulties, the question of origin
mxist still be regarded as an open one. I express no opinion one
way or the other and am content to follow Dr Walter Prince,
who has devoted a whole volume to the case, and who sums up
1 HeeH.P., vol. ii., p. ].33.
140] Psychological Aspecffi of M7's Willeffs Medivmship 155
his conclusions as follows :
“ Either our concept of what we
call the subconscious must be radically altered, so as to inelude
potencies of which we have hitherto had no knowledge, or else
some cause operating through but not originating in the sub-
consciousness of Mi’S Curran must be aeknowledged If we
reject the second alternative it only remains to accept Mrs
Curran as a truly remarkable example of “ genius ” assuming
the most pronouncedly mediumistic form.
I have cited the Patience Worth case here because it seems
to me that we shall have just the same alternatives to ehoose
between when we eome to deal in the second part of this paper
with statements made in Willett scripts respecting the modus
operandi and the processes of communication. These state-
ments, and also certain philosophical disquisitions, of which a
specimen will be found in the Appendix to tliis paper, whatever
else we may think of them, show a power of thought on difficult
and abstruse subjects which, knowing Mi’s Willett as intimately
as I do, I eertainly should not have expected from her normal
self. The contrast between product and normal capacity is not
so striking in Mds Willett’s case as in that of Mrs Curran, for
Mrs Willett is a well-read and exceptionally intelligent lady,
and if she gave her mind to the subjects in question eould
doiibtless sueceed in gaining a more or less adequate grasp of
them. But, as a matter of fact, though she possesses a copy of
the abridged edition of Human Personality, and must be pre-
sumed to have read it, and is besides aequainted with the
contributions made by Mrs Verrall, Mr Piddington, Miss
Johnson, and Sir Oliver Lodge to vols. xx., xxi., xxii., xxiv., and
XXV. of the Proceedings of the S.P.R., the psychological aspects
of psychical research have singularly little interest for her.
They have seldom been mentioned between us ;
and judging
from remarks that have fallen from her from time to time,
I should say that her normal understanding of them is very
much below the level reached in the treatment of them in her
scripts. If I had before me only those Willett scripts to which
I have been referring, I franldy admit that I should have been
at a loss whether to attribute them to subliminal activity or to
a source entirely outside the personality of the medium.
Probably, like Dr Walter Prince, I should be content to suspend
judgment. But having before me the whole of the Willett
156 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willeft's Mecliumship [part
scripts, and being in a ]iositinn to com]iare them with the scripts
of other antomatists of onr gronj) and with facts known to me
Inxt not known to Mrs Willett herself, I am personally of opinion
that they contain evidence of supernornially acquired knowledge
which no mere subliminal mentation will suffice to account for.
My readers are not in this position, and for reasons stated in the
introduction to this paper T cannot put them in possession of
the considerations that have chiefly weighed with me. All they
have to go upon in the way of evidence of supernormal com-
munications is that provided by the papers already published
in the Proceedings of the Society and mentioned in the intro-
duction. I cannot complain if they do what I should probably
do in their place, and suspend Judgment. And that, indeed, is
all I ask them to do.
I conclude this chapter with some brief reflections arising out
of a comparison of mediumship with genius—the latter term
being here used in the sense given to it by Myers, which makes
its essential characteristic to consist in the interaction of supra-
liminal with svdiliminal mentation.^ Myers’s definition deliber-
ately excludes from the scope of genius inspiration directly
proceeding from a spiritual source ^
;
and in this respect it is
])lain that mediumship extends to a wider field than genius,
for it includes all communications that seem to the automatist
to proceed from some independent source, irrespective of the
question whether that source be genuinely external or what
Myers calls subliminal.
From my point of view—that is to say, in relation to the
nature of the process—this limitation of the field of genius seems
arbitrary, and even irrelevant. 1 am unwilling to regard
inspiration proceeding from a mental source within the per-
sonality as essentially different in kind from inspiration pro-
ceeding from a mind external to it. Biit apart from the
limitation in question, what, if any, is the distinction between
genius as understood by Myers and mediumship ? There are
cases on record where genius takes a purely mediumistic form.
1 Of. H.P., vol. i., 25. 71.
2 Incidentally I may remark that it also involves a refusal to admit that
the sui^raiiminal consciousness is ca23able on its own account of producing a
work of genius—a Ihnitation which I cannot but regard as arbitrary and
unsupported by evidence.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's MediumsTiip 167
“ On ne travaille pas ”, wi’ites De Musset, “ on ecoute, c’est
comme un inconnu qui vous parle a I’oreille ^ The very
words might have been used by Mrs Willett in describing her
silent D.I.s. The experience of Helene Smith and JVIrs Cmran,
to which I have already referred, however interpreted, seem to
be phenomena of the same order. A distinction between genius
and mediumship is evidently not to be looked for where dis-
sociation is as clearly manifested as it was in the case of De
Musset. It is where there is no manifest evidence of dissociation
that genius, conceived as successful co-operation of subliminal
with supraliminal elements, parts company with mediumshij).
When a medium’s apprehension of a “ message ” as proceeding
from an agency other than herself comes to an end the niediuni-
istic activity as such ceases with it. It is otherwise with the
activity of genius. If genius consists, as Myers holds, in the
interaction of subhminal with supraliminal mentation, we must
recognise that in the majority of cases that interaction goes on
subconsciously so far as the normal self is concerned. The
thoughts resulting from it in the conscious mind wiU then
appear to that mind to be its own thoughts, not thoughts
impressed on it from elsewhere. I am far from denying that
there may be truth in this conception. But it is obvious that
it must be a matter of inference. I do not see how we can have
direct evidence of it.
^ Quoted in H.P., vol. i., p. 89.
PART II
INTRODUCTORY
In Part I. of this paj)er I have considered the phenomena of
Mrs Willett’s inediumship mainly in the light thi’own upon
them by the observation of the investigators, and by the
comments and descriptions of her experiences provided by the
sensitive herself either in retrospect or during the actual course
of the sittings. My next task will be to extract from the records
and set forth as clearly as I can the statements pm’porting to
come from the communicators, and to express their views upon
the psychology of inediumship and the methods and processes
of communication.
These statements, as might have been anticipated, from
whatever som’ce they really proceed, show general conformity
with the opinions held by Myers and expounded in his great
work on Human Personality. But the conformity is by no means
complete ;
the differences wiU, I think, be foimd of no less
interest than the resemblances. Moreover, in the description
of the modus operandi in certain cases the scripts present us
with an elaboration of detail to which nothing in Human
Personality, or, so far as I know, an3rwhere else in the hterature
of the subject can fairly be said to correspond.
Though the communicators usually speak as with the
authority of an insight claiming to be superior to ours, it is
interesting to note how repeatedly and emphatically they insist
upon the hmitations of them knowledge, and on the need for
continued research and experiment on their own side as well as
on ours. The following extracts illustrate this point.
Lone Script of October 16, 1908. {Myers communicating.)
. . . much is unknown to us even and you are all far behind
us hi knowledge . . .
158
[part i4,o'\Pstjcliological Aspects of Mrs Willett' s Mediumsliip 159
Lone Script of November 3, 1908. {Myers communicating.)
... I cannot explain half the mysteries of Life yet but I see
more than you do . . .
Lone Script of January (j, 1909. {Myers communicating.)
. . . experiments are necessary here as on earth constant
experiments with machines no 2 of which are alike . . .
Lone Script of January 28, 1909. {Myers communicating.)
... I am now going to begin fresh experiments you might
tell Mrs V. when opportunity occurs that the need for experi-
ment from this side has not been sufficiently grasped on your
side . . .
Lone Script of February 2, 1909. {Myers communicating.)
. . . The very active branch of our work this side is the
experimental branch . . .
Lone Script of April 9, 1909. {Myers sends a message to
0. J. L.)
. . . Remember there is as much room in some ways for
speculation here as with you and many mysteries remain
mysteries only approached from other and higher standpoints . .
.
Lone Script of April 22, 1909. {Alessage from Alyers to
0. J. L.)
. . . When I speak of emotional radiation 1 am speaking of
a law as yet but very partially understood by me. I can see
the result but much in regard to its workmg is obscure to me . . .
Lone Script of April 30, 1909. {Flyers, in answer to a request
from 0. J. L. for information on certain scientific problems.)
. . . Much and more than you suspect is absolutely hidden
from me Myers the small amount in one way of accretion of
knowledge which succeeds Myers ^ bodily dissolution is a
surprise to every spirit that crosses the Rubicon . . .
^ The apparently superfluous introduction of the name of the communi-
cator even in the middle of a sentence is frequent in the Lone Scrqjt of Mrs
Wfllett’s early period. The purpose to be served by this device is not very
clear. It is not often found in later scripts.
1()0 Psychological Asijects oj Mrs Willett's MedimnshijJ [part
Lone Script of March 20, 1910. {Message from Myers to
0. J. L.)
... Re J) 1 1 think Gurney’s plan a distinct improvement
on mine the formal repetition word for word and sentence for
sentence seems to trouble the machine it is better to let her
give the sense—using as far as she can the words given to her
But not straining after complete verbal accuracy anyhow for
the present The facidty shoidd diveloy) [sic] It is but little
understood so far and we must experiment to find out upon
which lines it will best come to maturity . . .
D.I. of May (5, 1910. {Present, 0. J. L.)
[ J/yers speaking
\
He says that if he lived for ever the study
of new sensitives would never lose interest for him. There are
so many varying conditions and self-induced difficulties. Many
of these really come from self-hallucination of individual minds,
who would stereotype the phenomenon ;
but it’s best to let it
grow its own way unhampered, free, serene and calm ;
above
all, calm and free . . .
l).l. of May 21, 1910. {Presenl, O. J. L.)
[Probably Gurney speaking] . . . There is an awful danger
in your thinking, a heap of you, that the learning stage is so
much over now that you can think you have precedents, can
lay down rules, and that sensitives can be standardised.
Whereas, as a matter of fact, there are many varieties, and
you can’t lay down canons, you can’t bring them up to a
standard. You have still much to learn, so have we . . .
[Myers speaking] No one is so overpowered by my ignorance
as I am,—I, Myers. Every machine is different, and experience
is the sole instructor . . .
Lone Script of June 19, 1910. {Myers communicating.)
. . . Say this The Ideal is the Real What men call Visionary
is the Bare fact What they call fact is often evanescent vapour
which will melt into nothingness before the light of truth
I yearn to say the bare bones are the luireal the Magic
Vhsion Holy Grail is the Actual 1 am feeling after much that
is yet obscure to me My knowledge is fragmentary and as
I progress I feel its limits more . . .
I4(jj Psychological Asj)ects of Mrs Willetfs MecUumship IGl
JJ.I. of August 26, 1910. {Present, Airs Verrall.)
[Henry Sidgivick speahing\ . . , What is inspiration, if 1 only
knew. It’s the defect of knowledge here that causes confusion.
Wonderfully similar is our condition in regard to knowledge of
reaching back, as yours of reaching up . . .
D.I. of September 21, 1910. [Present, 0. J. L.)
. . . H. S. said. If 1 only knew what inspiration was ! Note,
this had meaning as showing our lack of knowledge. We see
hints, but the chain is not properly apprehended by us . . .
D.I. of September 24, 1910. [Present, 0. J. L.)
[On August 4, Mrs Willett had recorded that between II a.iii.
and 12.45 p.m. she heard the “ persistent ticking of a clock,
intermittent, coming from near the mantelpiece. When I went
up to it it stopped. I did this several times, and after an inter-
val it began again. There is no clock in the room.” Early in
the sitting of September 24 O. J. L. records that there came a
“ rap ”, which he could not locate, but which was certainly
objective. Later on further reference was made to the subject,
as follows :]
[Gurney speaking} What do you make out about super-
normal phenomenon here ?
(O. J. L. took this to be asking about his own attitude tow'ards
physical jjhenomena in general ;
so he saitl, “ l)o you mean
j^hy.sical phenomena ? ”)
[Gurney] There was one here.
[0. J. L. Do you mean the raps 1)
[Gimiey] Yes, not only raps, there was the clock. It was
not hallucination—not hallucination in my sense, as I used
the word. It’s objective.
[0. J. L. I wish you would tell me more about those things.)
[Gurney] You’re not going to get to the proof of survival
that way.
[O. J. L. No, I know, but they are mteresting in themselves.)
[Gurney] You never seem to reahse how little we know.
I’m not—sometimes I know and can’t get it through, but very
often I don’t know.
[O. J. L. Yet you seemed to be producing those raps some-
how.)
[Gurney] They never occur unless in the presence of a medium.
162 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
{0. J. L. Yes : that’s why I fancy they are physiological.)
\Chirney'] There’s something physiological that is usable,
and it is occasionally used with intention, but very often it’s
merely incidental to the type of machine. I’m most careful
not to—about me he says—we don’t want it here, he says, but
the capacity sometimes is useful for rehrforcmg evidence . . .
D.I. of January 21, 1912. {Present, G. W. B.)
[Gurney speaking~\ . . . Sidgwick is always pointing out the
liabihty to misinterpretation which the use of analogies and
terms proper to one department of knowledge being imported
into unmapped, ill-mapped regions
Trance-script preceding D.I. of May 11, 1912. {Present,
G. W. B.)
[Gurney speaking\ ... I think Ahce ^ must be having per-
sonal experience of the higher kuid of telepathy the touch of
soids through means other than those of sense.
If for you the observing of that phenomena [6'ic] between
the living-livmg and the living-dead is mteresting let it not
be forgotten how profoundly interesting for us is the investiga-
tion of a like phenomena between the hvhig-living and the
living-hving.
To study that in this sensitive plant ^ is an important part of
our research work, and has a dii'ect bearing upon our own
efforts to increase onr powers of “ touch ”. Do you see.
{0. W. B. I see perfectly.)
We learn : and the extraordmary weavmg of threads between
mind and mind and the subconscious processes (continuing
on in intervals when the conscious selves are quite imoccupied
with the subject) ^ of the Agent Percipient and Percipient
Agent is an eternal revelation to us . . . We find a rich field
for observation classification and study in the Filaments . . .
and threads woven between the selves of A. J. and ^
1 /.e. Miss Alice Johnson, who had recently been in Mrs Willett’s company g
^ By “ this sensitive plant ” is meant the Automatist.
® The brackets in this sentence have been added by me in order to make the
meaning plain.
1 The “ dash ” here represents a mck-name apphed by Gurney to the
sensitive. It was written very slowly and letter by letter, probably in order
to avoid rousing her attention.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'‘s Mediumship 163
Tell A.J. that the action of mind on mind is a problem to tis
and the subject of investigation as bearing upon our own efforts
to communicate We give thanks and claim her as a laboratory
subject ... we are accmnulating experience and data
Research on both sides. Frank ^ wants that clear infinitely
complex—patient toil, here a little and there a little
I will speak now a moment and then must be gone—But
I have got 1 point through that I wanted our study of the
interaction of mmd on mind, embodied minds as bearing on
the like interaction between minds of discarnate personalities
[and embodied minds] ^
These repeated admissions of ignorance should not be lost
sight of in any judgment we may form of the value to be
attached to dogmatic statements by the communicators. They
also convey an impressive warning of the extreme difficulty and
complexity of the subject, and of the danger of making confident
generalisations upon insufficient data.
1 See footnote on p. 138.
2 The words “ and embodied minds ” are not in the original record, but
are required to make clear what I have no doubt is the meaning of the passage.
CHAPTER I
TELEPATHY, TELEPvGY, POSSESSION
As we ah'eady had occasion to notice, there is nothing in Mi-s
Willett’s medinmship corresponding to the “ control ” which
forms such a characteristic feature in that of Mrs Piper, Mi’s
Leonard, and other trance -mediums. Whatever may be its true
nature, the control represents itself as the surviving spirit of
somebody once in the flesh, which for the time being supplants
the spirit of the medium in the use of the physical organism,
whether to express its own ideas or to transmit messages from
other spirits. In the latter case it is these other spirits who are
spoken of as “ communicators ”, and the process by which they
communicate with the control is jJi'esuniably assumed to be
telepathic, though I do not think this is always made clear.
Sometimes, however, the control itself gives place to a communi-
cator, who is then said to be in “ direct communication ” ;
i.e.
the relation of the direct communicator to the medium is in no
essential respect different from that of the regular control when
the regular control is expressing its own ideas and not trans-
mitting messages from others. Direct communication is, in fact,
equivalent to control ;
and certain of Mrs Piper’s trance-
personalities, who began as communicators, ended by them-
selves taking on the j)art of regular controls, transmitting
messages from other spirits and generally assuming charge of
the organism of the medium. In control and direct communi-
cation so conceived there does not seem to be any room for
telepathy in the commonly accepted apjflication of the term,
which limits it to interaction between one mind and another.
The process is telergical, not telepathic. The self of the medium
is off the stage altogether, and what we are left with is the
controlling spirit using the physical organism of the medium to
convey its message to the sitter.
In communications of the Willett type, on the other hand,
the self of the medium is never oil the stage, and telepathy
104
[part 140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumsh ip 165
would seem to be of the essence of the process. The difference
is important, and great stress is laid upon it in the Willett
scripts by the communicators themselves.
Let us now see what they have to say on the subject.
Lone Script of February 2,
1909 . [Myers communicating.)
... Re telepathy : Obviously not matter to matter, equally
—tliough not so obviously—not mind to matter—mind to
mind—^Note that—quite transcending matter, it is from the
persisting element of discarne—to the persistible element still
incarnate . . .
Lone Script of March 4,
1909 . [Myers communicating.)
. . . Myers I wish to go back to telepathy . . .Not from
brain to brain as matter no not at all in that line will you
reach the idea it is beyond matter . . .
yes repeat repeat re
telepathy that it must be conceived of in terms of super-
sensual law. Nor must it be supposed to be of one quality or
grade but of varied degrees this is a point ill expressed but a
point. Degrees and types not similar but allied. Therefore do
not go with those who would explain it as a merely material
function as yet imperfectly understood. Lift it right out of
that . . .
D.I. of May 21 ,
1909 .
[Present, Mrs Verrall. This ivas the
first sitting in jyresence of a .sitter, and the first spoken D.I.)
. . . There is nothing telergic m this case ;
it is purely
telepathic . . .
Lone Script of June 10,
1909 .
[Myers communicating.)
. . . The response to some extent—how large an extent I do
not yet exactly know—the response conditions the power the
power of transmission. All telergic phenomena is [sic.] clumsy
and creakmg creaking in comparison with telepathic medium.
It is to telepathy that I look for the nearest approach to perfect
intercommunication between Met Etherial and terrene Strata
and I sum up one aspect in those words Thoiight leaps out to
wed with thought . . .
Lone Script of August 20 ,
1909 .
[Gurney communicating.)
. . . Myers dislikes the word control in regard to us ... in
the case of your Scs Myers says it will lead to idea of possession
1 fiT) Psyclmlogicftl Aspects of Mrs Willett's Merlium,ship [part
invasion tellurgical [sic.] control. It is the exercise of pure
telepathic Modus Operandi Myers wants this made clear . . .
D.I. of January 27, 1910. [Present, Mrs Verrall.)
. . . Myers—make clear that this is telepathy, not speaking
to physical part or counterpart of physical parts, mind
incarnate in touch with mind discarnate . . .
Lone scriptt of March 7, 1910. [Myers communicating.)
. . . Go back to telepathy one moment Not not of the
Organism nor of any shadow of it not pertaining to Matter
not the result of any physical pecuharity No it is the law of
the Metetherial it is the mark of evolution evolution in human
faculty the extension of man’s powers not evolved by the
friction of material self-preservation Not protoplasmic but
Cosmic . . .
D.I. of April 5, 1910. [Present, Mrs Verrall.)
. . .
[Henry 8idgwick speaking) I do not call this a machine
—the notion of mechanism is a false one—but a sport.—Mendel,
not Sohn . . .
D.I. of May 6, 1910. [Present, 0. J. L.)
Edmund Gurney. Tell Lodge I don’t want this to develop
into trance. You have got that, we are doing something new.
Then he says Telepathy. If you want to see the . . . labour of
getting anything telergic done here, he can see the word DORR.
That was a case of that word with two I’s and a t.^ That word
[i.e. the ivord DORR] had to be given in that way after efforts
had been made to convey it telepathically without success. It
was a great strain on both sides. We don’t want to move any
atom in the brain directly.
[0. J. L. Am I to understand then that when you do it
telergically you do move atoms in the brain ?)
No, we bring to bear certain currents. He says Thunder and
Lightning.2
^
See footnote on p. 124 above.
2 I suspect that Gurney has misunderstood the question put to him, and
that his answer refers to telepathic communication and its subsequent exter-
nahsation in speech or writing. This is certainly the sense in which the
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’ s Meddumship 167
D.I. of May 21, 1910. {Present, 0. J. L.)
\_Myers communicating] . . . Are you clear we wish to avoid
trance ?
{O. J. L. Yes, I understand that. You regard this as some-
thing new and different.
)
Sidgwick, in a way, thought there might be some suggestion
from seeing Mrs Piper ui trance ;
^ but it’s not been so. The
bunglings of the new method may be worth more than the
perfectmg of the old. . . . Oh, Lodge, there is one thing that is
very uppermost in my mind. I’m trusting this machine to you,
Lodge. You are not to let her try sitting—Yes, write that word
—You are not to let anyone else experiment with her but Mrs
Verrall. I won’t answer for it if you let anyone else meddle.
{0. J. L. No, I quite understand that you do not want her
to do Mrs Piper’s sort of work . . .)
Lodge, there is a terrible competition. You can take an
analogy from land, property—a preserve, my preserve. That
is complete here in this machine. She is not one taken over
from a hundred other influences. It is like reclaimed land,
ownership undisputed.
Now Gurney says that Lodge will go wong there, and will
think that you mean possession. There is no possession . Lodge
must not get that idea into his head.
{0. J. L. Do you mean that there is no such thing as pos.ses-
sion, or no possession in this case ?
)
There is possession, but not here. Fred says if he could only
have Mrs Piper to himself and you and me . . .
Lone script of June 25, 1910. {Gurney communicating.)
Telepathy not possession is your work—with Mrs Piper it is
possession We don’t turn you out we use you where you are.
D.I. of August 25, 1910. {Present, Mrs Verrall.)
[H. Sidgivick reported as saying] . . . look not to immediate
simile of lightning and thunder is used in a very early Willett script (November
22, 1908) :
“ (To my complaining that words in my mind tripped up my pen ;) Yes,
that is it that is telepathy the machine or pen and slower like lightning
and thunder write to record.”
^ On May 9, 1910, O. J. L. and Mrs Willett had an appointment with Mrs
Piper at the rooms of the S.P.R.
1 fiS Psi/rhnlof/iral A '^perts of Mrs WiJIeU's Mediumship [part
success but tn improved methods. Silence is essential in this
case. It is no disembodiment, but impact from outside. It’s
like reaching something just out of reach . . .
[Myers speaking'] . . . distracting sounds—stuff your ears
[to Mrs W. She the,reupon did.] Check any sign of trance [to Mrs
F.] This is a new stage : the first steps are better than the
swiftest crawl. Remove your hands [to Mrs IF.], it hinders your
hearing [Mrs W. took her hands aivay from her ears. Then she
said' :] Oh, it’s Fred . . .
D.J. of Atigust 26, 1910. {Present, Mrs Verrall.)
[H. Sidgwick ,‘ipeaking] . . . the dovdile difficulty to grasp
and to give
{Mrs V. What ?)
i
losing touch now—receding—she is receding. What is
inspiration, if 1 only knew . . .
Script of September 25, 1910. {Present, O. J. L.) ^
[Gurney conincunicating] . . . She is very dazed Look {O.J.L.
looked and saw her apparently slightly entranced, so he said
Ought I to wake her up ?)
/ will. 1 don’t want her to develop into a second Piper.
{The way in which the hand mandered over the paper was now
rejnini.seerit of Piper conditions. O. J . Ij. said : No, I know you
considei’ we have had that a7ul that now you are arranging
something different.)
N e w.
Lone Script of December 25, 1910.
[William James communicating] . . . To attempt is best
I believe it 1 first person singular Not F W H M though he
moves Tuechanism for me objects to this as implying telergical
phenomena . . .
[Myers connnn.nicating] 1 have been doing something new
Letting a jiarticipation l)e Participation of control 1 the
mechanical no the mechanic other the Steerer.
* Ml’S Verrall explains that she interposed with this question because Mrs
Willett seemed near trance, and she had been told the day before to check
any appearance of ti’ance.
“ For the circumstances connected with this script and my comments see
nntea, pp.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mecliumship 169
Script of February 9, 1911, preceding D.I. {Present, 0. J. L.)
[Gurney communicating^ ... Is there any more yon want to
ask me Lodge ?
(0. J. L. Yes, I want to ask wherein the difference consists
between Piper phenomena and Willett phenomena ; they seem
both under similar control now.)
Control implies erroneous thought I am not tellergically
[sic] here not replacing the spirit of the vehicle but using it
where it is telepatliically There is a complete difference from
Piper methods here I merely submerge normal supraliminal
and telepatliically use the subliminal And what does the term
extraliminal convey ^
(0. ./. L. Well, it conveys something round about, or outside
the mechanism, not entering into it.)
No, she remains the totality of herself I impress her by
thoughts It is she who uses the nerve {drawing of zigzag
line) from her, physiologically
{0. J. L. Yes, I understand, the physiological mechanism is
hers, you exercise only mental or psychical influence.)
Psychic yes . . .
Lone Script of April 16, 1911. {Myers communicating.)
. . . Myers Let me again emphasise the difference that exists
between Piper and Willett phenomena the former is possession
the complete all but complete vdthdrawal of the spirit the
other is the blending of incarnate and excarnate spirits there
is nothing telergic it is a form of telepathy the point we have
to study is to find the line where the incarnate spirit is suffi-
ciently over the border to be in a state to receive and yet
sufficiently controlling by its own power its own supraliminal
and therefore able to transmit.
We don’t therefore desire the kind of trance that is of Piper
essence though we could and sometimes have induced much
the same thing ^ Get this clear We want the operator to be
^
The term “ extraliminal ” does not occur elsewhere in Willett scrijats.
It is apparently used here to denote the external relation of the communicator
to the entire self of the sensitive.
^ This cannot refer to the “ Dorr incident ”, because on that occasion the
sensitive remained fully awake and aware of her surroundings. I imagine
the commiuiicator must have had in mind some medium or mediums other
than either Mrs Willett or Mrs Piper.
M
170 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
so linked with its mechanism as to control that mechanism
herself We want her also to be so linked to us as to be able to
receive definite telej)athic wnite the word radiation there is
one glory of the snn and another of the stars there is the
medinmistic gift of emitting and the other gift of receiving . . .
Script of January 10, 1914. {Present, 0. J. L.)
... we do not want to be involved in automatists not of our
own choosing investigate as you will but leave us and our subjects
entirely out of it—You have to have the agency of a reflecting
mind a mind to act as Reflector Hold on to that idea
and remember there are lower and higher forms of manifesta-
tion and in the higher telepathy yjlays the dominant part . . .
Trance-script of April 15, 1918. {Present, O.J.L.)
F. W. H. M. This is not pos.session Lodge not in the sense
of a direct control the element of telepathy is greater than that
of the ordinary direct control . . .
These pronouncements leave no donbt concerning the views
of the communicators on the essentially mental character of
Mrs Willett’s mediumship. According to them not only is the
message tele])athically conveyed to the subliminal of the
sensitive, but in certain cases, if not in all, it passes from her
subliminal to her suynaliniinal by what can only be conceived
as a mental process before it is externalised in the form of
speech or writing. The actual externalisation seems to be
represented as the work of the snj)raliminal. As we shall see
later the communicators do not admit the passage of thought
from s\d)liminal to supraliminal to be telepathic. But if it is
not telc])athic, what is it ? To this point we shall have occasion
to return hereafter.
The extracts collected above raise another question to which
no clear answer seems to be provided in the scripts themselves.
The communicators more than once deprecate trance in Mrs
Willett’s case, yet the course of development of her mediumship
is clearly in the direction of trance. Her earUer communications
came to her when she was in a state practically indistinguish-
able from normality—when, indeed, any suspicion of abnor-
mality rested entirely on the mere fact of communications being
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's 31ediumship 171
received.^ Nor has the method of communication by lone
scripts and silent D.I.s ceased at any period to be employed,
though it has been supplemented by automatic writing and
utterance obtained in the presence of a sitter and showing a
continuous progress through light trance to deeper trance,
ultimately culminating in a state in which the sensitive loses all
consciousness of her surroundings except of the presence of the
sitter, and on awaking retains no memory of what has happened
during the sitting.
How is this consistent with the distinct statements made by
the communicators that they “ do not want this to develop
into trance ”, or with the instruction given to Mrs Verrall at
the sitting of August 25, 1910, to check any appearance of
trance ?
I have already given in Chapter I. of Part I. what I hope may
be accepted as a satisfactory explanation of the difficulty (see
p. 56 above). The communicators were putting Mrs Willett
through a course of gradual training in mediumship. They were
aiming at something new, and by something new they meant
something different from the Piper trance—namely a condition
in which, though the sensitive lost consciousness of her sur-
roundings and memory of what happened during the sitting, she
nevertheless, unlike IVIi’s Piper, retained consciousness of her
own personality throughout. To refuse to apply the term
“ trance ” to such a condition seems to me misleading, and
I have not thought it desirable in this matter to follow the
example of the communicators and depart from established
usage. In the early days of her mediumship the idea of passing
into trance was repugnant to Mrs Willett. The communicators
may have avoided the word partly from fear of alarming her,
but chiefly, I think, they did so in order to emphasise the
novelty of the type of mediumsliip at which they were aiming.
They certainly have avoided the word most successfully. In
the whole series of scripts I can only And one clear instance of
its being used to describe Willett conditions. Elsewhere it
always means trance d la Piper.
^
The mere fact of communications being received would not of itself be
a valid ground for inferring abnormabty if we could be sme that they were
derived from an extraneous source and not from a dissociated self. See on
this point my remarks on p. 152 above.
172 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Medimnship [part
The novelty, then, consists in this, that even in deep trance
Mrs Willett retains a consciousness of self, whereas Mrs Piper
loses all sense of her own personality^
Why is so much importance attached to this difference ? It
is because it involves the whole difference that separates
telepathy from telergy, and telepathic communication from
“ possession So long as the self of the medium is in evidence
the natural presumption is that any commimication from out-
side must be between mind and mind ;
but if the self is wholly
eliminated the externalisation of the message must be effected
by direct action on the physical organism of the medium by
the outside agency itself.
Concerning the phenomena of the Piper trance the views
expressed or implied in Willett script are, broadly speaking, the
same that we find in Human Personality. The Myers of the
scripts and the author of Human Personality are at one in
treating the essential feature in Mrs Piper’s case to be “ pos-
session ”, by which is meant that the spirit of the medium
quits the body and that its place is taken by an invading
extraneous spirit. No attempt is made either in Human
Personality or in the scripts to elucidate the process by which
the invading spirit controls the physical organism, but it is
practically taken for granted—and I do not see what other
hypothesis is open to us—that “ the extraneous spirit acts on a
man’s organism in very much the same way as the man’s own
spirit habitually acts upon it
Possession, in short, in the wider sense of the term, is simply
that relation of a mind to a body which enables it to interact
with and control the body. From the point of view of process
it does not seem to matter whether the control be exercised by
an invachng spirit or by the mind normally associated with the
body.^ Of comse, the question remains whether such invasion
^ Whether t]ie coinmiinicators are justified iu describing tiie peculiarity
as new I cannot say with confidence, though I do not think any case quite
like Mrs Willett’s is to be found in Human Personality. Of late years Mrs Salter
(Miss Helen Verrall), sitting with her husband as recorder, passes into trance
without losing consciousness of self ;
but her trance is a light one.
“H.P., vol. ii., jD. 197.
^ Possession of the organism by a dissociated fragment of the medium’s
personality is abundantly recognised by Myers, though he prefers to describe
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship 173
ever actually takes place, and in particular whether the
“ regular controls ”—Phinuit and the Imperator Band—are
entitled to be regarded as extraneous spirits.
The Myers of Human Persoyiality ended by accepting as
independent excarnate spirits not only the communicators
—
some of whom purport to take on occasion the place of the
regular controls and “ possess ” the vacated body of the
medium—but also the regular controls themselves, in spite of
the very strong arguments for regarding these, at least, as
dissociated elements of the mechum’s own personality. The
independent status of the regular controls is not disputed in
Willett script, but neither is it so unambiguously affirmed as to
constitute a definite pronoimcement. Phinuit is never referred
to in the scripts, the Imperator Band only once, and that in
reply to a direct question put by Sir 0. J. L. The answer then
given was so vague and evasive—a thing rare in Willett script
—that one is tempted to read into it a desire to avoid any
expression of opinion on the subject.
The contrast drawn in Willett scripts between the WiUett
phenomena and those of the Piper trance rests, as I have said,
upon the distinction between telepathy and telergy, telergical
action being the modus operandi of a spirit in possession of the
medium’s physical orgamsm.
Once, and apparently only once, in the case of IVIrs WiUett
are we given to understand that telergical methods were
employed in place of telepathic. This was when the name Dorr
was telergicaUy written, after attemjDts to get it written by
telepathic communication had failed. Yet even on this occasion
we have to note a fundamental divergence from the Piper type
of possession. In the Piper trance, we are told, there is “ com-
plete or all but complete withdrawal of the spirit ”, and an
extraneous invading spirit takes its place. When the name
Dorr was written, on the other hand, there was not even an
approach to trance : the automatist was awake and aware of
it by the term control, and to reserve the term possession for possession by
an extraneous spirit. He admits, however, that to discriminate one from the
other may be a very difficult task, and that in forming a judgment we have
to fall back on the content of the commrmications received—that is to say,
on inferences drawn from other than psychological considerations. (See
H.P., vol. ii., p. 198 ;
also p. 153 above.)
174 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'' s Mediumship [pabt
what was going on. If the Dorr incident was really a case of
“ possession ”, it was a case of possession shared between the
invading spirit and the spirit of the medium. Instances of the
shared possession of the organs of speech and of voice by two
distinct controls have occurred in the history of Mrs Piper’s
mediumship, but the controls in such cases have always
purported to be invading spirits. A closer parallel is provided
by the experience of Mrs Willett recorded on pp. 112-113 above,
when Mind No. 1 seemed to control the body while Mind No. 2
looked on and wondered ;
but there was no question there of
either “ mind ” being other than a dissociated element of the
sensitive’s own personality.
The Myers of the Willett scripts and the Myers of Human
Personality agree, as we have seen, in the descriptions which
they give of the nature of the Piper trance -phenomena. But
as soon as we pass from mere description to consider the com-
parative significance to be attached to the two methods of
communication—the telergic and the telepathic—the agree-
ment ceases. To the Myers of Human Personality “ possession
”
I’epresented the culminating point of perfection in the methods
of communication with the spirit world. ^ He also reached the
paradoxical conclusion that tele2
Dathy, carried to its highest
1 Cf. H.P., vol. ii., j3p. 189-90. “ On the whole, I did not then [he. in 1888]
anticipate that the theory of possession could be presented as more than a
plausible .speculation, or as a supplement to other lines of proof of man’s
survival of death. The position of things, as the reader of the S.P.R. Pro-
ceedings knows, has in the last decade undergone a complete change. The
trance j^henomena of Mrs Piper—so long and so carefully watched by Dr
Hodgson and others—formed, I think, by far the most remarkable mass of
psychical evidence till then adduced in any quarter. And more recently
other series of trance phenomena with other ‘
mediums ’
—though still
incomplete—have added materially to the evidence obtained tlrrough Mrs
Piper. The result broadly is that these phenomena of possession are now
the most amply attested, as well as intrinsically the most advanced, in our
whole repertory.
“ Nor again is the mere increment of direct evidence, important though that
is, the sole factor m the changed situation. Not only has direct evidence
grown, but indirect evidence, so to say, has moved to meet it. The notion
of personality—of the control of organism by spirit—has gradually been so
modified that possession, which passed till the other day as a mere survival
of savage thought, is now seen to be the consummation, the furthest develop-
ment, of many lines of exi^eriment, observation, reflection, which the preceding
chapters have opened to our view,”
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'' s Mediumship 175
degree, passes into possession. “ In the incursion of the
possessing spirit ”, he writes, “ we have telepathic invasion
achieving its completest victory In other words telepathy
from an extraneous spirit achieves its completest victory when
it ceases to be telepathy and becomes telergy.
It is from a similar standpoint that, in his “ Scheme of Vital
Faculty ” f he places “ possession ” higher in the scale than
“ ideation inspired by spirits Mrs Willett is an example of
the latter, Mrs Piper of the former.
The Willett scripts, on the contrary, seem to assign a higher
place to telepathy than to possession. See especially the lone
script of June 10, 1909, quoted in the above collection of
extracts :
The response to some extent—how large an extent I do not
yet exactly know—the response conditions the power of
transmission. All telergic phenomena is clumsy and creaking
in comparison with telepathic medium. It is to telepathy that
I look for the nearest approach to perfect intercommunication
between Met Etherial and terrene Strata and I sum up one aspect
in those words Thought leaps out to wed with thought.
If the Myers of Humayi Personality and the Myers of the
scripts are one and the same, this statement reads like a retrac-
tation of the opinion expressed in his book.
Is it possible to effect a rapprochement between the two
types of phenomena ? What seems to be required for this
purpose is some kind of “ telepathic possession ”. Suggestions
of this are to be found in Human Personality, and some-
thing more than suggestions in the Willett scripts. When
Myers tells us that “ in the incursion of the possessing spirit we
have telepathic invasion achieving its completest victory ”, his
idea seems to be that the telepathic invader actively displaces
the spirit of the sensitive, and only when that displacement is
complete, or all but complete, does true possession
—
i.e. telergic
possession—ensue. “If ”, he writes, “ we analyse our obser-
vations of possession, we find two main factors—the central
operation, which is the control by a spirit of the sensitive’s
organism ;
and the indispensable pre-requisite, which is the
partial and temporary desertion of that organism by the
^ H.P., vol. ii., pp. 203-4. H.P., vol. ii., pja. 652-3.
17() Psychological Aspects of Ml'S Willeifs Mediumship [part
jK'i'cipient’s own spirit Now if the invading spirit is active
in bringing about the desertion of its organism by the spirit
of the sensitive, and this activity is telepathic, what is the
relation between the two spirits while the process of displace-
ment, or siipersession, is still in progress I So long as the
relation is a relation of mind to mind, then, even though in
certain cases it may simulate true possession, it should, in my
view, be more properly described as “ telepathic possession
My real difference from Myers is this, that whereas for him
telepathic invasion is a stage on the way to telergical control by
the invader, I prefer to think of it as continuing to be a mental
phenomenon however far it is carried. It is still a relation
betweeji two minds, even if the telepathic interaction between
them is such that they almost seem to fuse together and merge
into one. Even in so extreme a case the spirit of the sensitive
has not been eliminated, and may continue to be that element
in the blended whole which acts iipon the physical organism.
'I"his does not amount to saying that there is no such thing as
tclergic control by an invading spirit. On that point I am
expressing no opinion. But what passes for true possession
may sometimes—perhaps always—be what I have called tele-
])athic possession ;
and, in any case, it can hardly be correct
to regard telergic control as the final term in a telepathic series.
We have next to consider certain passages in Willett script
which bear upon the same subject. One of these in particular,
from a trance -sitting of February 7, 1915, will, I think, be found
of such real interest as to be worth reproducing at some length.
On the night of September 29-30, 1914, Mi’s Willett had a
very vivid cheam which she had a strong impulse to record,
though it had no special meaning for her. The opening incidents
of the dream were recalled later on in the trance-sitting just
referred to. 1 give them liere in her own words.
In my dream I found myself standing on the crest of a
mountain (alp) with a high wall of snow before me which
prevented me from seeing the view which I somehow knew was
spread out beyond. Beside me was standing a man—I know
nothing of his appearance & he was not anyone I knew—I only
got an inpnession of strength & gentleness. We spoke to
^ H.J\, vol. ii., ]). 192.
140 ]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'’ s Mediumship 177
each other, but what we said I can’t now remember. Then he
put his foot in the wall of snow & beat down a place about
half way up it into which I could place my feet. When it was
firm (from the down-trodden snow which he had stamped into
a sort of flat pigeon-hole) I put one foot up & dug my nails
into the snow trying to heave myself up, but I could not. Then
he lifted me in his arms & somehow hfted me right over the
top of the wall of snow & held me over the edge. . . .
The dream-record continues with much detail of description
that does not concern us here. More than four months passed
without any reference to the dream in the scripts. But on
February 7, 1915, in a D.I. with myself as recorder, the com-
municator—evidently the Dark Young Man, although he is
not mentioned by that name—returned to the subject as
follows :
D.I. of February 7, 1915. {Present, G. IF. B.)
Oh, oh ! {Pause)
He reminded me of how he had taken me up to a very high
place. The stillness of that Alpine height ! He says something
about—oh, it’s so extraordinarily difficult that I can never
make them understand. I’ll try. It’s something like this
—
what does percussion mean ?
{G. ir. B. It means striking.)
Then he says, repercussion. What is that ?
{G. W. B. Striking and rebounding.)
He says, the extraordinary sensation of feeling the grip of the
foot on the snow, with that unforgettable sound of scrunching.
And then he says. This is the way telepathy comes in. I
—
[pause]
transmutation of memories
—
{indignantly) how can one get such
words ? First there’s the telepathy from me to her, the im-
pression sinking and recovered by her in sleep, and in and
through that recovery making tangible and objective for me
those physical memories which demand cognition in a physical
—in a physical something—in order to be grasped by me again,
a memory ;
and then he says the word stimulus—that’s where
the repercussion thing comes in—a re-experienced sensation
telepathically—not apprehended, isn’t quite right—-through the
experience of an embodied personahty, which experience was
due to telexjathic stimulus. He says this has a great bearing on
178 Psychological Asjjects of Mrs Willett’s MediumsMp [part
the theories that have been held about possession (doesn’t like
the word great bearing) an important bearing. Oh, and then he
says a German word, Doppel.
I think I could draw it for him. [Takes her block and writes
instead of speaking. While the writing was in progress I tvas
requested more than once to read out loud what had bee?i written.)
A initial stimulus
B reaction to same, in sleep
C re -reaction on to initial stimulator
D re-re-reaction on to percipient
& then the threads [Drawing of two lines crossing each other.
The crossed lines were once drawn, and then the motion of drawing
them was repeated several times ivithout the pencil touching the
paper) ad infinitum
[Speech resumed] until we twain be oned. This is the sort of
thing Paul spoke about—about his not knowing himself, only
Christ in him, or something like that.^ And of course you see
the point in its relation to all mystical experience, don’t you ?
that—he says what he wants to emphasise is not his power
outwards into the material world, but its effect—oh, how
frightfully difficidt it is !
—on himself.
[G. W.B. Reciprocal action ?)
Wait a minute, he says. He says that’s not what he wants.
He does not deny that it’s appropriate, but it’s not the thing
he’s wanting to say. It’s the effect on himself in giving him
such an extension and enhancement of memory as to amount to
the re-experience of the remembered sensation.
Thank heaven. I’ve finished with that !
^
What makes this [touchmg her own arm) so rare a—he says
he does hate the word instrument, because anything less
mechanical was never made in heaven or earth—Oh !
[this exclam-
ation was uttered in a tone of disgust and impatience) He thinks
perhaps if you say so rare an entity for us, is that hyper-
sensitiveness of mind and body—I’ve got it !
—which not only
enables the initial stimulus to be so vividly and freshly appre-
^ Gal. ii., 20, “ I am crucified with Christ : nevertheless I live ;
yet not I,
but Christ liveth in me.”
2 This is, of course, an exclamation of relief uttered by the automatist
on her own account.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Alediumship 179
hended, but returns it to us re-enlianced and re-valued—read
from “ hypersensitive ” {G. W. B. does so)—and as it were leav-
ing behind it the driving power of a something added to it which
springs out of herself and yet which is the response to something
received. That’s where the difference between the Verrall
phenomena comes in. The difference hes in the degree to which
the stimulus is perceived, to a large degree ;
but the vital
difference is in that secondary process. Do you see ?
(G. W. B. Yes.)
And that’s where the difference about conditions comes in.
H. V. especially is a sort of “ one-process ” automatist—do you
know ? M. V. is less so, but still there’s gulfs between her and
this. But for the working of that secondary step in this there
must be rest and peace. Do you know that time about which
I spoke in the beginning ?
{G. IT. B. Yes.)
The vividness of her sensation then was compounded of not
only the initial stimulus but of the answering one that sprang
from me—now that’s where it’s so difficult to say it—on the
receipt of the enhanced and heightened reflection of what I’d
already given . . .
At this point the communicator passed to a fresh topic.
When he had apparently finished what he had to say, I inquired
if I might ask a question. No notice was taken :
presently the
automatist opened her eyes, and the waking stage began. After
it had proceeded for a short while, Mrs Wfillett noted the
departure of the communicator, and a curious episode ensued :
I’ve seen this room before, but I can’t remember where it is.
{Points to a water-colour picture representing the Firth of Forth,
and the coast of East Lothiayi, seen from, some pomt in Fife.) I’m
not accustomed to the view from that side, I generally see it
from the other side. Why has that man painted it from behind
to fore, so to speak 1 Do you see what I mean ? He’s stood m
the wrong place—stupid idiot ! You see, why I like my view
best is because I’m accustomed to it, and I’ve seen it all my
life from the other side. It makes me quite giddy seeing it the
wrong way about. You can’t reverse pictures so that they
stay right, can you ? I’m looking at where I generally stand ;
and that’s what’s bothermg me, you see. {Gets up and goes to
180 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfls Mednmiship [part
the fireplace.) That’s where I used to stand—just about thered
(Points withfinger to the spot.)
I leave tliis striking D.I. to speak for itself, only adding, with
regard to the passage quoted from the waking stage, that
whereas the words “ I’ve seen this room before, but I can’t
remember where it is ” seem to be uttered by the automatist on
her own account, what follows is probably to be understood as
spoken by the Dark Young Man. He may have returned after
it was stated that he had gone away, and the automatist may
be merely repeating, as so often happens in D.I., the ipsissima
verba of an orchnary telepathic communication. Nevertheless,
the incident is so peculiar that I am inclined to see in it some-
thing more than this. The personality of the automatist
appears to merge so completely into that of the communicator
as to lead one to suspect the latter of a desire to give a practical
illustration of that reciprocal interweaving of two minds which
he had described earlier in the D.I., and which, without being
“ possession ” in the full sense of the term, may yet reproduce
some of the characteristics of “ possession ”. I regard it, in
fact, as an illustration of what I call telepathic possession.
Examples of telepathic communication approaching, or
passing into, telepathic possession are not very common in Mrs
Willett’s experiences. I am tempted, however, to count as such
the two instances of a transferred idea of pain described in
Chapter III. of Part I. (pp. 103-4 above). There also, if my
interpretation is right, the communicator is the Dark Young
Man. In the case of the second of the two incidents there
seemed to be a brief recurrence, in the waking stage, of the pain
in the head which had been felt in the trance itself ;
and this
was followed by words implying that the automatist was
puzzled about her own identity.
Oh, I feel so giddy. I’m tumbling down. (Bests her head on
the table.) I can’t remember who I am. I know I’m somebody ;
and I’m coming together, you know, and the bits don’t fit.
Compare also a ch'eam -experience of the night of October 30,
^ The point indicated was on the southern side of the Firth of Forth, and
might quite well represent the position of the Dark Young Man’s Scottish
home. The automatist herself had no personal knowledge of the neighbour-
hood.
140] Psychological Aspects of 3Irs Willett's 31ediumship 181
1908. In a lone script written on the day following Myers
claimed that he had tried and succeeded “ in getting into your
mentality In a contemporary note Mi's Willett explains :
I had had other confused dreams the previous night, as well
as an intensely vivid impression of Fred’s presence. I can only
describe it by saying I felt myself so blendmg with him as
almost to seem to be becommg him.’^
In addition to the above I may refer to another note by Mrs
Willett (already cited on pp. 106-107 above), in which she
describes her experiences on being left alone to try for script in
a room at .
The room seemed full of unseen presences and of their
blessing ;
it was as if barriers were swept away and I and they
became one. I had no sense of personality in the imseen
element—it was just there and utterly satisfying.
Further illustrations of the way in which at times the sensi-
tive seems partially to identify herself with the communicator
will be found in Part I., Chapter III, section (c). But perhaps
the most striking example is provided by the waking stage of a
trance-script written in the presence of Sir Ohver Lodge, April
19, 1918. The script had ended with the signature F., and the
record continues :
{The instant “ F ” had been written 3Irs W. raised her head
and dropped the pencil. I thought she was going to speak, but she
^
It is interesting to compare this with the experiences of Professor Flour-
noy’s medium Helene Smith. I quote from the account given in Human
Personality, vol. ii., 133. “ When the seance begins, the main actor is
Helene’s guide Leopold (a pseudonym for Cagliostro) who speaks and writes
through her, and is, in fact, either her leading spirit control or (much more
probably) her most developed form of secondary jDersonality. Helene,
indeed, has sometimes the impression of becoming Leopold for a moment.
Professor Flournoy compares this sensation with the experience of IVIr Hill
Tout {Proceedings, S.P.R., vol. xi., p. 309), who feels hhnself becoming Ids
own father, who is manifestmg through lum.”
Myers Idmself does not dispute the jii'obability that these are cases of
incipient possession by secondary personalities. As the reader is aware,
I draw no distinction—nor indeed did Myers (see H.P., vol. ii., p. 197)—so
far as process is concerned, between possession by a dissociated self and
possession by an extraneous spirit. And the same would, of course, hold
good of telepathic possession, of wldch I coimt the experiences both of Helene
and of Mr Tout to be examples.
182 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willettis Mediumship [part
sloivly, and after a long pause, entered the wakmg stage) : Oh !
[pause) Fred. Fred. So strange to be somebody else. To feel
somebody’s heart beating inside, and someone else’s mind
inside yonr mind. And there isn’t any time or place, and either
yoii’re loosed or they’re entered, and you all of a sudden know
everything that ever was. You understand everything. It’s
like every single thing and time and thought and everything
brought down to one point. ^ . . .
The importance of reciprocity as between the communicator
and the percipient—and especially its importance to the com-
municator—is insisted on not only in the long D.I. quoted above
but also elsewhere in Willett scrijit.- This, I take it, is what is
meant when w^e are told (in a passage already twice quoted) that
“ the response conditions the power of transmission ”, and that
this aspect of communication may be summed up in the words,
“ Thought leaps out to wed with thought Power is con-
ditioned by response ;
hence belief in the personality of the
communicators is “ an absolutely vital part of the conditions
which make it easy for us to work ” (script of May 26, 1910).
Indeed, in two remarkable passages the communicator seems
to imply that his own realisation of self when communicating
depends on the recognition of his reality by the sensitive :
D.I. of May 1, 1910. (Present, 0. J. L.)
[Myers speaking] . . . No one understands as I do the con-
fusion and the mistakes, and the apparently negative result.
(0. J. L. Yes, but T think w'e also are aware of the diffi-
culties.)
He says it is far worse for him . He is trying to make himself
real to people who are not only conscious of tlieir own reality,
* Compare “ In Memoriam,” xcv. :
The living soul was flashed on mine,
And mine in this was wound, and whirl’d
About empyreal heights of thought.
And came on that which is, and caught
The deep piflsations of the world.
This section of “ In Memoriam ” is frequently referred to in the scripts.
For further remarks on this extract see p. 220 below.
^ For reciprocal “ weaving ” between two incarnate minds, see the Willett
script of May 11, 1912; quoted in pp. 1C2-103 above.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'' s Medium-ship 183
l)ut also are among people who admit tlieir reality. How much
of your sense of reality is due to that ? Thinli that over. There
is a paralysing sense of isolation in the experience of coming
back . . . one needs something reciprocal . . .
D.I. of May 24, 1911. {Present, Mrs Verrall.)
[Gurney communicating~\ . . . He is trying to explain some-
thing I don’t understand. Self-realisation achieved through
the other than self. What is the process necessary for the self-
realisation ? It’s a German word and I can’t see it. Welt
something or other—one spirit oidy with labour attaining self-
realisation through the myriad self-created sentient. Turn it
all round like that (here Airs IF. moved her hands as if turning
something over) and conceive of the possibility of there being
interchange of self-realisation. ... I know I’m real through her
recognition of my reahty.^ . . .
The German word beginning with Welt is evidently Weltgeist,
and the general substance of the extract is strongly reminiscent
of a well-known passage from the Preface to Hegel’s Phdnomeno-
logie des Geistes. Speaking of the various forms in which
individuals have been organised into communities, Hegel says :
“ The world spirit had the patience to traverse these forms, and
to undertake the tremendous labour of world-history . . . and
he did so because by no less a labour could he attain to a
consciousness of his own nature ”. The passage has often been
quoted or at least phrases from it : the version here given is
taken from Seth’s Hegelianism and Perso7iality. The script does
not reproduce it with verbal exactness ;
but the underlying idea
is clearly the same, and it is difficult to believe that the passage
itself was unknown to whatever intelligence was responsible for
the communication.
2
^ According to the view here expressed, the Weltgeist, or Absolute Sjairit,
attains to self-realisation only in relation to the multiplicity of finite spirits.
“ Turn this round ”, says the communicator, i.e. look at the question from
the point of view of the finite spirit. May it not be that the attainment
of self-consciousness by a finite spirit A requires not only A’s consciousness
of B’s reality, but also B’s recognition of A’s reality, and similarly with B ?
^ The last sentence in Chapter IX of Human Personality may also be com-
pared :
“ Our struggle is the stmggle of the Universe itself ;
and the very
Godhead finds fulfilment through our upward -striving souls.”
184 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett' s Medimnship [part 140]
The extract has obvious points of affinity with the D.I. of
February 7, 1915. It is not difficult to understand that reci-
procity may be a condition of all successful communication, and
an essential factor in any approach to telepathic possession.
But taken by itself it hardly seems sufficient to account for
the special characteristics suggestive of possession, even of the
telepathic order—characteristics which must certainly include
some kind of ascendancy or domination of the possessing mind
over the possessed. Something beyond reciprocity seems to be
involved ;
but what that something is, and what are the condi-
tions favourable to its coming into play, are questions to which
I do not think any clear answer has been furnished by the
scripts.
I hazard the conjecture that normal mentality in the indi-
vidual may involve an element of telepathic possession by the
primary self of the other psychical units in the group that enter
into the constitution of the personality as a whole.
CHAPTER II
TELEPATHY, TELA^STHESIA, EXCURSUS
I PREFACE this chapter and the two that follow it with an
admission of the difficulties I have found at times in trying to
give clear and coherent expression to the statements of the
communicators concerning the siibject-matter with which they
deal. I have done my best to throw light on obscurities, to
fill up gaps in exposition and to reconcile or explain aj^parent,
or perhaps real, inconsistencies ;
but I must crave the indul-
gence of the reader if I occasionally content myself with putting
together the relevant passages, leaving him to draw his own
conclusions.
Telepathy, we are repeatedly told, is an interaction between
mind and mind. It is fully recognised that it may, and does,
take place between one incarnate mind and another incarnate
mind ;
^ but the telepathy with which the scripts deal has
special reference to interaction between the incarnate mind of
the sensitive and what purport to be discarnate minds belonging
to the world of spirits. The process is sometimes described as
a “ blending ” of the minds concerned—a neutral term which
does not of itself raise any questions regarding the nature or
importance of the respective contribixtion which each makes to
the total result.
It is with questions of this kind that the present chapter will
be mainly occupied. Granted the probability of some degree of
reciprocity in the transaction, is it yet correct to speak of the
relation as if it were always one of active communicator to
comparatively passive recipient, or may it also happen that
the activity is rather on the side of the perceiving mind, which
reads, as it were, and appropriates the content of the other
mind with little, if any, co-operation on the part of the latter ?
^ See p. 162 above. Interaction between supraliminal and subliminal in
the same individual is also fully accepted as fact, although (wrongly, I think)
it is not allowed by the communicators to count as telepathic.
1S.5
N
ISO Psychological Aspects oj Mrs Willett’s MedninisJiip [part
The distinction here drawn is not merely the familiar one
Ijetween agent and percipient. It is also, as we shall see, a
distinction between two kinds of activity—the activity which
impresses thought upon another mind, and the activity which
makes the content of another mind its own. Both processes
are in ordinary parlance included in the term telepathy. Both
appear, from explanations furnished by the communicators, to
I)e used at one stage or another of the more complicated
methods of communication Avhich we shall have to consider in
a later chapter. I see no difficulty in supposing that both
activities may be, perhaps iji some degree always are, con-
currently operative without either of them losing its distinctive
character. Be that as it may, in the Willett scripts they are
shar])ly contrasted, and in the important joassage I am about to
quote the distinction is stressed to the point of confining the
term telepathy to the communicating actiAuty alone.
If the reader Avill refer back to the long extract given on pp.
95-lK) above, he Avill note that the communicator (in this
instance Gurney) is there deliberately trying to illustrate the
nature of telepathy by impressing on the automatist a mental
image of Avhat he remembered himself to be like when in the
body. What he Avishes to shoAV by this example is that tele-
pathy implies vohmtary action on the part of a communicating
agent. The subjoined extract, taken from a little later on in
the same sitting, carries the subject on someAvhat further.
From the D.I. of September 24, 1910. (0. J. L. recording.)
. . .
[Gurney speaking] Telepathy isn’t involuntary, it’s
—
I’m going to do it like this—what’s the word ? Propulsion—
you watch the receipt.
[Mrs ir.] XoAv he’s as if holding my hands, it’s as if having
a tooth out, you’ve got to set your teeth and go through with it.
He says -lames and another name.
[E. G.] Now she’s got it, and you watch it coming up. It’s
got into the suldiminal.
[Mrs W.]
Hyslop !
{uttered in. a to?ie of surprise) Oh, he says.
Good ; he’s pleased.
[E. G.] Lodge, this terribly exhausting. ^ I think you’ve
1 The statement that “ Tliis terribly exhausting ” refers, I tliink, not only
to the successful transmission of the name Hyslop, but also, and perhaps
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship 187
got something now. Wait a bit, let Lodge think, and then let
him speak and you rest. (To Lodge) Now you speak.
[0. J. L.] I gather that you have been trying to explain, or
rather illustrate the process of telepathy to me.
[E. Q.] Yes.
[0. J. L.] And that you got William James through, and
then a word that perhaps she does not know, Hyslop. Does
she know it ?
[E. G.] Oh yes, she’s read it, but she doesn’t know why I say
it, nor do you, in that juxtaposition. Let me know when the
meaning that is there is seen by you. There may be a little
time to pass first, but when the meaning is plain, say so.
[0. J. L.] About telepathy, you mean it has to be purposed,
that the thought cannot be picked up from stray people, that
it has to be injected ?
[E. G.] What you say about telepathy isn’t altogether right.
It’s not one thing and one process, but there are degrees of it,
and it depends on the instrument partly and upon the familiar-
ity of the agent. There must be practice on both sides.
Here’s what appears to be a complete contradiction of what
I’ve said, and yet both are facts. Through my carelessness she
will sometimes see telepathically ^ what I hadn’t intended her
to know. There are three more - things that I can speak of.
[Understood by 0. J. L. to mean three processes of telepathy.)
There’s the direct—directing—conscious—intended—what’s
the word ?
[0. J. L.) Impact ?
[E. G.) No, no, that’s the other end—propulsion.
more particularly, to the effort involved in summoning iqo, and impressing
on the sensitive, the memory-image of himself when in the body. Cf. Holland
script of November 21, 1903 (published in Proceedings, vol. xxi., and seen
by Mrs Willett) ;
. . .
“ It was a tremendous effort to him [i.e. Myers] to
appear in your mind’s eye the way that he did a fortnight ago, and it has
weakened the messages ever since ”.
^ The word “ telepathically ” seems to be used here, and very occasionally'
elsewhere, of activity on the side of the percipient. But possibly the phrase
“ see telepathically ” is loosely used where “ receive as a telejjathically
transmitted message ” would have more accurately represented what the
communicator wished to convey.
^ The word “ more ” here seems to be a mistake. Only tliree proceess
in all are described.
188 Psiichologkal Aspecis of Mrs Willett's Mediuniship [part
[O.J.L.] Yes, I see.
[Mrs If.] Tlie starting end, lie’s speaking of.
[O. J. Li] Yes ; —emission ? radiation ?
[E. Oi] No, that’s not the word I want, there’s too many
connotations about that. The sparking end—something like
that—like two big clouds coming together and then the light-
ning ;
something like that. That’s one kind ;
and then the other
kind that led to this theory of unconscious mentality in the
discarnate—the coma business, dream business. I can only
take, about it, say, pull out the stops 1 see in front of me. I’m
putting it the way I can get it through.
[Mrs If.] He’s encouraging me.
[E. Gi\ I wish Lodge would tell you so.
[O. J. Li] Yes, you are doing well.
[E. (?.] My [^ivord illegible in notes] way of putting it is letting
down a shutter. If I am what you would call very “ close ” to
her, I could shut oft' certain impressions and then I can switch
them on.
[0. J. L.] Is it like removing a screen I
[E. O.] Ah (he says), screen. Do you remember about a
screen long ago ? ^ [Did not wait for an answer but contmued]
A third thing may happen ; —when the shutter is down there
may be a leak, without deliberate switching,—a general as
against a specialised impact may take place. Do I express it ?
\0. J . L.] Yes, that is quite clear.
[E. G.] In my record there’s a case in point, that Mrs Verrall
has, of a leak which called out corresponding thought in the
mind which was the very last I would have desired to stimu-
late . . .
The three kinds of telej^athic communication here enumerated
have this iu common, that they imply voluntary action on the
part of the communicator. Where they differ is in the manner
and degree in which voluntary action plays a part in the result.
The first kind, metaphorically comparable to the deliberate
aiming of a jn’ojectile at a particular object, may be taken as
the most direct and typical form. The second and third kinds
are not very clearly defined, and it is possible that errors have
^ See Proceedings, vol. ii., p. 201 ff., for an accomrt of experiments by
E. G. where the “ subject ” was placed behurd a screen.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's 31ecliumship 189
crept into the record of what the speaker is represented as
saying. He compares the process to the letting down {i.e. the
opening) of a shutter, whereby his thoughts are able telepathi-
cally to affect another mind. When the shutter is let down one
of two things may happen :
(a) When the communicator is very “ close ” to the sensitive
he can “ shut off certain impressions and then switch them on ”.
I understand the suggestion to be that the effect of the shutting
off and switching on is to break the continiiity of the message,
and so give rise to “ the theory of unconscious mentality in the
discarnate—the coma business, ch’eam business ”. But I do
not feel confident that this explanation is the true one.
Or, {b)
“
there may be a leak without deliberate switching—
a
general as against a specialised impact may take place ”.
The difference between the two cases I take to be this. In
both the mind of the communicator is consciously active, biit
in {a) a particular impression is dehberately “ switched on
”
and specially directed to the percipient ;
whereas in (6) it
reaches her independently of the commimicator’s will, and even,
it may be, contrary to his intention.
It is to this third kind that Gurney had already alluded when
he says, “ Through my carelessness she will sometimes see
telepathically what I hadn’t intended her to know ”. He
admits that such a case may appear to be “ a complete contra-
cbction ” of his previous statement that “ telepathy isn’t
involuntary ”, but he in no way withdraws or qualifies the
statement. It is evident, however, that there may be great
difficulty in deciding whether such a case is primarily one of
thought-communication or thought-perception.
If a definition of telepathy which excludes thought-perception
as opposed to thought-communication is to be accepted as
representing the considered doctrine of the Willett scripts, what
term, if any, is employed in them to describe the spirit activity
of the perceiving mind ? The answer to this question is not so
simple as might be supposed. The expression mind-reading
does not, I think, occur in the scripts. The nearest equivalent
appears to be telcesthesia, employed in a sense strangely different
from that which it bears in Human Personality.
The relation between telepathy and telsesthesia as it was
understood by Myers on the one hand, and as it seems to be
190 Psychologiml Aspects of Mrs Willett’ s Mediumship [part
conceived in the Willett scripts on the other hand, furnishes
points of much interest.
In the Glossary prefixed to Human Personality Myers has
provided us with what is evidently a carefully thought-out
definition of the two terms, comparing them in respect both of
resemblance and of difference. I quote it here in extenso.
Telepathy and Telcesthesia.—It has become possible, I think,
to discriminate between these two words somewhat more
sharply than when I first suggested them in 1882. Telepathy
may still be defined as “ the communication of impressions of
any kind from one mind to another independently of the
recognised channels of sense ”. The distaiice between agent and
percipient which the derivation of tlie word—“ feeling at a
distance ”— implies, need, in fact, only be such as to prevent
the operation of whatever known modes of perception are not
excluded by the other conditions of the case. Telepathy may
thus exist between two men in the same room as truly as
between one man in England and another in Australia, or
l)etween one man still living on earth and another man long
since departed. Telcesthesia—perception at a distance—may
conveniently be interpreted in a similar way, as implying any
direct sensation or perception of objects or conditions inde-
pemlently of the recogmsed channels of sense, and also under
such circumstances that no known mind external to the
percipient’s can be suggested as the source of the knowledge
thus gained.
The above may be usefully supplemented by fiu’ther remarks
which I quote from the Glossary under the heading of Clair-
voyance. Clairvoyance Myers defines as “ the faculty or act of
perceiving, as though visually, with some coincidental truth,
some distant scene ” ;
and he goes on to say :
“ I have preferred to use the term telcesthesia for distant
pei'ception. For the faculty has seldom any close analogy with
an extension of sight ;
the perception of distant scenes being
often more or less symbolical and in other ways out of accord
mth what actual sight would show in the locality of the vision.
On the other hand, telcesthesia merges into telepathy, since
we caimot say how far the perception of a distant scene may
140] PsycJiologiad Aspects of Mrs WiUettA Mecliumship 191
in essential be the perception of the content of a distant
mirul ”d
The characteristic marks of telsesthesia in Myers’s sense of
the term (apart from the quality of supernormality which it
has in common with telepathy) may be re-stated thus :
(1) The knowledge acquired by it is a knowledge of “ objects
and conditions ”, whereas telepathy extends to “ the trans-
ference of impressions of any kind from one mind to another ” ;
(2) The knowledge must come to the percipient indepen-
dently of telepathy from any other mind that can be suggested
as its source. Clairvoyance that can plausil)ly be referred
to thought transference is not telaesthesia in the Myersian
sense.
The first of these characteristics I leave over for comment
later on. As regards the second, the condition laid down “ that
no mind external to the percipient’s can be suggested as the
sonrce of the knowledge gained ”, may serve a useful purpose in
assisting the provisional classification of individual cases, but
is, I think, open to criticism from the scientific point of view.
It embodies no definite principle, but only a rule of convenience
founded on the ignorance of the investigator. He may b(^
unable to suggest any known mind as a source of the super-
normally acquired knowledge. But his ignorance does not
contradict the possibility of there being a mind unknown to
him, yet capable of providing such a source, nor alter the fact if
it be a fact. The statement quoted above from the Glossary to
Human Personality under the heading of Clairvoyance, that we
cannot say how far the perception of a distant scene may in
essential be the perception of the contents of a distant mind,
lends additional force to this criticism. It would have been
more logical, in my view, to have provided a definition of
telfesthesia that would have identified it outright with indepen-
dent clairvoyance, leaving open the question whether such a
faculty is really found in man, or whether every form of
clairvoyance should not rather be explained as a variety <jf
telepathy. Of course, the effect would be to relegate to the
hmbo of doubt cases that Myers would have classified as telses-
thetic. There is also the possibility to be considered that l)otli
^ For fm’ther discussion of the whole subject see H.F., vol. i., pp. 275 seq.
192 Psychological Aspects oj Mrs Willett's Alediumship [part
processes might be in operation concurrently without being
“ merged ” in the sense of l^ecoming indistinguishable.
I pass to the consideration of the very dift'erent significance
attached to the word telcesthesia in Willett script.
It is clear from what precedes that, in comparing telepathy
with telaesthesia, Myers takes little or no note of the distinction
between the activity of thoiight-communication and the
activity of thought-perception. Telepathy for him includes
both. In the Willett scripts, on the other hand, this distinction
assumes capital importance. Telepathy is defined so as to
exclude mind-reading ;
and telaesthesia is treated as incluchng
mind-reading, if not actually identified with it.
I believe the distinction to be an important one, and am
inclined to think that it has been unduly neglected in Human
Personality. But this novel use of familiar terms is aj)t to lead
to confusion, and in the ensuing discussion, in order to conduce
to clearness and at the same time to avoid clumsy periphrases,
I propose to use the syndjol “ telaesthesia (M) ” and “ telepathy
(M) ” in contradistinction to “ telaesthesia (W) ” and “ tele-
pathy (W) ” to denote the different meanings which the words
bear in Human Personality and in the Willett scripts respec-
tively. I further projiose to retain the word clairvoycmce as a
term of general significance (not, of course, confined to the sense
of vision), and to employ it, contrary to modern usage, to cover
both the “ independent clairvoyance ” which corresponds most
nearly to Myers’s definition of telaesthesia, and the “ telepathic
clairvoyance ” which that definition if carried to its logical
conclusion would exclude.
In order to make intelligible what follows I must begin by
explaining the meaning of a term which, so far as I know, is
peculiar to Mrs Willett, namely Mutual Selection.
“
Mutual
selection ” is described as part of a process preliminary to the
production of certain kinds of scripts. Success in the production
of these scripts requires (we are told) on the part of the sensitive
“ a capacity for Excursus allied to a capacity for definite
selection ” ;
and by “ excursus ” is meant the passing, as it
were, outside herself and entering into communion with the
spiritual world. The communicator and the sensitive are
represented as “ mutually selecting ” from each other’s minds
—
I40j Psychological Aspecis of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship 193
the communicator from the contents of “ the conscious and
imconscious self” of the sensitive, the sensitive from “such
part of the mind of the communicating spirit as she can have
access to The part of the communicator’s mind to which
she can have access is limited (we are told) to that which can
naturally link on to human incarnate thought, but, subject to
that limitation, includes the “ potential ” as well as the
“ actual ” content of his mind.^
As the result of this mutual selection there now lies in the
“ whole self ” of the automatist the original matter from which
the communicator’s selection is made plus the matter she has
acquired by selection from him. The material so provided may
remain unused and dormant in the mind of the automatist
until the moment comes for it to emerge under the guiding
influence of telepathy from the communicator.
The foregoing explanation will, I hope, assist the reader to
follow the line of thought contained in the extract from the
D.I. of October 8, 1911, to which I have next to call attention.^
D.I. of October 8, 1911. [Present, Q. W. B.)
[Ourney communicating] ... He says, tell G. to read me
again his own words.
[G. IT. B.] Shall I read the first question ?
All.
[G. W. B.] The first question is ; In mutual selection you
say that the sensitive can select from such part of your mind as
she can have access to. What part is this ?
He says, I want to suggest something which, while not
contradicting your question, will open another window. Oh
if I could only not drop like that. Oh hold me tight. And he
says, she can select—he says a word to me—telsesthesia oh
he says, you none of you make enough allowance for what
that implies, and the results of that can be shepherded and
guided up to the threshold of normal consciousness.
1 The phrases in inverted commas in this paragrapli are taken from the
D.I. of June 4, 1911. See below, pp. 232-5.
- For “potential ” and “ actual ” in this connection see pp. 199 ff. below.
3 That part of the sitting of October 8, 1 9 1 1—including the preliminary
trance-script—which precedes this extract is given in Part II, Chapter IV
pp. 290 ff. below. See also pp. 238 £f. for comments on the extract so far as
it bears on “ process ”.
194 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
Oh he says, teltesthesia is a bed-rock truth, a power of
acquiring knowledge direct without the intervention of dis-
carnate mind.
Oh he says, telepathy’s one thing—that’s thought communi-
cation :
telsesthesia is knowledge, not thought, acquired by
the subliminal when operating normally in the metetherial.
Oh he says. Here comes in our work again. Oh he says. What
I’m saying may be used to cut at the spiritualistic hypothesis,
but it doesn’t. Again, who selects what of the total of telses-
thetically acquired knowledge shall externalise itself shall
blend itself with those elements received by direct telepathic
impact ? Oh he says. Supposing I take her into a room, and
I screen off any action of my own mind on hers ; her subliminal
with its useful copious pinch of the salt of Eve s curiosity takes
stock of the contents of the room. Normal consciousness is
later regamed, and lying in the subliminal is knowledge of
certain objects perceived, not as the result of the action of my
mind, but as the result of telsesthetic faculty. Oh he says. Here
come I on script intent. Here be arrows for my quiver. Who
selects which of all the—Have patience with me, oh, Edmund,
I am trying, oh. I’m such a great way away. Oh, Edmund,
Oh he says. Who applies the stimulus under which certain ideas
—use that word, not what I wanted—emerge, blended, which
upon study will be found to be relevant to tlie total aim of that
particular piece of automatism 1
Oh he says, of all the contents of that mytliical room say she
carries back a rough and partial knowledge—not partial to the
subliminal but reaching the point of externalisation much as
Browning’s London moon ^ did—in the process of externahsa-
tion, there it is where the loss occurs. Oh he says, of those
ten 2 say two emerge—to me how interesting. I see the work
of my hand, the double process.
Say I wrote of horses. I get telepathically the idea of sound,
clatter of the horses’ gallop. 1 get the idea in a Verrall channel,
for instance, of Pegasus ; 1 get the idea perhaps of chariot
i-aces—equus, or something like that, he says—and I select
and push up into its place where it will be grasped and exter-
1 Browiiiug, One W.ord More :
“ Dying now i.npoverislied here in London ”,
2 There has been no previous mention of “ ten ” items.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’’ s MediumsJlip 195
naJised two trump cards telsesthetically acquired—call it horse-
shoe, or, he says, the steeds of Dawn. The point is, I didn’t
place them there ;
I found and selected them : and the eight
other elements—or objects—seen in the room remain dormant
and never externahse themselves perhaps. The spiritistic
agency decides what element appropriate to its own activity
shall emerge alongside and intertwmed with matter placed in
position by direct telepathic impact.
Oh he says, give the next question quickIj^ . . .
There is much in tliis extract relating to processes of com-
munication that I must pass over for the moment, though I shall
have a good deal to say about it in the next chapter. For the
present I am concerned mainly with its bearing upon the sense
in which the term telcesthesia is used in Willett scripts.
The statements that telmstliesia is “a power of acquiring
knowledge dii’ect without the intervention of discarnate mind ”,
and that the knowledge so gained has to do with “ objects ”,
not with “ thoughts ”, may seem, at first sight, to suggest the
characteristic features of telaesthesia as defined in Human
Personalityd But a brief consideration shows that tins would
be an entirely wrong conclusion. The whole tenor of the ex-
tract and the intimate connection which it establishes between
telaesthesia and mutual selection prove decisively that what the
communicator is thinking of is not a relation between a mind
and “ things ”, but betw^een one mind and another. When he
speaks of knowledge acquired direct “ without the intervention
of discarnate mind ”, I cannot doubt that he means “ without
the active intervention of discarnate mind ”. The language
employed might with advantage have been more ]3recise, but
any other interpretation would make utter havoc of the entire
passage. The phrase “ without the intervention of discarnate
mind ” is misleading in another respect also. “ Without the
active intervention of a mind external to the percijiient’s,
whether incarnate or discarnate ”, would, I think, have more
acciuately represented the commiuucator’s conception of
telaesthesia in general, although what he has immediately in
view is the relation of the sensitive with disembodied spii’its.
1 kSee H.P., vol. i., p. 136, where the phrase “without another mind’s
intervention ’’
is used.
196 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s 31edinmship [part
Telaesthesia (M) and telaesthesia (W) have this in common,
that both are activities of a perceiving mind. Indeed the
definition given by Myers, if carried to its logical conclusion,
would eliminate the idea of an agent altogether, and for agent
and percipient would substitute percipient and object perceived.
This would not be equally true of telsesthesia (W), but activity
on the part of the percipient still remains its most essential
characteristic. “ I take her into a room [says Gurney],
“ and I screen off any action of my own mind on hers : her
subliminal with its useful cojiious pinch of the salt of Eve’s
curiosity takes stock of the contents of the room. Normal
consciousness is later regained, and lying in the subliminal is
knowledge of certain objects perceived, not as the result of the
action of any mind, but as the result of telaesthetic faculty.”
We start, then, from this, that both teleesthesia (M) and
teleesthesia (W) are essentially activities of perception. The
difference between them becomes apparent when we ask the
question. What do these activities enable vis to perceive ? or,
to put the same thing in another form. What is at once the
source and the subject-matter of the knowledge acquired by
their exercise 1
Consider first the case of telaesthesia (M). It is defined as
“ a direct sensation or percejvtion of objects or conditions
”
independently of the recognised channels of sense, and inde-
pendently also of “ any known mind that can be suggested as
the source of the knowledge gained ”. Perception of objects or
conditio7is is a somewhat vague phrase, but I take it to mean
much the same as the more precise expression employed by
Mrs Sidgwick in her paper on “ The Evidence for Clairvoyance
”
in vol. vii. of Proceedings—” Knowledge of facts such as we
normally acquire by the use of our senses ”. More explicitly
still, telaesthesia (M) may be described as immediate knowledge,
supernormally acquired, of facts relating to the world of
physical reality.
Telaesthesia (W), on the other hand, even if it were possible
to find a formula for it which would include immediate know-
ledge of this kind, is represented as having a different field of
’
By the words “ I take her into a room ” Gurney means “ T pre.sent material
to her to select from whicli is aj>propriate to a theme or topic chosen by me ”.
See below, pp. 240 li.
140] Psychological Asjiecls of Mrs Willett's Mecliumship 197
operation, namely the content of another ?nind. This claim
it is that constitutes the true centre of interest and novelty in
the position taken up in the Willett scripts, and that we must
try, if possible, to understand.
In so far as telaesthesia (W) is the perception of the contents
of another mind, it clearly cannot be—hke teleesthesia (M)
—
direct perception of facts relating to external reality. It may,
however, be indirect perception of such facts, or what is known
as telepathic clairvoyance. Such cases are rare in the records of
Mrs Willett’s experiences ;
but there is at least one example
which may properly come under this heading. She had on
various occasions spoken to me of an oft-recurring dream in
which she seemed to herself to visit a certain house, and to take
delight in wandering through its rooms and passages. She
called it her dream house, but always identified it in her mind
with a real house, of the existence of which she was aware,
though she had never been there. When, at a later time, she
actually visited the real house, and was able to compare the
details she was familiar with in her dream, with what she now
saw with her eyes, it was found that in many respects the dream
house corresponded much more closely with the internal arrange-
ments of the house as it was fifty or sixty years ago than with
contemporary fact. When asked to explain this she replied
that she could not exactly say, but that she connected her dream
house in some way with children who had lived in it. Her own
impression was that her experience was in some sense dependent
on the recollections of other minds. If not due to telepathic
impact from those minds, which would bring it under the
head of telepathy (W), this would be a case of telaesthesia (W).
Probably Myers himself would have classed it as a case of
telaesthesia (M).
Clairvoyance of the kind illustrated by Mi-s Willett’s dream
house experience is what would be most reathly suggested by
the general description given of telaesthesia (Wj in the D.I. of
October 8, 1911—“Knowledge, not thought, acquired by the
subliminal when operating normally in the metetherial ’’.
It
would, moreover, be knowledge open to verification by com-
parison with what the senses can tell us, in the same way as
knowledge gained by independent clairvoyance, dift'ering from
the latter only in respect of its having been indirectly acquired
198 Psychological Aspects of M7's Willett's Mediimship [pakt
through the mediation of other minds, instead of by direct
supernormal perception.
But in order to understand what the scripts are really
di'iving at we have to consider not merely general descriptions,
but the actual examples of tlie process which are provided for
our enlightenment. When we do this it becomes clear that
telaesthesia (W) goes far beyond the scope even of telepathic
clairvoyance itself.
Let us now go back to the passage in the D.I. of October 8,
1911 (p. 194 above), beginning with the words “ Say I wrote
of horses ”. I paraphrase it according to my notion of its
purport, though, of course, my interpretation is to be taken for
what it is worth. The communicator is evidently referring to
the production of cross -correspondences between two or more
automatists. He sripposes himself to have taken as the central
theme of a cross-corresjrondence the subject of horses. By
telepathic impact he gets in a Verrall script allusions, say, to
Pegasus and to chariot races. (Note that both these topics are
spoken of as ideas.) He “ trumps ” them, so to speak, in
Willett script with two “ cards ”, or “ objects ”, already
telsestlietically acquired l)y her by selection from the content of
his own mind
—
horse-shoe, let us say, or the Steeds of Dawn : in
other words he in his turn selects these from the content of the
sensitive’s mind to which they now belong, anrl by active
telepatliic influence causes them to emerge in their appropriate
context.
Whatever the ground or justification may be for treating the
telepathically impressed Pegasus as an idea, and the telses-
thetically acquired Steeds of Daivn as an “ object ”, it is evident
that both one and the other might be housed in the same
“ mythical room ”, and that neither has any title to be re-
garded as pertaining to the world of external reality.^ It is
clear also that any “ evidential ” value they may possess in a
resulting script must be tested, if it can be tested at all, by
methods quite other than an appeal to the evidence of the
senses. We have passed clean away from the province of tele-
pathic clairvoyance.
'
On a later occasion tlie “ objects ” or “ elements ” which are exjDres.sly
singled out as having been “ mutually selected ” are ajjjjosite literary
quotations. See below, p. 255.
140] PsycliologicaJ Aspecis of Mrs Willett's MediumsMx> 199
Reference has already been made to statements in the scripts
concerning the sources of information [i.e. the minds) upon
which, in mutual selection, the selectors respectively draw. A
closer examination of these statements may help to throw hght
on the questions we have been discussing. The following are
the passages on which we have mainly to rely, apart, of cour.se,
from the two extracts already quoted.
From the D.I. of June 4, 1911. {G. IT. B. present.) ^
\Gurney communicating'] . . . Say that after—Oh ! how
difficult it is—say that after dehberation a certain theme i.s
selected. Then he says something in Germau
—
motif—to be
got through various channels. I’m only speaking now of the
process of selection, he says, and in so far as that’s concerned
I’m Limited to the contents of the conscious and unconscioiis
self. . . . Remember I am distinctly ruling out the thoughts
suggested by the words telepathy and inspiration. Oh he says.
Well then I look over the available factors—oh, and see what
will serve. Oh he says, it isn’t only I who select. Oh he says,
now you’ve got it. There’s another field for selection—and it’s
such part of my mind, I, Gurney, as she can have access to.
Oh he says. What part ? Why—oh, I’ve missed a word—some-
thing something limited to—then I’ve skipped something, but
I hear him say thoughts potential!}’. Oh he says. Put it another
way. Having access to my mmd her selection is chiefly limited
to that which can naturally link on to human incarnate thought.
Oh he says, I vdsh I could get that word potential rightly used.
I’m not saying it’s limited to the actual but to the potential
content. . . .
He says, I think I got some things I wanted said about
selection. It’s the thought of its being as it were a mutual
process that I want driven home. . . .
D.I. of July 16, 1911. {Present, G. IT. B.)
[Gurney communicating] . .
. (G. TP. B. In a previous D.I. you
distinguished between actual and potential thoughts, and said
that in mutual selection the receiver was limited to the potential
thoughts of the communicator.- Can you explain this further ?)
1 This D.I. is quoted in full in the next chapter, pp. 232 If.
^ The words were “ I’m not saying it’s limited to the actual but to the
potential content ”. Apparently I took tliis to mean that it was limited to
200 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willeff\s Alediumship [part
Potential naturally transcends actual, and it is not at the
actual that the limit lies.
{G. W. B. Perhaps the subject is too difficult to pursue now.)
What I said I want to get clear. Limit does not lie at the
actual.
(G. W. B. here said something not recorded, and a brief
conversation ensued. Inter alia he asked if actual and potential
thoughts were the same as conscious and unconscious thoughts :
the answer was Not at all. E. G. then continued :)
Potential means possible to be apprehended of mind as it
exists in the parts—potential to the parts—using the word
parts in contradistinction to the word whole. Oh he says, the
parts can’t be conscious of the whole, but the whole can be
conscious of itself as a whole, and also as a whole of parts.
He says, I must let her go away, G. Oh he says. When I’m
not trying to transmit, I’d write script that the very Gods might
envy, and I go over and over things that would be of priceless
value to transmit. . . .
Trance-script D.I. oj October 8, 1911.^ {Preseyit,
Q. W. B.)
[Gurney communicating^ ... Is there any special point you
wish to deal with to-day t —The points in regard to mutual
selection need further elucidation. Mutual . . .
(G. W. B. I have some questions I should like to put to you
on that very subject ; shall I put them now ?)
Yes.
{G. W. B. In mutual selection you say that the sensitive
can select from such part of your mind as she can have access
to. What part is this ?)
All that part to which the subliminal of the sensitive has
natural access, operating normally on the metetherial plane.
She has access to. It is difficult to get it clear. Let me go
slowly scad feel if need be for my meaning in a round-about way.
Human experience—that part of my mind to which human
experience affords a point de repere
ttie potential to the exclusion of the actual. From the present and subsequent
statements it seems that the true meaning was “ I’m not saying it’s limited
to the actual, but to the actual plus the potential ”.
* This trance-script is again quoted in Part II., Chapter IV. See pp. 290 ff.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Medutmship 201
(G. W. B. I understand that ; but you distinguish between
the actual and the potential content of your mind. Has the
sensitive access to both ?)
Yes, yes, yes.
(G. W. B. You say you have access to the contents of the
conscious and unconscious mind of the sensitive. Does the
distinction between the conscious and unconscious mind of the
sensitive correspond to the distinction between the actual and
potential content of your mind ?)
No—wait. I have access to—repeat that sentence to me.
(G. W. B. repeats as above.)
Unconscious is not an equivalent for potential. NO.
{G. W. B. Does the unconscious mind of the sensitive mean
what we commonly call her subliminal ?)
Yes—but it means all the centres of it, to use a physiological
analogy.
{G. W. B. Is there anything in the discarnate consciousness
which corresponds to the subliminal self of the incarnate ?)
What a huge subject you open up ! Let me get her to speech
first. Yes—say that again.
(G. W. B. repeats.)
The larger includes the less.
{G. W. B. Is the larger the supraliminal or )
No, no, the subliminal of course, that is allied to the tran-
scendental self—that transcendental self might be referred to in
a rough and ready manner by terming it the subliminal of the
discarnate. Subliminal—read it to me.
(G. W. B. reads what has just been said.)
As the ^ It is possible to refer to it as that and imply a truth
—
It is a good rough generalisation. . . .
I do not profess to understand all the statements contained
in the various extracts which I have quoted, or to be able to
fit them comfortably into their places in a comprehensive whole;
but so far as I can I will endeavour to summarise what appears
to me to be their broad general effect. A distinction is made
between the field for selection open to the discarnate communi -
cator and that open to the sensitive. The commimicator is said
^ I.e. “ as the subliminal ” is to be substituted for “ by terming it the
subliminal ”.
O
202 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
to have access to the “ whole self ” of the sensitive—that is to
say, to her conscious and unconscious self ;
and her conscious
and unconscious self are identilied with her siipraliminal and
subliminal self.
The sensitive, on the other hand, has access to that part only
of the discarnate communicator’s mind the content of which
can link on to human incarnate thought. Between that part
of his mind and the part to which she has no access the relation
is, roughly speaking, similar to that between the supraliminal
and the subliminal of the incarnate—using the term subliminal
here to denote what is highest and best in the human mind.
The suggestion seems to be that the subliminal of the discarnate
uses categories which are beyond the reach of incarnate mind,
much as the categories employed by the human mind are
Ijeyond the comprehension of the mind of animals. Thus while
the field of selection open to the discarnate communicator is the
“ whole self ” of the sensitive, the field open to the sensitive is
confined to what may be described, with some approximation to
truth, as the supraliminal of the discarnate.
There is no great chflficulty in following the thought up to this
point, whatever vahie we may be disposed to attach to it. But
a further (hstinction is made between the actual and the
potential content of that part of the discarnate mind to which
the sensitive has access. The words potential and actual,
applied to the content of a mind, must mean potential or actual
in relation to that mind, not in relation to another mind.
“ Potential ”, therefore, cannot be interpreted to mean “ pos-
sible of apprehension by the sensitive ”. It must signify
something which is now latent but in certain conditions can
become actual in one and the same mind. What is this some-
thing ?
In the D.I. of June 4, 1911, Gurney expresses the wish that
he “ could get that word potential rightly used ”. It is the
more strange that his own statements on the subject should not
have been more explicit. The potential content, we are told,
lies beyond the actual, and the sensitive has access to both in
her selection from the mind of the discarnate. But for further
information we have to be content for the most part with
negatives. Actual and potential thoughts are not the same as
conscious and unconscious thoughts ;
the distinction between
140] Psychological As'pecfs of Mrs Willeifs Mediumship 203
the conscious and unconscious mind of the sensitive does not
correspond to the distinction between the actual and potential
content of the discarnate mind ;
“ unconscious ” is not an
equivalent for “potential”. There is the further statement
that “ potential ” means “ possible to be apprehended of mind
as it exists in the parts—using the word ‘
parts ’
in contra-
distinction to the word ‘
whole
’
” : but this, I must confess,
appears to me to be a case of obscurum per obscurius. In the
end the student of the scripts is thrown back upon his own
resources for an interpretation of the term. Does it relate to
something characteristic of the discarnate mind as such 1 or
does it apply to incarnate mind as well ? We are not definitely
told that in mutual selection the mind of the sensitive to which
the communicator has access comprises a potential as well as an
actual element. Assuming, however, as I think we reasonably
may, that the distinction between potential and actual content
is to be understood as applying to nfinds in general, whether
incarnate or discarnate, I suggest that by “ potential content ”
is meant the store of past impressions which have become and
remain latent unless called up into present consciousness and
made actual by an exercise of memory. It is something like the
“ preconscious ” of Freud.
This is not the place to consider the problems presented by
the phenomena of memory, or to discuss on its merits the claim
that one mind may be able to approjiriate the latent memory-
content of another, not indeed as memories of its own, but as so
many more or less detached ideas and images. All I am
concerned with at present is to interpret to the best of my ability
the statements made in the scripts respecting telsesthesia and
telepathy and their relations to each other.
Let us return once more to the statement in the D.I. of
October 8, 1911, that telepathy is communication of thought,
telaesthesia the acquisition of knowledge. The distinction
between an activity of commumcation and an activity of
acquisition is clear enough. The distinction between thought
and knowledge is less easy to grasp. By “ thought ” in this
connection I understand every kind of idea, image, emotion,
etc., forming the conscious content of the mind of the communi-
cator at the moment of commiufication. It is, in fact, that
“ actual content ” of his mind, to which, we are told, as well as
204 Psychological As])ecis of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
to the potential content, the sensitive has telsesthetic access in
mutual selection.
What, then, is the nature of the “ knowledge ” wliich is to be |
distinguished from “ thought ” ?
My answer would be that the knowledge differs from the
thought only in being knowledge actively acquired by one mind
of the thought in another mind. What is “ thought ” from the
standpoint of the thinker becomes an object of knowledge from
the standpoint of the percipient. The thought is what it is
has an objectivity of its own—irrespective of the question
whether it is correctly apprehended.
Similarly with respect to potential content. Let us suppose
we are right in assuming that by the potential content of a mind
is meant its latent memories. Then, so far as telaesthesia is
perception of the latent memories of another person, the know- |
ledge thus acquired must be determined by the nature of the
[
memory-content of the mind from which the percipient mind '
ch-aws its information. The latent memories of that mind (say,
for example, “ horse-shoe ” or “ the steeds of dawn ”) have
become, when telsesthetically apprehended, so many “ objects
perceived ”—mental objects, no doubt, but still “ objects
”
independent of the percipient, the real significance of which
remains the same even if it has been misapprehended or dis-
torted in the process.
It is important to notice that no attempt is made in the
scripts to bring independent clairvoyance within the scope of :
telaesthesia (W). Indeed, it is possible to go further, and say
that the very existence of such a faculty is ignored by the
communicators. They neither affirtn nor reject it, but simply i
pass the subject over in silence. Considering the prominence .
given to it in Human Personality, this strikes me as not a little
remarkable. Whether it was an attitude deliberately adopted,
or whether the omission was accidental, I am unable to say.
No example of independent clairvoyance can, in my opinion,
be found in the records of the Willett phenomena.
^ j
1 The experience of her dream house might probably have been reckoned
by Myers as a case of telsesthesia (M) on the groimd tliat “ no known mind
external to the percipient’s can be suggested as tlie source of the Imowledge
gained ”. But Mrs Willett herself, as we have seen, was inclined to attribute
it to the recollections of persons who had lived there as children in days gone
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Medmmship 205
In any case, if there be such a thing as independent clair-
voyance, so deep a chasm separates it from mind-reading that
to apply the same class-name to both seems to me more likely
to mislead than to enhghten.
The discussion of the subject in the present paper has been
comphcated, first by the ambiguity in Myers’s definition of
telaesthesia to which I have aheady called attention, and
secondly by the absence of any pronouncement in the scripts
for or against telaesthetic apjirehension of external reality
without the intervention of another mind. The result has been
that teleesthesia (M) has seemed to leave a loophole for the
admission of telepathic clairvoyance, and telaesthesia (W) to
leave a loophole for the admission of independent clairvoyance.
If we make up our minds to get rid of these loopholes, and
boldly identify telsesthesia (M) with independent clairvoyance,
and telsesthesia (W) with mind-reading, I do not consider that
we shall have departed from the spirit of Human Personality
in the one case, or from that of the scripts in the other, and I am
sure we shall have made a useful contribution to the cause of
clear thinking.
An ideahstic theory of the universe may resolve matter into
the content of some cosmic mind. There is a passage in Human
Personality in which Myers toys with this Berkeleian doctrine.^
But as long as we treat the distinction between matter and mind
by, and to me, at least, tins explanation is far preferable to that of inde-
pendent clairvoyance. There is an element of retro-cognition in the dream
house experience ; and I find it hard to believe that retro-cognitive telsesthesia
could ever be independent of the memories of some mind or other.
1 “ It was needful [in connection with the meaning of so-called ‘
travelling
clairvoyance ’] to consider how far there was a continuous transition between
these excursions and director transferences between mind and mind,
—
between telsesthesia and telepathy. It now seems to me that such a contmuous
transition may well exist, and that there is no absolute gulf between the
supernormal percejation of ideas as existmg in other minds, and the super-
normal perception of what we know as matter. All matter may, for aught we
know, exist as an idea in some cosmic mind, with which mind each individual
spirit may be in relation, as fully as with individual minds. The difference
perhaps lies rather in the fact that there may be generally a summons from
a cognate mind which starts the so-called agent’s mind into action ;
his
invasion may be in some way invited ;
while a spiritual excursion among
inanimate objects only may often lack an impulse to start it ”. {H.P.,
vol. i., p. 278.)
206 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
as fundamental—and we can hardly do otherwise without
deserting the jjrovince of psychology for that of metaphysics
—
so long shall we be under the necessity of treating the distinction
between telsesthesia (M) (
= independent clairvoyance) and
teliesthesia (W) (
= thought-perception) as fundamental also.
The idealistic hypothesis would not even provide, as Myers
seems to think, a continuous transition between the two. Its
effect would rather he to do away with the conception of inde-
pendent clairvoyance altogether, and leave teleesthesia (W)
alone in possession of the field.
Occasional hints are to be found in Human Personality of a
disposition to extend teleesthesia (M) so as to include intuitions
of the spiritual world. Consider, for instance, the following
I^assages :
A vague but genuine consciousness of the spiritual environ-
ment ;
that (it seems) is the degree of revelation which artistic
or philosophic genius is capable of conferring. Subliminal
uprushes, in other words, so far as they are intellectual, tend
to become telcesthetic. They bring with them indefinite intima-
tions of what I hold to be the great truth that the human spirit
is essentially capable of a deeper than sensorial perception, of
a direct knowledge of facts of the universe outside the range of
any specialised organ or any planetary view {H.P. ,
vol. i., p. 111).
We are already familiar with “ travelling clairvoyance ”, a
spirit’s change of centre of perception among the scenes of the
material world. May there not be an extension of travelling
clairvoyance to the spiritual world ? a spontaneous transfer of
the centi’e of perception into that region from whence discarnate
spirits seem now able, on their side, to communicate with
growing freedom ? (H.P., vol. ii., p. 259.)
Genius, as has been already said, is a kind of exalted but
undeveloped clairvoyance. The subliminal uprush which
inspires the poet or the musician, presents to him a deep but
vague perception of that world unseen, through which the seer
or the sensitive projects a narrower but exacter gaze. {H.P.,
vol. ii., p. 282.)
Such suggestions are really incompatible with Myers’s
definition of telsesthesia, and they seem to he rather half-
heartedly advanced. Had they been definitely accepted and
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship 207
consistently thought out, I think they would have led Myers to
revise his definition, perhaps on lines more in accord with the
views expressed in the Willett scripts.
The reader who has had the perseverance to accompany me
thus far through the somewhat wearisome chsquisitions of the
present chapter may, I fear, in the end lose patience and begin
to ask whether any useful purpose is served by lengthy dis-
cussion of points of difference possibly verbal rather than real.
Granted, he may say, that the terms telepathy and telsesthesia
are used in a sense other than that which they bear in Human
Personality, do the new meanings give a juster insight into
the facts, or merely rearrange and rename them ? Much is
obviously lost by giving new meanings to terms of art already
familiar. Has any compensating advantage been gained in the
present case ?
I do not consider these doubts wholly unjustified. The
limitation of the word telepathy to the active transmission of
thought by one mind to another, although it has hitherto been
generally employed to include mind-reachng as well, is not an
innovation to be welcomed. A word is wanted to cover both
activities of mental interaction. Telepathy had hitherto served
this purpose well, and the terminology of the scripts provides no
convenient substitute. It would simely have been better to have
retained telepathy as a generic term to include thought-com-
mmiication and thought-perception as suborchnate species.
The new meaning given to teleesthesia has more to justify it,
because in this case the effect is to extend the scope of the tei-m,
not to restrict it. Moreover, mind-reading, as an activity of
perception, has an etymological claim to the title, and the
communicators might fairly argue that this aspect of it would
not be sufficiently emphasised except by giving it a name which
would clearly indicate affinity with the other fortn of super-
normal perception. If the scripts had employed telaesthesia as
a generic term to include, as suborchnate species, (1) indepen-
dent clairvoyance, or supernormal perception of physical
objects, and (2) mind-reading, or supernormal perception of
mental objects, something could be urged in favour of such a
classification. But actually they have so treated the subject as
to ignore independent clairvoyance, and to all intents and
208 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [pabt
purposes appropriate the word telsesthesia to describe what
Myers’s definition was certainly meant to exclude. This has
not tended to clearness, and it has greatly increased the
difficulties of exposition. I am not satisfied with the definition
of telaesthesia in Human Personality. It does not unambigu-
ously exclude telepathic clairvoyance, as, in my view, it logically
should do. But here again I think it woxdd have been better to
let the old term stand as practically equivalent to independent
clairvoyance, and leave the supernormal perception of mental
objects to rank as a form of telepathy.
When, however, we truai from questions of terminology to
questions of substance, the sharp division of what is ordinarily
called telepathy into two contrasted activities, an activity of
communication and an activity of perception, possesses, in my
opinion, a high degree of interest. The chstinction itself is, of
course, not strictly speaking new. It has always been recognised
that the terms agent and percipient might, in certain cases,
convey a misleachng idea of the true nature of the relation, and
that when a thought in A’s mind becomes telepatIdeally shared
by B, the dynamic factor in the process may be on the side of B
rather than of A. But, so far as I am aware, very little attempt
had been made, up to the time when the Willett scripts quoted
in this section were produced, to follow up the idea whether in
its general implication or in its bearing on particular cases.
^
In these circumstances the positive assertion in the scripts
that one mind may be able to perceive and apprehend the
contents, actual and potential, of another mind without that
other’s active intervention does, in effect, open up new avenues
for thought, and if true, represents a real advance in our
knowledge of the subject. It no doubt suggests as many
difficult questions as it answers. But to expect from a single
automatist anything in the nature of a complete exposition of
the methods and processes of communication would hardly be
reasonable.
One question inevitably forced on our attention by the
1 Since writing tliis chajjter I notice that Professor Driesch, in his book on
Psychical Research (translated by Th. Besternian, 1933) lays great stress on
the distinction between thought-coininmiication and thought-reading, and,
like the coinniunieators in the Willett scripts, confines the term telepathy
exclusively to the former.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett' s AIediumship 209
Willett scripts is this : What is the relation to each other of the
two kinds of activity ? Are they in any circumstances mutually
independent, or does the exercise of the one activity necessarily
call the other into operation ?
I find it difficult to believe that the activity of communica-
tion (telepathy (W)) can ever be effective without some re-
sponding activity of apprehension (telaesthesia (W)). Conscious
reception must imply activity. It is easier to conceive the
activity of apprehension as being effective without calling into
play a responding activity of communication, at all events if
the object apprehended is, as the scripts affirm it may be, the
potential content of another mind. But without going so far
as to deny the possibility of extreme cases in which one activity
may be in operation to the complete exclusion of the other,
I can scarcely doubt that in general both factors contribute in
varying measme to the total result. From this point of view,
instead of asking which of the parties concerned is the agent and
which is the percipient, we should rather inquire which of the
two activities forms the starting-point of the process, and use
this test as a basis for classifying any given case as an example
of communication (telepathic emission), or as an example of
mind-reading (telepathic perception).
It may not always be easy, or even possible, to answer this
question. In experimental telepathy, for instance, can we say
with confidence which of the two activities is the initiating
factor in the result of the experiment ? Both agent and per-
cipient are consciously exerting themselves, the agent to im-
press an idea on the mind of the percipient and the percipient
to read the mind of the agent. In such a case the two activities
may well be independent and concurrent factors in the process.
Consider, on the other hand, those automatic productions of
a sensitive like Mrs Willett which take the form of lengthy
verbal messages appearing to her to proceed from a source other
than herself. Whatever that soiu’ce may be, whether a dis-
carnate spirit or a dissociated self, it would surely be paradoxical
to regard these as anything else than communications in respect
of which the apprehending activity plays the secondary part
of a listener in relation to a speaker.
Yet I certainly should not be prepared to say that all
mediumistic phenomena belong to this class. We have it on
210 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
tlie authority of the Willett scripts themselves that the sensitive
can, and does, draw upon the content of another mind without
the active intervention of the latter. I refrain from dogma-
tising on the subject, but I suspect that the remarkable super-
normal insight of many professional mediums into the private
affairs of their sitters originates rather in mind-reading than in
any activity of comnnmication either from the subliminal of the
sitter or from some independent mind whether incarnate or
discarnate. Here, as elsewhere, however, the problem is
comphcated by the possibility of interaction between the
subliminal and the supraliminal of the medium herself. It may
be that her subliminal acts in a double capacity, as a mind-
reader in relation to the sitter, and as a communicator to that
])art of herself which records whether by speech or in writing.
Very interesting are the reciprocal cases described in the last
chapter (pp. 177 ff.). In these telepathy (W) and telaesthesia
(W) are both in operation together, but the agent becomes the
percipient and the percipient the agent in rapid alternation.
“ Thought leaps out to wed with thought ”, and “ Response
conditions the power of transmission ” in such wise that the
process may be conceived as continuing ad infinitum
“
until we
twain be one ”. If complete oneness were ever actually
achieved, this would presumably mean not that the two
activities had ceased to be distinguishable, but that they had
ceased as such to exist.
If the reader will take the trouble to glance back at Chapter
III. of Part I. on Types of Comrmmications he will probably
come to the conclusion that some of the experiences there
treated as communications might with almost equal plausibility
be classed as cases of thought-perception. Indeed I raised this
very question myself with regard to the awareness of “ pre-
sences ” unattended by any impression of a more definite
character. Should bare awareness of a “ presence ” count as
a communication in the technical sense of the term ? The
formal answer according to my view would be, Yes, if it arises
from a telepathic impact directed by another mind ;
No, if it
originates in the exercise of an independent perceptive activity
by the sensitive. But I do not pretend that this answer would
carry us much further.
How are we to determine which of the two activities is
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Alediumship 211
primary and which is secondary ? Might not both be operative
simultaneously and in equal measure ? A passage in the D.I.
of March 13, 1912 (see p. 215 below), refers to “ the unseen
companions, the presences known by that unexplored facidty,
intuition Intuition is associated in the scripts with activity
of perception, but it is not necessary to accept this statement
as definitely settling the question.
The more elaborate and comphcated processes of communi-
cation (described in the extracts quoted on pji. 192-195
above), in wiaich the material utihsed in the scripts is said to be
derived from the products of “ mutual selection ” supple-
mented and guided by direct telepathic impulse, must be
reserved for separate treatment in the next chapter.
I have still, however, something to say in the present chapter
upon the psychical experience, to which the scripts apj:)ly the
term “ excursus ”.
The reader will remember that in the D.I. of June 4, 1911,
which was mainly devoted to the tojiic of “ mutual selection ”,
a capacity for excmsus on the part of the sensitive was laid
down by Gurney as one of the conditions of successful produc-
tion of a certain type of script. Capacity for excursus I inter-
preted to mean a power of going in some sense outside oneself
in order to enter into communion with the spiritual world.
This brief description sufficed for the moment, but the subject
deserves more detailed examination.
Let me begin by putting together in chronological order the
more important passages ^ that relate to it, only ju’emising that
in WiUett scripts excursus and ecstasy are used as practically
synonymous terms.
Extract fro7)i Lone Script of Ajyril 16, 1911.
. . . Myers Let me again emphasise the difference that exists
between Piper and Willett phenomena the former is possession
the complete all but complete withdrawal of the spirit the
^ Several of these have been quoted already. But repetition is almost
unavoidable in a paper like the present one. If the reader is constantly
asked to turn back to some previous chapter in which a relevant j^assage has
been cited in some other connection, he is apt to end by disregarding the
request, and the argiunent will suffer m eonsec[uence. I have not hesitated
to use a wide discretion in deciding where to refer back and where to repeat.
212 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [pabt
other is the blending of incarnate and excarnate spirits there
is nothing telergic it is a form of telepathy the point we have
to study is to find the line where the incarnate spirit is sufficiently
over the border to be in a state to receive and yet sufficiently
controlling by its own power its own supraliminal and therefore
able to transmit . . . We want the operator to be so linked with
its mechanism as to control that mechanism herself We want
her also to be so linked with us as to be able to receive definite
telepathic write the word radiation ^ .
Extract from Lone Script of May 11, 1911.
. . . Myei's I want to say lethargic that word Myers
another thought meditation quite other it is It is the setting
free of the reasoning and persistmg element in man Compare
the two states Calm is well But calm is not all Lethargy is
not an accession of power but a benumbed condition of the
spirit Meditation is a stilling of the outward avenues of sense
impressions . . . which gives access to an uprush say the word
enhanced powers ... I want the states contrasted
Extasy springs from meditation La Vernia S. Francis and
the stigmata Your young man shall dream dreams Myers go
on The freeing of that which is capable of intuitional say tele
and opticon Myers visions of the far distant worlds ^
The other state is a torpor of the whole man moral phisical
and metaphisical . . .
Extract from D.I. of June 4, 1911. [Present, 0. W. B.)
. . . He says, Say how you feel. Oh I’m all right. I’m far.
I’m far. He says, I want to speak—and, he says. What I’m
going to say is not to be taken as applying to D.I., when the
communication is more direct and simpler, and, he says, not
to be taken as applying to all sensitives, or even to all phenomena
* The crossing of the border (=; Excursus), is here treated as preparatory to
tlie reception of telepathic communication. In the D.I. of March 13, 1912
(see p. 215 below), it is represented as leading to the acquisition of know-
ledge by the exercise of telaesthesia (W).
^ I do not interpret this as referring to independent clairvoyance of material
objects, but to intuitions of the spiritual world. Compare “ I can get up
and walk about in other worlds, and I very often like to walk through the
room where that scene took place ” (i.e. the scene of the Symposium) in the
script of December 17, 1933.
140] Psychological Asliects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship 213
of any given sensitive. But it’s an attempt to show how in
some cases some scripts are produced.
The descending cham, telepathy—inspiration—telepathy
—
selection. Oh he says, What thought is imphed by the words
“ mutual selection ”?...! want to make a shot at a partial
definition of what constitutes mediumship. That orgaiusation
in which the capacity for—what an odd word—oh, Edmund,
say it slowly
—
excursus is allied to the capacity for definite
selection.^ Then finally the possession of as it were a vent,
through which the knowledge can emerge . . .
Extract from Lone Script of August 24, 1911.
... I wish I could get you to understand the meaning of the
word excursus as it is in my mind The falhng of the barriers
say that there is the dual process . . . the hemming in the
partitioning off the localising the selfing All that is one
process Now reverse it and say the escape the unifying the
delocalisation of the soul that is nearer get the thought clear
testifymg to the existence of a whole say that who said
experience is the only guide yes but what experience Do
not limit it to these faculties artificially fostered by the pressure
of the earth stage environment go on say amphibious the
native element is more than one ^ the temporary accidentals
evoqued [sic.] by the pressure of say the word self determined
conditions ^ But they should not usurp nor be regarded as
primary nor be made the measure why do you break when I
have the word almost in your grasp the extension of faculty no
arbitrary fixing of the norm that is a shifting point I am trying
to get the thought implied by the words norma[l] to that portion
of consciousness which transcends that field occupied by say
^ The subject of tliis extract will V)e more fully dealt with in the next
chapter.
^ Most of the ideas contained in tlie remainder of tliis paragraph will be
foimd in H.P., vol. i., pp. 76-8. Cf. also Myers’s essay on “ Tennyson as
Prophet ” in Science and a Future Life, pp. 154-65.
^ I.e. tlie earth-stage environment and the “ metetherial ”. The sensitive
is, in a special degree, a denizen of both. Cf. H.P., vol. i., p. 151.
^ The individual life is represented in Willett script as coming into being
by an act of free will.
214 Psychological Aspects of Mrs WiUeifs Mediumship [part
sense impressions ^ that is not what I wanted to say beeanse
it is limited I wanted something marking off a much larger
tract but sense impressions is right as far as it goes try again
Man is not man as yet ^ that is better Man is standardised in
accordance with the hitherto ideal of workability that is better
I want to emphasise the necessity of an . . . evolution of
standards that is confused but the thought is there
Again say this sweet scented blossom the pei'fnme at dusk
it floats forth and when the eye cannot discern the least petal
yet the knowledge of its blossoms is conveyed Now one
channel and now another informs the central mind ^ the per-
ffime borne upon the breeze kings in their pomp and pageant
pass as dream or mirage but the little childrens dower that
survives its yellow face smiles up to many a sun and beside
many a stream the fringed go on the fringe of blossom tilth and
vineyard hive and heath and herd so too the unbroken line^
say the word spiritual initiates ^ initiates to the Greeks
^ I.e. normal to the subliminal consciousness, which transcends not merely
the senses, but all the ordinary faculties aclajited to the necessities of our
earthly life.
“ Browning, Paracelsus, Pt. V.
“ “ Tlie centra] mind ” I take to mean the ruling individual soul (see
H.P., vol. i., p. 74). But it might mean “ the great centre into which are
gathered up all the individual exjDeriences ” ;
for which see the extract from
the script of March 22, 1912, given on jJ. 216 below.
^ The 23assage from “ kings m their jiomp ” down to “ so too the unbroken
line ” seems on first reading both obscure and irrelevant ;
but comjrarison
with other jjassages m Willett’s scrijit shows that the reference here is to
poets whose jreculiar genius has given them “ some sense of insight or entrance
into a supernal world ” {H.P., vol. i., ja. 109). The poets jjarticularly alluded
to are Tennyson, Virgil (indirectly through Tennyson’s “ To Virgil ”), Browning
(“ Home Thoughts from Abroad ”), and Wordsworth—“ the unbroken line
”
being the “ Daffodils
” “ in never ending line ”, seen often since by “ that inward
eye which is the bliss of solitude ”. The names of Tennyson, Browning, and
Wordswortii all apjsear on the same page that contains the quotation just
given from the chapter on Genius in Human PersonaliUj, which makes
this inter|-)retation jiractically certain. Compare also H.P., vol. ii., p. 261 :
” V’e need not deny the transcendental ecstasy to any of the strong souls
who have claimed to feel it ;
—to Elijah or to Isaiah, to Plato or to Plotinus,
to St. John or to St. Paul, to Buddha or to Mahomet, to Virgil or Dante,
to St. Theresa or to Joan of Arc, to Kant or to Swedenborg, to Wordsworth
or to Tennyson.”
^ “ Spiritual initiates ” is probably equivalent to “ ecstatics ”.
140] Psychological As'pects of Mrs WiUetfs Medmniship 215
foolishness ^ the coherency and solidarity of all human
experience.
Extract from Lone Script of A ugust 25, 1911.
Write and hrst this
the major chord of the harmonies contained within the Scr
of both automatists ^ Do you know where it is they centre
round one thought more than one but one is primary say the
word exstasy use it m the psychological sense . . .
Extract from the D.I. of March 13, 1912. {Present, 0. J. L. )
. . . He says the unseen comjianions, the presences known by
that unexplored faculty of the human mind, intuition ^ . . .
Lodge, that’s Edmund who speaks now, did you notice just
now she was so completely over the border that, though in those
instants things swept into her consciousness, she couldn’t pass
them back ? he says I want Gerald to be fuhy told of this
because he says it throws hght upon the methods
{0. J. L. All wiU be told him.)
She projected herself in a rush of sympathy . . .
For the continuation of this passage, and my comments on the
passage as a whole, see Chapter IV. of Part I., pp. 131-2 above.
The force of excursus seems to have carried the sensitive so far
“ over the border ” as to nulhfy the third of the three conditions
of successful mediumship enumerated in the extract from the
D.I. of June 4, 1911, namely “ the possession as it were of
a vent, through which the knowledge can emerge ”. She “ knew
but could not utter ” what she knew.
Extract from Loiie Script of October 13, 1912.
. . . The one remains the many fall and pass ^ Central unity
hnking all experience To live again in other lives that is
' 1 Cor., i. 23, “ Unto the Jews a stumbling block and unto the Greeks
foolishness ”. See Myers’s “ Obituary Notice of Henry Sidgwick ” in Frag-
ments of Prose and Poetry, pp. 102-5, where this saying is quoted, and applied
to religious orthodoxy and to science respectively. In the same passage
occurs the phrase “ raise the cosmos into intelligible coherence ”.
At the date of this script Miss Helen Verrall was on a visit to Mrs Willett,
and it was arranged that each should try for script, independently of the
other, on the same day, but not at the same hour.
^ See p. 21 1 above. ^ Shelley, Adonais, lii.
216 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'’ s Mediumship [part
nearer To relive and to realise through the experience of the
living That is what the dead do ^ . To be satisfied through
another’s filling solidarity say that No man liveth unto
himself ^ Deep underlying deep the central unity deepest
of all is the mere sense of human companionship
The dead are not dead but alive ® His living soul was flashed
on mine and we through empyreal heights were whirled And
came on that which is Here you see he is conscious of having
escaped from the shackles of the time idea Again he uses it in
the line What is and no man understands ^ Who shall reveal the
changeless to man and how shall he realise the eternal now ®
To know oneself by escaping from the limits of self and thou
art God and these thyself art they [F. W. H. M., A Cosmic
Outlook :
“
And these are God and thou thyself art they.”]
Extract from Lone Script of November 10, 1912.
. . . The days of the miraculous are not over nor yet those of the
direct incursion of the metetherial element influence afflatus
The excursive power of the mind and again the invasion into
the sphere of time of those elements which erstwhile bound in
its shackles now have passed into ... a state of emancipation
Extract from Lone Script of March 22, 1913.
. . . Oh how superficial has been the grasp of man upon the
truths of the solidarity of the human race The inconceivable
oneness of Souls . What links is the eternal sequence of
human emotions hopes and fears and joys and sorrows There
is a great centre into which are gathered up all the individual
For an instance of this see the D.I. on February 7, 1915, quoted in full
on pp. 177 ff. above. It is interesting to compare Peter Ibhetson, vol. ii., pp.
170ff.—a book which Mrs Willett had read—though there the emphasis is
laid on the experience which the living can draw from the dead rather than
the other way. The present script itself seems to pass to this latter point
of view in the words “ his living soul was flashed on mine,” and the passage
that follows.
2 Romans, xiv. 7 ;
quoted in H.P., vol. ii., p. 282.
® Tennyson, Vastness ; quoted in Myers’s “ Tennyson as Projshet ” on
p. 153 of Sciem.e and a Future Life.
^ Tennyson, In Memoriam, xcv. ^ Tennyson, In Memoriam, cxxiv.
® Cf. H.P., vol. i., p. 31.
^ This plirase occurs in H.P., vol. ii., p. 287. See also ibid., p. 282.
140] Psychological Asj^ecfs of Mrs Willeff's Medimnship 217
experiences ^ . Can we reach them those that remain Do
they know how those who have fallen asleep keep watch beside
their daily path Emphasise the word daily To them we may
become faint memories for ns they remain constant companions
it is our xmguessed influence that touches them when they do
not suspect it But at the times when the normal life is hushed
into a moment or a day of recueillement ^ then perhaps they
feel the touch of a vanished hand . . .
Extracts from the Script of December 14, 1913. (Present,
G. If. B.)
[Although Mrs Willett was never at any time in a condition
of deep trance during this sitting, she was clearly not her
normal self, especially towards the end.]
I will build my tabernacle in the hearts of men The altar not
of stone but of the tablets of the heart ^ That gives the idea
of INCURSION that force which seeks to penetrate Now give
the other
To enter into the great calm The waveless heights So shall
that which is in appearance twain be ONED.'* And these are
God and thou thyself are [art] they ^ He that seeks the heavenly
word proceeding forth Yet leaving not the Father’s side
and again the soul that rises in us bearing yet the stamp of its
source or provenance in those moments of blank misgivings,
fallings from us—before which our mortal nature did tremble
"
golden threads of eternity in the warp and woof of human
life ® . . .
^ Cf. H.P., vol. i., p. 31, quoted in footnote (2) on p. 224 below.
^ Cf. H.P., vol. ii., p. 251. ^ 2 Cor., iii. 3.
^ See the passage from Plotinus quoted in H.P., vol. ii., p. 291.
® F. W. H. Myers, A Cosmic Outlook (Fragments, p. 181). See p. 251 below,
where the context of this line is quoted in a footnote.
^ Hymns Ancient and Modern, 311. I am doubtful of the meaning here,
but I think the lines of the h5rmn are intended to represent the ineursive
force, and the quotation from Wordsworth’s ode the impulse to excursus.
^ Wordsworth, Ode on Imitations of Immortality.
* Cf. Vaughan, The Retreat :
And felt through all my fleshly dress
Bright shoots of everlastingness.
These lines are quoted in Myers’s Wordsworth, p. 132.
218 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mecliumship [paet
[What here follows was spokeyi, and should probably be
regarded as a kind of waking stage.]
I’m going to come back, but I want to say one thing. It’s
that last speech of Arthur—not exactly the last, but when he
knows himself no phantom nor the high God—something.^
Well, would you just say it’s those moments that make the
true record of a life ;
and in proportion to the richness of those
experiences is the richness of each human life to be measured.
^
It’s the escape from the smaller into the larger—separate no
longer but 02ie life alone.®
I must come back, you know. It’s just like waking up in
prison from a dream that one has been at home. Don’t you
ever walk out of yourself ? Aren’t you tired of being always
yourself ? It’s so heavenly to l>e out of myself—when I’m
everything, you know, and everything else is me.
Extracts froyn the Script of December 17, 1913. {Present,
a. w. B.)
[This script has already been quoted in full in Chapter II. of
Part I, pp. 69 ff. The description of the Symposium, which
forms its main subject, may itself be intended as an illustration
of knowledge gained by excursus. The extracts here given are
taken from the latter part of the sitting.]
[Spolcen\ . . . Do you know that man’s as real to me as If
I coidd toTich him ! He’s an ugly man, only I feel he’s sublimely
^ Tennyson, The Holy Grail. Compare also Myers’s essay on “ Tennyson
as Prophet- ” in Science and a Future Life :
“ 'Take again the words of King
Artliur at tlie end of the ‘
Holy Grail ’
—the spiritually central passage,
so to say, in all the ‘
Idylls of the King ’
—when the king describes the visions
of the night or of the day which come when earthly work is done
—
In moments when he feels he cannot die.
And knows himself no vision to himself.
Nor the high God a vision ;
and compare this with any one of the passages where Plotinus endeavours in
lialting speech to rejiroduce tliose moments of unison whose memory brightens
his arid argument with oases of a lucid joy ”.
^ Cf. H.P., vol. ii., pj). 260-1 :
“ It is tliese subjective feelings of vision or
inspiration which have to many men formed the most impressive and fruitful
moments of life. While not allowing an objective truth to their revelations,
we shall now be prepared to admit a reality to tire subjective experience.”
^ F. W. H. Myers, Frar/inent.s of Prose and Poetry, p. 148.
140] PsycJioJogical Aspects of BIrs Willett's Bledinmship 219
great. You know I’ve not got to be tied up always to myself.
I can get up and walk about in other worlds ;
and I very often
like to walk through the room where that scene took place.
Have you ever seen the shadow of the Parthenon ? ^ Oh !
{Pause) It’s all very beautiful there. Do you know Edmund
would have been very happy in that world. It was the sort of
world he wanted, and he strayed into such a hideous age. {Inter-
ruption at this point by noise outside.)
{Written) I’ve lost the thread. It’s all gone. I was so happy
I was seeing visions and I did not ever want to leave Fred was
with me P. W. H. M. I also saw Henry Sidgwick he had a
white beard Do you know who the young man ^ was I only
just caught sight of him for a moment
How nothing time is All human experience is one . . .
Extract from Script before D.I. of February 1, 1915. {Present,
G. W. B.)
. . . Come ye apart Come and rest
I want to get out of myself I’m so tired of myself I want to
be enlarged
They say Come Come and I’ve left the darkness and come
home.^ I see men as trees walking several men There’s Fred
—and Edmund—and the man who said . . he was Hemy.
Butcher’s ghost —and I see a young copy of A W ® and I see
the Patient Philosopher ®
—and now
I never forget [Here follows D.I. ivitli the Dark Young Man
communicating
.
]
From the Waking Stage following Trance-script of April 19,
1918. {Preseyit, 0. J. L.)
Oh ! {Pause) Fred. Fred So strange to be somebody else.
F. W. H. Myers, Fragments of Prose and Poetry, p. 194 :
“ And over Plato’s homestead fell
The shadow of the Parthenon.”
^ The Dark Young Man is indicated.
^ By “ home ” here is meant tlie “ metetherial ”. Compare the extract
from the script of August 24, 1911, “ Say Amphibious the Native element is
more than One ”.
^ See 82 above. A. W. is Dr Verrall. See pp. 8.3-4 above.
“ I.e. Professor Sidgwick.
220 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
To feel somebody’s heart beating inside you, and somebody
else’s mind inside your mind. And there isn’t any time or
place, and either you’re loosed or they’re entered,^ and you all
of a sudden know everything that ever was. You understand
everything. It’s like every single thing and time and thought
and everything brought down to one point . . .
Extract from the sitting of June 8, 1930. [Present, G. W. B. ;
Mrs Willett in p>o,rtial trance.)
. . . Everybody gone !
What is the meaning of the word excursus ?
[G. W. B. Excursus is the going out to meet something else.
It’s the opposite to invasion.)
Well, that’s the way I do these things.
A^ote.—The sitting had opened with a comnumication in
writing from an unidentified source—perhaps the Dark Young
Man. This was followed by a dictated passage, in which the
automatist described, as if on her own account and from her
own present observation, a scene in which certain members of
the group on the other side, including the Dark Young Man,
were taking jDart. She was evidently visualising them in the
form in which they might have appeared during life. After a
pause the record proceeded as above.
ITie foregoing extracts make it clear that the term excursus
is used in Willett scripts to denote an act by which the incarnate
spirit seeks to place itself in conscious relation with a spiritual
environment. Tliis spiritual environment—the metetherial as
it is often called—is declared to be the soul’s true native
element. The passing into it, which is the effect of excursus, is
variously described as “ the crossing of a border ”, “ the
freeing of that wliicli is capable of intuitional visions of far
distant worlds “ the falling of barriers “ the delocahsation
of the soul testifying to the existence of a whole “ the escape
^ “ Either you’re loosed or they’re entered ” I take to mean that the case
is one either of excursus or of incursion, and that the bewildered sensitive
hardly knows which. “ To be somebody else ” and to “ feel somebody else’s
mmd inside yorn- mind ” points to incursion, and what I have called “tele-
pathic possession ” (see pp. 175 ff. above) : on the other hand the sense
of tunelessness and of omniscience suggest excursus and communion with
the “ Central Unity linking all experience ”.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'’ s Medium,ship 221
from the limits of self ”, “ the escape of the smaller into the
larger
The occasional footnotes appended to the several extracts
may be usefully supplemented by a few observations of a more
general character intended to throw light on some doubtful and
difficult points, though I fear others will remain of which I
cannot hope to give a thoroughly satisfactory explanation.
I have interpreted excursus as involving an “ act ” on the
part of the sensitive ;
and by “ act ” I mean something that
implies conscious purpose and effort. In liis chapter on “ Trance,
Possession and Ecstasy,” Myers remarks :
“ Die Geisterwelt ist
nicht verschlossen : these sensitives [i.e. the favoured individuals
possessing the natural capacity] have but to sink into a deep
recueillement, a guarded slumber, and that gate stands mani-
festly ajar. It is rather on the other side of the gidf that
difficulties and perplexities come thick and fast ”.^ Excursus,
however, in the Willett scripts, means more than mere passivity.
The Myers of the scripts teUs us (in the script of May 11, 1911,
quoted below) that, “ Ecstasy springs from meditation ” ;
and
he draws an emphatic distinction between meditation and
lethargy or torpor. The very term “ excursus ” suggests an
active process ;
and the language employed by the sensitive
herself, in such phrases as “ I want to get out of myself, I’m so
tired of myself, I want to be enlarged ”, carries a similar
implication. Compare also the striking statement in the waking
stage of the sitting of June 8, 1930, in which she informs us that
excursus is “ the way I do these things ”, meaning that it is by
excursus that she acquires knowledge of happenings in the
world of spirits.
Nevertheless, I do not think the act of excursus constitutes
in itself an achieved communion with the spiritual world. From
the side of the sensitive it is rather a kind of reaching out
towards the unseen
—“ a hstening in silence, knowing that the
silence is an unforgoable prelude to the spoken word ”, to
borrow an expression from a script not included in the collection
of extracts.2 The attitude of expectation favours telepathic
interaction, but another factor is indispensable. Not until the
mind of the sensitive has passed into a relation more or less
definite with discarnate mind does excursus actually become in
^ H.P., vol. ii., p. 251. ^ From the script of May 20, 1915.
222 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
the full sense co-operation and communion between the living
and the dead, though “ the vague but genuine consciousness of
the spiritual environment ”, which Myers claims in certain cases
for artistic or philosophic genius, is recognised as a kind of
rudimentary communion with the spiritual world d
Communion led up to by excursus may (I conceive) take
either of the two forms the consideration of which has occupied
so much of our attention in the present section, ft may take
the form in which telepathic communication is the primary
activity and telepathic perception plays only a secondary part ;
or it may take the form in which the primary activity is the
telepathic perception of the contents of another mind, any
active response of that mind being of secondary significance, if
not entirely absent. There seems to be no reason to suppose
that the sensitive cannot telepathically impress discarnate
minds : in fact, something of the kind would seem to occur in
those reciprocal cases of which the D.I. of February 7, 1915
(see pp. 177 If. above), furnishes so interesting an example.
But on the whole it may be said that, so far as the Willett
records are concerned, activity of communication is almost
entirely on the side of the discarnate, whereas the power, in
some measiu’e, of reading each other’s mind is claimed for both
sides as an important factor in the production of a certain type
of scripts. Indeed, this power in the sensitive is repeatedly
declared to be the prerogative of the subliminal acting normally
in the metetherial ; knowledge thereby acquired is supernor-
mally acquired only from the point of view of the supraliminal.
In the script of November 10, 1912, “ the excursive power of
the mind ” is opposed to “ the invasion into the sphere of time
of those elements which, erstwhile bound in its shackles, now
have passed into a state of emancipation ”. And again in the
script of December 14, 1913, we read :
“ I will build my
tabernacle in the hearts of men, the altar not of stone, but of
the tablets of the heart. That gives the idea of incursion, the
force which seeks to penetrate. Now give the other—to enter
into the great calm, the waveless heights. So shall that which
is in appearance twain be onei), and these are God and thou
thyself ai’t they ”.
CI. H . l ’., vol. i., pp. 11 1 and 218.
140] Psychological As-pects of Mrs Willett's 31eclimnship 223
If these passages stood alone one might be tempted to
interpret them as identifying “ invasion ” or “ incursion ” with
the activity of communication, and excursus with the activity
of perception. I do not think this would be entirely correct.
I prefer to regard excursus as a kind of preparatory stage,
facilitating the exercise of either activity whether by the
sensitive or by a chscarnate spirit. But that excursus is in a
special degree associated in the scripts with telepathic percep-
tion by the sensitive, and particularly with telepathic perception
independent of the active intervention of the mind whose
content is perceived, seems to me beyond doubt. This inde-
pendent activity of perception, constituting what 1 may call
the most characteristic form of telsesthesia (W), is sometimes
described in the scripts by the term intuition.
In this connection the record of the sitting of December 17,
1913, quoted in full on pp. 69 If., and again referred to on p.
218 above, is, I venture to think, very instructive. If my
understanchng of the dictated part of the record is correct, the
communicator is not one of the group on the other side, but the
“ subhminal self ” of the sensitive dictating to her supraliminal.
Speaking apparently in projyria persona, she describes in con-
siderable detail, and almost as if it were a contemporaneons
experience of her own, the scene immortalised in the Symposium
of Plato. It presents itself to her first as a picture—
a
picture
that I often love and see. Marble pillars everywhere—a most
heavenly scene. A company of men—small company discuss-
ing everything in heaven and earth. . . . There was such inter-
coui’se of the human mind going on in that room, and I know it
so well I almost fancy I must have been there, tliongh it hap-
pened a long time ago ”. In the sequel “ my picture that I like
to look at ” becomes “ my room where I choose to walk ”, and
various incidents in the story, including the irruption of Alci-
biades and his riotous friends, are described as if they were
being enacted before her very eyes. Finally, she ends up (see
p. 219 above) by saying, “ You know I’ve not got to be tied np
always to myself. I can get up and walk aboxit in other worlds ;
and I very often like to walk through the room where that scene
took place ”.
It is possible that we have here an ordinary case of ci‘
3q)to-
ninesia. But it is also possible that the scene thus vividly
224 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
described may be intended as an illustration of excnrsus leading
up to independent telepathic perception of the memory content
of some other mind or minds. If that be a true account of the
experience, the next question will he, From what other mind or
minds was the knowledge acquired ? The answer that most
reachly suggests itself is. The mind or minds of one or more of
the group on the other side, whom the sensitive describes as
having been present and recognised by her, although not as
actually communicating. Nevertheless, I cannot help suspect-
ing that this is not what we are meant to understand. I invite
carefid attention to the remark at the end of the sitting ;
“ How
nothing time is ! All human experience is one ” ;
and beg the
reader to compare it with the waking stage of the immediately
preceding sitting of December 14, 1913, especially with its
concluding sentences :
“ Don’t you ever walk out of yourself ?
Aren’t you tired of being always yourself ? It’s so heavenly to
be out of myself, when I’m everything, you know, and every-
thing else is me ”. Compare again a jjassage from the script of
March 22, 1913 :
“ Oh how superficial has been the grasp of
man iq)on the truths of the sohdarity of the human race, the
inconceivable oneness of Souls. . . What links is the eternal
seqiience of human emotions, hopes and fears, and joys and
sorrows. There is a great centre into which is gathered up all
the indivichial experiences ”.
From these passages ^ it is perhaps not overbold to conjectiu'c
that the mind from whose memories we are to understand the
vision of the Sy7nposiuin to be derived is this same great centre,
conceived as in some sense a unity in multiplicity, or collective
unity, of all individual souls, in which time vanishes into an
eternal now.^ At this point, however, we enter upon a region
‘
The extract from the sitting of April 19, 1918 (p. 219 above) should also
be considered, although i/rima facie the exjjeriences described in it by the
sensitive would apjjear to be a ease of “ telepathic possession ” by another
individual consciousness, mtlier tlian of communion with universal mind.
1 susjject thei’e is confusion in the j^assage.
“ Compare H.P., vol. i., p. 31 .
“ The Imowledge of the past which automatic
communications manifest is in most cases apparently referable to the actual
memory of persons still existing beyond the tomb. It reaches us telepathically,
as from a mind in which remote scenes are still imprinted. But there are
certain scenes which are not easily assigned to the individual memory of any
given spiiit. And if it be jiossible for us to learn of present facts by telsesthesia
225
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mecliumship
of speculative mysticism into which I will not attempt to
penetrate further.
The extracts relating to the subject of excursus contain a
good many allusions to opinions expressed in Human Personality,
and even to particular passages in that work. References to
some of these have been given in footnotes to the extracts
themselves. Speaking generally, I should say that the meaning
of excursus and ecstasy in the Willett scripts does not differ
widely from that of the corresponding terms ^ in Human
Personality
.
Nevertheless there are differences, and not unim-
portant ones ;
and to these I must now advert.
The definition of ecstasy given in the Glossary to Human
Personality runs as follows :
Ecstasy.—A trance during which the spirit of the automatist
partially quits his body, entering into a state in which the
spiritual world is more or less open to its perception, and in
which it so far ceases to occupy its organism as to leave room
for an invading spirit to use it in somewhat the same fashion
as its owner is accustomed to use it.
If my interpretation of ecstasy as understood by the Willett
communicators is correct, they would accept that part of this
definition which describes ecstasy as a state in which the
spiritual world is more or less oi^en to the perception of the
as well as by telepathy ; —by some dii-eet supernormal percipieiice without
the intervention of any other mind to which the facts are already known,
—
may there not be also a retro-cognitive telaesthesia by which we may attain
a direct knowledge of facts in the past ?
“ Some conception of tliis kmd may possibly come nearest to the truth. It
may even be that some World Soul is perennially conscious of all its past ;
and that individual souls, as they enter into deeper consciousness, enter
into something which is at once reminiscence and actuality ”. . . . Cf. also
H.P., vol. ii., p. 76.
1 The corresponding terms in Human Personality are ecstasy and exciu'sioii.
For excursion the scripts substitute excursus ;
but I do not think there is any
significance in the changed form of the word. Ecstasy and excui-sus are
synonymous terms in the scripts. Between ecstasy and excursion in H.P.
the difference is hardly one of substance. Cf. H.P., vol. ii., p. 210, “No
line of absolute separation can be drawn between the brief psycliical excursions
previously described, and those more prolonged excursions of the spirit which
I would group under the name of ecstasy
226 Psychological As2)ects of Mrs Willett's Medinmshij) [part
spirit of the automatist, but would not accept, as conditions of
its entei'ing that state, either that the automatist must be
entranced, or that his spirit should j^artially quit the body ;
nor would they admit any necessary connection between
ecstasy and possession. To admit the latter would indeed be
eqixivalent to denying that Mrs Willett was ever in a state of
ecstasy, for they emphatically deny that in her case possession
ever takes place.
It is right to add that when, in his chapter on Trance,
Possession, and Ecstasy, Myers comes to treat of the subject in
detail, the terms of the definition of ecstasy given in the
Glossary are not rigidly insisted on. The subjoined passage
from that chapter ^ may be taken, 1 think, as expressing his
more considered views :
Among the cases of trance [he writes] discussed in this
chapter Ave have found intimately interwoven with the pheno-
mena of possession many instances of its correlative,—ecstasy.
Mrs Piper’s fragmentary utterances and visions during her
passage from trance to waking life,—utterances and visions that
fade away and leave no remembrance in lier wakmg self ;
Moses’ occasional visions, his journeys in the “ spirit world
”
which he recorded on returning to his ordmary consciousness ;
Home’s entrancement and converse with the various controls
whose messages he gave ; —all these suggest actual excursions
of the incarnate spiiit from its organism. The theoretical
importance of these spiritual excursions is, of course, very great.
It is, indeed, so great that most men will hesitate to accept a
thesis which carries us straight into the inmost sanctuary of
mysticism ;
which preaches “ a precursory entrance into the
most holy place, as by divine transportation ”.
Yet I think that this belief, although extreme, is not, at the
point to which our evidence has carried us, in any real way
improbable. To put the matter luiefly, if a spirit from outside
can enter the organism, the spirit from inside can go out, can
change its centre of perception and action, in a way less com-
plete and irrevocable than the change of death. Ecstasy would
thus be simply the complementary or correlative aspect of
spirit-control. Such a change need not be a S'patial change,
U.F., vol. ii., p. 269.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’ s 31ecKumship 227
any more than there need be any spatial change for the spirit
which invades the deserted organism. Nay, further, if the
incarnate spirit can in this manner change its centre of percep-
tion in response (so to say) to a discarnate spirit’s invasion of
the organism, there is no obvious reason why it should not do so
on other occasions as well. We are already familiar with
“ travelling clairvoyance ”, a spirit’s change of centre of per-
ception among the scenes of the material world. May there
not be an extension of travelling clairvoyance to the spiritual
world ? a spontaneous transfer of the centre of perception into
that region from whence discarnate spirits seem now to be able,
on their side, to communicate with growing freedom ?
I gather from this passage :
(1) That complete trance, in which the spirit of the auto-
matist so far ceases to occupy its organism as to leave room for
an invading sj)irit to use that organism telergically, is no longer
regarded as a necessary condition of ecstasy, inasmuch as ecstasy
as not denied to Mrs Piper’s waking stage, when she is repre-
sented as having “ retmiied to her body ”, and as sj)eaking ozi
her own account in the first person.
(2) That though the jihenomena recorded of IMi’s Piper, of
Stainton Moses, and of Home, “ suggest actual excursions of
the incarnate spirit from its organism ”, this “ change in its
centre of perception ”, “ need not be a spatial change any more
than there need be any spatial change for the spirit which
invades the deserted organism ”.
(3) That even if ecstasy be a condition of possession, posses-
sion is not necessarily a conchtion of ecstasy. If the incarnate
spirit can “ change its centre of perception in response (so to
say) to a discarnate spirit’s invasion of the organism ”, there
is no obvious reason why it should not do so on other occasions
as well ”.
I do not think it will be disputed that the important passages
which I have quoted show signs of a movement of thought in a
chrection favourable to the conception of exciu’sus or ecstasy
presented in the Willett scripts.
Nevertheless I find it difficult to resist the impression that
for the Myers of Human Personality ecstasy implied actual
locomotion in space, and that any more subtle interpretation
228 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part 140]
of the phenomena did not really commend itself to him.^ On
the other hand I know of nothing in Willett script leading us
to suppose that her descriptions of excursus in terms of motion
in space are meant to be literally interpreted. When she speaks
of
‘
‘
walking out of herself ” ,
of “ walking about in other worlds
’
’
,
of becoming “ enlarged ”, it is manifest that these expressions
are metaphorical and figurative, or, at most, are to be taken as
representing the dreamlike construction subjectively super-
imposed by the sensitive upon the experience of a change of
environment from the “ etherial ” to the “ metetherial
Here as elsewhere, in so far as the Willett scripts indicate a
departure from the teachings of Hximan Personality, the
tendency appears to be towards a more consistently idealistic
standpoint.^
^ See especially H.F., vol. ii., p. 194.
^ Cf. lone script of June 19, 1910, (Myers communicating) : “All I touch
shows me this the Real is the Ideal the transcendental view of material
phenomena is the truest ”.
CHAPTER III
HOW SOME SCRIPTS ARE PRODUCED
Mrs Willett’s automatic productions are of two well-marked
types. To one type belong those which are consecutive,
coherent, and for the most part readily intelligible ;
to the
other those which are scrappy, disjointed, allusive, and often
difficult of interpretation. A similar distinction apphes also to
the scripts of other members of the group—Mrs Verrall, Mrs
Salter, Mrs “ Holland ”, Dame Edith Lyttelton (Mrs “ King”),
Mrs Wilson, Mr and Mrs Kenneth Richmond—but in their
case the disjointed scripts greatly outnumber the continuous
ones, and, so far as I am able to judge, also outweigh them in
importance. The Willett scripts, on the other hand, contain
abundance of noteworthy examples of both types ;
and the
main advantage to the communicators in resorting to the dis-
jointed and allusive type seems to be, in her case (and probably
in that of other members of the group), a resulting obscurity
which conceals from the automatist the inner meaning of what
she is writing or speaking, and is therefore well adapted for the
production of cross-correspondences. The work of interpreta-
tion is deliberately reserved to the investigators. Thus in the
lone script of dime 10, 1910, we read ;
“ Myers to-day I want
only allusions which others will sift ... let the pen run let the
hand he limp so shall the word come that is not understanded
of many what I say now you understand not but you shall
know hereafter ”. And again on November 13, 1910 :
“ Let
thoughts flit past you cease [seize] what you can make
records that others may delve . . . Let the words come to you
a blank but of others understandable ”. Doubtless much the
same purpose is served by the employment of trance conditions
for messages which the communicators do not wish the sensitive
to remember after the sitting is over.
In the early days of IVIrs WiUett’s mediumship the scripts
were practically all of the consecutive type, and were largely
229
230 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumsliip [part
occupied with messages personal to herself. The disjointed and
allusive type first appears in the so-called “ Lethe scripts ” of
February 4 and February 10, 1910, for which see Proceedings
,
vol. XXV., pp. 122-4, and pp. 148-50.
After this disjointed scripts become fairly common, and
occasionally passages with the characteristics of each type
succeed one another in the same script. When the communi-
cator means to embark on chsjointed script he frequently begins
with the words, “ Let the pen run ”, or some equivalent phrase.
This I take to be an injunction to let production be as effortless
and as automatic as possible.
The strong contrast between the two types of script naturally
began to attract the attention of the investigators, and its
significance to be a subject of discussion among us. Finally, on
February 9, 1911, Sir Oliver Lodge j)ut a direct question to
Gurney.
Extract from the Script of Felmiary 9, 1911. {Present, 0. J. L.)
(0. J. L. ... There is another question I want to ask. We
have had lately long lists of quotations, so many and so widely
supplied that it would appear as if cross-correspondence must
occasionally occur by accident. Some of the group feel that.
They want to know whether you are sending these of set
purpose.)
Yes, who says so ?
(0. J. L. Well, we have been talking it over lately with
G. W. B. and J. G. P. and Mrs S.)
Do they suggest shorter scripts ?
{O. J. L. No, they do not want to suggest anything definite,
only to find out whether the scripts which are arriving are
considered on your side quite wise and satisfactory.)
Do you mean the M. V. case or W. ?
(0. J. L. Oh, I do not mean W. only ;
I mean Verrall and
Holland also. We think that sceptics will claim that the cross-
correspondences are accidental ;
also that the meaning is so
obscure that we may miss it, for we assume that besides cross-
correspondence you wish to convey a definite meaning too.)
They were allusive. You must get through a good bulk of
matter to get in what you want said from our standpoint. They
are not without threads of comiexion. But hsten. Those
140]
Psychological Asjjects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumslivp 231
threads extend also in subliminal of antomatist. Thus if I
would say fire I Gurney might make allusion to Phoel^us or to
Zoroaster Her subliminal may conceivably go one better and
shove in Salamander
(0. J. L. Yes, well, that is what we rather suspected, that
subliminal activity was mixed with your intention.)
What ?
{0. J. L. repeated.)
Who ? Woven strands Pick out the gold thread . . .
The above passage gave the first clear hint that there was
something peculiar about the process by which disjointed
scripts were produced. It was not until some months later that
the subject was resumed. In the interval Gurney had been
expressing a strong desire to be placed in direct communication
with me ;
but Mxs Willett herself, whom I had met for the first
time only a few days before the date of the script just quoted,
had felt a very natural reluctance to add a comparative stranger
to the number of her “ sitters ”, hitherto confined to Mrs
Verrall and Sir Oliver Lodge. Gurney, however, insisted (he
and I had been close friends in days gone by), and it was
ultimately arranged that I should have a sitting on June 4,
1911. It is evident from the subjoined script that Gurney was
anxious to explain to me certain aspects of the jjrocess of
communication.
Lone Scrigjt of May 21, 1911.
Gurney I wish I could get you to understand why I wanted
to speak to Gerald What I wanted to say was for his informa-
tion and not yours that is why I refused to put it into script.
You don’t understand his point of view But it is completely
intelligible to me He is interested in the process as distinct
from the product. And it was about the process that I wanted
to speak And the less you know of the process the better . . .
because the recipient is best left in ignorance of the method.
But it does not follow that the investigator need be . . .
I now come to the sitting of June 4, 1911, the first at which
I was present. After a short prehminary script, D.I. followed
in accordance with the customary routine already described.
The sensitive was fully entranced. I have already had occasion
to quote more than one passage from this D.I. in connection
232 Psychological Aspects of Airs Willett's Mediumship [part
with telcesthesia and excursus ;
but in view of the light which it
throws upon “ process ” I here reproduce it in full, adding such
footnotes as may be useful for the elucidation of minor points.
D.I. of June 4, 1911. {Preserit, G. W. B.)
Oh he says, something French, . .
. pas qui coute ^
Oh yes, I know—I’m trying, I will try.
He says, say how you feel. Oh I’m all right.
I’m far, I’m far.
He says, I want to speak—and he says, what I’m going to
say is not to he taken as applying to D.I., when the communi-
cation is more direct and simpler, and he says, not to be taken
as applying to all sensitives or even to all phenomena of any
given sensitive. But it’s an attempt to show how in some cases
some scripts are produced.
The descending chain, telepathy—inspiration—telepathy ^
—
selection. Oh he says. What thought is implied by the words
“ mutual selection ” ?
Oh he says. Is he there ? (G. W. B. Yes, I’m here.)
Does it reach him ? {G. W. B. Yes, I hear quite well.)
I want to make a shot at a partial definition of what con-
stitutes mediumship.
That organisation in which the capacity for—what an odd
word—Oh, Edmund, say it slowly—excursus is allied to the
ca])acity for definite selection. Then finally the possession of
as it were a vent, throiigh which the knowledge can emerge.
Oh he says, there’s a line of Tennyson’s I’m thinking of—lies
open unto me.^
And all things he says like that, he says I don’t repeat. I
thought I’d said it—I wonder where I am. He says, don’t lose
the thread.
Oh he says, what I’m going to say now may lead to some
^ Ce n'est que le premier pas qui covite refers, of course, to Mrs W.’s reluctance
to try for D.I. with a comparative stranger. Some sounds preceded the
words pas qui coiite hut they were almost inaudible.
“ The repetition of the word “ telepathy ” is 23robably a .surjjlusage here,
the “ descending chain ” being telepathy, inspiration, selectiori. See pp. 252 ff.
below.
® d^'ennyson. Princess :
“ Now lies the Earth all Danae to the stars,
.\nd all thy heart lies ojjen unto me.”
140] Psychological Aspects of Airs Willett's Mediuynship 233
misunderstanding, according as whether the right or the wrong
deductions are drawn from it.
It’s something like this. [PuMse.]
Say that after—Oh ! how difficult it is—say that after
deliberation a certain theme is selected. Then he says something
in German
—
motif—to be got through various channels. I’m
only speaking now of the process of selection, he says, and in
so far as that’s concerned I’m limited to the contents of the
conscious and unconscious self.
Oh he says, Gerald—Oh he says like that. He’s calling some-
one. Nobody answers—he keeps on calling someone. He says
Gerald. Oh he keeps on calling. Oh ! he says, where is Gerald ?
{0. W. B. I’m here.)
Oh he says, does he hear ? how can I know that he hears ?
(G. W. B. All right, I’m hearing perfectly.)
Oh I see him so plainly.^
He says to me. Don’t fail me—go on, go back to where you
left off—about the mind.
Mind, he says, was the last word.^ He says. Remember I am
distinctly ruling out the thoughts suggested by the words
telepathy and inspiration. Oh he says. Well then I look over
the available factors—oh, and see what will serve. Oh he says,
it isn’t only I who select. Oh he says, now you’ve got it.
There’s another field for selection—and it’s such part of my
mmd, I, Gurney, as she can have access to. Oh he says. What
part ? Why ? Oh, I’ve missed a word—something something
limited to—then I’ve skipped something, but I hear him say
thoughts potentially.
Oh he says, put it another way. Having access to my mind
her selection is chiefly limited to that which can naturally link
on to human incarnate thought. Oh he says, I wish I could get
that word potential rightly used. I’m not saying it’s limited to
the actual but to the potential content.^
^ I think “ Oh I see iiim so plainly ” is a remark made by the automatist
on her own account. “ Him ” = Gurney.
^ This evidently refers back to the mention of “ the conscious and uncon-
scious self ”. The word mind was not used.
® What Gurney intends to say is “ I don’t mean that her selection is limited
to the actual content of my mmd ;
it includes the potential content as well
See footnote on p. 199 above ;
and for the meaning of “ potential ” in this
connection, see pp. 202-3.
Q
234 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
Oh he says, does he see what I’m driving at ?
[G. W. B. I think I do and no doubt I shall understand still
better when I read it over.)
He says, That’s where the gamble conies in. How will it be
used, the knowledge supernormally gained ? Now then, you
have present in the whole self the matter from which I selected,
plus the matter supernormally acquired from me. Now conies
the weaving. Oh he says. That’s where subliminal activity
conies in. Oh he says, it’s a dangerous weapon, yet we can’t
do without it.
Often there is a fairly long period of—don’t get that word
—
it contains a g and an s and a t and an nd [G. W. B. suggests
“ gestation ” but no notice is taken of tliisi] Say incubation, he
says—and then conies the iiprush. And then, he says, now I
must bring in telepathy as the guiding influence. He says this
process is only one among a great variety. Oh he says. We
must experiment—he says, so much is unmapped.
Oh, and he says, the waste of material when we keep on
hammering at one point—approaching it from every—can’t
read that word—of the compass—only to find that the point
had been grasped and that we might have passed on to new
matter.
Oh he says, I can’t see your mind, Gerald, but I can feel you
in some dim way through her. He says. It’s a sort of lucky-bag,
her mind to me—when I’m not shut out from it.
He says I think I got some things I wanted said about
selection. It’s the thought of its being as it were a mutual
process that I want driven home.
Oh he says, now say this for me. He says, you want to
foster in sensitives a sort of dual attitude—belief in their
capacity. Oh ! say it slowly—I’m so tired. I’m so tired—oh
I’m climliing. Oh ! I’m climbing, belief. Oh I will, I will say
it—lielief m their capacity to have access to the mind of the
communicator, together with a wholesome sense of discrimina-
^ The word was evidently “ gestation ” ;
but the passage is interesting
as showing that Mrs W. sometimes sees ratlier tlian hears the message which
it is wished to convey to lier. Compare the examples given on ji. 99 above.
There is another instance of the same peculiarity only a few lines further on,
wlien slie fails to get the word “ cjuarter ” (of the compass) and explains,
not that she cannot hear it, but that she cannot read it.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mejliumship 235
tion 1 in regard to the expressions—not I'ight—regard to
something to which that access leads—profluctions.
Oh he says, yon mayn’t know it, there’s a natural l:)ent to
extreme scepticism here.
Oh he says, there are such a lot of things I want to tell yon,
and there’s the longing to know when one has struggled how far
one has succeeded in making oneself—Oh he says, I mustn’t go
much further now.
Oh he says, don’t give me up Gerald—help me—and help her.
Oh I can’t go on, I’m so tired.
Oh he says, only one more thing—only one more thing for
him.
He says it over and over. I’m trying {almost sobs).
Being is antecedent to—Oh he says, you’ve not got the word
I want, but say it—it’ll suggest—Yes, that’s it, action.^
Oh that’s done.
[G pause ;
after ivhich wakmg stage follows.)
There can be no doubt, I think, that in this D.I. Gurney is
referring to the class of scripts that I have described as “ chs-
jointed ”. He tells us expressly that what he is going to say
is not to be taken as applying to D.I. “ when the communica-
tion is more cUrect and simpler ”, nor as applying “ to all
sensitives, or even to all phenomena of any given sensitive ”,
and that all he is attempting is to show “ how in some cases
some scripts are produced ”. On the part of the communicator
the production of this special class of scripts involves, in addition
to the use of telepathy and inspiration (later on explained as a
variety of telepathic action), a third activity, namely selection
from the contents, subliminal and suprahminal, of the mind of
the sensitive. On the part of the medium there is required—(1)
the faculty of excursus, (2) the capacity for definite selection
from the contents of the mind of the communicator, and (3) the
power of externalising by writing or otherwise the knowledge
^ Cf. “ the capacity for definite selection ” which is included in the
“ partial definition of what constitutes mediumship ” given in the earlier
part of the sitting.
^ This remark is an anticipation of statements made in later scripts, but
I do not understand its relevance here. Cf. the lone script of August 20,
1911, given in the a^jpendix to this paper. Action and Truth which is
dependant which is primary.”
236 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [pabt
thereby acquired. The power of externalisation is, of course,
an indispensahle condition of mediumship in any form ;
and
this may also be true in some measure of the faculty of excursus.
The role played by telepathy and inspiration in the pro-
duction of disjointed scripts is left over for later consideration ;
and similarly, on the side of the sensitive, nothing more is said
about excursus or about the faculty of mediumistic “ emission ”.
Instead the script concentrates upon selection, and especially
on the fact of its mutual exercise by both the parties concerned.
It is hardly necessary to dwell here on those passages in the
D.I. that relate to the somrces of information upon which, in
mutual selection, the selectors are said respectively to draw
namely the conscious and unconscious mind of the sensitive,
and the content, actual and potential, of the mind of the
communicator. This aspect of the subject has already been
sufficiently dealt with in the preceding section. What I am now
concerned with is the process employed in the production of
scripts of the special class which the communicator has in view,
and the part which mutual selection is said to play in it.
The class in question I have assumed to be that of disjointed
scripts ;
and one purpose of these scripts—already suspected
by the investigators—is clearly brought out in the words “ Say
that after deliberation a certain theme is selected. ^ Then he
says something in German
—
ynotif—to be got through various
channels.” Evidently the object aimed at is a cross-corres-
pondence with other automatists of the group, which shall
centre upon and serve to develop the chosen theme. What is
wanted is not a mere simple and superficial correspondence of
detached words or phrases appearing in the scripts of chfferent
automatists. In order to achieve the purpose of the communi-
cator the correspondences must be relevant to some non-
obvious whole to which the automatists are contributing without
being aware of the inner meaning of what they write. As
Gurney explains on another occasion, “ The reason, for selection
' Note that tlie selection of a theme or subject of a C.G. is not to be confused
witli tlie “ mutual selection ” which is the main topic of the D.I. The use
of the same word in both connections is perhaps unfortvmate, but should
not give rise to any misunderstanding.
Gurney does not say who “ deliberates ”, or who decides upon the theme
to be chosen. On this point see p. 243 below.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetts Mediumship 237
of subjects of C.C. is then demonstrated when the thread the
central thread is picked out.” ^
It would seem that for the production of disjointed scripts
the accumulation beforehand of suitable material is, if not
necessary, at least advantageous, and that herein lies the special
function of the selection which the sensitive makes from the
contents of the mind of the communicator. That selection is
clearly preparatory : it is not made at the time of the produc-
tion of the script. Is the selection by the communicator
preparatory like that of the sensitive, or does it come into
operation only at the very end of the process, when the moment
has come for actual externalisation ?
Selection by the communicator must certainly be supposed
to occm: in the final stage of the process, but may it not operate
at an earlier stage also ? The very phrase “ mutual selection
”
seems rather to suggest that selection by the sensitive and at
least some selection by the communicator belong to the same
stage in the process. That this is so, and that the stage in
question is a preparatory one, is a natural inference from the
form of words used by Gmaiey when he says :
“ Now then
\i.e. apparently after mutual selection has taken place] you have
present in the whole self the matter from which I selected plus
the matter supernormally acquired from me. Now comes the
weaving.”
Without attempting to pass a final judgment on this point,
we may summarise the process described in the D.I. of June 4,
1911, as including four successive stages :
(1) the choice of a theme ;
(2) the selection of material relevant to the theme, by the
sensitive from the mind of the communicator, and
probably also by the communicator from the mind of
the sensitive ;
(3) a period of “ incubation ”, often a long one, during which
there comes into play an operation described as “ weav-
ing ”, and consisting in some kind of subliminal activity;
(4) actual production of script, involving selection by the
communicator from the “ available factors ” in the
mind of the sensitive, and the bringing in of telepathy
as a “ guiding influence ”.
^
Trance-script preceding D.I. of September 10, 1911. (Present, G. W. B.)
238 Psychological Aspecis of Mrs Willett’s Mediumshij) [part
Tlie first, third, and fourth stages are l)ut briefly indicated
in the D.I. we are now considering, but further light is thrown
upon tliem in later sittings, to which I shall presently have to
call attention.
The D.I. of June 4, 1911, may fairly be said to mark a fresh
departure in the Willett communications relating to process.
It is the first of a series of deliverances of an essentially dog-
matic character, containing statements which, if accepted at
aU, must be accepted on the authority of the communicators.
The deliberate choice of a theme, and the partial dependence of
the communicator nj)on selection from material already in the
minds of the antomatists, might indeed be plausibly inferred
from observed facts ;
but selection by the sensitive from the
mind of the communicator and detailed descriptions of any
part of the process are matters which must be taken on trust.
1 am far from dismissing them on that account as void of
interest. But my part in dealing with them will be that of
interpreter rather than critic, except so far as I may find it
impossible to reconcile one statement in the scripts with another.
Next in the series in order of date, to the D.I. of June 4, 1911,
conies a long ami important passage from the D.I. of October 8
of the same year. It has already been quoted in. extenso in the
preceding chapter (jip. 193-5). My purpose on that occasion
was to throw light on the meaning of the term telcesthesia in
Willett scrijits. But the passage has an equally important
bearing on the subject of the present chapter and I am afraid
I must troulile the reader to look back and study it from this
new point of view.
It begins with a question I had already asked, and to which
a partial answer had been returned, in the preliminary stage of
the sitting. I now, at the request of the communicator, re-
jieated the question :
“ In mutual selection you say that the
sensitive can select from such jiart of your mind as she can have
access to. What part is this ?
” Instead of attempting to
anqilify his former reply the communicator says he would like
to suggest something which will “ open another window ”.
Dropping all reference to the source—the actual and potential
content of his mind- from which the sensitive is said to acquire
information, he lays stress iq)on the nature of the activity by
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediiimship 239
which the acquisition is made. To this activity he applies the
term telcesthesia—the first appearance of the term in Willett
script—and expressly distinguishes it from telepathy. “ Tele-
pathy ”, he says, “ is one thing—that’s thought communica-
tion ;
telsesthesia is knowledge, not thought, acquired by the
subliminal when operating normally in the metetherial Of
course “ mind-reading ” ( = telaesthesia (W)) had always been
assumed as the basis and presupposition of “ selection ” ;
but
never, I think, so emphatically as now, or in such sharp dis-
tinction from telepathy. I have already gone so fully in the
preceding chapter into the peculiar meaning attached to the
terms telepathy and telaesthesia in Willett scrijits that it would
be waste of time to travel over the same ground again. The
implication, however, that telsesthesia is a normal activity of
the subliminal “ when operating in the metetherial ” i
calls for
a passing comment. In the D.I. of June 4 Gurney had spoken
of the knowledge present in the ” whole self ” of the sensitive
as including matter supernormally acquired from his own mind.
The apparent inconsistency is probably to be explained on the
view that knowledge normally acquired by the subliminal may
properly be regarded as supernormally acquired by the supra-
liminal when passed on to the latter by the subliminal. In any
case the exercise of telaesthetic faculty by the subliminal when
operating “ in the metetherial ” is not once only, but repeatedly
affirmed to be normal and natural to it.
The communicator now returns^to the risk he had previously
hinted at in the D.I. on June 4, of a false infei’ence being drawn
from what he is about to say. If the materials out of which
cross-correspondences are produced are provided ready-made
in the minds of the automatists, is it necessary to postulate an
external intelligence, and that a discarnate one, to account for
them ? The D.I. of October 8, 1911, suggests a triple answer to
this question. In the first place paid of the material from which
the final product is selected has been previously acquired (as
explained in the D.I. of June 4) from the mind of the communi-
cator himself, and to that extent must be regarded as fresh
material not already contained in the mind of the automatist.
In the second place, it must not be forgotten that the message
1 “ Wlien operating normally in the metetherial ” is equivalent, 1 think,
to " during excursus ”.
240 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
as finally externalised may include “ elements received by
direct telepathic impact Lastly, and this is the most im-
portant consideration of all, evidence of spiritistic intervention
is to be sought in the choice of topics resulting from the selection
itself and their relation to a central idea known to the com-
municators, but not known to the antomatists concerned in a
cross-correspondence.
Oh, he says, What I’m saying may be used to cut at the
spiritistic hypothesis, but it doesn’t. Again, who selects what
of the total of telsesthetically acquired knowledge shall exter-
nalise itself—shall blend itself with those elements received by
direct telepathic impact ? . . . Who applies the stimulus under
which certain ideas—use that word, not what I wanted—
-
emerge, blended, which upon study will be found to be relevant
to the total aim of that particular piece of automatism ?
By “ relevant to the total aim of that particular piece of
automatism ” Gurney means relevant to what in the D.I. of
dune 4 he had spoken of as a “ theme ” or “ motif ”, common
to a number of cryptic allusions scattered among various
antomatists.
The rest of the paragraph, of which I have just quoted the
first and last sentences, provides an imaginary account of what
may be supposed to happen in the second of the four stages, into
which the process as a whole may be divided :
Oh, he says, Supposing T take her into a room, and I screen
off any action of my own mind on hers ; her subliminal with
its useful copious pinch of the salt of Eve’s curiosity takes
stock of the contents of the room. Normal consciousness is
later regained, and lying in the subliminal is knowledge of
certain objects perceived, not as the residt of the action of my
mind, but as the result of telsesthetic faculty. Oh, he says,
Here come I on script intent. Here be arrows for my quiver.
There are several points in this passage that call for notice.
First of all, what is meant by a “ room ” ? It cannot be
identified outright with the “ theme ”
:
yet it is obviously
connected with the theme. We shall not go far wrong if in this
place we take it to signify a collection of materials appropriate
to the theme.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willettis Alediumship 241
Next, observe that Gurney claims to be the agent in the
taking of the sensitive into the “ room This would seem to
imply that he brings telepathic influence to bear on her,
whereby she is made acquainted with the general character of
the contents of the room ;
and not till after that is done does
he screen off any action of his own mind on her and leave her
to acquire “ telsesthetically ” a knowledge of the individual
“ objects ” contained in it. This account will have to be con-
sidered in the light of later statements.
Finally, it is made quite clear that this second stage is one
of preparation, during which materials are being accumulated
for future use. It is followed by the third stage, described in
the D.I. of June 4 as a period of “ incubation ”. I think it is
to this third stage that the next paragraph of the extract refers ;
though it is difficult to say whether “ the loss ” of which it
speaks is represented as occurring before the process of exter-
nalisation or during it :
Oh, he says, of all the contents of that mythical room say
she carries back a rough and partial knowledge—not partial
to the subliminal but reaching the point of externalisation
much as Browning’s London moon did—in the process of
externalisation, there it is where the loss occurs. Oh, he says,
of those ten say two emerge—to me how interesting. I see
the work of my hand, the double process.
According to the D.I. of June 4 there occurs in the third stage
what the communicator calls a “ weaving ”. It is in the weav-
ing, he tells us, that “ subliminal activity comes in. Oh, he
says, it’s a dangerous weapon, yet we cannot do without it.”
The “ danger ” referred to I take to be, in part at least, that of
the loss incurred in the passing of the more perfect knowledge
acquired by the subhminal into the rough and partial knowledge
which is all that survives by the time the “ point of externalisa-
tion ” is reached. Thus of the ten ^ original items perhaps
only two ultimately emerge. Further discussion of the third
stage must await my comments on the next script.
The “ double process ” I understand to mean the process of
mutual selection.
The last paragraph of the extract undoubtedly relates to the
* There liacl been no previous mention of te?i items.
242 Psychological As'pccts of Mrs Willett's Mediumsldj) [part
fourth and tinal stage of the process—that of actual production,
in which selection is on the side of the communicator and “ the
spiritistic agency decides what element appropriate to its own
activity shall emerge alongside and intertwined with matter
placed in position by direct telepathic impact
By way of illustration the communicator supposes the pro-
duction of a cross-correspondence to be in progress, with horses
as its central theme. He has already telepathically impressed
on Mrs Verrall ideas appropriate to the theme—as, for instance,
that of Pegasus ;
and he follows this up by selecting and
pushing up where they will be grasped and externalised two
“ trump cards ” telsesthetically acquired by Mrs Willett—say
horse-shoe or the Steeds of Daivn. The appearance in Verrall
script of Pegasus and kindred ideas, and in Willett script of
horse-shoe and Steeds of Dawn, would constitute a cross-corres-
})ondence, doubtless of a very crude and elementary kind, but
claimed as illustrating the use of different methods in commimi-
cation—one of them employing telepathy pure and simple and
the other telepathy as a stimulating and guiding influence
operating oir material acquired by telsesthesia. Nothing is said
about material already existing independently in the mind of
the sensitive, but for the emergence of this also it is clear that
telepathic stimulation and guidance might be effectively
employed.
The next extract to be cited is from the D.I. of January 21,
1912. It is in many respects a remai'kable and impressive
passage, but it is also a difficult one both in itself and in relation
to previous statements. I think I shall best consult the con-
venience of the reader by following up the text of the record
with a paraphrase which will convey my own interpretation
of it.
Extract from D.I. of January 21, 1912. {Present, G. W. B.)
{G. Ik. B. You referred at a former sitting to telaesthesia as
a process by which the mind of the sensitive acquired knowledge
on its own account. The subject came up in connection with
what you call mutual selection. You spoke of taking the
sensitive into a “ room ” and screening off any action of your
own mind on hers ;
whereupon her subliminal proceeds to take
stock of the contents of the room. Do you rneaii a real room,
or only a room existing in your mind ?)
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s 31ediumship 243
I’ll throw something at you, and you must make what you
can of it.
I’ll take that portion of her which can emerge in uprush,
and I, as it were, link it on with that deeper subliminal which
can be in touch with what I want to get known ;
so that there
is that portion of her which can normally accpiire telfesthetically
in its own deep profound plane passing on the knowledge to
that plane from which an uprush can come. Oh, he says, what
I’m going to say to you now makes Sidgwick tear his hair,
because it’s meaning the Ocean in a child’s bucket.
I’m going to call that deepest portion, nearer to the tran-
scendental self—I’m going to call it—anything you like, any
symbol, say H. Well, the H-self and I agree on what we want
—what I want—to get transmitted, and which the H-self
normally, in its own H-ness, through its own cognitive faculties,
can know. And here is the “ bucket ” process, it’s here where
just because it’s the most difficult I shall fail worst in trying to
get near the thought. The H-self will touch the uprushable
self just the grade below the uprushable, and the uprushable
and the grade below will receive the knowledge from the H.
But in putting it into the uprushable focus, as it were, it will
know that a sort of crystallisation, often through symbolism,
must be arrived at ; and we will imagine, if you like, that that
having been foreseen both by me and the H-self, we determined
upon what sort of crystals to aim at, so that the uprushable
self has, as it were, presented to it what I called a “ room ”,
the knowledge which the H-self is informing to the point where
it becomes uprushable. Just below that uprushable point
there’s a sort of dim moment where both modes enter into
cognition—I mean, where a knowledge of the thing as it is in
the H-stage is united to a knowledge of the crystals which,
the emblem which, can best express that which in its H-ness
cannot, or rarely, uprush—for all these states are variable and
the success variable. Then comes that moment of binding
when the self that lies in juxtaposition to the uprushable
absorbs the knowledge from H, and passes it on to the uprush-
able point in such a state as makes uprush possible. It then
rushes out as word spoken or written, or dreams, or never-to-
be-denied moments of prescience, precognition of supernormal
knowledge. But that supernorinal will contain within it the
244 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
normally acquired knowledge of H—that element of normality
will be there. Oh, he says, that isn’t the invariable method,
only one of them ;
and he says. The telepathic impact is
another . . .
Paraphrase of the above.
In answer to my question about the “ room ” Gurney dis-
tinguishes between different grades of the subliminal self.
There is a deeper self which can telsesthetically acquire know-
ledge chrect from the communicating spirit of that which he
wants to get known. There is another self on a less profound
plane to which the knowledge so acquired can be passed on, and
through whose action it can emerge in uprusli
.
There is also a
self
—“ the self in juxtaposition to the uprushable ”—which is
intermediate between the other two. Let H stand for the
deeper self ;
for the intermediate self ;
and H2 for the self
which is immediately responsible for the emergence of the
message in written or spoken word. The communicator and H
agree upon what they want to get transmitted, H having
acquired knowledge of this through the faculty of telsesthetic
cognition which is native to it in virtue of its H-ness. What
happens next is admittedly difficult to explain, but it is some-
thing of this kind. Contact is effected in the first place between
H and Hj, and later, through the mediation of Hi, between H
and Hj. The knowledge which H has acquired from the com-
municator is thus passed on to both and Ho, but not in the
form in which it has been acquired by H. In that form it
would be all but impossible for it to emerge. Some change must
take place analogous to crystallisation out of a state of fluidity.
The individual crystals should be symbolic or emblematic of the
knowledge acquired by H, but they are not the chrect expression
of that knowledge. Now it is possible for the necessary crys-
tallisation to be brought about by concerted action between the
communicator and H. They can decide what type of “ crys-
tals ” are appropriate in the particular case. The crystallisa-
tion itself is effected in Hi,i with the result that H2
has presented
to it what had been called a “ room ”—that is to say, a collection
1
The paraphrase somewliat outruns the text at this point ;
but what
1 have added seemS to me a not unfair inference from other statements in
the record.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetf’s Mediumship 245
of “ crystals ” of a kind best fitted to express the knowledge
acquired by H in a form in which it can he externalised. There
is a dim moment when the original knowledge and its crystal-
hsed expression both enter into cognition together.
^
Finally comes the “ binding ”, when, under the influence of
the communicator,^ H, H^, and H^
are linked up one with another.
Hi absorbs the knowledge from H and passes it on to Hg in
crystaUised form. It is then automatically externalised, and
may convey veridical messages, supernormal from the stand-
point of the suprahminal self but embodying knowledge
normally acquired by H through the exercise of its teleesthetic
faculty.
This is only one among several methods ;
chrect telepathic
emission is another.
Before commenting on the substance of the statements in the
extract quoted and paraphrased above, I should like to call
attention to a pecuharity of style in it which I do not think can
be matched in any didactic pronouncement of similar length
uttered through the voice in the whole of Mrs Willett’s auto-
matic productions. The writing stage that preceded the D.T.
had been comparatively short, but the sitting as a whole was
an unusually long one, lasting nearly two hours. The passage
we are now considering came at the very end of it, and was
preceded by discussions of a decidedly abstruse character which
seem to have bewildered the sensitive and put a severe strain
upon her attention. The record of these discussions abounds in
the familiar interjected phrases “ He says “ Oh he says ”,
whereas the long answer to my question aboiit the “ room ” is
uniquely free from them. Just before I asked it Gurney had
addressed a word of encouragement to the sensitive :
“ He says,
you’ve got it now, and he says. No bones broken—and he says
to me. You know, dear, I feel sometimes I must appear to you
like the Devil when he said Cast thyself down, but he says if
only you’ll go bhndly there’ll be no pieces to pick up ”. I
suggest that the advice to “go blindly ” was acted upon by the
sensitive, and that the almost complete absence of the usual
interjections was due to her simply repeating each word as it
came and not attempting to grasp the meaning sentence by
sentence.
^ Presumably in - See note 1 on opposite page.
246 Psyclwlofjiral Aspects of Airs Willett's ATediumship [part
As regards the substance of the extract, the first question to
be asked is, Does it describe the same process as that to which
the D.I.s of June 4 and October 8 refer, or a different one ? The
occasion of Gurney’s statement was my request to him to
explain the meaning of the term “ room ”, which he had used
in the D. I . of October 8. His reply, couched in carefully chosen
langiiage, acknowledged his previous use of the term (“ what I
called a room ”) ;
and one would naturally suppose that in
explaining it he would have in mind the same process as that in
connection with which it had originally been employed. And in
some respects the process which he goes on to expound does
present the same family features which the two earlier descrip-
tions of “ how some scripts are ])roduced ” had already made
familiar. There is the choice of a theme, the telaesthetic acquisi-
tion of knowledge by the sensitive from the mind of the com-
municator, the period of incid^ation and subliminal activity, and
finally the automatic outpouring by writing or by voice. But
closer examination reveals points of chft'erence which cannot be
regarded either as unessential details or as mere elaboration of
something previously indicated in outline.
4’he greater complexity of the process as a whole, arising
from the recognition of tlii’ee distinct “ grades ” in the sub-
liminal of the antomatist and of the interaction between them,
might, indeed, be brought under the latter head ;
for it may be
plausibly contended that this very interaction constitutes the
“ weaving ” spoken of in the D.I. of June 4 as a dangerous but
necessary operation. Similarly with respect to the so-called
“ room ” common to both accounts : so long as we confine our
attention to what is in the room there does not seem to be any
real distinction between the appropriate “ objects ” of the
earlier description and the a|)propriate “ symbols ” or “ em-
blems ” of the later. Gurney might with reason claim that in
the later account my question about the nature of the room was
sufficiently answered. It is when we consider not the nature of
the room but (1) its relation to the actors concerned, and (2) the
faculty Ijy which its contents are apprehended, that we begin
to realise how im])ossible it is to reconcile the two accounts
except by treating them as applying to processes which, though
kin to one another, are not identical.
In the D.I. of October 8 we are told that the communicator
140] Psychological Asgjects of Mrs Willeffs Mediumship 247
takes the sensitive into the “ room ” and screens off tlie action
of his own mind iipon hers. Her telsesthetic faculty thereupon
comes into play ;
she takes stock of the room on her own
account, and makes her selection from the “ objects ” she
perceives in it. Briefly, the room exists in the mind of the
communicator and the sensitive acquires knowledge of its
contents by telsesthesia.
According to the D.I. of January 21, 1912, the general
character of the symbolic contents of the room is determined
by agreement between the communicator and H, the deepest
subliminal self of the sensitive. But the room itself and the
items it contains come into existence in a second subliminal
self (H^), and through it are “ j^resented ” to a third (H,). By
what process the knowledge possessed by one self passes to
another we are not told ;
but other passages in the scripts leave
no doubt that the process is not to be understood as either
telaesthetic or telepathic. The part played by telsesthesia is
confined to the initial stage of the whole operation, and in a
later script (see p. 253 below) the suggestion of telepathy
between the supraliminal and subliminal selves is emphatically
negatived. In the view of the communicators telepathy—and
we may safely assume telaesthesia also—is confined to inter-
action between minds of individuals external to each other.
But this is a subject which will engage our attention in the
next chapter.
On the whole I am forced to the conclusion that in the D.I.
of January 21, 1912, Giumey is expounding a variant of the
process previously described, and doing this deliberately. Why
ne should have omitted to make this clear I cannot say ;
but
it is only fair to remember that in the D.I. of June 4 he warns
us that the process he is there describing is only one of a great
variety, and that he himself has much to learn. “ We must
experiment, he says ;
so much is unmapped.”
Among other noteworthy points in the D.I. of January 21 is
Gurney’s frank confession of probable failure in his attempt to
explain how the telresthetically acquired knowledge of the
H-self becomes transmuted into a form in which it can be
externalised. Whether the difficulty arises from a sense of
imperfect understanding on his own part, or from an inherent
inadequacy of language to express recondite psychic operations.
24.S Psychological Asi'>ecfs of Mrs Willett's Meduimship [part
he does not say. The interpreter is, of course, bound to give as
clear cut a rendering as he can of dark sayings in the scripts ;
but it should not be forgotten that in attempting precision of
statement he may end by being further from the real intention
of the communicator than if he had been content to observe a
judicious vagueness.
In the previous expositions of “ how some scripts are pro-
duced ” Gurney spoke of the subliminal as if it were a single
unsubdivided self, while chstinguishing it from the suprahminal
or normal consciousness of the sensitive. It would be wrong to
say that different “ levels ” or “ strata ” of the subhminal
itself were recognised for the first time in the present passage.
Indeed the difficulty of conceiving the self as at once one and
many had afieady been raised by me, and had been a subject of
discussion in the earlier portion of this very sitting. To that
question I shall have to return in the next chapter. But to
ascribe the process of “ crystalhsation ” to the interaction of
the different grades of the subliminal is, I think, new. Possibly,
however, it is not so much new as now for the first time clearly
stated.
I have suggested above that the interaction of the different
grades of the subhminal corresponds to the third stage in the
process described in the D.I. of June 4—namely that of “ weav-
ing ” and “ sidjliminal activity ”. It is arguable that “ weav-
ing ” and “ subliminal activity ” in that passage refer to inter-
action of the different grades within the subliminal, though it is
also possible that the communicator is thinking of interaction
between the subliminal as one whole and the supraliminal.
The distinction is a real, but hardly a fundamental one. We
are elsewhere told that the supraliminal is, “ as it were, the
upper crust of the subliminal ”, and that “ the interaction
between the two is continuous ”, though “ the supraliminal
consciousness of the interaction varies ”.^ If the symbols H,
Hj^, and be taken as representing three grades of the sub-
liminal no very serious objection would seem to lie against
adding H3 to the series to represent the supraliminal, and
extending the interpretation of “ weaving ” and “ subliminal
activity ” so as to include the interaction of all four grades of
the self. This way of looking at the matter may helj3 to har-
‘ See pp. 291-2 below.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship 249
monise the accounts of the third stage in the process (that which
immechately precedes the uprush) given in the two D.I.s
respectively, though it would not remove the difficulties pre-
sented by the problem of the “ room
If the two accounts of this stage are really in essentials at one
with each other it follows that the result of the “ weaving ”,
like that of the crystallisation, must be to reduce to symbols
and allusions the knowledge teleesthetically acquired by the
deeper subliminal self. Confirmation of this is furnished by a
hint casually dropped in the sitting of May 24, 1911. “ T
wish ”, says the commiuiicator, “ I could get you to understand
the thought that underlies the word ‘
weaving ’. Symbolism is
a dangerous weapon ”. Compare this with the statement in
the D.I. of June 4, about a fortnight later :
“ He says, That’s
where the gamble comes in. How will it be used, the knowledge
supernormally gained ? Now then you have present in the
whole self the matter from which I selected plus the matter
supernormally acquired from me. Now comes the weaving.
Oh, he says, that’s where subliminal activity conies in. Oh, he
says. It’s a dangerous weapon, yet we can’t do without it ”.
The inevitable conclusion from a comparison of these two
passages is that weaving results in symbolism, and that the
operation is at once necessary and dangerous.
Why necessary, and why dangerous ? The answer to the
first question is supplied by the D.I. of January 21, 1912.
Symbolism is necessary because otherwise the message “ cannot
—or but rarely—uprush ” and be externalised. The obstacle
presumably lies in the supraliminal, which, if it understood the
inner meaning of the message, might refuse to transmit it. But
this is one of many points on which more light would be wel-
come. I think we have good ground for believing that in
certain cases the communicators themselves do not desire the
inner meaning to be understood save by the investigators, who
have all the scripts before them and can piece the mosaic
together
.
On the other hand one can hardly donbt that conversion into
symbolic form is declared to be dangerous because it threatens
the integrity of the message. If a message received by direct
telepathic impact is liable to “ sophistication ”, how much
greater will be the risk in the case of a message which can only
250 Psychological Aspects of 31rs Willetfs Mediumship [part
emerge and reach its ultimate destination broken up into
isolated parts and disguised as a collection of symbols and
allusions. The necessity for symbolism we have to take on
trust ;
its dangers are obvious.
If the process with which we have been lately deahng shows
some divergences from the type originally described, it is to
this earlier type that the statements contained in the two
scripts next to be considered seem more properly to apply. The
scri])ts in qiiestion are both trance-productions, consecutive in
point of date, and linked together by interesting connections
of matter. What is new in them relates mainly to the final
stage of the process—that of externalisation. But both scripts
have something to say on the sid^ject of mutual selection, and
the second of the two gives illustrations of “ selected ” items
l)y means of actual examples drawn from a recent lone script of
the disjointed type. The reader may be glad to have before him
an extract from this lone script by way of preparation for the
communicators’ subsequent references to it, and also because
the script itself may serve as a fairly representative specimen
of its class.
Extract from the Lone Script of February If), 1912. {Gurney
comumnicating .
)
The inelody heard at dawn the dawn of more than mortal
light Pass thou within the self that fades and for the
limited and finite exchanges the consciousness of the greater
whole a pulse of the infinite The self that is deeper far
Rerisen ^ say that the light that never was on land or sea ^
Cosmos he said it the dawn of the spirit.
^ Tliere are clear references in this passage to the poem entitled “ A Cosmic
Outlook ” in Myers’s Fragments of Prose and Poetry :
“ Inward ! ay, deeper far than love or scorn,
Deeper than bloom of virtue, stain of sin.
Rend thou the veil and pass alone within.
Stand naked there and feel thyself forlorn !
Nay ! in what world, then, Sj^irit wast thou born ?
Or to what World-Soul art thou entered in ?
Feel thyself fade, feel the great life begin,
With Love ro-rising in the cosmic morn ”.
2 Wordsworth, Peele Castle in a Storm.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Medmmshij) 251
Flaccus no that is wrong ^ He who wrote long ago the
modern singer and the ancient one ^ the types and the con-
trast Contrast emphasise that the imperative tense The
ark of the Lord ® the toiling of the serf ^
it all has place
Fears may be liars ^ FEARS not tears— Deeper far he
wanted that said
The new world worth your old ® something like that This
muddy vesture of decay when that mortal shall have put
on immortality ®
The inmost goal say that Ardour ®
Pleasant is the light of the sun^'^ and tlie green appearing
of the leaves
Who shall praise thee in the grave in the land where all
things are forgotten
1 Mrs Willett notes :
“ This might be Tlaccus. I don’t know what it
means Flaccus is apparently used instead of the more familiar Horace
in order not to arrest the attention of the automatist. In the trance-script
preceding D.I. of March 5, 1912, Ode Horace is ojjenly referred to. In the
trance-script of March 1.3, 1912 (see jj. 256 below) the words “no that is
wrong ” are claimed by Gurney as a “ message ” from the subliminal of the
automatist to her supraliminal, and are explained as referring not to Flaccus
(which had been correctly written), but to an erroneous imjJression on the
part of the supraliminal that what should have been wi’itten was Tlaccus.
- “ The modern singer and the ancient one ’’
are Myers and Horace respec-
tively. On the wliole subject of the Horace Ode question, and of the contrasted
views of Man’s destiny after death, see Mr Piddington’s papers in vol. xxii. of
Proceedings, and Part LX. of vol. xxiv., both of which liad been seen by
Mrs Willett.
^ I do not understand this allusion, \inless “ Ark ” is a confused reference
to the “ Archytas Ode ’’
of Horace.
^ “ The toiling of the serf ” is almost certainly a reference to the eirapovpoi
of Odyssey xi., 489.
^ Clough, Say not the struggle.
“ Browning, Aht Vogler. ’’
Merchant of Venice, v.. i.
* 1 Cor., XV., 54, and Burial Service.
® Myers, A Cosmic Outlook :
“ The mward ardour yearns to the inmost goal ;
The endless goal is one with the endless way ;
From every gulf the tides of Being roll,
From every zenith burns the indwelling day ;
And life in Life has drowned thee and Soul in Soul,
And these are God, and thou thyself art they
1“ Eccl., xi., 7. Cf. Psalm cxv., 17.
252 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [part
But the drawing of Blake for Blair was it Blairs grave
holds the truth ^
Extract from the Trance-sittmg of March 5, 1912. {Gurney
co7nmunicating .
)
{This extract begins with the concluding portion of the Writing
Stage, and passes on to D.I.]
Now do you want to ask anythmg ?
(G. W. B. Shall I ask now, during the writing stage ?)
Yes
{0. W. B. If I understand you rightly, you spoke in an
earlier D.I. of telepathy, inspiration, and mutual selection, as
being distinct processes, forming a descending chain. Is that
correct ?)
Say again. 12 3
(G. W. B. repeats question. D.I. immediately folloivs.)
. . . Telepathy, inspiration, mutiial selection—-He says they
mark different stages of the soul’s commerce, it sounds like.
He says it’s very difficult to get it, dear, but it’s best for me to
get some rough definitions down. He says. Telepathy is the
action of mind upon mind ;
not of brain upon brain, but of
mind upon mind. And he says, there are as many varieties of
telepathy as there are varieties of human beings. He says.
Telepathy shades off into inspiration, and inspiration shades
off into mntnal selection—and he says, whicli piece of bosh
I commend to the attention of Miss Johnson !
He says he woiild like to sing an ode, beginning
“ O thou on whom the inantle of my office has descended
Now they’re trying, you know, to sit on poor Edniimd.
I can hear them laughing. And he says that the irresistible
tendency to make jokes he attributes chiefly and directly to
Fred having said of him that his personality flowered chiefly
in his humour,^ and Fred has often said that if he had to write
that paper again he’d have that out. And Fdmund says. Let
that be a warning to obituary writers. And he says. Who
^ Drawing by Blake, well known to Mrs Willett, representing an aged
figure entering a tomb, and a youth rising to life above it.
^ Miss Johnson was at this time Secretary of the Society for Psychical
Research, of which Gurney had been the Hon. Secretary.
^ See Myers, Fragments of Prose and Poetry, p. 79.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’’ s Mediumship 253
knows but the world has lost a masterpiece in Gurney’s ode ?
Oh, he says, Book I. i., of which only one line has been preserved
to us.
He says. In telepathy there is the mind that makes the
emission of the idea, and the mind which receives the impact
of it ;
and it’s often very definite, he says. And he says it’s
not the whole truth to say that inspiration is more general,
but it’s the half truth to say that inspiration is the stimulation
of something already contained in the subhminal which, under
pressure of inspiration, forces its way to the threshold. Oh,
he says. Inspiration may be from within as well as from without.
But he says you can’t speak of telepathy between the supra-
liminal and the subhminal
—
(G. W. B. Ah ! I was going to ask that very question.)
but you can speak of inspiration by the subliminal ;
you
can also speak of inspiration by the subhminal of matter—
Oh, he says to me. Don’t loose, dear. Oh, it is sometimes a
strain to keep near you. Sometimes I feel ah shding down.
He says. You can speak of inspiration from the subhminal.
Some one says. You’ve got that down already, and Edrnimd
says. Shut up, you fool ! {He’s stroking my forehead.) The
matter which is inspired up to the threshold may be matter
acqvured by selection.
He says. Inspiration may be from within, but it may be from
mthout. Oh, he says. Every moment I gave to the study of
hypnotic states and post-hypnotic states I feel was among
the best spent of all my time.
{G. W. B. Yes, Gurney, those were splendid papers of yours.)
Oh, he says. It’s not only what I learnt then, but what I’ve
been able to apply here. For instance : Say, using the words
in their rough way, that a mutual selection is made—mutually
from her mind and mine. It’s possible for me to suggest to
her subliminal that at a given time such and such an idea
shall, as it were, be recovered—one might almost say, recovered
out of the sediment—and come to the top. Or I may use
another process. I may hit a particular atom in the sediment
that I want by telepathic impact or stimulation, and make
it come to the surface that way. But that particular process
of telepathy I should designate as “ inspirational ” telepathy,
because it’s affecting that which is already withm the mind.
254 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetf’s Mediumship [part
Oh, he says, I think I have done enough for to-day.
(G. W. B. I think you have, Gurney. But may I ask one
more question ?)
Yes.
{0. W. B. In communicating with me through D.I. at the
present moment, what process are you using ?)
Rather take that when I’m fresh. But he says, Both processes
are used in D.I. And he says. This statement is only to be
taken as an introduction to further discussion.
Extract from Trance-scrijA preceding D.I. of Alarch 13, 1912.
{Present, 0. J. L.)
Aiitos the wind windless heavens—Calm ^
the flight of the one to the One ^
Autos My Temiyson ^ Autos
Gurney He is here F.
Wait
Gurney Lodge is that you ?
(0. J. L. Yes, that’s me.)
Glad to see you after such a long interval
very glad Lodge how are you ?
(0. J. L. All right. Very glad to see you again too.)
We’re getting on People are begmning to entertain ideas as
to the possibility of our existence, and even of our identity
(0. J. L. Yes, quite true.)
spade work and on it we hope to raise the foundation of the
temple
Have you anything special to speak of, because Myers is
here and once he is “ on ” so to speak I may not be able to
break in.
G spoke of the 3 processes of telepathy, inspiration and
mutual selection, and as to the part they played m D.I.
If he would see the part they play in Sc the last from
^ A reference to tlie aiVos ouparos aKVfxwv case. See Proceedings, vol. xxii.
-
From a passage in Plotinus, Enneades, v., 2-3, translated in Human
Personality, vol. ii., p. 291.
3 T.e. F. W. FT. M.’s poem To Tennyson, to which avros ovpav6% dKvfxoip was
prefixed as a motto.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediuviship 255
here ^ is a good instance, and contains examples of all three
methods—
Inspiration
—
i.e. stimulation by telepathic
(
Wait)
means of that already normally contained (and normally
acquired by) within the mind of the sensative
Sensitive (She never could spell)
—
Example
1 . Who shall praise thee the grave etc.
2. Blair, drawing by Blake
—
(Mutual selection
I select those from amongst the possible allusions ready to
hand
Mutual selection
She selects (by operation of the subliminal acting normally
on its own plane and in its own environment) she selects from
my mind
Pleasant is the sun etc.,
put on immortality
{Wait)
light that never was, etc.
and (note this Pid) by direct telepathic Shock she gets
Placcu.s She half unconsciously reads it as T I a c c u s, and
she speaks to subliminal her supra 1 in the words No that
is wrong ^
1 I.e. the script of February 16, 1912, from which all the examples that
follow are taken.
Apart from the name “ Flaccus ”, wliich Gurney claims to have been given
by means of telepathic shock or impact, the remaining five examples are all
examples of mutual selection—the selector in the case of the first two being
the commimicator, in the case of the last three the sensitive. The first two
(above the line drawn across the page) are also given as instances of emergence
under telepathic inspiration : the last three—though this is not expi'essly
stated—I take to be meant as instances of emergence under sidiliminal
mspiration.
^ See footnote (1) on p. 251 above. There is some slight confusion here.
The explanation would be clearer if it ran thus :
“ She gets Flaccus ;
she
half unconsciously reads it as Tlaccus, and she speaks to—that is to say, her
subliminal speaks to—her supraliminal in the words ‘
No, that is wrong ’
For comments on this incident see p. 309 below.
256 Psychological Aspects of Mrs WiUettis AIediumsliip [part
The telepathic impact is ^ has given to tlie larger self the
correct sound Flaccus—the conscious self half cognises it
and dreamily sees Tlaccus, but not until after it has been
externalised, and externalised correctly
—
“ Tlaccus ” dreams the smaller self No that is wrong
replies the larger self (yet are they not 2 but 1 —,
put in for
G.’s benefit this He tried to get me on to the horns of a duality
which would amount to an almost amount to a conception
of the selves as separated in such a way as to amount to 2
entities But I was riot to be impaled) ^
Well here the right knower (by sub 1)
^ corrects the dreamer
(supra 1) and there is a lut of psychology in that passage but
I point to and claim Flaccus as an instance of telepathy
—
There is another ^ but Myers is pressing to speak
(0. J. L. That’s all clear, Gurney.)
Shall 1 let him begin now ?
{0. J. L. Yes, if he’s ready. I’ve nothing special to say
to you.)
Good
F. W. H. M.
[Writing changed and slow, i.e. deliberate.—Note by O. J. L.]
* * =!:
For purposes of general comment it will be convenient to
take the two expository extracts (of March 5 and 13) as forming
a single whole. My C£uestion about telepathy, insjDiration, and
mutual selection refers back to the D.I. of June 4, 1911, in
which telepathy, inspiration, and selection were described as a
“ descending chain ” in the production of scripts of a certain
class. As the D.I. proceeded, the “ thoughts suggested by
telepathy and inspiration ” were deliberately “ ruled out ” for
the time being, though telepathy was later on briefly aUuded to
as a “ guiding influence ” in the final stage of the process. The
1 Conteinjiorary note by O. J. L. :
“ ‘
is ’
is underlined in the script, but
tlie intention evidently was to erase it ”.
- For comments on this passage see jip. 309-10.
^ “ by sub 1
” is probably equivalent to “by which I mean the subliminal”.
' Possibly this may refer to the 2
iassage “ Fears may be liars FEARS
not tears ” ;
for here also Fears has been correctly written, and “ FEARS
not tears ” may be represented as addressed by the subliminal to a doubt
arising in the suju'aliminal.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship 257
bulk of the D.I. was devoted to the subject of selection, with
special insistence on its mutual character—the communicator
selecting from the mind of the sensitive, and the sensitive from
the mind of the communicator.
The extracts now before us are cliiefly concerned with the
topics passed over in the D.I. of June 4. Comparatively little
is said in them about mutual selection, thoiigh the script of
March 1 3 purports to contain actual examples both of selection
by the communicator and of selection by the sensitive.
Gm-ney opens his exposition by teUing us that telepathy
shades off into inspiration, and inspiration into mutual selection.
But he immediately qualifies this statement by describing it as
a piece of bosh which he commends to the attention of Miss
Johnson. I suppose he means by tliis that the statement,
though containing a measure of truth, is not reaUy illuminating.
Why he drags Miss Johnson in there is nothing to show, but
I vaguely suspect that there is a reference here to her “ Third
Report on Mrs HoUancTs Script ”, in Proceedings, vol. xxv.,
which contained a section on “ The Principle of Selection in the
Production of Scripts ”. This paper had been sent to Mrs
Willett on July 1, 1911.
Gurney had been challenged by my question to say what he
meant by a “ descending chain ”. Telepathy shading off into
inspiration, and inspiration shading off into mutual selection, is,
I tliink, intended as his answer—but it is an answer which he
does not press, and to which he seems to attach no particular
importance.
The statements that follow are somewhat confusing. When
Gurney lays it down that “ in telepathy there is the mind that
makes the emission of the idea, and the mind which receives
the impact of it, and it’s often very definite ”, he is clearly
thinking of a chrect telepathic communication from an emitting
mind to a receiving mind of something that was not in the
receiving mind before. The appearance of the word Flaccus in
the disjointed script of February 16, 1912, is later on cited as an
illustration of telepathy in this sense. On the other hand the
characteristic note of inspiration is said to be that it operates
on material already contained in the subliminal and forces it to
emerge. It becomes evident, however, as we proceed, that
certain forms of inspiration involve telepathy as an essential
258 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
factor in the process. One of these forms Gurney actually
designates as a “ process of telepathy ”, adding, however, that
“ that particular process of telepathy I should designate as
inspirational telepathy, because it’s affecting what is akeady in
the mind The same process he refers to in another passage
as “ inspiration
—
i.e. stimulation by telepathic means of that
already normally contained in the mind of the sensitive
At first reading there may seem to be a serious inconsistency
in these various statements, telepathy being at one moment
sharply distinguished from inspiration, while at another the
two are so far identified that it appears to be a matter of
indifference whether we speak of inspirational telepathy or
telepathic inspiration. But I doubt whether the inconsistency
is more than superficial. It must be remembered that Gurney
had begun by remarking that there are as many varieties of
telepathy as there are of Imman beings. The variety of
telepathy which consists in the emission of a definite idea by
one mind, and its reception by another which had not previously
contained it, may be regarded as the most chstinctive and
characteristic form of telepathy, hut it is not the only form.
The telepathy which stimulates an idea already pre-existing in
another mind to emerge and externalise itself is a different
variety ;
and when the process takes this form it may be pro-
perly classed as inspiration. In passing from telepathy pure
and simple to inspiration, we may be said to pass from a higher
variety of telepathy to a lower. In passing from inspiration to
mutual selection, we leave telepathy altogether and enter the
province of telaesthesia—using both of these terms in the
peculiar sense given to them in Willett scripts. It is this
aspect of the case, I think, that Gurney has in view when he
talks of telepathy shading off into inspiration, and inspiration
shading off into mutual selection.
Let us now consider somewhat more closely the statements
made concerning inspiration.
Inspiration, it ai^pears, may either proceed from without,
or, in other words, have its ultimate source in the communi-
cator ;
or it may proceed from within, in which case the
inspiring agent is either the STibliminal operating on the supra-
liminal or one grade of the subliminal operating on another.
Whether it proceed from without or from within, the material
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship 259
on wliich it works may be the normally existing content of the
mind of the sensitive, or such additional knowledge as she may
have acquired by selection.^
I take first the case of inspiration from without. Two forms
of this are specified, and it may be convenient that I should
quote once more the important passage which describes and
distinguishes them :
He says. Inspiration may be from within, but it may be
from without. Oh he says. Every moment I gave to the study
of hypnotic states and post-hypnotic states I feel was among
the best spent of all my time. Oh, he says. It’s not only what
I learnt then, but what I’ve been able to apply here. For
instance ; Say, using the words in their rough way, that a
mutual selection is made—mutually from her mind and mine.
It’s possible for me to suggest to her subliminal that at a given
time such and such an idea shall, as it were, be recovered—one
might almost say, recovered out of the sediment and come to
the top. Or I may use another process. I may hit a particular
atom in the sediment that I want by telepathic impact or
stimulation, and make it come to the surface that way. But
that pai’ticular process of telepathy I should designate as
inspirational telepathy, because it’s affectmg that which is
already within the mind.
The first of the two forms of “ inspiration from without
”
here described possesses a special interest, because no mention
of it—certainly no explicit mention of it—has been made before,
and the account now given of it may help to explain a difficulty
to which I called attention earlier in this chapter. When
discussing the subject of mutual selection in my comments on
the D.I. of June 4, 1911, 1 raised a question respecting the stage
at which selection by the commimicator from the mind of the
^ In the extract from the trance-sitting of March 5, 1912, two examples
are cited of selection by the communicator from the mind of the sensitive
(“ Who shall praise thee the grave, etc.”, and ” Blair, drawing by Blake ”)
and three examples of selection by the sensitive from the mind of the com-
municator (“ Pleasant is the sim, etc.”, “ put on immortality ”, and “ Light
that never was, etc.”). These examples must be accepted for what he repre-
sents them to be : at all events we are hardly in a position to criticise. But
all five are at the same time examples of hispii'ation, the fu'st two of ins23U'a-
tion from without and the last three presumably of inspiration from witliin.
260 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [paet
sensitive comes into play. “ Selection by the communicator ”,
I wrote, “ must certainly be supposed to occur in the final stage
of the process, but may it not operate at an earher stage also ?
” ^
This seemed a natural inference from the language of the D.I.,
but it was not easy to see what effective purpose selection by
the commimicator could serve at a preparatory stage, unless, in
some way left unexplained, the eventual emergence of the
selected items was thereby promoted.
The passage I have just quoted appears to provide an answer
to this difficulty. Selection by the communicator at a prepara-
tory stage may be something more than selection. It may be
selection plus the kind of suggestion which the hypnotiser
makes to the hypnotised subject, and which the subject, after
waking, automatically carries out. The two cases are not quite
on aU fours, for the hypnotiser uses normal methods of con-
veying his suggestion whereas we must suppose the communi-
cator to convey his suggestion telepathically. But in either
case an appeal is made to the subhminal by an external agency
to bring about a certain effect not at the moment but after an
agreed interval. Inspiration of this type belongs to what I have
called the second stage of the process. We might describe it as
suggestive inspiration.
The other form of inspiration from without is that for which
previous scripts have already prepared us. The D.I. of June 4,
1911, calls it “ telepathy as a guiding influence ” ;
the D.I. of
October 8, 1911, speaks of it as a “ stimulus ” apphed by the
commmiicator whereby knowledge telaesthetically acquired by
the sensitive can be “ shepherded and guided up to the thres-
hold of normal consciousness ”. These descriptions are
obviously anticipations of the inspirational telepathy and tele-
pathic inspiration of the trance -sittings of March 5 and March
13, 1911.
Inspiration from without of this second type belongs to the
fourth or final stage of the process—that which immediately
leads to externalisation. It should be clearly understood,
however, that both types involve the employment of telepathy
as an operative influence, though the mode of applying it
differs in the two cases. Indeed the very phrase “ inspiration
^ See p. 237 above.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs WilleWs Mediumship 2G1
from ivithout ” seems hardly consistent with any other inter-
pretation.
Is telepathy equally involved in inspiration from within ?
Inspiration from within is inspiration by the subhminal, or by
some stratum of the subhminal, which plays the part corres-
ponding to that of the commimicator in inspiration from
without. Analogy suggests that here also telepathy enters as
an essential element in the process. I was about to ask a
question on the subject, which is one that has long had an
interest for me, when I was anticipated by Giumey. “ You
can’t speak ”, he says, “ of telepathy between the suprahminal
and the subliminal ”. This peremptory statement raises
issues of great interest, about which I shall have more to say in
the next chapter. But the reader will readily see that it has an
intimate connection vdth a fundamental difference of view
between the communicators and myself respecting the nature
of the subliminal and suprahminal selves and their relations to
each other, to which he makes a humorous allusion towards the
end of the trance-script of March 13 :
. . . The telepathic impact has given to the larger self the
correct soutid Flaccus—the conscious self half cognises it and
dreamily sees Tlaccus, but not until after it has been external-
ised, and externalised correctly. “ Tlaccus ” dreams the smaller
self No that is wrong replies the larger self (yet they are not
2 but 1 —,
put in for G.’s benefit this He tried to get me on
to the horns of a duality which would amount almost amount
to a conception of the selves as separated in such a way as to
amount to 2 entities But I was not to be impaled)
.
Here also further discussion must be postjDoned until the next
chapter. What we have immediately to consider is not the
natirre of the subhminal and suprahminal selves, but the part
played by inspiration from within in the process of automatic
production. Inspiration from within, whatever interpretation
be placed upon it, is at aU events a form of subliminal activity.
It is not, however, to be identified ^vith the subliminal activity
associated with the third stage of the process described in the
D.I. of June 4, 1911. That activity, if I have understood the
scripts rightly, was of a preparatory character, resulting in the
“ weaving ” of material to be used in the fourth and final stage
262 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part 140]
—the stage of externalisation. It is to this final stage that the
activity manifested in inspiration from within belongs. We
are forbidden to call it telepathic—that term being held to be
applicable only to inspiration from without. But if we look
merely to effects, and to the part played in automatic production
by the two activities respectively, it is likely to be difficult, or
even impossible, for the investigator to distinguish one from
the other.
I may here refer back to a passage from the script of February
9, 1911, already quoted on pp. 230-1 above.
Tliey [be. the scripts in question] were allusive. You must
get through a good bulk of matter to get in what you want
said from our standpoint. They are not witlioiit threads of
connection. But listen. Those threads extend also in sub-
liminal of autornatist. Thus if I would say fire I Gurney
might make an allusion to Phoebus or Zoroaster Her subliminal
may conceivably go one better and shove in Salamander
(0. J. L. Yes, well, that is what we rather expected, that
subliminal activity was mixed with your intention.)
. . . Woven strands Pick out the gold thread.
In the supposed case “ Salamander ” would be a contribution
inspired from within, though a harmless one and in consonance
with the general tenor of the message inspired from without, or
conveyed by direct telepathic impact from tlie communicator.
But the injunction to “ pick out the gold thread ” is an ad-
mission that the subliminal activity which inspires from withiii
may on occasion be not harmless but misleachng. I am afraid
we must go even further and frankly concede that the whole
of any given production may be the work of subliminal activity,
unless the contents of the message are sitch as to afford satis-
factory evidence of an external origin. But on this subject
I have already said enough in Chapter V. of Part I. (see p. 153
above).
CHAPTER IV
SUPRALIMINAL AND SUBLIMINAL, AND MYERS’S
DOCTRINE OF THE SOUL
The supraliminal ” and “ the subliminal ” are terms so
engrained in the literature of psychical research that it would
be impossible to dispense with them in any discussion of
mediumistic productions. Most of all would this be impossible
in the case of a study of communications professing to come
from Myers and Gurney, and rejoroducing—though, as we have
seen, with considerable modifications—the teachings of Human
Personality
.
At the same time, as the reader is aware, I am not
satisfied with the doctrine of the subliminal and supraliminal
selves set forth in that monumental work and cannot but feel
that Myers’s treatment of the subject has tended to make a
perplexing problem more perplexing still. He extends the
meaning of the term “ subliminal ”, which was originally
purely adjectival, to denote a substantive psychic entity
capable of interacting with the supraliminal ;
and yet this same
supraliminal (man’s normal consciousness) he ends by treating
as notlung more than a “ phase ” of the subliminal, or even a
faculty exercised by it. I do not hide from myself that the
constant use of Myers’s terminology throughout this paper,
while aU the time my conception of the structure of human
personality differed from his, has greatly increased the difficulties
of exposition, and also, I fear, the difficulties of the reader in
following the argument.
If ten intelligent persons were severally set to give an account
of the doctrines of Human Personality concerning “ the supra-
liminal ”, “ the subliminal ”. and the “ soul ”, which Myers
held to be the persisting and immortal element in man, I doubt
whether any two of them would be found to agree in all their
conclusions. But as part of my present task is to compare the
teaching of Human Personality regarding these subjects with
the statements contained in Willett scripts, I must do my best
263
264 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Alediumship [part
to provide a version of Myers’s views adequate for my purpose,
and expressed, as far as possible, in his own words. This will be
accompanied by a running commentary designed to mark the
divergence between what I understand to be Myers’s ideas and
my own.
I regard each man, [writes Myers ^], as at once profoundly
unitary and almost infinitely composite, as inheriting from
earthly ancestors a multiplex and “ colonial ” organism—poly-
zoic and perhaps polypsychic in an extreme degree ;
but also
as ruling and unifying that organism by a soul or spirit absolutely
beyond our present analysis—a soul which has originated in
a spiritual or metetherial environment, which even while
embodied subsists in that environment ;
and which will still
subsist therein after the body’s decay.
Apart from the somewhat hesitating phrase “ polyzoic and
perhaps polypsychic ” this passage might be regarded as being
concerned wholly with the problem of the relation of mind to
body. So conceived Myers treats the problem as unsolved and
perhaps insoluble.
It is, of course, impossible for us, [he continues], to picture
to ourselves the way in which the individual life of each cell
of the body is reconciled with the unity of the central life
which controls the body as a whole. But this difficulty is not
created or intensified by the hypothesis of a separate and
persistent soul. On no hypothesis can we really understand
the collaboration and the subordination of the cell-lives of any
multicellular animal. It is as mysterious in the star-fish as
it is in Plato.
Consistently with these views the problem of mind and body
occupies in Human Personality a comparatively subordinate
place. Myers’s doctrine is, indeed, essentially interactional,
leaving no room for the rival doctrines of parallelism and
epiphenomenaUsm ;
and this is also the standpoint of the
Willett scripts, explicitly maintained in the D.I. of May 11,
1912—the one and only sitting devoted to the subject—already
quoted in an earlier chapter.- But this was not the question
that mainly interested him, and to the problem of mind and
^ 4/.P., vol. i., p. 34. ^ See p. 135 above.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Meduimship 265
body I shall not need, save incidentally, to refer again. The
real centre of interest, alike in Human Personality and in the
Willett scripts, lies in the domain of mind.
No writer has insisted more strongly than Myers on the co-
existence of diverse apparently independent streams of con-
sciousness in the make-up of each man’s personality. It was
with reference to these independent streams of consciousness,
and not to the relation of mind to body, that he gave a new
significance to the term subliminal. The passage in which this
new significance is explained is so important that I feel hound
to quote it in fulfil
The idea of a threshold {limen, Schwelle) of consciousness ;
—
of a level above which sensation or thought must rise before
it can enter into our conscious life ; —is a simple and familiar
one. The word subliminal, —meamng “ beneath that thres-
hold ”, has already been used to define those sensations which
are too feeble to be individually recognised. I propose to
extend the meaning of the term, so as to make it cover all that
takes place beneath the ordinary threshold, or say, if preferred,
outside the ordinary margin of consciousness ; —not only those
faint stimulations whose very faintness keeps them submerged,
but much else which psychology as yet scarcely recognises ;
sensations, thoughts, emotions, which may be strong, definite,
and independent, but which, by the original constitution of
our being, seldom emerge into that supraliminal current of
consciousness which we habitually identify with ourselves.
Perceiving (as this book will try to show) that these submerged
thoughts and emotions possess the characteristics which we
associate with conscious life, I feel bound to speak of a subliminal
or ultra-marginal consciousness,—a consciousness which we
shall see, for instance, uttering or writing sentences quite as
complex and coherent as the supraliminal consciousness could
make them. Perceiving further that this conscious life beneath
the threshold or beyond the margin seems to be no discontinuous
or intermittent thhig ;
that not only are these isolated sublimi-
nal processes comparable with isolated supraliminal processes
(as when a problem is solved by some unknown procedure in
a dream), but that there also is a continuous subliminal chain
s
1 H.P., vol. i., p. 14.
260 Psychological Aspects of Airs Willetts Alediimiship [part
of inemoiy (or inore chains than one) involving just that kind
of individual and ]iersistent revival of old impressions, and
response to new ones, which we commonly call a self,—I find
it permissible and convenient to speak of subliminal selves, or
more briefly of a subliminal self. I do not indeed by using this
term assume that there are two correlative and parallel selves
existing always within each of us. Rather I mean by the
subliminal self that part of the self which is commonly sub-
liminal ;
and I conceive that there may be,—not only co-
operations between these quasi- independent trains of thought,
—
hut also upli^avals and alternations of personality of many
kinds, so that what was once l)elow the surface may for a time,
or permanently, rise above it. And I conceive also that no
self of which we can here have cognisance is in reahty more
than a fi'agment of a larger self,—revealed in a fashion at once
shifting and limited through an organism not so framed as to
afford it full manifestation.
The idea of a number of selves associated simultaneously
with the same organism, appears at first sight so difficult to
reconcile with any unitary view of the nature of personality,
that I can well believe that Myers must have hesitated long
before definitely committing himself to it. In the end he
accepted it whole-heartedly as one of the foundation-stones of
his sjiecrdation. The ])ossibility of sejjarate and independent
Init contem])oraneous streams of memory and perception in one
and the same individual became with him a “ root-conception
which he has pculiaps done more than any other man to make
familiar. The series of masterly chapters in which he works
out the application of the conception to the phenomena of
genius, slee]), hypnosis, sensory and motor automatism, and
mediumship, will be for ever memorable in the history of the
sidpect.
But another fundamental conviction to which Myers tena-
ciously clings is that man’s personality not only appears to be,
but truly is, in some sense, unitary. The question is, In what
sense ?
The two extreme views concerning the nature of the self
Myers illustrates by cpiotations from the writings of Reid and
of Ribot respectively.^ According to Reid “it is impossible
1 H.P., vol. i., p. 249. 2 H.P., vol. i., p. 10.
140] Pftycholoqical Asi^ects of Mrs WiJletfsMecU'imisJdp 267
that a person should be in part the same and in part different,
because a person is a monad and is not divisible into parts
”
According to Ribot “ the self is a co-ordination. It oscillates
between two extremes, at each of which it ceases to exist ;
absolute unity and absolute incoherence
The problem which Myers set himself is “ the reconcilement
of the two opposing systems in a profounder synthesis It
was a notable attempt. But to me, at least, the solution he
offers us is untenable, and cannot be made to cover all the
phenomena which he sets out to explain and harmonise.
Our psychical unity [he tells us is federative and unstable ;
it has arisen from irregular accretions in the remote past ;
it
consists even now only in the hmited collaboration of multiple
groups. These discontinuities and incoherences in the ego the
older psychologists managed to ignore. Yet infancy, idiocy,
sleep, insanity, decay—these breaks and stagnancies in the
conscious stream were always present to show us, even more
forcibly than delicate analyses show us now, that the first
obvious conception of man’s continuous and unitary personality
was wholly insecure ;
and that if indeed a soul inspired the
body, that soul must be sought for far beneath those bodily
conditions by which its self-manifestation was clouded and
obscured.
I venture to think that the “ breaks and stagnancies in the
conscious stream ” were no less obvious to “ the older psycho-
logists ” than to Myers liimself. They would have regarded
them as successive changes in the content of the ego ;
and so
long as the sense of identity was maintained notwithstanding
the changes, they would have found no insuperable difficulty in
fitting them into their conception of the ego as a “ monad
They would also have recognised that these changes were
intimately connected with bodily conditions ;
and so far as the
relations of mind and body were concerned, some of them, at
least, might have been ready to accept Myers’s conception of
an immortal soul ruling and unifying the organism with which
it is associated.
What never occurred to these earlier thinkers was the
possibility that there might be co-existent and contemporaneous
- H.P., vol. i., p. 16.
268 Psychological Aspects of Mrs WiUettis Mediumship [part
streams of consciousness in the same person, each with the
characteristics of a “self”, and so far independent of each
other as to he xmconscious of each other’s action, or even to
engage in a conflict of wills and in acts of mutual hostility. Had
they become convinced by evidence that this state of things
was not merely a possibility but a fact, it would still have been
open to them to cling to their conception of a monadic ego, even
while driven to admit that there might be more than one ego
associated with the same organism. Myers recognises the
existence of co -conscious selves associated with the same
organism, but does not deem this incompatible with a true
psychical unity, of which these selves are aspects or phases.
To those passages in the extracts ah’eady quoted which bear
upon this question I will add yet one inore :
^
In favour of the partisans of the unity of the ego, the effect
of the new evidence is to raise their claim to a far higher
ground, and to substantiate it for the first time with the
strongest presixmptive proof which can be imagined for it ;
—
a jxroof, namely, that the ego can and does survive—not only
the minor disintegrations which affect it during earth-life—but
the crowning disintegration of bodily death. In view of this
imhoped-for ratification of their highest dream, they may be
more than content to surrender as untenable the far narrower
conception of the unitary self which was all that “ common-
sense philosophies ” had ventured to claim. The “ conscious
self ” of each of us, as we call it,—the empirical, the supra-
liminal self, as I should prefer to say—does not comprise the
whole of the consciousness or of the faculty within us. There
exists a yet more comprehensive consciousness, a profounder
faculty, which for the most part remains potential only so far
as regards the life of earth, but from which the consciousness
and the faculty of earth-life are mere selections, and which
reasserts itself in its plenitude after the liberating change of
death.
Let me now try to sum up in a series of propositions the
various statements concerning the nature of the soul made in
the foregoing passages.
(1) The soul is a spiritual entity which existed before its
'
H.F., vo\. i., pp. 11, 12.
140]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Medimnship 269
association with the body, and will continue to exist
after that association has been dissolved by bodily
death.
(2) In its hberated condition the soul is unanalysable by us,
but is in communion with the spiritual or metetherial
world. Even in its embodied life commimion with the
spiritual world, though hampered and limited, is not
wholly lost.
(3) The soul is essentially distinct from the bodily organism
which it rules and unifies. How it rules and unifies the
bodily organism is wholly unknown to us.
(4) As regards the diverse streams of consciousness sufficiently
independent of each other to merit the description of
“ selves ”, which experience shows can exist contem-
poraneoUsly in the individual man, the soul is not a
mere agent of unification of these lesser selves, but is
itself their unity. It is the whole of which they are
parts.
If we seek to place a definite meaning upon the last of these
propositions, it is evidently essential to come to a clear under-
standing of what we mean by a “ self ”. Strange to say, Myers
never seems to have undertaken a systematic examination into
the question here raised. When he speaks of the soul as a
self, and when he applies the same term to “ the continuous
subhminal chain of memory (or more chains than one) involving
just that persistent revival of old impressions, and response to
new ones, which we commonly call a ‘
self’ ”, is he using the
term in the same sense in both cases ? If he is, then he ought
to regard the independent streams of consciousness as self-
conscious egos, aware of their continuing identity, and of their
distinction from other self-conscious egos, and from the bodily
organism with which they are associated. If, on the other hand,
he is using the term self in different senses in the two cases, this
should have been made abundantly clear and the nature of the
differenee carefully defined. As a matter of fact he seems to me
to waver between two incompatible points of view. Sometimes
he appears to regard the independent currents of consciousness
as genuine psychic entities with all the attribirtes of a self-
conseious being ;
at other times as merely different activities
or states of such a being. The two conceptions remain unre-
270 Psycliological Asjyects of Mrs WUleti's Mecliumship [part
conciled ;
and 1 doubt whether Myers ever sufficiently recog-
nised the incongruity between them. Yet the distinction is
surely fundamental. Except in a metaphorical sense the differ-
ent activities of a self-conscious being have no more right to the
title of “ selves ” than have the unattended “ thoughts without
a thinker ” of a very different school of psychologists.
If the “ selves ” referred to in proposition (4) are to be taken
as real psychical entities or egos, the doctrine of the sold
enunciated in it would bear a strong family resemblance to
Fechner’s theory of the compounding of consciousness. In the
form of the theory maintained by Fechner the unity resulting
from the comjiounding of consciousness is nothing but the
components themselves, although nevertheless each component
retains its separate individuality inside the unity. The theory
of the compounding of consciousnesses presents formidable
logical difficulties ;
for how can co-conscious egos be at the
same time one and the same ego ? Notwithstanding these
difficulties Fechner’s idea had a strong attraction for no less a
thinker than William James ;
and it is interesting to note that
James himself has called attention to the connection between
the Fechnerian doctrine and the phenomena studied by
psychical research.^ But if at any time Myers’s speculations on
the structure of human ])ersonality lieckoned him in the direc-
tion of a mystic interpretation on the lines of a comjiounchng of
consciousnesses, such an interpretation certainly did not repre-
sent his fully considered views.
I do not think any of the statements concerning the soul made
in the introductory chapter to Human Personality carry us
much beyond the four propositions enumerated above. But
in Chapter VI. a new development of the doctrine introduces
us to that part of it which is most characteristic of its author.
“ The subliminal ”, which hitherto has been treated as only a
part or fragment of a larger whole, is now identihed with that
whole itself ;
in other words, with the soul.
Myers himself is fully alive to the signilicance of the steji thus
taken, as the opening words of Chapter VI. bear witness ;
^
We have now reached [he writes] a central node in our
complex argument. Several lines of evidence, already pursued,
^ Lectures on a Pluralistic Universe, p. 315. ^ H.F., vol. i., p. 220.
140 ]
Psychological Aspects of Mrs WillettA Medmmship 271
converge liere to form the starting-point for a new departure.
Our view of the subliminal self must pass in this chapter
through a profound transition. The glimpses which we have
till now obtained of it have shown it as something incidental,
subordinate, fragmentary. But henceforth it will gradually
assume the character of something persistent, principal,
unitary ;
appearing at last as the deepest and most permanent
representative of man’s true being.
To the forir previous propositions, therefoi’e, we can now add
a fifth :
(5) The soul and the subliminal are one.’^
Again, a couple of pages later we read :
By ordinary psychology, supraliminal life is accepted as
representing the normal or substantive personahty, of which
subliminal life is the semi-conscious substratum, or half-
illuminated fringe, or the morbid excrescence. I, on the other
hand, regard supraliminal life merely as a privileged case of
personality ;
a special phase of our personality, which is easiest
for us to study, because it is simplified for us by our ready
consciousness of what is going on in it ;
yet which is by no
means necessarily either central or prepotent, could we see our
whole being in comprehensive view.
Now if we regard the whole supraliminal personality as a
special case of something much more extensive, it follows that
we must similarly regard all human faculty, and each sense
severally, as mere special or privileged cases of some more
general power.
All human terrene faculty will be in this view simply a
selection from faculty existing in the metetherial world ;
such
part of that antecedent, even if not individualised, faculty as
may be expressible through each several human organism.
1 If all the five propositions be read together it would seem to result that
the subliminal is at once a part of the whole, and also the whole itself. I cannot
recall that Myers has anywhere given a clear and authoritative explanation
of this apparent paradox. ]More than one exjilanation might perhaps be
attempted. Nevertheless I suspect there is confusion of thought here. The
difficulty is, I think, only the old one of conceiving how co-conscious selves
can at the same time be one and the same self. Fechner’s solution I can
only describe as frankly mystical. Myers seems to me to end V)y ignoring
the problem, and to be hardly aware that any difficulty exists.
272 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumshi'p [part
These passages seem definitely to negative the idea of per-
sonality as comprising independent co-conscious streams of
mentality, each with the characteristic of a true self. The
“ selves ”, although still called selves, have become “ phases
”
of a single self. In coming down so distinctly on the Unitarian
side of the controversy, it was more than ever incumbent on
Myers to explain how the independent currents of consciousness
can appear to have the characteristics of selves without being
true selves. This he has not done. I cannot but hold that in
neglecting to deal with this difficulty he has failed to give us
that “ profounder synthesis ” of conflicting views which he set
out to provide. The problem of reconciling unity and plurality
is not solved by practically denying plurality, or by disguising
it in the form of layers or strata of a single unitary self. What
is more, the conception of a plurality of selves within the per-
sonality persistently refuses to be suppressed or ignored. It
continues to assert itself all through the book, and is, I believe,
forced upon us by much of the very evidence which Myers
himself has so laboriously collected. Let me cite one passage
out of the many that would equally serve to illustrate the jDoint ;
^
These splits of personality seem occasionally to destroy all
sympathy between the normal individual and a divergent
fraction. No great sympathy was felt by Leonie II. for Leonie I.
And Dr Morton Prince’s case shows us in the deepest and ablest
of the personalities of his “ Miss Beauchamp ” positively spiteful
in its relation to her main identity.
Bizarre though a house thus divided against itself may seem,
the moral dissidence is merely an exaggeration of the moral
discontinuity already observable in the typical case of Mrs
Newnham. There the secondary intelligence was merely tricky,
not malevolent. But its trickiness was wholly alien from Mrs
Newnham’s character,—was something, indeed, which she
would have energetically repudiated.
It seems, therefore,—and the analogy of dreams points in
this direction also,—that our moral nature is as easily split
up as our intellectual nature, and that we camiot be any moi'e
certain that the minor current of personality which is diverted
into some new channel will retain inoral than that it will retain
intellectual coherence.
'
See H.P., vol. ii., p. l‘J9.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willeff's Medimnship 273
In spite of the disparaging remarks which Myers in this
passage bestows on the secondary personahties in the cases of
Miss Beauchamp and of Mrs Newnham, it is nevertheless of the
essence of the “ new departime ” to exalt the sidjliminal at the
expense of the supraliminal consciousness.
There are times when the doctrine which identifies the true
self of a man with the subliminal seems in Myers’s hands to
imply no more than a broad claim that the capacity of the
human mind is manifested at its highest and best in communion
with the spiritual world. But at other times his language goes
far beyond this, and presents us with the picture of a mind
divided, as it were, into compartments each with a distinct
consciousness and memory of its own. Intercourse with the
world of the senses is assigned to the supraliminal compartment,
intercourse with the metetherial to the subliminal. Based upon
a conception of this kind the identification of man’s true self
with his subliminal self appears to me as a paradox which even
Myers’s literary skill and fervour of conviction have failed to
make plausible. It coidd not for a moment be maintained if
the separate currents of mentality were interpreted as being
genuinely distinct selves. The true self of a man could not in
that case be other than the self of which he has direct and
immediate knowledge. But even when I do my best to place
myself at Myers’s point of view, and try to conceive co-conscious
intelligences as “ phases ” of a single self-conscious ego, I alto-
gether fail to see why this single self-conscious ego is to be
identified with the subliminal self (or selves) rather than with
the supraliminal self which both common sense and orthodox
psychology treat as the true self of a man. We are asked to
believe that our true self is a self the very existence of which the
vast majority of mankind have never even suspected. The
main evidence for its existence is derived from the phenomena
of abnormal psychology, and in particular from the compara-
tively rare occasions when the subliminal ceases to be subliminal,
and “ messages ” pass from it, in some way which we shall
presently have to consider, into supraliminal consciousness.
When this happens what takes place ? If the subliminal
“ phase ” of a man’s consciousness represented his true self, we
might actually expect that, on ceasing to be subliminal, it
would absorb into itself the supralimina] phase, and the two
274 Psychological Aspects of M7's Willett's Mediumship [part
jjhases would be as one self. But the facts point quite the other
way.
When the subliminal ceases to be subliminal and manifests
itself to the supraliminal, we have what is called dissociation of
the personality. Dissociation implies at least duality where
previously there has been every appearance of unity. What
may be the relation of the dissociated elements before and after
dissociation is a very obsciire problem which offers a wide field
to conjecture and speculation. The continued existence of the
sidjliminal, at times when it is subliminal, may be a plausible
inference from the observed phenomena, but ex vi termini the
supraliminal can have no direct experience of it. All we can
affirm with certainty is that at such times the supraliminal
consciousness appears to itself to be in solitary possession.
Dining dissociation, on the other hand, the supraliminal
recognises the presence of an agency which it distinguishes from
itself ;
but it does not lose its sense of personal identity over
and against that agency. The sense of personal identity per-
sists alike through the normal and the abnormal state. ^ It is
true that in extreme cases of alternations of personality the
normal consciousness may seem to be dispossessed altogether.
But this is not, in my view at least, to be interpreted as a
merging into unity of one phase of consciousness in another, but
rather as the temporary replacement in control of the organism
of one self by another self.
In an earlier chapter ^ on dissociation of the personahty I
have given an account of an interesting experience that befel
Mrs Willett in which her normal self seemed to develop into a
duality of independent selves, or “ minds ” as she calls them,
—
one of the two minds being “ me as I know myself”, and the
other a mind which she somehow connects with herself, but at
^ Tlie jihenomenon of cli.ssociation may also be considered from tlie other
.side, that is to say, from the side of tlie hitherto subliminal self which has
now, by reason of dissociation, ceased to be subliminal in the adjectival sense,
and is ajiprehendcd by the supraliminal as an independent communicating
agency. Does the subliminal self, when thus made manifest to the supra-
liminal consciousness, claim identity with that consciousness ? On the con-
trary, we find the secondary self insisting on its separate individuality, even
to the j)oint of claiming—falsely, if it is in truth only a secondary self—to
l)e a genuinely external communicator.
^ See pp. 143 If.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediimisliip 275
the same time distinguishes from the “ me as I know myself
Presently the two minds seemed to “ hash into one, and I at
once knew what I was to do ”, The meaning of this I take to
be that what the other mind willed her to do had now become
part of her own will. But whatever interpretation we place
upon the two minds “ flashing into one ”, it is clear that in the
result it is the supraliminal that remains in possession of the
fleld, while the subliminal subsides into subliminality.
My own instinctive conviction is that my true self is the
“ me as I know myself ”, and that it will be as this me, with its
formed character and stored memories, that I shall survive, if
survival there be. Other selves co-conscious with “ me as I
know myself” may also survive. If so, it is permissible to
hazard a guess that as they have ajjparently co-operated when
in the body, so they, or some of them, may continue to co-
operate when no longer in the body, and that each of us may
And himself in the “ metetherial ” world the member of a group
of selves with which he has already, when in the body, been
associated in closer relation than with the rest of his environ-
ment. But here we enter a region where no verification is
possible.
I do not propose to dwell at length on the objections that may
be urged against Myers’s theory in connection with the separate
memories of the minor selves (or self-like elements) within the
personahty ^
;
nor, again, on the difficulties inevitably suggested
by his frank admission that the subliminal is a rubbish heap as
1 To overcome the difficulties arising out of the separateness of tlie memory
chains of the minor selves it would be necessary to assume that the subliminal,
as identified with the soul, not merely has access to the memories of the
supraliminal, but appropriates them as memories of its own : otherwise it
would not be the “ I as I know myself ” that sui'vives, but another personality
altogether. This is hard to reconcile with Myers’s “ root-conception ” (see
p. 266 above) of the dissociability of the self as “ the possibility that different
fractions of the personality can act so far independently of each other that
the one is not conscious of the other’s action ”. It is also, I think, inconsistent
with the observed facts in certain cases of multiple personality. See on this
subject McDougall’s Outline of Abnormal Psychology, p. .542 :
“ We find
repeatedly that, when one iDersonality obtains command of the memoi'ies of
another, he distinguishes between his own memories and those of that other.
And when a co-consoious personality is aware of the thoughts and feelings
of the other, it is not that for the time being the two personalities become
merged in one common stream of thinking. Rather the co-conscious per-
276 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediiimship [part
well as a treasure house. ^ These objections and difficulties I do,
indeed, regard as fatal to his peculiar conception of the sub-
liminal as representing the true unitary self in man, and the
persisting element in him which survives the dissolution of the
body. But I pass them by and proceed to enquire why, in the
face of so many obvious considerations, Myers still adheres to
that conception, and makes it in fact the central feature of his
whole system.
The explanation is not, I think, far to seek. It lies in Myers’s
firm conviction, ah’eady referred to, that direct (i.e. telepathic)
communion between individual minds represents the highest
activity of which the soul is capable, and that the exercise of
that activity is strictly the prerogative of the subhminal. I may
say at once that I should hold the latter view to be unproved,
even on his own hypothesis of a unitary soul divided into
supraliminal and subliminal compartments. Yet it is not
altogether surprising that Myers should have been attracted to
it. There could be no doubt that many of the most remarkable
cases of supernormal phenomena recorded in Proceedings of the
S.P.R. have been accompanied by dissociation. Might not
dissociation, and the subliminal activity implied in dissociation,
be the indispensable condition of such phenomena, and not
merely incidental concomitants of their occurrence ? It is
true that supernormal manifestations occur also when the
percipient is to all appearance in a perfectly normal condition.
But it is always possible to suppose that in these cases too there
has been some measure of dissociation, even though so slight as
to pass unnoticed. On that assumption may we not further
suppose that the actual recipient of the telepathic message is
the subliminal self, and that it is through the subliminal self,
and not directly, that the supraliminal self becomes aware of
it ? One step farther and we reach the position definitely taken
up by Myers that supernormal powers are the exclusive pre-
rogative of the subliminal, and that the subliminal alone is
sonality reports the exjDeriences of the other as something of whicli he becomes
aware as experiences foreign to himself ; he knows wliat the other thinks
and feels, but he has also his own thoughts and feelings about the same
object or topic ”.
1 H.P., vol. i., p. 72i It was to this feature in Myers’s conception of the
subliminal that William .Tames took the strongest exception. See his review
of Human Personality in Proceedings, vol. xviii., p. 32.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Alediumship 277
equipped to share in the free eommunion with a spiritual world
which awaits the surviving soul.
I cannot, of course, say that it was iJrecisely by these steps
that Myers arrived at his conclusion. But he ended by formu-
lating it quite exphcitly. In the Scheme of Vital Faculty,
which forms an Appendix to Chapter IX. in vol. ii. of Human
Personality, he distinguishes between
I. The supraliminal, or empirical, consciousness ;
aware only
of the material world through sensory impressions ;
II. The subliminal consciousness ;
obscurely aware of the
transcendental world through telepatliic and telses-
thetic impressions ;
III. The subliminal consciousness, discerning and influenced
by disembodied spirits in a spiritual world.
The distinction between II. and III. is unimportant in the
present connection : the really important dividing hne is
between the supraliminal and the subliminal—that is to say,
between I. on the one side and II. and III. taken together on
the other. It is to be noted that the principle on which the
chviding line is here drawn rests upon the possession or non-
possession of supernormal powers. Where, however, the
possession or non-possession of such powers by the supraliminal
is the very point at issue, it is clear that a deflnition of this kind
gives no help towards deciding the question of fact. A disputed
definition is not an argument.
I do not suppose that Myers himself would claim to have
produced proof that the suprahminal, the ‘‘
I as I know myself
”
is incapable of acting or being acted on telepathically. He
seems to take this for granted, as something almost self-
evident. ^ Self-evident it certainly is not. I can discover no
^ See, however, H.P., vol. i., p. 97 :
“ One characteristic of the subliminal
in my view is that it is in closer relation than the supraliminal to the spiritual
world ”. This would seem to be a tacit admission that the supraliminal may
be to some extent in relation with the spiritual world. Cf. also vol. ii., p. 237,
where, in comparing the case of Mrs Piper with that of Stainton Moses or
Hiune he represents one of the points of difference as consisting in the fact
that her supraliminal self shows no traces of any supernormal faculty what-
ever . Tills ought to mean that some trace of supernormal faculty was
discernible in the case of the other two. But this was not his usual attitude.
Thus in vol. ii., p. 124, he speaks of “ that region of supernormal knowledge
which for the supraliminal is so definitely closed ”,
27<S Psychological Asjiecfs of Mrs Willeff's Mediumship [part
a 2)i'iori connection between subliniinality and supranormal
faculty, (iiven the fact of telepathic intercourse between one
mind and another, 1 shmdd have thought it simpler and safer
to start by assuming that whatever partakes of the nature of
mind is likely to ])artake in some degree, however slight, of
tele])athic sensibility. If any difference in this respect is found
in practice between the two selves, it would seem easy to
ascribe it to the greater freedom from sensory impressions which
the subliminal may in general be supposed to enjoy in com-
parison with the supraliminal.^
Direct proof of the capacity of the supraliminal to receive
telepathic impressions is, I admit, not easy, perhaps not
possible, to secure. The successful results which have been
obtained in telepathic experiments with subjects apparently in
a normal condition, though not without weight as prima facie
evidence, are not conclusive, because the alternative explana-
tion, which attributes them to subliminal receptivity in the
first instance, cannot be summarily dismissed. The messages
received by Mrs Willett in her silent D.I.s and lone scripts, even
if we acce])t them as coming from sources outside herself, fall
short of proof for the same reason.
Yet it may fairly be contended, and is indeed obvious, that
this alternative explanation itself affords presinnptive evidence
that the supraliminal is at least not restricted to sensory
impressions, but can receive mental impressions also, albeit
only through the mediation of the siibliminal.^ Nay, more :
^ Note, liowever, that Myers does not liesitate on occasion to ascribe keener
sensory percejjtion to the subliminal than to the supraliminal. See, for
instance, H.F., vol. ii., p. 10.5.-
- Cf. H.P., vol. ii., p. 5.50. " Even as the .subliminal self can present visual
or auditory phantasms for supraliminal observation ;
even as the human
agent, acting telepathically, can present—still tlmough subliminal agency
—
his own ])hantasmal aj)2
)earance for the jjercijjient to recognise, so can the
.sjjirit ”. . . .
“ The .spirit is here acting concui’rently with the suju'aliminal
intelligence, just as the subliminal intelligence has already done ”. The
last sentence might seem to imjjly that the departed sjjirit, when producing
a jihantasmal aj^jjearauce of itself, acts directly on the supraliminal. If so,
it must be taken as an unguarded statement, which does not represent Myers’s
real view. What I imagine he meant is that, in the case sujjjjosed, two
consciousnesses are concurrently active, that of the spirit and that of the
supraliminal self which continues to be aware of its normal environment.
His theory requhes, in order to account for the ijhenomenon, the addition
140] Psijchological Aspects of Airs Willett's Mediumship 279
have we any good ground for placing the process of coinnnini-
cation between the subliminal and the supraliminal on a
different footing, qua process, from that which in admitted cases
of supernormal communication between individuals we des-
cribe as telepathic ? Both jirocesses are mental ; can we make
any valid distinction between them so far as the modus operandi
is concerned 1
Whatever answer be given to this question, it is common
ground to both sides of the controversy that “ messages ” can
pass from one mental element of the personality—whatever
interpretation we give to the term “ element ”
—to another.
Further, it is common ground that it is often exceedingly
difficult, in fact impossible, to distinguish between messages
passing from a subliminal to a supraliminal mental element and
messages passing supernormally from the mind of one man to
that of another, or from a discarnate to an incarnate mind.^
Where the effects are indistinguishable there is a presump-
tion, though of course no certainty, that the causes also are
similar in other words, that if the process is telepathic in one
case, it is also telepathic in the other.
This, as the reader knows, is the view that commends itself
of a third consciousness, namely tliat of the subliminal self, which receives
the message from the spirit telepathically, and passes it on to the supra-
liminal by some process which is assumed to be ?iot telepathic, although
its nature is otherwise very obscurely indicated.
1 Cf. H.P., vol. 11 ., p. 88, where, with references to the automatisms which
he classes together as “ message-bearing or nunciative automatisms ”, Myers
remarks, “ I do not, of course, mean that they all of them bring messages
from sources external to the automatist’s o^vn mind. In some eases they
probably do this ;
but as a rule the so-called messages seem more probably
to originate within the automatist’s own personality. Why, then, it may be
asked, do I call them messages ? We do not usually speak of a man as sending
a message to himself. The answer to tliis question involves, as we shah
presently see, the profoundest conception of these automatisms to which
we can as yet attain. They present themselves to us as messages communi-
cated from one stratum to another stratum of the same jiersonality ”.
Compare also the important statement in H.P., vol. ii., p. 198, which,
although primarily applying to possession, must be held to be no less applicable
to the case of “ nunciative ” automatisms. It must be borne in mind that,
in Myers’s view, an organism can be “ possessed ” by its own subliminah
and that he regards possession by an external spirit to be telepathy carried
to the pomt where it ceases to be telepathy and becomes direct control of
the organism. See pp. 174-5 above.
280 Psychological Aspects of Airs Willett's Alediumship [part
to me. Once, at least, in Human Personality Myers himself
seems to come near it. In vol. ii., pp. 5-6, he writes :
Wherever there is hallucination, whether delusive or veridical,
I hold that a message of some sort is forcing its way upwards
from one stratum of personality to another,—a message which
may be merely dreamlike and incoherent, or which may sym-
bohse a fact otherwise unreachalile by the percipient personality.
And the mechanism seems much the same whether the message’s
path be continued withhi one individual or pass between two ;
whether A’s owm submerged self be signalling to his emergent
self, or B be telepathically stimulating the hidden fountains of
perception in A.
When quoting this passage in my presidential address in
1906 I expressed some surprise that the hint contained in it of
telepathic action between the two selves within one individual
was not further followed up by Myers. Closer study of the
whole subject has, however, convinced me that, without the
surrender of some of liis most cherished doctrines, it would have
been impossible for him to accept telepathy as a true account
of the process by which messages are conveyed from one mental
element within the personality to another.
In order to avoid the use of clumsy periphrases let us describe
communication which passes from one mental element within
the personality to another by the term interior, and communi-
cation which passes supernormally from one individual to
another by the term exterior.
“
Exterior ” communication by
common consent we describe as telepathic. Is “ interior
”
communication also telepathic, and if not, what is the nature
of the process by which it takes place ?
Interior telepathy, if accepted as a fact, would, of comse, be
in flat contradiction to the doctrine that telepatliic faculty is
confined to the subliminal. But its implications do not end
there. Telepathy is so clearly identified in Human Personality
with the process of communication between distinct psychical
entities that to accept the idea of interior telepathy would be
in effect equivalent to recognising the mental elements associ-
ated together in the individual man as being such distinct
psychical entities. We are thus once more brought up before
the old question concerning the selfhood of the independent
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Merliutnship 2Sl
ciirrents of consciousness that are somehow combined in one
and the same individual human being. Are these independent
currents true selves, or are they phases, fragments, layers, strata,
of one and the same unitary self ?
Interior telepathy interpreted as a process of communication
between distinct psychical entities or true selves is incompatible
with Myers’s doctrine of the soul as the all-embracing unity of
the mental elements of the personality. It is incompatible with
the conception of the mental elements themselves as merely
different manifestations or aspects of the soul’s activity. It is
equally incompatible, I think, with the doctrine that identifies
man’s true self with his subliminal self. The idea of interior
telepathy must surely have occurred to Myers. I have little
doubt that his rejection of it was deliberate, and that he himself
must have felt it to be inconsistent vdth other parts of his
teaching.
Myers recognises interior communication as a mental process,
but treats it as a mental process of a different kind from tele-
pathy. This is clearly brought out in a footnote to a passage
immediately following the one just quoted :
Some word is much needed to express communication
between one state and another, e.g. between the somnambulic
and the waking .state, or, in hypnotism, the cataleptic and the
somnambulic, etc. The word “ methectic ” (//ede/cr(/fo?) seems
to me the mo.st suitable, especially since nede^i<; happens to
be the word u.sed by Plato {Farm., 132 b) for participation
between ideas and concrete objects. Or the word “ inter-state
”
might be pressed into this new duty.
In this footnote Myers proposes the term methexis for what
I have called above interior communication. Interior communi-
cation is, in his view, always methectic, never telepathic. If
I am asked whether, in my view, interior communication is
always telepathic, my answer must be, Yes, if the selves between,
ivhom communication takes place are true selves. But at this
point the controversy once more resolves itself into the original
difference of opinion concerning the nature of the mental
elements between which the interaction takes place. Those
who hold the mental elements to be true selves will inevitably
take the further step and treat communication between them as
282 PsychoJogiral Asjoecfs of Mrs Willett's Medmmship [part
telepathic. Those who hold them to be phases, strata, or
“ states ” of a single unitary self will naturally and rightly seek
for some other term to describe the passage of thought from
one to the other. But if thus stripped of the attributes of true
selfhood, can the mental elements continue to furnish the key to
the obscure phenomena of abnormal psychology which Myers
believed himself to possess in his conception of supraliminal and
sidjliminal selves ? My own reply to this qiiestion can only be
in the negative.
There is one further observation which I should like to add.
Accepting the reality both of interior and of exterior communi-
cation, I have noted the practical difficulty—fully admitted by
Myers himself—of deciding to which of the two classes a given
case should properly be assigned. Assume now, for the sake of
argument, what I believe is still the doctrine of “ orthodox
”
psychology, that there is no such thing as exterior communi-
cation ;
that is to say that there is no telepathic communica-
tion either between living individuals or between incarnate and
discarnate spirits, and that the jihenomena which have led to
the hv])othesis of such communication are in fact to be ex-
plaineil as cases of interior communication. With this assump-
tion we shall have altogether banished telepathy in the sense in
which Myers uses the term. But the problem of the apparently
independent origin of the “ messages ” has thereby become not
less blit more insistent than before. For the readiest explana-
tion of some, at all events, of these messages is to attribute
them to the activity of external agents incarnate or discarnate.
If this explanation is summarily excluded—if all “ nunciative
automatisms ” are, in Myers’s phrase, messages “ sent by a
man to himself ”—the hypothesis that would ascribe them to
interaction between different phases or states of a imitary soul
would surely be strained to the breaking point. From this
])oint of view I think the idea of a plurality of selves or centres
of conscio\isness associated together in the same body, cajDable
of interacting with each other in such a way as to constitute the
reahty and not merely the appearance of indej^endent agency,
is one which should lie seriously considered even by orthodox
psychology. It is right, however, to point out that, with this
new conception, telepathy, or something barely to be distin-
guished from it, would be reinstated in the form of interior
140] Psychological Asjiecfs of 3Irs Willeti' s Medmmsliip 283
communication although rejected in the form of exterior
communication
.
Although there is a good deal in my presidential address of
1906 which I should wish to modify, or at least to express in
other words, if I were writing to-day, I nevertheless venture to
quote one passage from it that gives an outline sketch of the
structure of human personality as I conceive it, which, in spite
of gaps left unfilled and problems left unsolved, I stiU prefer
to the picture drawn by Myers ;
On the view which I have tentatively outhned it is possible,
I think, to frame a more definite conception of the different
factors that unite to form the individual human being, and of
the relations between them, than I, at all events, have been
able to derive from Myers’s account of the supraliminal and
subliminal selves.
Every psychical centre associated with the organism would,
in accordance with this view, have to be regarded as “ sub-
liminal ” ^ to every other, though indeed it might be better to
drop that term altogether in describing the relation as I conceive
it. The self of which we are each of us conscious is neither the
organism as a whole nor any grouping of psychical centres
within the organism. It is a single mind or soul whose conscious
states at any given moment are the expression of its reaction
against its entire environment. What is its environment ?
In the larger sense (and this must not be forgotten in con-
sidering the question of siirvival after the dissolution of the
organism), its environment is nothing less than the whole
umverse other than itself. In the narrower sense its environ-
ment is the physical orgamsm and every psychical centre
associated therewith. The presupposition of a plurality of real
existences, coupled with the observed facts as to the concurrent
activity of different streams of consciousness withm a single
organism, has thus inevitably brought us in sight of the idea
first put forward by Leibnitz, that the living creature is a kind
of hierarchy of monads arranged in orderly and systematic
relations with each other, each reflecting in its own way the
' I.e. in the sense in which Myers uses the word when he tells us that by
the subliminal self he means “ that part of the self which is commonly
subliminal See the passage from H.P., quoted on p. 266 above.
284 Psycholofiical As'pecfs of Mrs Willett' s Meclinmship [part
states of consciousness of all the rest. Only whereas Leibnitz
denied all real interaction between the monads and sought to
accoimt for the apparent interaction by his famous doctrine of
pre-established harmony, we have assumed throughout that
the interaction is real, and conjectured that in part at least it
might be of essentially the same character as that which, as
between distinct living organisms, we call telepathic.
Any further observations I have to make concerning the
interaction of the mental elements which contribute to the
personahty of the individual man may with advantage be
deferred until the reader has been placed in a position to com-
pare the statements in Willett scripts relating to the subjects
dealt with in the present chapter with the summary I have
attempted to give of Myers’s teaching on the same subject in
Human Personality.
A good many of the extracts which follow have ah’eady been
quoted in various preceding chapters. Here, as elsewhere, for
reasons already explained on p. 211 above, I have not hesitated
to repeat quotations where it seemed to me that the convenience
of the reader would best be consulted by doing so. The extracts
in the present case have been arranged with due regard to
chronological order, but not too rigidly to permit of departure
from that order for the sake of bringing related passages into
juxtaposition, or for other good cause.
I will begin with two passages which conform closely to
Myers’s doctrine of the soul, representing it as a spiritual entity
that existed before its association with the body, and will
survive bochly destruction, but which, even during its embodied
life, can be in touch with its original native element, namely the
metetherial world as ojDjiosed to the world of matter. Stated
thus broadly, the doctrine is reproduced, and, I think, con-
sistently adhered to throughout the Willett scripts.
Compare the following passages :
Extract from, Lone Scrij)t of Apf'il 9, 1909.
Descent into generation primarily the response of mind to
mind—add the thought of Myers mind precipitated as it were
into mattei' through matter to manifestation l)eginning in tiie
almost pure material material form the gradual dawning or
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Medinmslii'p 285
recollection of its native element mind all being but a means
to this end the return enriched and enhanced to the metetherial
Myers mind to mind descent through matter liberation by
degrees from the mere material form of earhest days gradual
repenetration into the realm of mind and eventual self pro-
jection into that realm.
Extract from. Lone ScrijA of July 20, 1909.
Myers prayer is not petition still less it is it singing boys ^
or Myers posture or any convention of the mind. It is the
return of the soul into its native element from it springs power
Give the French word RECUEILLEMENT I want that
word written.
It is the momentary withdrawal from the things of sense to
those supersensual realms of ideas in which the true personahty
lies. Myers enough.
It will be noted that in both these passages the soul is treated
as a unitary self, and without reference to the distinction
between the subhminal and supraliminal selves which hes at
the root of so many chfficulties. Nevertheless this distinction
is quite exphcit in Willett script from the very beginning, as the
following extracts show :
Extract from Lone Script of January 31, 1909.
The reason why you get messages at times upon subjects that
you have been pondering on is that you have so pondered by
telepathic impulse and it is the identical impulse that leads to
these scripts this often leads to things being attributed to the
subhminal but I have so far not devised anything to remedy this.
Extract from Lone Script of February 14, 1909.
I am trying experiments with you to make you hear without
writing therefore as it is I Myers who do this dehberately do
not fear or wince when words enter your consciousness or sub-
sequently when such words are in the script. On the contrary
it will be the success of my purpose if you recognise hi yr. script
1 Myers, “ Sunrise ” (Fragments, p. 160) :
“ O the heaven, O the joys
Such as priest and singing boys
Cannot sing or say ”.
286 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [paet
phrases you have found in your consciousness. I know this
must be for a while disconcerting and be filled with the fear
of that eternal s.s [subliminal self] which I hope we have
succeeded in dethromng to some extent. Therefore be agreeing
to be disconcerted and do not analyse whence these impressions
which I shall in future refer to as daylight impressions,—come
from, they are parts of a psychic education framed by me for
you.
In these passages the difficiilty of distinguishing between
messages which have their source in the subhininal and mess-
ages which proceed from minds external to the percipient’s is
frankly recognised ;
but it is not made clear whether messages
from independent minds can reach the supraliminal direct, or
whether the intervention of the subliminal is to be regarded as
an inchspensable condition of their passing into normal con-
sciousness. The latter, as we have seen, is the doctrine of
Human Personality ;
and I think it must also be accepted as
the doctrine of the Willett scripts.
In Mrs Willett’s case the two stages in the process by which
messages from an independent mind are received and exter-
nahsed are represented as being either gradual and extending
over a period of time, or practically simultaneous and issuing
in an immediate effect.
Extract frotn the Lone Script of A ugust 14, 1910.
. . . realise continually that impressions are as it were
soaking in at times when you are unaware of any receptive
impulse the uprush from the threshold of one strata [sic] to
the other is the moment of conscious reception but the im-
pressions have been accumulating on the other strata unknown
to you.
Extract from the D.I. of SepAember 24, 1910. {Present, 0. J. L.)
Telepathy isn’t involuntary, it’s—I’m going to do it like this
—what’s the word ? Propulsion—you watch the receipt. Now
he’s as if holding my hands, it’s as if having a tooth out, you ve
got to set your teeth and go through with it. He says James
and another name ;
now she’s got it, and you watch it coming
up. It’s got hito the subliminal. Hyslop !
{said in a surprised
tone). Oh, he says. Good ;
he’s pleased. Lodge, this is terribly
exhausting.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s WIediumship 287
Extract from the Lone Script of August G, 1911.
Write the word seed implanted in the bed-rock of the ,sul)-
conscious mind and say if it fall upon good ground it shall
bring forth an hundred fold Who is the sower and what is the
sowing but an act of faith but it is faith that springs from past
experience the seed germinates and the due season of blossom
comes but the blossom is not a new birth it is part of a process
no it is part of something in process of completion this is
confused but the thought is there.
Extract from. Trance-script preceding D.I. of May 13, 1912.
{Present, G. IF. B.)
The thought strikes like a bullet
or an arrow
Launched from here it reaches its destination sometimes
instantaneously it rushes up to the supraliminal strata of
consciousness sometimes there is a pause ^ Half-dreams
What did Wordsworth say, fallings from us vanishings Blank
misgivings ^
Whether the process of recejdion and externalisation be
gradual or practically instantaneous, the ])riinary recipient is
always assumed to be the subliminal, and the message to reach
the supraliminal only through the subliminal as intermediary.
Extract from Script preceding D.I. of February 9, 1911.
{Present, O. J. L.)
Is there more you want to ask me Lodge 1
(0. J. L. Yes, I want to ask wherein the difference consi.sts
between Piper phenomena and Willett phenomena •
they seem
both under similar control now.)
With this statement compare H.P., vol. ii., p. .521 :
“ Tlie '
telepatluc
impact as we have sometimes called it, is no blunt shock. It may be sudden ;
but it may also be persistent ;
it may sometimes be overwlielming, but it
can be insinuating too. It is not a bolt discharged and done with ;
it is a
vital influence at work on tlie percipient’s subliminal self ”. The two accounts,
however, are not identical ;
for liere tlie tardiness is ascribed to the nature
of the impact on tlie subliminal, whereas according to the statement in the
script it results from a lag in transmission from subliminal to supraliminal.
- Wordsworth, Ode on Intimations of Immortality.
2SS PsyvhoJoyical Aspects oj Mrs Willetts Mediumship [part
Control implies erroneous thought. I am not telergically
here not replacing the spirit of the vehicle but using it where
it is telepathically. There is complete difference from Piper
methods here I merely submerge normal supraliminal and
telepathically use the subliminal ^ And what does the word
extraliminal convey
{O. J. L. Well, it conveys something round about, or outside
the mechanism, not entering into it.)
No she remains the totallity [sfc.] of her,self I impress her
by thoughts It is she who uses the nerve [drawing of zigzag
line) from her, phisiologically [sfc.]
(0. J. L. Yes, I understand, the physiological mechanism is
hers, you exercise only mental or psychical intluence.)
Psychic yes
Extract from Lone Script of April lb, 1911.
Myers Let me again emphasise the difference that exists
between Piper and Willett phenomena the former is possession
the complete all but complete withdrawal of the spirit the
other is the blending of incarnate and excarnate spirits there
is nothing telergic it is a form of telepathy the point we have
to study is to find the line where the incarnate spirit is suffi-
ciently over the border to be in a state to receive and yet
sufficiently controlling by its own powder its owai supraliminal
and therefore able to transmit
We dont therefore desire the kind of trance that is of Piper
essence though we could and sometimes have induced much
t he same thing Get this clear We want the operator to be so
linked with its mechanism as to control that mechanism herself
We want her also to be so linked to us as to be able to receive
definite telepathic wiite the word radiation there is one glory
of the sun and another of the stars there is the mediumistic
gift of emitting and the other gift of receiving
'lire statement in the script preceding D.I. of February 9,
1 Tlie Willetl comimmicator.s repeatedly claim tliat they can throw the
sensitive into lighter or deeper trance at their pleasure. If the jrrocess consists
in “ submerging the supraliminal ”, how is this effected ? If by direct tele-
patliie action, telejiathie sensitivity on the jrart of tlie supraliminal would
seem to be conceded, though elsewhere denied. Are we to understand that
here also the communicatoi' only acts on the supraliminal indirectly, i.e.
mediately througli the agency of the subliminal ?
140] Psyclioloyical Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediurnship 289
1911, that the sensitive “ remains the totality of herself I im-
press her by thoughts It is she who uses the nerve ”, should
be carefully noted. Hitherto the structure of the self as at once
unitary and composite had been quietly assumed, and no sug-
gestion had been made that this conception presents any kind
of difficulty or problem. The emphatic assurance now given
that throughout the process the sensitive remains the totahty
of herself, and that “ herself ” includes both subliminal and
supraliminal, gives perhaps for the first time in the scripts, a
hint of the possibility that this assumption is open to question.
Up to this point the statements made by the communicators
call for little general comment. They suggest no substantial
deviations from the teachings contained in Human Personality.
In the important series of trance -scripts and D.I.s starting from
the sitting of June 4, 1911, and mainly devoted to the subject
of process, the question of the structure of the personality is
brought more explicitly to the front and several new ideas are
introduced which seem to be something more than mere amph-
fications of Myers’s teaching, and even, at least in the use of
certain technical terms, to be inconsistent with it.
In the two preceding chapters I have dealt with the topic of
telepathy, interpreted as the active communication of thought ;
with teleesthesia, interpreted as mind-reacUng ;
with “ mutual
selection ”, presupposing a kind of reciprocal teleesthesia ;
with
subhminal “ weaving ”, involving, at least in certain cases, the
dividing up of the subliminal into a plurality of “ selves
”
interacting with each other and with the supraliminal. All
these topics have some connection, and the last of them a very
direct connection, with the subject-matter of the present
chapter. I shall, however, take it for granted that the reader
is acquainted with the general contents of Chapters II. and III.
and for my present purpose will concentrate upon the three
trance-sittings of October 8, 1911, January 21, 1912, and
March 5, 1912—the only sittings at which the more contro-
versial points at issue are brought into conspicuous prominence.
At all these sittings I was present as investigator in charge.
The relevant passages in them are here quoted practically in
extenso. This will entail the inclusion of several more or less
lengthy extracts, with which the reader has already been made
acquainted ;
but I think he will agree with me that in the
290 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [paet
present instance, at all events, the advantages of repetition
outweigh the drawbacks.
From, the Trance-sitting of October 8, 1911, beginning with
Script and passing on to D.I.
{Present G. W. B.)
Is there any special point you wish to deal with to-day.
—
The points in regard to mutual selection need further
illucidation [sic]. Mutual.
We can only get things through by degrees. It assists us
when we know where the main points needing further effort
lie—or we may spend our strength on that which is already
clear to you.
{G. W. B. I have some questions I should like to put to
you on that very subject : Shall I put them now ?)
Yes.
{G. W. B. In mutual selection you say that the sensitive
can select from such part of your mind as she can have access
to. What part is this ?)
All that part to which the subliminal of the sensitive has
natural access, operating normally upon the metethereal plane.
She has access to.
It is difficult to get it clear. Let me go slowly and feel if
need be for my meaning in a round-about way.
Human experience—that part of my mind to which human
experience affords a point de repere— ^
(6*. W. B. I understand that : but you distinguish between
the actual and the potential content of your mind. Has the
sensitive access to both 1)
Yes. Yes. Yes.
{O. W. B. You say you have access to the contents of the
conscious and unconscious mind of the sensitive. Does the
distinction between the conscious and unconscious mind of
the sensitive correspond to the distinction between the actual
and potential content of your niind ?)
No—wait. I have access to—repeat that sentence to me.
{G. W. B. repeats as above.)
Unconscious is not an equivalent for potential. NO.^
’ See p. 202 above.
- For the meaning' of “ potential ” in tliis jjassage, and the distinction
between “ actual and potential ” on the one side and “ conscious and
unconscious ” on the other, see jjp. 200 ff. above.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett'’ s MecUumshij) 291
{G. W. B. Does the unconscious mind of the sensitive mean
what we commonly call her subhminal ?
)
Yes—but it means all the centres of it, to use a phisiological
\sici] analogy.^
{G. W. B. Is there anything in the discarnate consciousness
which corresponds to the subliminal self of the incarnate 1)
What a huge subject you open up !
Let me get her to speech first. Yes—say that again.
{G. W. B. repeats.)
The larger includes the less.
(G. W. B. Is the lai’ger the supraliminal or )
No, no, the siibhminal of course, that is allied to the tran-
scendental self
—
that transcendental self might be referred to in
a rough and ready manner by terming it the subhminal of the
discarnate Subliminal Read it to me.
{G. TF. B. reads what has just been said.)
as the It is possible to refer to it as that and imply a
truth
—
It is a good rough generalisation.
(G. IF. B. One more question. Myers in his book on Human
Personality speaks of the siiprahminal and the subliminal
sometimes in language which seems to characterise them as
separate though closely associated selves, but more generally
as if they were merely different strata of one and the same
individual consciousness. How are these two views to be
reconciled ?)
I want several of these questions read to me again, but let
me get her into D.I. secondary stage first.
(G. IF. B. Shall we go on to D.I. at once 1)
Yes.
[D.I. notv begins.]
He says there are many gradations—Oh he says. Oh Edmund.
Oh, I will. He says there is an ascending chain. He says,
Normal, suprahminal consciousness—that varies in depth and
is, as it were, the upper crust of the subhminal.
Oh he says, I speak now of mcarnate subjects. Then the
return is made to this observation in the D.I. of January 21, 1912.
See pp. 295-6 below.
^ I.e. “ as the subliminal ” is to be substituted for “ by terming it the
subhminal
292 Psychological Aspects of Mj's Willett's Mediumship [part
next link is the subliminal. The interaction between the two
is continuous.
(G. W. B. ivas about to speak but E. G. went on.)
Don’t interrupt me—but the supraliminal consciousness of
that interaction varies. He says, in that direction evolutionary
principles should be recognised.
Oh he says, putting it at its lowest, the suprahminal will
find that it pays to attend to subhminal impulse and intuition
—and he says, the supraliminal as it now is is largely the result
of attention to what pays. Oh he says, value for life as it has
been in the past, and he says, you might call the suprahminal
a group of paying activities—not the word I want, but it will do.
And he says, the subliminal is rivetted ^ on to the transcen-
dental self—the ulterior pre-existing pre-subliminal, in some-
thing of the same sense as the subhminal is pre-supraliminal.
He says. Pass now to the discarnate. The persisting elements
contain, in largest proportions, elements of the subconscious
self. This is obscure. Oh he says, the persistible self contains
—the largest element is subhminal.
He says, the largest proportion of the persisting whole is
that summed up in the words subliminal-self element, together
with an admixture—and a very vital admixture—of the
suprahminal.
Oh he says, the suprahminal and the subhminal are parts
of one whole. They may act apparently so discomiectedly
as to lead one from the incarnate standpoint to think of them as
separate. Oh he says, think of the subhminal as a principle
normally operating in the metetherial, and in—oh, Edmund,
it’s so difficult—oh hold tight of me, I’m shpping—Oh he says,
read me from where I said
—
[G. W. B. reads from “ think of the subhminal ” down to
“
metetherial ”.)
And in the best conditions—in the achieved—when that is
achieved which is aimed at, the subhminal informs and guides
the suprahminal as the transcendental self forms and guides the
subhminal. Oh he says, that is the incarnate—Oh he says,
I’ve got a muddle here somewhere. What I’ve been speaking
of refers to the incarnate ;
and with regal'd to the discarnate
* The tei'in “ rivetteil ” here is meant, 1 think, to carry on tlie metaphor
of links of a chain.
140] Psychological Asjyects of Mrs Willett’s 31ednmiship 293
—it’s a rough generalisation—take the persisting element,
which will be largely composed of subliminal with a vital
percentage of supraliminal, and call that blended consciousness
if you will—rough shots, mind, G.—call it, if you \vill, discarnate
supraliminahty, and you will get as a deeper strata [sfc] the
transcendental self.
Oh he says, back of that again lies something I dimly reach
after and you would call, he says, the Absalom
—
not Absalom
—
I’ll spell it you, he says : A B S 0 L and he says O M and rubs
O M out and puts instead U T E. Oh he says—Edmund,
when you laugh I can’t help laughing too—and he says the
ascending scale bound by gold chains round the feet of God.^
Oh he says, there are seas to be explored, and I can only sail
a little way out and come back with a report that the sea
stretches infinitely vast beyond them.
So much of your activity is really of the child’s spade order,
and he says {pause) oh he says, she’s dropped it. He says,
tell G. to read me again his own words.
{0. W. B. Shall I read the first question ?)
All.
{O. W. B. The first question is : In mutvial selection you
say that the sensitive can select from such part of your mind
as she can have access to. What part is this ?)
He says, I want to suggest something which, while not
contradicting your question, will open another window. Oh
if I could oifiy not drop like that. Oh hold me tight. And he
says, she can select—he says a word to me—telaesthesia—oh
he says, you none of you make enough allowance for what that
implies, and the results of that can be shepherded and guided
up to the threshold of normal consciousness.
Oh he says, telsesthesia is a bed-rock truth, a power of
acquiring knowledge direct without the intervention of dis-
carnate mind.
Oh he says, telepathy’s one thing—that’s thought communi-
cation ;
telaesthesia is knowledge, not thought, acquii-ed by
the subliminal when operatmg normally in the metetherial.^
^
^ Tennyson, Morte d' Arthur.
^ For “ telaesthesia ” see Part II., Chapter III. The omitted portion of the
D.I. (here indicated by asterisks) is given in full on pp. 194-5 above.
294 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Meduimship [part
Oh he says, give the next question quickly.
{G. W. B. The next question is this : You distinguish
between the actual and the potential content of your mind.
Has the sensitive access to both ?)
I have said what the limitations necessarily are. I think
I have got that clear. Read me when next I come my answer
to that question and I will amplify it. Go ahead, G.
{G. W. B. You say you have access to the contents of the
conscious and unconscious mind of the sensitive. Does the
distinction l>etween the conscious and unconscious mind of
the sensitive correspond to the distinction l)etween the actual
and poteirtial content of your mind ?)
He says. I’ve answered that as far as I can now.
(G. W. B. Fourth question : Is there anything in the
discarnate consciousness which corresponds to the subliminal
self of the incarnate ?)
He says, I’ve not done so badly on that, I think.
{G. W. B. Last question ; Myers in his book speaks of
the supraliminal aiid the subliminal sometimes as if they were
separate tlunigh closely associated selves, but more commonly
as if they were merely different strata of one and the same
individual consciousness. How are these two views to be
reconciled ?)
He says, I undei'stand. Oh, he says, she’s going very heavily
now. Better not tax hei' further.
’Fhe extract which follows is taken from another very long
trance-sitting. It forms the concluding portion of the D.I.
stage. The script preceding D.I., and the earlier portion of the
D.I. itself, had been occupied with other topics.
Extract from D.I. of January 21, 1922. {Present, 0. W. B.)
Edmund says, Gerald.
[A few sentences follow which I ivas told not to take down :
after which 1 was asked for questions.]
He laughs and says. Now we’re to get back to the tran-
scendental self !
{G. W. B. Some time ago,^ when I asked you whether the
unconscious mind of the sensitive means what we comjnonly
1 /.e. in the trance-script preceding D.I. of October 8, 1911.
140] Psychological Asincts of Mrs Willett's Meclmmship 295
call her subliminal, you answered, “ Yes ^
—but it means all
the centres of it, to use a physiological analogy Is the
subliminal to be regarded as a number of distinct, or at all
events distinguishable, centres of consciousness ?)
He says. Ranges of varying depth. Tell me again, slowly.
{Question is repeated.)
It’s One : and an enhghtening pomt of view—I think it is
—
is to conceive of it as allied and distinguishable—I missed a
word—and then grouped round one nucleus. He says. Your
interpretation of centres of consciousness may not be mine
—
and he says. How far have I got through information in answer ?
{G. W. B. Perhaps it might help to put it in this way. You
spoke of a continuous interaction between the sublimmal and
the suprahminal. Are the centres of consciousness of the sub-
liminal related to each other in a manner analogous to the
relation of the siibliminal to the supraliminal ?)
Wait. Something about centres of cognition. He says.
Tentacles of the star-fish. Interaction, he says, is right. The
supraliminal and the subliminal ebb and flow ;
and he says
^ In tlie important passage already quoted on p. 265 above Myers defines
liis use of the term “ subliminal ” as covering “ all that takes place beneath
the ordinary threshold of consciousness ”. When the communicator identifies
the miconscious mind of the sensitive witli her subliminal, it is presumably
in this sense that he uses the word. But the adjective “ imconseious ” in this
connection is apt to be misleading. It is not the subliminal which is uncon-
scious, but the supraliminal in regard to tlie subliminal. The subliminal
is conceived as comprising all mental process which does not reach the level
of consciousness in the supraliyninal. Neither the Myers of Human Personality
nor the communicators in the Willett scripts mean to represent the subliminal
self as unconscious on its own account. On the contrary it is common ground
for both that in the subliminal the highest manifestation of mind is to be
found.
The interpretation of the passage which follows, down to “ tentacles of
the star-fish ”, is far from clear. By “ centres of consciousness ” I had meant
“selves ” ;
but Gurney’s answer seems to refer to the relation between mind
and body, and even to identify “ centres of consciousness ” with the organs
of sense. Are the centres of consciousness which are described as “ grouped
round one nucleus ”, from which they are distmguishable, the same as the
“ centres of cognition ” wliich are compared to the tentacles of a star-fish,
and also the same as the centres of sub-conscious7iess which are said, a little
lower dowm, to inform a central whole ?
I think there has been misunderstanding between Gurney and myself,
and that more confusion has resulted than I can successfully attempt to
um’avel.
2!)() Psychologicnl Aspects of Mrs WiUett's Mecliumship [part
that the profundities of the subliminal which grade right up
and mei'ge into what I’ve spoken of as the transcendental self,
the central miity, the self-conscious whole achieving its self-
consciousness by the hemming off ^
—But, he says, if you’re
going to confuse any of this with the whole question of secondary
and tertiary personalities and their respective memories of
each other, you’d be making a mistake. Those are cases of
dislocation, imperfect and often pathological. Oh, he says.
It’s the creak of the machine, that—But, he says, the sub-
liminal—he says the supraliminal—has access to—he says to
me. You’ve got the analogies all wrong, try again. Begin the
other end, he says. The transcendental self—he says something
about a point of release—oh, Edmund, you do bore me so
—
the passing of itself into stratas [sfc] of subliminality—the sub-
liminal—he says it’s like a continuous impetus, like waves of
sound. Bang (here hand came down on the table with a thump)
;
and then the subliminal rippling out into the supraliminal.^
But, he says, the interaction of the three is continuous and
perpetual—and the centres of sub-consciousness, he says,
inform a central whole. And he says, Sidgwick is always
pointing out the liability to misinterpretation which the use
of analogies and terms proper to one department of knowledge
being imported into unmapped, ill-mapped, regions—But, he
says, when the thing works properly, all the links—the links
are continuous, he says. And he says the point where the
transcendental merges into the subliminal
—
merges may bring
a number of associations for you which may not be in the least
applicable—he says, between that point and the point which
has been mapped with the word supraliminal there’s no com-
plete break : it’s like number.^
^ See footnote (1) on p. 305.
“ I do not pretend to undenstand the statements liero made.
^ Tlie comparison witli number is perhaps not altogether felicitous. In
number the element of discreteness is usxially conceived to be the prominent
one. On the other hand in abstract number the element of continuity is
also present in so far as the units com250sing any given number, as number,
make one whole without any gap between them. The illustration which
follows, of space divided into arbitrary cubes for purposes of convenience,
seems more aptly to express the commrmicator’s meaning. The dividing
lines are to bo regarded as shifting, not as unalterably fixed.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's 31ediurnship 297
{G. W. B. You speak of a continuous interaction between
the transcendental and the subliminal and the supraliminal.
Does not interaction imply duality or multiplicity ? In a
sense, individual human beings are parts of one whole—that
is, they are all rooted, as it were, in the Absolute. Are supra-
hminal and subliminal separate in a manner analogous to the
separateness of different human beings ?)
BOSH! [very loud and emphatic) different aspects of the
same thing.
[G. W. B. But some think that individuals are different
aspects of the Absolute.)
He says to me. Come on. He says. One. and he says. Really
there’s some sense in these words, for purposes of convenience
marked off into arbitrary cubes.^ The cubes in different
individuals—and he says. You would put the thresholds of
different individuals in different places. The cubes make one
pattern.
[G. W. B. I’m not putting forward a doctrine, but only
asking a question. How the same thing can be both one and
many has always given rise to difficulties. What I wished to
know was whether supraliminal and subliminal are distinct
in a manner analogous to the distinctness of different human
beings.)
Not in that sense. He says that’s extremely important.
I’ve got your thought, G. My answer is. No, not in that sense.
It’s very difficult, but he says, what is the relation between the
human being and the Absolute ? He says. Answer me that.
{G. W. B. That is the most difficidt question in philosophy.)
He says. It’s the Absolute on its way to self-consciousness.
Oh, he says, if I could get the right words, while there’s no
analogy as I’ve made clear,^ there is an analogy between the
supraliminal and the subliminal, and the individual rooted in
the Absolute and the Absolute. And he says. You’ve got it
now, and he says. No bones broken—and he says to me. You
know, dear, I feel sometimes I must appear to you hke the
^ See note 3 on opposite page.
- I.e. while there’s no analogy between the relation of supraliminal to
subliminal and the relation of one human individual to another, there is an
analogy between the relation of supraliminal to subliminal and the relation
of the individual rooted in the Absolute to the Absolute.
u
298 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
Devil when he said, Cast thyself down ;
but, he says, if only
you’ll go blindly ^ there’ll be no pieces to pick up. And he
says, I really got what I wanted in answer to Gerald, and I
believe he’ll make it clear.
(G. W. B. Is there any harm in asking questions like these ?)
He says. If you’ll ask them realising the difficulties we have
got to encounter, and not mistaking a poor result for anything
more than a failure to inform, you’ll do no harm, and help us
to break through. Oh he says. Another nut, and then I’m
gone. (A pause.) I’m waiting for the nut.
{G. W. B. Oh, I see. You want me to ask another question
You referred at a former sitting to telaesthesia as a process
by which the mind of the sensitive acquired knowledge on its
own account. The subject came up in connection with what
you called mutual selection. You spoke of taking the sensitive
into “ a room ” and screening off any action of your own mind
on hers ;
whereupon her subliminal proceeds to take stock of
the contents of the room. Do you mean a real room, or only
a room existing in your mind ?)
I’ll throw something at you, and you must make what you
can of it.^
I’ll take that portion of her which can emerge in uprush,
and I, as it were, link it on with that deeper subliminal which
can be in touch with what I want to get known ;
so that there ;
is that portion of her which can normally acquire telaestheticaUy !
in its own deep profound plane passing on the knowledge to (
that plane from which an uprush can come. Oh he says, ,
what I’m going to say to you now makes Sidgwick tear his
j
hair, because it’s meaning the ocean in a child’s bucket. ,
I’m going to call that deepest portion, nearer to the trans- •
cendental self—I’m going to call it—anything you like, any
symbol, say H. Well, the H-self and I agree on what we want
—what I want—to get transmitted, and which the H-self nor-
mally, in its own H-ness, through its own cognitive faculites,
can know. And here is the “ bucket ” process, it’s here where
just because it’s the most difficult I shall fail worst in trying
to get near the thought. The H-self will touch the uprushable
1 See p. 245 above.
2 For comments on tlie passage which here follows see pp. 24G ff.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship 299
self just the grade below the uprxishable, and the uprushable
and the grade below will receive the knowledge from the H.
But in getting it into the uprushable focus as it were, it will
know that a sort of crystalhsation, often through symbolism
must be arrived at : and we will imagine, if you like, that that
having been foreseen both by me and the H-self, we determined
upon what sort of crystals to aim at, so that the uprushable
self has as it were presented to it what I called a “ room ”, the
knowledge which the H-self is informing to the point where
it becomes uprushable. Just below that uprushable point
there’s a sort of dim moment where both modes enter into
cognition—I mean, where a knowledge of the thing as it is in
the H-stage is united to a knowledge of the crystals which,
the emblem which, can best express that which in its H-ness
cannot, or rarely, uprush—for all these states are variable and
the success variable. Then comes that moment of bin din g
when the self that lies in juxtaposition to the uprushable
absorbs the knowledge from H, and passes it on to the uprush-
able point in such a state as makes uprush possible. It then
rushes out as word spoken or written, or dreams, or never-to-
be-denied moments of prescience, pre-cognition of supernormal
knowledge. But that supernormal will contain within it the
normally acquired knowledge of H—that element of normality
will be there. Oh, he says, that isn’t the invariable method,
only one of them ;
and he says. The telepathic impact is
another. He says the normal powers—Oh he says, I must
let her go.
Extract from the D.I. of March 5, 1912. ^ {Present, G. W. B.)
Telepathy, inspiration, mutual selection—he says they mark
different stages of the soul’s commerce, it sounds like. He
says it’s very difficult to get it, dear, but it’s best for me to get
some rough definition down . . .
He says. In telepathy there is the mind that makes the
emission of the idea, and the mind that receives the impact
of it ;
and it’s often very definite, he says. And he says it’s not
the whole truth to say that inspiration is more general, but
it’s the half truth to say that inspiration is the stimulation of
something already contained in the subliminal which, under
^ For comments on this D.I. see pp. 250 ff.
300 Psychological Aspects of Airs Willett's Alediumship [part
pressure of inspiration forces its way to the threshiod. Oh he
says, Inspiration may be from within as well as from without.
But he says you can’t speak of telepathy between the supra-
liminal and the subliminal
—
{G. IF. B. Ah ! I was going to ask that very question.)
but you can speak of inspiration by the subliminal ;
you
can also speak of inspiration by the subliminal of matter— . . .
The matter which is inspired up to the threshold may be matter
acquired by selection.
He says, Inspiration may be from within, but it may be from
without. Oh he says. Every moment I gave to the study of
hypnotic states and post-hypnotic states I feel was among the
best spent of all my time.
{G. IF. B. Yes, Gurney, those were splemlid papers of yours.)
Oh he says. It’s not only what I learnt then, but what I’ve
been able to apply here. For instance : Say, using the words
in their rough way, that a mutual selection is made—mutually
from her mind and mine. It’s possible for me to suggest to
her sidjliminal that at a given time such and such an idea shall
as it were be recovered—one might almost say, recovered out
of the sediment—and come to the top. Or I may use another
process. I may hit a particular atom in the sediment that I
want by telepathic impact or stimulation, and make it come
to the surface that way. But that particular process of tele-
pathy I should designate as “ inspirational ” telepathy, because
it’s affecting that which is already within the mind.
Oh, he says, I think I have done enough for to-day.
Though in parts obscure and occasionally (I suspect) con-
fused, the scripts just quoted—to whatever source w^e attribute
them—must surely count among the most remarkable auto-
matic utterances on abstract questions that we possess. On this
aspect of the sidjject I r efer back to what I have already said in
Chapter V. of Part 1. (see p. 155 above). If the scripts in
question are the product, not of inspiration from an external
inteUigence, but of subliminal mentation, I am driven to the
conclusion that the subliminal in this instance has exhibited a
subtlety of speculative thought very decidedly beyond any-
thing I believe the Mr-s Willett with whom I am intimately
acquainted to be capable of. Mrs Willett herself, to whoirr the
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumsliip 301
trance-productions have now been shown for the first time,
assures me that they are “ so much Greek to her, and leave
her utterly bewildered and bored.
It is not, however, with the source of these scripts that I am
here concerned, but with their content. The statements made
in them, so far as they relate to the sid^ject matter of the
present chapter, can be usefully disentangled so as to fall under
two headings :
( 1 )
Statements regarchng the supraliminal and the subliminal
in the incarnate ;
(2) Statements regarding the transcendental self, and the
relation of the soul to the Absolute.
The matters treated of under the second heachng may be
conveniently taken first. They are really of an order so purely
speciilative as hardly to come within the scope of the present
paper. Nevertheless, a brief reference to them is desirable here,
partly because comparison with corresponcUng ideas in Human
Personality has an interest for us ;
partly because the account
given of the soul in its relation to the Absolute throws some
light on the cpiestion which more propeily concerns us, namely
the conception to be found in the scripts of the relation of
supraliminal and subliminal in the incarnate personality.
The term “ transcendental ” is repeatedly used in the frag-
ments pieced together by the editors of Human Personality ^ to
form the concluding portion of Chapter IX. of that work, and,
so far as my observation goes, nowhere else in the body of the
book. The use of the term in Willett automatic productions is
practically confined to the scripts of October 8, 1911, and
January 21, 1912, and even there it occurs only in the combina-
tion, “ The transcendental self This phrase is common both
to the scripts in question and to the concluding portion of
Chapter IX., and provides a link between them which is perhaps
not without significance.
If Mrs Willett had read the concluding portion of Chapter
IX., it would be reasonable to infer that her scripts of October 1,
1911, and January 21, 1912, owe something of their content to
that eircumstance. But her acquaintanee with Human Per-
* See Editorial Note to the Preface in H.P., vol. i., p. x. The portion of
vol. ii., chapter ix., here referred to, begins on p. 259.
302 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
sonality is entirely derived from the abridged version edited by
Mr Leopold Myers. She assures me that to the best of her
knowledge she has never so much as held a copy of the larger
work in her hand. Now in the abridged version the concluding
portion of Chapter IX. is so severely cut down that the seven-
teen or eighteen pages which it occupies in the original are
reduced to less than three, and in those three pages the word
“ transcendental ” does not once appear. It does, however,
once occur in the Syriopsis of a Scheme of Vital Faculty,
which forms Appendix A to Chapter IX., and which is included
in the abridged version. Even there there is no mention of the
“transcendental self”, only of the “transcendental world”.
On the other hand, it is just in the concluding sections of Chap-
ter IX. that Myers gives the freest rein to his speculation, and
they must certainly be held to express his most fully developed
ideas on the subject with which they deal. If the Willett
scripts are messages from an external somce, and that source
Myers himself (or Gurney speaking for the pair there would
be nothing surprising in his employment, when communicating,
of a term which he had already begun to use in his latest
writings.
In Human Personality
“
the transcendental self ” is contrasted
with “the empirical self” ;
and this conjunction recalls the
distinction between the transcendental ego and the empirical
ego, with which we are famihar in Kantian phraseology. The
similarity, however, is only verbal. For Kant the transcen-
dental ego has a significance purely epistemological. It is the
identical self as the necessary conchtion of experience, whereas
the empirical self is the self with its serial content or succession
of mental states.
In Human Personality, on the other hand, the adjective
“ transcendental ” is synonymous with “ spiritual ” or “ met-
etherial ”, as in the phrase, “ transcendental world ”, “ trans-
cendental mode of perception ”, “ transcendental faculty ”,
^ Cf. lone script of January 5, 1911, “ This is all one message from 2 men.
Sometimes the signature is F that means that I am here But rarely without
him ” {i.e. Gurney.) Whether the actual communicator is Gurney or Myers
seems to depend mainly on the sitter. With O. J. L. as sitter, it is usually
Myers ;
with me as sitter, it is almost invariably Gurney. This is dramatically
appropriate, since I knew Gurney much better than I did Myers.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship 303
“ transcendental environment ” ;
and the transcendental self
as opposed to the empirical self is simply the subliminal as
opposed to the supraliminal.
We have already seen, in the ehapter dealing with telepathy
and telaesthesia, an example of the way in which the Willett
scripts, while adopting the language of Human Personality,
have introduced considerable changes in the meaning of the
technical terms employed. One’s first impression is that some-
thing of the same kind has happened in the case of the trans-
cendental self ;
and in a measure this is true.
The transcendental self of the scripts is not the same as the
transcendental self of Human Personality. The latter, as I have
said, is the subliminal as opposed to the suprahminal in the
incarnate. The former “ is the ulterior pre-existing pre-sub-
hminal in something of the same sense as the subhminal is pre-
supraliminal ”. As such it may fairly be described as the
subhminal in the discarnate, and “ the subliminal of the sub-
hminal ” in the incarnate.
It is clear that what we are offered in the scripts is an analysis
of the soul into grades or degrees of spirituahty.
In the incarnate these grades are
(1) the suprahminal ;
(2) the subhminal ;
(3) the transcendental self.
In the discarnate all three grades are stiU present, but some
elements characteristic of the suprahminal consciousness in the
incarnate have, if my interpretation is correct, disappeared,
while the remainder have become “ blended ” with what was
the incarnate subhminal to form what we may, if we please,
regard as a discarnate suprahminal. The transcendental self
will then, by analogy, represent the discarnate subhminal.
This account of the transcendental self cannot be whohy
reconciled with the use of the term in Human Personality, but
the discrepancy does not appear to me to be fundamental. It
* A “ vital percentage ” of supraliminal elements (see D.I. of October 8th,
1911) is presumably held to be retained by the discarnate spirit in order to
accoimt for the memories which it continues to possess of its earthly life, and
also, perhaps, for some power of perceiving material tilings. But there is no
distinct statement to this effect in the scripts.
304 Psychologiml Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship [paht
must be remem})erecl that Myers himself treats the subliminal
as consisting of strata, or layers, of chfferent depths, and in this
he is followed by the scripts. “ Ranges of different depths ” is
the description of it in the D.I., January 21, 1912, and in the
same D.I. Ginney refers to “ the profundities of the subliminal
which grade right up and merge into what I’ve spoken of as the
transcendental self”. It might be plausibly contended that
the transcendental self of the scripts is merely a special name
for the deepest of a number of strata in the subliminal, and that
the transcendental self of Human Personality includes this
stratum as j^art of itself. I think, however, that the difference
between the two goes somewhat beyond this. In distinguishing
the transcendental self from the subliminal the scripts certainly
mean to imply a difference of degree that has passed into a
difference of kind, analogous to the difference between sublimi-
nal and supraliminal.^ In what does the chfference of kind
consist ? No clear answer is provided in the scripts. But
material for an answer is, I think, to be found in the Synopsis
prefixed to the “ Scheme of Vital Faculty ” (H.P., vol. ii.,
p. 505), to which I have already had occasion to refer earlier in
the present chapter (see p. 277 above). We are there presented
with a threefold division of consciousness into (1) the supra-
liminal or empirical consciousness aware only of the material
world through sensory impressions ; (2) the subliminal con-
sciousness obscurely aware of the transcendental world through
telepathic and teleesthetic impressions ;
and (3) the subliminal
consciousness discerning and influenced by disembodied spirits
in a spiritual world. When I had this triple division previously
under consideration I passed over the distinction (2) and (3) as
iinimportant in connection with the subject under discussion at
the moment. What I have now to suggest is that the “ s\ib-
liminal consciousness discerning and influenced by disembodied
spirits in a spiritual world ” at once corresponds to and explains
the transcendental self of the scripts. It is the name that is
new rather than the distinction. But this new name, or, to be
more accurate, this specialised application of a name already
used by Myers in a looser and more general sense, is quite in
1 Note that in the D.I. of January 21, 1912, the “ H-self ” is represented
as that portion of the subliminal which is nearest to the transcendental self,
but is at the same time distinguished from it. See p. 298 above.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's MecUumship 305
consonance with his teaching, and might well have been
accepted by him as an improvement in terminology.
The synopsis of the “ Scheme of Vital Faculty ”, though not
the scheme itself in detail, is included, as we have seen, in Mr
Leopold Myers’s abridged version of Human Personality, and
Mrs Willett must be presumed to have read it.
The account given in the D.I. of January 21, 1912, of the
relation between the soul and “the Absolute ” raises questions
which one could not even begin to discuss without jilunging into
metaphysics. Noteworthy among these is the remarkable
doctrine which attributes the origin of the individual soul to the
process of the Absolute “ on its way to self-consciousness
So far as I can recollect nothing quite like this is to be found in
Human Personality? It seems to me to bear the mark of deriva-
tion from post-Kantian ideahstic speculation, of which,
curiously enough, a good many traces crop up in the scripts.
^
Here, again, if the scripts are the work of the automatist’s
subliminal self, from what source were the ideas expressed in
them obtained ? The normal IVIrs ^Villett is unable to throw
any light upon this question.
Of greater interest, because it has some bearing on the main
subject of the present chapter, is the ascending scale which is
represented as extending beyond the transcendental self and
reaching towards the Absolute. No attempt is made to define
the further stages in the scale. The communicator himself
adrmts that even to the emancipated spirit the region that lies
beyond the transcendental self is a region of conjecture. “ There
are seas to be explored ”, says Gurney, “ and I can only sail a
little way out and come back with a report that the sea stretches
infinitely vast beyond them ”. What he has in mind seems to be
a progress by stages through w'hich the individual ego passes in
Earlier in the same D.I. statements are made which seem to imply that
the transcendental self, like the Absolute, achieves self-consciousness by
hemming off , i.e. by self-limitation. But the script is so obscure at this
point that I feel very rmcertain of the true interpretation.
^ See, however, the last sentence in chapter ix. of Human Personality,
quoted in the footnote (2) on p. 183.
See, for instance, the reference to Hegel’s Phdnomenologie des Geistes in
the D.I. of May 24, 1911 (p. 183 above).
306 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
its upward course, the relation between the stages being con-
ceived as analogous to the relation between the suprahminal
and subliminal “ selves
We have now to revert to the first of our two headings, and
examine the account given in the scripts of the nature of this
relation in the incarnate human being.
Let us begin by noting the important admission that while
“ the supraliminal and the subliminal are parts of one whole,
they may act apparently so disconnectedly as to lead one from
the incarnate standpoint to think of them as separate
How is this possible ?
I do not think it would be unfair to Myers to say that he
accepted the paradox as a true description of the nature of the
soul. The soul is at once a unitary self, or ego, and a self
distinguishable into parts sufficiently independent of each other
to deserve on their own account to be described as “ selves
In essentials this is also the doctrine of the scripts. At the
same time I think I see signs that the communicators realised
more fully than the Myers of Human Personality appears to
have done the difficulties inherent in his solution of the problem.
On two points there is a noticeable change of attitude. On the
one hand there is a tendency to emphasise the unity by blmring
the lines of division between the
‘
‘
selves ” so as to resolve them
into a continuous whole. On the other hand, there seems to be
a disposition to soften the paradox of the independence of the
parts by setting aside as irrelevant certain observed phenomena
which are on the face of them hard to reconcile with the
doctrine.
The question I put to Gurney in the sitting of October 8, 1911,
was this :
“ Myers in his book speaks of the suprahminal and
the subliminal sometimes as if they were separate though
closely associated selves, but more commonly as if they were
different strata of one and the same individual consciousness.
How are these two views to be reconciled ?
”
In reply Gurney says that in the individual consciousness
there are many gradations, and he compares it to an ascending
chain, i.e. a chain of which the successive links represent ascend-
ing degrees of spirituality. He proceeds to tell us something of
the nature of the relation of the links with special reference to
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs WilleWs Mediumship 307
the case of the supraliminal and the subliminal. “ Normal
suprahminal consciousness ”, we are informed, “ varies in
depth, and is, as it were, the upper crust of the subliminal. . . .
The interaction between the two is continuous ^ . . . but the
supraliminal consciousness of that interaction varies ”. We
have here two statements, each of them interesting, though
I am doubtful how far they are consistent. The natural
meaning of the first would seem to be that the suprahminal
varies in content, and at times includes a content which is
usually confined to the subliminal. This would imply an
enlarged range of supraliminal activity, and supraliminal and
subhminal, regarded as parts of our whole, would appear to be
either overlapping each other or advancing and receding
respectively as the case may be. On the other hand, the
second of the two statements rather suggests that the additional
content is derived from the subliminal by a process of inter-
action—we are not allowed to call it telepathic interaction—and
that the “ variation in depth ” attributed to the supraliminal
may be merely a variation in its threshold of consciousness.
Another possible intei’pretation would be that a kind of
blending of the parts may take place so as to produce a
“ blended consciousness ” similar to that which the communi-
cator describes as forming the supraliminal of the discarnate.
Whatever interpretation we adopt it is evident the “ chain of
finks ” is a very inadequate symbol to express the kind of unity
in difference of which we are in search.
In the D.I. of January 21, 1912, the subject is resumed.
Following upon a difficult passage which I take to be concerned
with another subject altogether, namely the relation between
mind and body, the statements made in the earlier sitting are
in effect repeated.
Interaction, he says, is right. The supraliminal and the
subliminal ebb and flow. . . . But if you’re going to confuse
any of this with the whole question of secondary and tertiary
personalities and their respective memories of each other, you’ll
be making a mistake. Those are cases of dislocation, imperfect
and often pathological. Oh ! he says, it’s the creaking of the
machine that . . . But, he says, when the thing works properly
* “ Continuous ” here = unceasing, perpetual.
308 Psychological AsjJects of Mrs Willett's Medmmship [part
all the links are continuous, he says, and the point where the
transcendental merges with the subliminal
—
merges may bring
a number of associations for you which may not be in the least
applicable—he says, between that point and the point which
has been mapped out with the word supraliminal there’s no
complete break : it’s like number.
Here I intervened with a remark that was intended to bring
the discussion to a definite issue :
“ Yoia speak of a continuous
interaction between the transcendental, the subbminal and the
supraliminal. Does not interaction imply duality or multi-
plicity ? In a sense individual human beings are parts of one
whole—that is, they are all rooted, as it were, in the absolute.
Are supraliminal and s\d)liminal separate in a manner analogous
to the separation of different human beings ?
”
The real drift of my previous qiiestions seems now to flash
into Gurney’s mind for the first time. The effect was dramatic.
“ BOSH ”, he almost shouted—at least the word was uttered
by the automatist in a tone of voice so loud and startling that
for the moment 1 was fairly taken aback. “ Bosh ! different
aspects of the same thing
No doidit it is to this incident that Gurney is referring when,
in a later script (quoted on p. 256 above), he charges me with
having tried to get him “ on the horns of a duality which woiild
almost amount to a concei)tion of the selves as separated in such
a way as to amount to 2 entities ”. Yet even now it is clear
that he has not fully grasped the nature of the cblemma as it
presents itself to me. If supraliminal and subliminal are to be
regarded as aspects of a unitary self, 1 should have nothing to
say in deprecation of his contemptuous outburst. That aspects
of a self cannot be selves on their own account is, in fact, one of
the very points for which 1 have been contending throughout
the present chapter. If they are aspects of a self they cannot be
separate selves : if they are not separate selves, how can they
be used in satisfactory explanation of those phenomena of
abnormal psychology for the imderstanding of which separate
selves seem to be imperatively demanded—such, for instance,
as secondary personalities of the Sally Beauchamp type, or
those “ nunciative automatisms ” which Myers himself admits
to be indistinguishable in form and circumstance from tele-
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship 309
pathic messages accepted by him as proceeding from independ-
ent entities whether spirits of the dead or other human beings ?
Neither in Human Personality nor in the Willett scripts do I find
any plausible answer to this question. Indeed, one might go
further and suggest that the sci’ipts now under consideration
show a distinct disposition to shirk it. We are expressly
warned not to confuse the relation of suimaliminal to subliminal
“ with the whole question of secondary and tertiary personal-
ities and their respective memories of each other. . . . Those
are cases of dislocation, imperfect and often pathological, the
creak of the machine ”. In other words, explanation of them
is to be sought in organic disturbances. That they are often
connected with organic disturbances may readily be conceded ;
but the Myers of Human Personality would have frankly
admitted, and indeed strenuously contended, that the splitting
of the personality into at least quasi -independent selves occurs
in persons to all appearance perfectly healthy, and calls for
explanation in terms of mind.
Of course, if you sweep on one side all phenomena that seem
hard to reconcile with your theory, you simplify the problem ;
but you do so at the expense of leaving it unsolved.
The same tendency to avoid facing crucial cases is discernible,
I think, in what I may call the Flaccus-Tlaccus incident. This
incident provides the only case claimed by the scripts as a
definite example of a “ message ” sent by the subliminal self-
on its own account, and not merely as transmitter of messages
from a communicating spirit—to the supraliminal.
The automatist, who was not in trance, records a name
received by her as “ Flaccus ”. This was correct ;
but it was
followed by the remark, “ No, that is wrong ”. In a note,
written after the sitting was over, she adds—evidently with
reference to the correcting words—that what she had recorded
as “ Flaccus ” might have been “ Tlaccus ”. In a later script
(see pp. 255-6 above) Gurney interprets the words, “ No, that is
wrong ”, not as forming part of the communicator’s message,
but as being a remark addressed by the automatist’s subliminal
self to her supraliminal, and as applying, not to the correctly
recorded Flaccus ,
but to an erroneous impression on the
part of the suprahminal that perhaps what should have been
written was “ Tlaccus ”.
310 Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship [part
Left to my own resources I should have supposed that the
automatist herself took the words “no, that is wrong ”, to
come from the communicator ;
and that afterwards, on reading
over the script, had applied them to the name “ Flaccus ”, and
remembered that she had doubted at the time whether this
might not have been “ Tlaccus ”. The interpretation of the
words as addressed by the subliminal to the supraliminal, and
referring to an unexpressed thought, rests upon the authority
of Gurney alone. Let us assume he was right, at least to this
extent, that the words were no part of the communicator’s
message, but represent the emergence of a doubt in IVIrs Willett’s
own mind. It seems quite unnecessary to invoke the machin-
ery of a supraliminal ami a subliminal self in order to explain so
familiar a psychic experience. It would certainly never have
occurred to me to regard it as evidence of an interaction between
two independent entities associated together in the same
organism.
There are, of course, plenty of mental experiences which are
capable of being described in figurative language that implies
some sort of diipfication of mind ;
as, for instance, when some
one, hesitating what course of action he shall adopt, says,
“ I was in two minds about it ”. In such a case nobody would
seriously suggest that an interaction between two distinct
selves is involved. The duality is in the thought, not in the
thinker, who holds the alternatives together and compares
them. I should imhesitatingly assign the Flaccus-Tlaccus
incident to this type of experience, if, with Gurney, we ascribe
the correcting words to the automatist herself. But the ques-
tion remains, is it possible to reduce to this type the cases in
which, to quote Gurney’s own words, the selves “ act ap-
parently so disconnectedly as to lead one to think of them as
separate ” ?
Here the Flaccus-Tlaccus incident is not illuminating.
It is important to make as clear as possible the distinction,
as I see it, between phases of a self and separate selves. For
me phases of a self are successive states of ego ;
they signify
changes in the contents of consciousness of an ego. Separate
selves, on the other hand, are co-conscious egos ;
that is to say,
egos which bear the characteristic marks of self-hood contem-
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett’s Mediumship 311
poraneouslyd Successive states of an ego may, I am quite ready
to grant, present such contrasts as to produce marked altera-
tions of personality. 2 I am further ready to grant that even in
cases where memory of experience in state A seems to be com-
pletely lost in state B, nevertheless fragmentary recollection of
those experiences may occasionally rise to the surface and
mingle in a puzzHng manner with the contents of state B—
though I certainly should not describe the intrusive memories as
messages from an A self to a B self.
What I am not prepared to believe is that successive states
of an ego can ever be equivalent to a plurality of co-conscious
egos capable of interaction with each other. To speak of
successive states of an ego as “ selves ” in any sense is, in my
view, misleading : to confuse them with co-conscious selves is
to commit a serious error.
I cannot but think that Myers was guilty of this error when
he tried to make his theory of the subliminal and the supra-
liminal do double duty, and provide him with an account of the
structure of human personality which satisfied the claims at
once of unity and of plurality. Both the unity and the plurality
have suffered in the process. When he wishes to emphasise the
unity, the element of plurality is whittled down to a difference
of aspects, or phases, or even faculties of a unitary self. When
the claim of plurahty is uppermost he does not hesitate to use
language the natural meaning of which is that the self as such
is divisible into fragmentary parts.
My own ideas I will once more try to sum up in baldest
outline.
The self which we all habitually recognise as being ourself is
one and indivisible, but it is associated in the personality as a
whole, not only with an organism, but with a number of
centres of consciousness each of which is to be regarded as
similarly one and indivisible, that is to say, as a self or monad.
Among these other selves it occupies a position of primacy, and
m normal conditions is in supreme control of the organism.
^ For illustrations in Mrs Willett’s case of the distinction between co-
conscious egos and successive states of the same ego, see pp. 147-8 above.
2 1 doubt, however, whether extreme cases of alternating personalities
are to be explamed in this way. I refer the reader to my remarks on this
subject on p. 274.
312 Psychological Asjjects of Mrs Willetfs Mediumship [part
This conception of human personality is avowedly based on
the observed phenomena of abnormal psychology. We have
no direct evidence of the existence of these other, or secondary,
selves, except when they reveal themselves as dissociated
intelligences capable of acting on the primary self and being
acted on by it. Nevertheless the continuing existence of the
dissociated selves after and before dissociation is at least a
plausible assumption ;
and, if they continue to exist, it is a
further plausible assumption that they may continue to interact
with the primary self and influence its conscious or subconscious
content, even though the influence is no longer recognised by
the primary self as proceeding from an independent source.
Finally, in order to complete my hypothesis, I have to
generalise, and to assume that this composite psychical con-
stitution, of which there is evidence in exceptional cases (and
perhaps in dreaming), is not conflned to such cases, but is a
common characteristic of all human personality. If this be so,
interaction with the subordinate selves may be continually at
work modifying the thought-content of the primary self of all
of us ;
but unless the modification appears to the primary self
to be impressed upon it from without by something other than
itself, its thoiights will be /or it its own thoughts, and will carry
with them no objective ^ significance.
Interaction within the group of selves I conceive to be tele-
pathic ;
and I by no means exclude the possibility—or even
the probability—of a similar interaction between them and a
spiritual environment external to them.
I make no attempt to carry my analysis further or to try to
imagine in detail how the cbfferent factors in human personality
work together to produce unity and order. Any such attempt
would involve an enqiiiry not only into the relation of mind to
mind, but of mind to body, with the metaphysical problem of
the relation of mind and matter looming in the background.
In this paper I have conflned myself all but entirely to the
direct relation of mind to mind, a subject the systematic
investigation of which may almost be said to date from the
foundation of the Society for Psychical Research. Even now
I suppose the majority of psychologists worfld deny that there
was any direct relation between individual minds, as such, other
'
See p. 46 above.
140] Psychological Aspects of Mrs Willett's Mediumship :U:3
than the negative one of inutiia] exclnsiveness and iinpenetia-
hility. I do not believe tliat tliat view will prove to be perma-
nently sustainable. 1 have tried to lind a j)lace for the principle
of telepathy w ithin tlie structure of lunnan persf^nality ;
and
convincetl as I am that the true exjdanation of the low'er is to be
sought in the higher, and not of the higher in tlie lower, I am
not without hope that the same principle in a modihed form
may ultimately l)e found a])]>lical)le to the relation of mind to
body also.
One w'ord in conclusion. I hold Myers’s work in liioli ad-
. .
‘ ®
miration, and regard Pha ntasms of the Ijiving and Human
Personality as the greatest contributions yet made to the study
of the subjects with which jisychical research deals. Although
in the present chapter prominence has inevitably lieen given to
points on which 1 differ from him rather than to points of
agreement, it is far from my wish to stress the dift’erences
unduly. 1 do not indeed look upon them as unimportant from
the theoretical standpoint. But if regard be had to the con-
clusion at which Myers arrived on the matters wiiich lie had
most at heart, I do not think the acceptance of my view's need
substantially affect his position one way or the other. Myers
considered that he had proved three things ^ ; in the first place,
that survival is a reality ;
in the second place, that betw'een the
spiritual and the material w'orlds an avenue of communication
does, in fact, exist ;
in the third place, that the surviving sjiirit
retains, at least in some measure, the memories and loves of
earth. With these conclusions 1 am in S3'mpathy, though
Myers was surely oversanguine in holding them to lie proved.
Evidence is slowlv accumulating, but even to-dav, more than a
generation after his death, I cannot sax’ that it amounts to
proof.
On the other hand the case for survival does not rest on
Myers s anal^'sis of lunnan personality, and would in no wav
suffer by a change in our conception of it that would substitute
a group of suliorrlinate selves interacting with a dominant self,
and in normal conditions subliminal thereto, for a single self
mysteriously divisible into layers or strata that interact with
each other as if thev were independent co-conscious selves.
The difference between the two conceptions may affect om-
^ See H.P., vol. ii., pp. 2.56-7.
X
314 Psycholnrjiml As'pects of Mrs WiUettA Mediimiship [part 140]
ideas concerning the process of communication. But for
evidence to enable us to distinguish between what I have
called “ interior ” and “ exterior ” communication, and, again,
between communication from minds incarnate and communi-
cation from minds discarnate, we must look to content of the
communications themselves. Sidelights upon this most
difficult line of incpiiry may be found here and there in the
foregoing pages, but the inquiry itself lies outside the subject
proper of tliis paper.
Aovf'niher, 1934 .
APPENDIX
I RELEGATE the Subjoined script to an appendix because its
main subject-matter is metaphysical rather than psychological.
But I venture to think it may be of interest to readers of my
paper, both for its own sake and as a striking illustration of the
chlemma which faces us in cases similar to that of “ Patience
Worth ”, cited above, p. 154.
Lone Script of August 20, 1911.
Myers the mystery of life write that so much more
inscrutable than the mystery of death the well go on the
endless roll of the sons of men the storms the same storms
raising only different particles of spray whirling a moment
above the roar of the central sea they sinl?; back into the arms
of the abiding ocean Yes say that the abiding ocean of vital
force How far does the consciousness of the spray stretch No
how far does the consciousness of the spray {scribble) no how
far does the consciousness of the seas existence crystahse itself
no how far does the consciousness of the seas existence strech
stretch or spread as far as the spray is concerned You have
not got it clear the spray is by the action of the sea shot off
into space for the fraction of a second.
How far in that seconds duration does the consciousness of
the seas existence remain individualised in the sprays atom
this is not as I wanted it say [said] but let it stand And
does the consciousness of the atom include also the facts of its
interelation with the seas depths as well as with its surface And
does it include its say the word return Do you know what
exists Why the sea and the momentarily isolated fragment of it
tossed by its own volition into the sprays sweep Also the well
go on also the idea of the spray as it is in the seas heart also
the idea of the sea as it lies potential and latent in the heart
of the sprays smallest drop and above that there would be
one thing more the resolution of it all no yes the say the
word comprehensiveness summing up that which includes
316
olO P.syrholoyiral A.nj)e(is of Mrs Willett's Medimiiship [PAR'i'
Jio the niind iii which tlie seas action the seas consciousness
the sprays action the sprays consciousness and the conscious-
ness of its own consciousness of all those forenamed con-
sci(jusnesses—in which all is resolved that is bett-er the one
resolutio)! ultimate that which gathers up and mcorporates
which is the sea and yet the not sea which is the atom within
the sprays drop wi ite the word diferentiation [sic.] It is very
difficult to get it clear But write for the weight of inspiration
is upon you
I am trying to give you what you are jjotentially no poten-
tialljr aide to select ’
There is a whole in which the relation of the spray to the sea
is cleaj'ly cognised and understood that is partly what I wanted
to say and say again Deep calling unto deep
the deeps of consciousness
the atoms vary but the sea is the same
How lialjle to misinterpretation exclaims the cautious H S
Bi;t of that whole which is sea and not sea spray and not
spray which is within ami yet without wilte the word that
observer of phenomena transcending and yet immanent
that is better of that whole you may catch at times 'an
intuitional apprehension
Will it do to pace the sad confusion through
But that which is above the seas clajnour and yet within it
which is the Avind and the vacuum well go oii to that mind
the confusion may be but part of a process no part of a process
in process of proceeding that is well let her go on
Whirl of systems Roll of suns ^
lloAv much does the sprays consciousness coniribiite t(J the
I lanscemling IDEA go on and how much does it depend
upon it
’
The text is so confused that it is impossiljlo to bo sure of the jneaiiiiig
luM'c. On tlie wljole I am incliiicil to tliink that tlie word “ no ” should be
“ not ”, and that tlie sentence should run, “ i am trying to give you what
you are not iiotcntially able to select ”
—
i.e. wdiat you are not yourself able
to select from the potential contents of my mind. There is evidently a refer-
ence bade to the statements made in the L).l. of June J, 1911. Sec footnote
(J) on p. 233 above.
- Clough, “ Through a Glass Darkly.”
^ Tennyson, God and the Universe, incorrectly quoted. Should be “ Hush
of suns and roll of systems ”.
UoJ Fsycholoyical As'peds of Mrs Willett's Mediumskip 3 1
7
Is this sheer nonsense think yon Try again What is real
is what lies at the back of objective phenomena
Is there then an abstract verity of things a verity othei'
than that achieved by the pi'ocess of being dont hesitate go
on a verity other than that CREATED by things in their
action of being try again Are tilings symptomatic of an
abiding and total snm of truth
I have got the wonl at last
TRUTH
or do thhigs contribute and form and create the oidy reality
that is more vEat I wanted to ask I want to get at the thought
implied by the juxtaposition of the words
ACTION and TRUTH i
which is dependent which is primary and which well say
the word derivative You have travelled far and now you must
go back
Yes I know you have been very near sleep the heavy eyelids
have closed more than once
Weary heart in a world outgrown but that is not the whole
truth It would have been easier for you if you could have
loosed the cable and set sail in D I I know But there was no
one to take charge of the mechanism to day and so you were
w'orking under double 2
)ressure one hand tightly grasiiing the
sense world
Is that a new wmrd to you
1 W'ant to say once more I said it elsewhere
How far the little candle sheds its beams
sheds its light
Take a message for me
if you could understand the constituant parts and theii'
corelation of the tiniest droj) of spray you woidd be on the
w^ay to achieving knowledge of the seas depth this is not
for you but for another the thought lies too in the crannied
wall 3
' Compare the concluding words of the D.I. of Jiuie d, 101 1 (p. 235 above).
The Merchant of Venice, v., i. The idea mtended to be conveyetl is
probably the same as that hi “ Flower hi the Crannied Wall
® Tennyson, Flmoer in the Crannied Wall.
Psychological A&pects of Mrs Willetf s WIediumship [part 140]
but Sidgwick will speak of this later He feels the burden of
unuttered words I)o they think of him as standing dry and
secure above the seas roar careless of the turmoil in which he
himself was once a buffeted swimmer He pondered deeply on
many things pondered all his life with a sort of serene patience
which yet was not dull or drugged but was partly the result
of a belief in the possibility ^ of obtaining any answer under-
line the word any and partly the realision [sic] that the time
had not yet come when the time honoured answers had proved
to be completely unsatisfying to the sons of men the thought
that he was by his own laboui' and by loyalty to his Spirits
Vision—hastening that hour made him often uneasy for he
had no solution to offer in the place of those which he destroyed
—destroyed quite as much by his silence as by the spoken
woi'fl He never had Gurneys complete inability to accept life
at its own value How like you and Gurney are that is partly
the secret of Gurneys power to help you and power to control
you powers greater than I shall ever approach anywhere near
to He can always tell how things will present themselves to
your mind and that means that he can that he has some
that he has a large measure of a large mass no you have
mistaken the key word this knowledge enables him to effect
results by a twofold process that is not what I wanted to
say Ti'y again
He is enabled to calculate with extraordinary accuracy the
effect of any given thing upon you and therefore of yoiu'
probable subsequent reaction to it that is clumsy But it is
near my meaning But the undei'standing spiinging from
similarity of outk)ok is a very close and binding link
the last woj’ds I wish to read thus
A \'eiy jtoAvei'ful instrument in his hands
'rhe outlook is a past outlook for him now But one does
not forget strata Why do you stop one does not forget the
tracts (jf moral emotional and mental experience through which
t)iie has travelled
Farewell h
|Sc. began at 11.5 a.m. ;
ended at 12.10. i was very tlrowsy
and in places caught myself dropping off to sleep.]
1 “ Possibility ” .slioiild, I think, be “ impossibility ”.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 141
THE QUANTITATIVE STUDY OF TRANCE
PERSONALITIES
By Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc.
II
Improvements in Analysis ;
Revision of Previous Work ;
Incorporation of Additional Material ;
The Besterman-
Gatty Experiment ;
“ Countersimilarity ” of “ Controls,”
BUT NOT OF “ Communicators ” ;
Connection between
Reaction Times and Reproductions ;
Various Observa-
tions ON Results.
Scientific discovery is like the fitting together of the pieces of a great
jig-saw puzzle. . . . One day we ask the scientist how he is getting on ;
he replies, “ Finely. 1 have very nearly finished this piece of blue sky.”
Another day you ask how the sky is progressing and are told, “ I have
added a lot more, but it was sea, not sky ; there’s a boat floating on the
tog of it . . .
”
Eddington, The Nature of the Physical World.
Part I
1
Since the period covered by my first paper on this subject,^ I have
completely revised and considerably extended the work therem re-
ported. Certain modifications have been introduced into the
analytical technique, while much additional material has become
Proc. S.P.R., Part 1.36, vol. xlii, pp. 173-240 ; hereinafter referred to as
Q.S.T.P., I.
Y 319
320 Whately Carington, 31. A., 31. Sc. [part
available tlirougli the co-operation of Mrs W. H. Salter, the Revd
W. S. Irving, Mr llesterman and Mr Gatty. I have also applied [
ap])ropriate methods of computation to a large proportion of the
'
data published by Mr Hereward Carringtond
Broadly speaking, the upshot is, first, that difference in reaction
time or reproduction is not, as I had originally supposed, in itself
evidence that the personalities concerned are independent ;
second,
that Controls (“ Feda,” “ Uvani ”) are related to the normal per-
sonalities of their mediums in an inverse fashion, which seems ex-
plicable only by supposing them to be secondary personalities, pro-
bably formed round a nucleus of repressed material. Communi-
cators (“ John,” “ Etta,” “ Dora ”) are not so related, and there is
some reason for supposing that in the formation of the first and last
of these two different factors are at work, while the second shows
signs of a more developed autonomy.
References to the mathematical treatment are inevitable in the
course of the discussion ;
but readers who are distressed by these i
may conveniently omit sections 2 and 12 to 16 inclusive.
2 '
'
Thanks to the continued kindness of Professor Fisher, to whom I
am again heavily indebted throughout, the original method of
analysis has been improved and extended in the following respects :
{a) The difficulties arising from the occasional occurrence of (
excessively and meaninglessly long reaction times (or, mutatis \
m.utandis, psycho-galvanic reflexes have been dealt with by a |
process of “ scaling ” the raw material to a standard form. This
consists in re])lacing the actual observed time (or deflexion) by one J
of the numbers 1 to 10, according to whether it is (1) less than 25% i
of the median of the aggregate (sitting) to which it belongs, or 1
(2) not less than 25% Init less than 50%, or (3) not less than 50% ,'i
l)ut less than 75% . . . etc. up to (10) not less than 225% of the
|
median.^
This procedure prevents the results being unduly influenced by a
few freakish values and greatly lightens the arithmetic. On this
score alone it amply repays the not very serious labour involved in
the process of scaling.
^ American Psychical Institute, Bulletin I.
“
Cf. Q.8.T.P., I., pp. 180 and 221, note 9.
“ In dealing with psycho-galvanic reflexes I have found it better to use classes J
of 50% steps instead of 25%. This conforms to the higher “ resolving power ”
of the reflex as comj^ared with the reaction time. Cf. The Measurement of i
Emotion, ]i. 70. i
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 321
{h) Corrections have been applied for the effects of fatigue or other
causes tending to produce steady changes in the reactions observed,
e.g. reduction of PGR or lengthening of RT towards the end of the
sittingd
(c) In addition to the tests for Similarity (S) and Difference (D)
used in Q.S.T.P., I, and explained in Appendix II thereof, I have
calculated a third quantity, which I term Covariance (C), for most of
the pairs of personalities compared. This is a measure of the extent
to which the personalities concerned vary together from occasion to
occasion in respect of the various words ;
it is relevant to such ques-
tions as whether the effect of a hot day, for example, would be to
make both react more quickly to ice, say, than to fire.
Using the the notation of Q.S.T.P., I, this quantity is given by
2=1 log, (OW/OWP)
where the letters stand for the mean squares. The value of is
1 /
7(w-l) (»'-l)
where n is the number of words in the list and n' the number of
sittings.
The term Covariance seems appropriate as suggesting the property
of varying together under changing influences and is not hkely, in
this context, to conflict with existing usage. The tendency to co-
vary seems, however, to be slight, so that the quantity has not proved
particularly informative.
(d) For each personality considered I have also calculated a
quantity which I am calling Individuality (I) for short, though some
such term as “ differentiational consistency ” might be more exact.
It is a measure of the extent to which the reactions to different words
are consistently different for the personality concerned ;
it is relevant
to the question of whether, and to what extent, the personality
always gives a longer time to goat, say, than to pig and to pig than
to CAT, during the jieriod covered by the tests.
It is given by
J l„g, (W/OW)
where W and OW are given the obvious interpretations ajipropriate
to a single personality. The value of is
Jn'l2{n- 1) {n' - 1)
This quantity has proved distinctly illuminating in certain cases,
as will be seen below.
^ I shall henceforward use the abbreviations PGR, RT and RPN for Psycho-
galvanic Reflex(es), Reaction Time(s) and (disturbance in) Reproduction(s),
respectively, whenever convenient. A Glossary of technical terms is given on
p. 360.
322 Whafdy Carivcflon, M.A., M.Sc,. [part
J call it Individuality because it may be regarded as iudicatiug the
extent to which the ])ersouality is imlividualised in respect of the
kind of test concerned, as opposed to behaving in a vague, random
and noneutitious manner.
It is hoped to give full details of the modifications and extensions
of the method summarised above in a future communication to be
devoted to The Hlnndardisation of Wnrd. Test TecJinvjue.
3
The material drawn upon for the results discussed in this paper is
as follows :
]. The data collected by Mr and Mrs Hereward Carrington and
published in their Bulletm. This is all concerned with Mrs Garrett,
“ Uvani ” and various personal communicators purporting to mani-
fest through the former.
2. The Garrett-Uvani material discussed in Q.S.T.P., I (re-
computed).
3. The Leonard-Feda-John-Etta material of the First Thomas
Experiment, also discussed in Q.S.T.P., I (recomputed).
4. The similar material from the Second Thomas Experiment.
Ditto, ditto.
5. Material from a set of five sittings with Mrs Leonard conducted
by the Revd W. S. Irving in September 1934, in which the “ Dora
”
communicating control (the late Mrs Irving) replaced, as it were,
John and Etta of the Thomas experiments.
6. A set of six double sittings by Mr Besterman and Mr Gatty, with
the latter acting as subject and adoptmg alternately two different
“ orientations ” or “ poses ” based on different aspects of his own
life.
7. The material obtained by Mr Besterman from Rudi Schneider
and his alleged control “ Olga ” and discussed in Q.S.T.P., I (re-
computed).
8. A set of six double experiments with Mrs Salter (data collected
by Mr Besterman) in which she was tested first in her normal state
and then in that quasi-trance condition in which she can write
automatically.
General notes on these sources of material are given in sections
34 to 40 below.
4
From these data I have calculated two hundred and nmety-seven
main results ;
that is to say, estimates of the Individuality of per-
sonalities, or of the Similarity, Difference or Covariance lietween
141 ] The Quantitative Study uf Trance Personalities 323
them. These 297 results are derived from the dift'ereiit groups as
shown in Table A :
Table A
Group Reflexes
Reaction
Times
Reproduc-
tions
Total
Garrett I s D c I s D c I s D c
H. C.’s data 6 10 6 5 6 10 6 5 — - - - 54
W. W. C.’s data - 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 15
Leonard
1st Thomas Expt.- — — — - 6 15 15 6 6 15 15 6 84
2nd „ „
- — — — — 4 6 6 6 4 6 6 6 44
Irving Expt. - - - - 5 13* 10 3 4 9* 6 3 53
Miscellaneous
Rudi-Olga - i i 2 2 3 1 1 1 — - - - 18
Gatty - 2 1 1 - 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 14
Salter 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 15
Totals - 16 17 11 9 30 48 41 24 20 33 30 18 297
{N.B. The letters I, S, D, and C stand for Individuality, Simi-
larity, Dift'erence and Covariance.)
* Includes three inter-hst comparisons.
5
The results actually obtained are given in detail in Tables I, II
and III at the end of this paper. In these Tables, z is the magnitude
calculated, and may be taken, broadly speakuig, as a measure of the
degree of Similarity, Difference, etc., present, while P is the pro-
bability of such a result being due to chance, given the observed
variabihty of the data.
The results are numbered as follows : Each estimate of Indi-
viduality has its own number ;
but a single number is used, as will
be seen, to refer to the total process of comparing any pair of per-
sonalities, and this may contaui tests of Similarity, Difference and
Covariance. For purposes of reference these wdll be distinguished in
the text by the suffixes -1, -2, -3 respectively ;
thus RN 73-1 refers
to the result of testing Normal Leonard and John for Similarity (RT)
in the first Thomas experiment, RN 79-3 to that of testing Feda and
Etta for Covariance, and so on.^
1 RN stands for Result Nuniber(s).
324 Whately CkirhKjton, M.A., M.Sc. [part
The 48 subsidiary results which appear in the text are numbered
consecutively, for future reference, from the last number (164) of
Table III, ushig a similar plan of decimalisation for disthiguishing
closely related members of a group. They are collected for reference
in Table IV.
6
The numbers of observations actually used (exclusive of response
words, which are not dealt with here) and the numbers of entries
appearhig in the relevant calculations are given in Table B.
It will be understood that a considerable number of observations
had to be discarded—for example, because there might be no
correspondmg data for other personalities with which to compare
them ;
while, on the other hand, each observation used is likely to
aj)pear in several different calculations. In the Table, Total A
shows the numl)er of different observations utilised for the calcula-
tions, ami Total B the number of entries appearing in these latter.
Table B
Groui’
No. OF
Calculations
Total
a
Total
B
Garrett
H. C.’s data - 54 1,688 13,236
W. W. (J.’s data - 15 2,112 8,448
Leonard
1st Thomas Expt. - 84 5,250 61,650
2nd „ „
- - 44 1,536 15,360
Irving Expt. - 53 4,500 57,860
Miscellaneous
Rudi-Olga - - - 18 1,660 9,700
Gatty - - - 14 3,168 11,856
Salter - - - -
15 2,684 10,412
Totals - - - - 297 22,598 188,522
From this we have
Average number of entries per calculation 635 165T
Average number of times an observation is used 8-3 165-2
Probably some 30,000 observations, exclusive of response words,
have actually been made and, allowing for the fact of recomputa-
tion in many cases, we may say that fully 250,000 entries have been
computed since the commencement of the work.
141 ]
The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 325
7
The mass of material thus obtained is of considerable complexity,
for we are concerned with five “ mediums ” (counting Mrs Salter and
Mr Gatty in this category), twenty-one “ personalities,” three
methods of testing (PGR, RT and RPN), four kinds of estimate
(I, S, D, C) and three lists of words.
It is accordingly impracticable to deal with the facts by the con-
tinuous development of any single theme. In the circiimstances I
have thought it best to concentrate somewhat arbitrarily on certain
major features of the results and the conclusions which it seems
legitimate to draw from them, and to relegate a number of minor
issues to the discursive notes of sections 34 to 40 in Part IV.
J^ART II
The Resterman-Gatty Experiment
8
During the period covered by this paper, the first noteworthy
event in point of time, and one of the most important in its implica-
tions, was the Besterman-Gatty experiment of June 1934.
This was undertaken in order to test the view originally held by
me and expounded in Q.S.T.P., I, to the effect that if two person-
alities possess a common subconscious they could not, apart from
deliberate cheating, produce significantly different sets of reaction
times or disturbances in reproduction ;
with the corollary that
where such differences are observed they constitute strong evidence
of the autonomy of the personalities concerned.
Mr Gatty, who acted as subject, had led, for a considerable part of
his career, a kind of double life—in the entirely innocent sense that
his activities had alternated between scientific research work at
Oxford and the ordinary sporting and similar avocations of a country
gentleman in Hampshire. These two contexts, as I may call them,
formed the bases of the two “ poses ” or “ orientations of mind
”
which he assumed alternately in the two conditions—known as
Gatty(O) and Gatty(H) respectively—in which he was tested.
In addition he adopted attitudes and volitions as indicated by the
following extracts from a letter to myself :
Pose (0) : “I merely visualised myself in the Balliol Quad, looked
for scientific associations, and imagined an uneventful life with a
somewhat auditory memory. I supposed myself bashful aliout an
unsuccessful love-affair, tried to be slow in my responses and flat in
reflexes. Being at lower tone I managed to mishear some words and
32(j Whately Carmgton, 31.A., M.Sc. [part
confused pond and bond, bread and red deliberately. Aimed at
being a complex ]ierson who faiUd at his reproduction test.”
Pose (H) :
“ Here I merely lived in Hampshire and Scotland.
Was fond of games, travel, shooting and hunting. Quite spontan-
eous about a great girl friend (fictitious) . . . aimed at quick responses,
and big refiexes by conjuring up vivid pictures in my mind, and a
visual memory.”
He adds, “ beyond trying for bigger reflexes in personality (H) I
did not try for detailed faking.” By this is meant that there was no
preliminary planning as regards trying to give specially long (or
short) times or specially large (or small) reflexes in response to par-
ticidar words. But he continues, “ I believe I could do this ” (fake
in detail) “ in another set of experiments, but not to a great extent.”
The necessity, however, does not arise, for Mr Hatty’s generalised
efforts were attended by a large measure of success and effectively
answer the question which the work was designed to investigate.
9
In the first place the reaction times are unmistakably longer, as
mtended, in the 0 state than the H ;
and the reflexes bigger as H
than as 0. Details are given m Table C below, which shows the
mean RT in fifths of a second and mean scale deflexion corrected for
sensitivity, for 0 and H personalities, at the six sittmgs employed.
Table C
8ITTINCJ
0 H
PGR RT PGR RT
1 87 13-4 119 9-3
2 149 15-5 171 8-2
3 96 15-8 227 7-5
4 56 15-1 168 7-4
5 92 14-8 232 7-1
6 53 13-3 200 7-8
The means for the two states (all sittings) are
Hatty (0) : Mean reaction time 14-7 sec/5 166T
„ (H) : „ „ „ 7-8 „ 166-2
,, (0) : Mean scale deflexion 87 divisions 166-3
„ (H): „ „ „ 185 „ 166-4
The difference is evklently significant in each case.
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 327
As regards IIT it is remarkal)le, first, that in the whole 1,200
reactions not one was more than doul)le the median of the sitting
to which it belonged ;
second, that despite this relatively low varia-
hility the Individualisation in each pose (RN 146, 147) was signi-
ficantly high. But note how the deliberate slowing of response has
produced a much lower value of I in the 0 state (RN 146) than in
the H (RN 147).
The effect on the reflexes is very curioiis. In each case (RN 139,
140) an insignificant (negative) value of I is obtained ;
that is to say,
the deflexions behave as if they were no more than chance determined,
and this is confirmed by the comparisons for S and D (RN 158‘1,
158'2). In other words, the nett outcome of Mr Gatty’s efforts in
this resj)ect has merely been to confuse the issue and render the
results nnintelligihle.
As regards reproduction, the difference t)etween 0 and H is well
marked, as might be expected from the expressed intention cpioted
above. The figures for successful attempts in 600 trials are
Gatty (0) - - 448 167-1
„ (H) - - 505 167-2
Thus we have
Right Wrong
Gatty (0) - - 448 152
„ (H) - - 505 95
Applying the usual method of Contingency ^ we obtain
y2 = l6-56. P=<-000,1 167-3
The difference is clearly significant, though irrelevant to our en-
quiry, since it is not on the absolute number of failures in reproduc-
tion, but on the distribution of these among the words, that our
judgments are based.
10
When we turn to the comparisons between 0 and H we find results
of the utmost interest and importance.
The reflexes, it is true, speak with a quite uncertain voice, but
both reaction times (RN 161-2) and reproductions (RN 163‘2) show
a significant difference between the two states.
Since there can be no doubt that Gatty (0) and Gatty (H) equally
are Gatty, and possess a common subconscious, these results effec-
tively knock the bottom out of my original view that such differences
cannot be produced by a single individual and therefore indicate,
^
C'f. Fisher, Statistical JMcthads for Itescarrh Wortrrs, para. 21, or any text-
book.
328 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
when ol)served, that the personalities concerned are autonomous and
independent.
For this erroneous opinion there was, I think, some justification
at the time that it was formed. The work of Prince and Petersen
strongly indicated that secondary personalities of pathological type
could be relied upon to give the same reflexes as their primaries,
while my earlier work ^ had shown a strong connection between re-
flex and reaction time, for the correlation between the two observ-
ables taken over an average of fifty subjects on a list of 100 words is
r=-4fi 168
which is highly significant. The argument from these facts that the
conclusion that the same woiild obtain for reaction times (and re-
])roductions) as obtained for reflexes was evidently in the nature of
an illegitimate transference, aided by the emphasis that Jung and
Hleuler had laid on the unconscious or subconscious determination
of reaction time and disturbance in reproduction.
To these factors must be added the effect of my own prepossessions
in favour of coming to a “ positive ” conclusion. Any man who
declares that he is without bias in this subject occupies, it seems to
me, the position of a watchmaker who declares that he has made a
clock of perfect accuracy which neither gains nor loses ;
that is to
say, he is either a wilful deceiver or he does not know his job. The
most one can do is to determuie the sense and if possible the approxi-
mate virulence of one’s jjrejudices and discoiuit one’s less rigid argu-
ments accordingly, just as the watchmaker determines the “ rate
”
of his chronometer and applies an appropriate correction.
11
lie this as it may, I wish to make it perfectly clear that my
original view was quite evidently wrong and that this experiment
shows clearly that significant differences in RT and RPN can be pro-
duced by a generalised, non-fraudulent “ pose ” or change in mental
orientation having nothing to do with any deliberate picking and
choosuig among the words of the list. It follows that the discovery
of such differences between a normal and a trance personality offers
no justification at all (except in a purely permissive sense) for sup-
posmg that the latter is independent of the former and does not
share a common subconscious with it.
Additional experiments on these lines are, of course, highly de-
sirable, but more for the purpose of investigating the scope and
limitations of such ])Oses than of confirmiug the scarcely dubitable
conclusion drawn.
^
Cf. The Measurement of Emotion, 'tables XII and XIII.
141 ] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 329
I hope I need hardly add that this enforced revision of opmion
leaves my withers quite unwrung. Facts are holy and sacred, but no
right-minded man should resent his interpretations being overset.
On the contrary, if every experiment yields results conforming to
expectation, the prudent investigator will suspect that there is some-
thing amiss somewhere ;
but if he succeeds in showing that he was
wrong, he may be tolerably certain that real progress is bemg made.
Part III
“ Controls ” v. “ Communicators ”
12
The conclusions reached hi this part are best approached somewhat
circuitously by way of a general survey of certain features of the
results as a whole.
We may first note that, so far as the mathematics of the analysis
are concerned, there is no a priori reason why any value of z for
I. S. D or C should be positive rather than negative. In fact, if we
were to obtain our data by drawing numbers out of a hat we should
expect to find positive and negative results occurrmg with equal
frequency.
On the other hand, inasmuch as we are dealmg throughout with
human beings in one guise or another, we should expect them, m the
absence of error, to exhibit some measure of consistency {ptace the
cynics) m their response to words, some measure of resemblance to
each other, some difference, and some tendency to react alike to
differences between the occasions on which they are tested. On this
score, we should expect all results to be positive.
But error is by no means absent, and while it will tend to inflate
some results it will dimmish others, to the point perhaps, if there lie
no more than this “ common humanity ” at work, of pushing some
of them over the borderfine into negativity. Error alone, however,
cannot be expected to do this to any significant extent.
The comparative plenitude of results available enables us to deal
in what might be termed statistics of the second degree—that is, in
statistics of statistics—and we may begin by examining the actual
distribution of positive and negative results as displayed in
Table D.^
^ In Tables I, II and III, negative results arc marked, I'or ease oI reference,
with a suffixed asterisk.
330 Wkatdy Carinylon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
13
Table D
Rbflexe.s
Reaction
Times
R.ErjiODUC-
TIONS
Totals
+ ve — VC %-ve + VC — ve -ve + ve -ve 4 — ve -h ve -ve °A -ve
I 12 2 14 25 5 17 20 0 0 57 7 11
s 11 5 31 28 20 42 33 0 0 72 25 26
D 7 3 30 36 5 12 29 1 3 72 9 11
C 4 4 50 17 7 21 11 7 39 32 18 36
Totals 34 14 29 106 37 26 93 8 8 233 59 21
Total 48 143 101 292
{N.B. The totals do not all agree with those of Tables A and B
because certain pairs of resnlts, viz. B,N 1 and 2, 5 and G, 19 and 20,
deal with the same material by different methods, as indicated in
the Notes on Eesults ;
they can accordingly only be connted as one
each here.)
We may note at once that onr expectation of a heavy preponder-
ance of positive resnlts, based on the “ common humanity ” factor,
is, on the whole, well fulfilled. If the data were chance determined
throughout, we should expect 14G positive and 146 negative results ;
we actually obtain 233 and 59 respectively. Applying the usual
method to ascertain the probability of this being accidental, we have
= 103-68. P much less than 10~® 169
(N.B. No good ])urpose is served by evaluatmg P beyond this
value, which is the lowest given in Fisher’s Tables.)
We conclude that potent factors other than chance are at work
and are producing on the whole the kind of results we should expect.
As agahist this the number of negative results actually obtained,
namely 59, or 21%, is far from negligible, and it will be instructive to
enquire whether these are to be attributed solely to error, or whether
there are causes definitely tending to give negative values. If so,
we shall want to know where these are located, how they operate, and
how they are to be interpreted.
14
We may next remark that the highest ])ercentage of negative re-
sults (36%) is found among the figures for Covariance. This 1 thiidv
is to be expected, since to ask })ersonalities to co-vary Irom occasion
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 331
to occasion is trying the linkage between them a good deal higher,
so to s])eak, than is required for a general similarity for which all
occasions are pooled and minor variations averaged out.
If we apply to these figures the same process that we used for the
totals, we have
x2 = 3-92. P = -05v.n 170
so that there is a reasonable doubt as to whether Covariance is, in
general, a genuine phenomenon at all. On the other hand, it is re-
markable that the two states of both Mr Gatty and Mrs Salter co-
vary significantly (RN 163-3, 164-3) on RPN, although the former
are negligibly similar (RN 163-1). This very curious result must, I
think, be put into cold storage for the time being, though I shall
allude to its possible significance below.
In any event we may safely ascribe the negative results in the Co-
variance figures to chance ;
for apart from the antecedent likelihood
of this, more detailed examination shows that they are not dis-
tributed among personalities, or otherwise, in any significant or even
suggestive fashion.
I conclude that the tendency to co-vary is so feeble, as a general
rule, that the effect of error is almost as likely as not to produce a
negative as a positive result.
15
We may also summarily dismiss as of no importance those nega-
tive results which appear among the figures for I and D. In the first
place, there are very few of them ;
in the second, it would, I think,
be almost impossible to assign any mtelligible interpretation to them
if there were not—certainly we need not strain our ingenuity in such
a way before we are required to do so.
For the sake of completeness we use the same procedure as before.
obtaining for Individualities
X^ = 39-06. P less than 10"® 171
and for Difference
X^ = 49-00. P less than 10"® 172
It is clear that there is, on the whole, a highly significant tendency
—as we should expect—for personalities to be positively individual-
ised and to differ from each other.
16
Viewing the data from a somewhat different angle, we may note
the very small pro|)ortion (8 in 101 )
of negative results found under
332 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Se. [part
tlip heading of RErRODUCTioNS. These figures, treated as before,
give
X^ = 7l-ryi. P much less than 10“® 173-1
wliicli is very remarkable when we consider that 7 negative Covar-
iances are included. Not a smgle negative value appears among the
figures for I or for S and only one among those for D.
If we compare the figures for RPN (93 positive, 8 negative) with
those for all the other results taken together (140 positive, 51 nega-
tive) we obtain
X“= 14-45. P = -001 v.n 173-2
The reproduction test is, in other words, significantly less liable
than the others (RT or PGR) to yield negative results.
17
By this slightly unsystematic process of examination we have
narrowed our study of the incidence of negative results down to the
point at which it is clear that their interesting occurrence, if any, is
chiefly among Similarities for RT and PGR.
Extracting the appropriate figures from the Table and rewriting
for the sake of clearness, we have
PGR RT Total
Positive - - 11 28 39
Negative - 5 20 25
Total - - 16 48 64
At first sight this looks as if the tendency to give negative results
were apjneciably greater for RT than for PGR ;
but this is not the
case, for on testing we obtain only
x2 = 0-55. P = -23v.n 174
which is quite insignificant.
If we compare the figures for PGR and RT (39 positive, 25 nega-
tive) with all others taken together, we have
x2-“ 18-08. P= <-000,1 175-1
For PGR oidy, not including RT in the remainder,
X^ = 2-98. P = -04v.n 175-2
and for RT only, not including PGR in the remamder,
X^= 18-04. P= <-000,1 175-3
It is clear the RT Similarities are especially liable to yield negative
results, while there is a reasonably strong suspicion that this applies
to PGR Similarities also.
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 333
Thus even this most general treatment of the data provides us
with coercive evidence to tlie effect that there exists between the
members of many pairs of })ersonalities a strange and almost sinister
relationship—a relationship of inverse likeness ;
as it might be of a
shadow—but reversed ;
of a doppelgdnyer—but facing backwards !
18
It is very important to realise that a negative similarity, or a
negative correlation, implies just as close a connection between the
two entities compared as does a positive result of the same statis-
tical significance. The two ends of a see-saw are not the less parts
of a single mechanism because one goes up when the other goes
down.
My own feeling, indeed, though I should be sorry to have to justify
it rigidly, is that a negative result gives a greater assurance of inti-
mate connection than a positive. I can more or less understand two
sets of reactions being similar, despite the true independence—in the
ordinary psychological sense—of the personalities concerned ;
but I
really cannot imagine their being countersimd&v (to adopt a conven-
ient term) except by supposing that one is really m some sense the
counterpart of the other, as it might be the inside and the outside of
a repomse plaque.
Again, we may think of a projecting lantern in which two slides are
inserted together. It is easy to imagine that the slide with the
stronger pattern may obscure the image of the other, by superposi-
tion, to the point of extinction ;
but however far this may be carried,
imagination boggles at the idea that the stronger should superimpose
its own image reversed !
19
Reverting to the main thread of the discussion, we may enquire
whether this tendency to “ countersimilarity,” as I shall hencefor-
ward term it, is to be found equally among all personalities, or types
of personality, or whether it is appreciably localised in this respect.
Only a slight inspection of the Tables, in which negative results
are additionally distinguished by the sirffixing of an asterisk, will be
needed to show that the former hypothesis is incorrect.
In Table II, particularly, it will be seen that RT Similarities in-
volving Feda have almost a monopoly of negative values. These are
formd in RN 72, 79, 101, 104, 105, 114, 116 and 118, while only those
for 75 and 78 are positive.
On the other hand, among comparisons not involving Feda, we
334 Wlmtely Oai'ingfon, 31. A., 71/.*%. [part
find a negative Similarity only at RN 103, while RN 71, 73, 74, 76,
77, 80, 102, lOG, 1 13, 1 15 and 117 are positive.^
Tabulating in the ordinary 2x2 Contmgency Table, as before, we
have
Positive Negative Total
“ Fcda ” comparisons - - 2 8 10
'
'
Other „ - - 11 1 12 J
Totals - - 13 9 22
In order to asccrtaiii the chajrce of this inequality of distribution 4
being accidental, we work as usual and obtam
_X“ = ll-59. P= <-000,5 176
In other words, the odds are more than two thousand to one in j
favour of the supposition that countersimilarity is associated with ||
Feda rather than with other personalities.^
||
I think there can be no reasonable doubt whatever about the |
genuineness of this effect. Not only does Feda show countersimi- I
larity in eight cases out of ten, but she does so m respect of five dif-
ferent personalities (at one time or another), with two different ;
experimenters, and with three different lists of words. Moreover, |
one of her countersimilarities (RN 116) is intrinsically significant,
whereas her highest positive similarity (RN 75) is no more than 7
1417 with -10 chance of being accidental.^
;
|
20
If we turn to the Garrett Group (Table I) we find the same kind t
of tendency in Uvani as we have just studied in Feda, though here
the effect is not nearly so marked.^
* For the purposes of this discussion, I do not include RN 81 to 85 or 119 I
to 122, which are comparisons of Mr Drayton Thomas and Mr Irving respec- i
tively, with the personalities of the Leonard group. The question of whether |
these gentlemen are secondary personalities or discarnate entities has happily ;
not yet arisen, while it would be fantastic to suggest that either of them is a t
mere modification of Mrs Leonard. !
^ Strictly, we should say that the odds are more than two thousand to one ]
against the hypothesis that countersimilarity is no more likely to occur in [
comparisons which involve Feda than in those which do not.
j
^ It is interesting to note that of the three anomahes, or exceptions to the
'
rule that Feda is countersimilar in comparison while other personalities are not, i
two (RN 75 and 103) are comparisons with P (Prepared Leonard). This per-
sonahty is extremely erratic, as is indicated by the very low values which she ;
(
gives for I. This relative imreliability may also contribute to the abnormal I
(
value of RN 116. !
,
^ In what follows I uniformly exclude the personality known as “ Abdulatif
”
(A) from consideration. He is described as a “ secondary control ” of Mrs p
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 335
Among the RT Similarities iiivolvmg Uvaui we find four negative
values (RN 30, 31, 32, 33) and one positive (RN 34) ;
while for com-
parisons into which Uvani does not enter we have three positive
(RN 37, 38, 39) and one negative (RN 36). Application of the usual
treatment gives
X^ = 2-72. P = -05v.n 177
This result as it stands is far from coercive, but it is m the same
sense as that obtamed for Feda, and the difference m significance
corresponds well with that in the quantity of data used (c/. Table
B)d
I think there is very little doubt that what is true here for Feda is
true for Uvani also ;
at any rate there seems nothing to be gained by
disputing the indications.
If we care to regard Feda and Uvani as constituting a class of
Controls—using the word, as is more or less customary in psychical
research, to denote personalities specifically associated with the
medium, as opposed to Communicators associated with particular
sitters—and to combine the figures, we have
Positive Negative Total
F and U Similarities -
3 12 15
Other >> 14 2 16
Totals 17 14 31
whence
y2= 14-24. P = -000,1 v.n
The results obtained in this and the preceding section may he taken
as establishing beyond any reasonable doubt the fact that it is [except by
rare accident) uniquely characteristic of Controls, as represent^ by
Feda and Uvani, to be countersimilar to the other personalities of
the psychological manifold to which they belong. Conversely, it is only
to Controls that other hinds of personality are [except by rare accident)
countersimilar. More mtelligibly, if less accurately, countersimi-
larity is a property of Controls but not of normal personalities or of
Communicators.
21
It will be worth while digressing briefly to reconsider the nature
of the test for Similarity, in order that we may be clear in our minds
Garrett, but it is not clear whether he should be regarded as a Control or as a
Communicator, in the sense in which I use the terms [vide infra), and, in either
event, he behaves inconsistently.
‘More accurately than the Table indicates, the results just obtained for
Feda are based on about 5,000 observations and those for Uvani on about 1 ,800.
330 Whafely Caringfon, M.A., M.8c. [part
as to what is actually involved. Mathematically speaking, a nega-
tive similaTity is precisely equivalent to a negative correlation (in-
deed, intra-class correlation is only a particular example of the
Analysis of Variance. Cf. Fisher, loc. cit., section 40).
In ordinary language, it indicates a tendency for one of the pair of
personalities compared to give relatively long reaction times (or
large reflexes) in responding to words on which the other gives rela-
tively short times (or small reflexes) ;
and ime versa.
The figures employed are the totals ^ for the various words, for all
sittings, the data being “ scaled ” and corrected for fatigue, as in-
dicated above. Thus day-to-day variations are to a great extent
averaged out and the result refers to the effect of the words on the
whole.
It is not suggested, of course, that every word giving a total (or
average) time, say, greater than the mean in the case of one person- j
ality, will give a time less than the mean in the case of the other— '
many words will, in general, agree in being above or below the mean 1
for both ;
but the obtaining of a negative result for the whole list
'
does imply that the words which are dissimilar in this sense outweigh *
those that are alike. I
22
The question of the psychological interpretation to be placed on ,
this jflienomenon of the countersimilarity of Controls is naturally
one of the very greatest importance, and I may say at once that in
my judgment the facts are only to be understood by supposing that
Feda and Uvani are secondary personalities of Mrs Leonard and Mrs '
Garrett respectively, probably formed, round nuclei of repressed
material.^
|
On this hypothesis, the curious phenomenon of countersimilarity
becomes instantly intelligible.
We will suppose that a quantity of psychological material has be- ;
come repressed, in the ordinary psychoanalytic sense, with respect f|
to the normal consciousness. This material, consi.sting of “ideas,” j
“ tendencies,” etc., not j)roperly integrated into the personality, will id
seek relief with a vigour depending on their extent and the intensity
of their repression. It is entirely concordant with established J
]>sychological knowledge to suppose that this rehef may take the j
^
Tlie use of totals is merely to economise arithmetical labour ;
precisely the
"
same results would be obtained by using mean (average) times or reflexes.
^ Various indications, not yet fully studied, suggest that the antithesis
which countersimilarity reveals may be more generalised than is suggested by I
tlie word “ nucleus.”
141] The QvantitaUve Sfnrh/ of Trance Perffovalitieff 337
form of the intermittent apjiearance of a .secondary [)er.sonality,
which represent,s in a dramatised ami S3anbolic form the tendencies,
etc., repressed.
Now suppose that a, stimulus word is given to the normal person-
ality such that the most natural association to it is in turn connected
with the repressed material. To reply with this naturally associated
word would have the effect of bringing nearer to the forefront of
consciousness, so to speak, just those thoughts which, ex hypofhesi,
are least accejitable to it. The threatened conflict can only be avoided
by rejecting this first word and substitutmg another which, while still
associated with the first, is relatively innocent of eridogenic (conflict-
producing) connotations.
This process, which may equally well be described in terms of
neurological blockage,” etc., will involve a certain delay ;
so that
words of this kind will tend to show longer reaction times than those
whose comrection with the repressed material is negligible.
But if the same word be given to the secondary personality, the
very core of whose being is constituted by the repressed matter, the
foregoing considerations will not apply. The immediately suggested
word will be accepted without demur and the reaction time will be
correspondingly short.
It is easy to see that this process affords a basis for the counter-
similarity observed, particularly if we suppose it to be reversible,
so that certam words associated with unrepressed material give
relatively long times for the secondary personality and relatively
short for the normal. This seems reasonable because the relation of
incompatibility assumed to exist between the repre.ssed and un-
repressed elements is clearly symmetrical.
In any event, of course, the observed phenomenon stands as a fact
on its merits and necessarily implies that certain words having long
times for one personality have short for the other, and vice versa}
23
It .should be noted that the conclusion reached is in no way
invalidated liy the fact that countensimilarity is not observed in the
reproduction test. There is admittedly a .strong association, in most
cases, between prolongation of RT and disturbance in RPN ;
but, on
the other hand, it is clear that there must be considerable difference.s
^
Potential critics should note that the procedure of computation is precisely
the same for all comparisons, so that fortuitous errors, if any, would operate
in pairs not involving Peda in just the same way as on those of which she
orms a member, and would be as likely to affect one type of comparison as
he other.
33S Whatphj Carington, M.A., M.Se. [part
Ijetween tlie process of finding a word in tlie first instance and that of
subsequently remembering what word was found.
In any event, no amount of failure to find an effect by one method
can offset the fact that it is actually found by another.
24
I must here anticipate a criticism which might reasonably be
raised in somewhat the following form :
“ Conceding that Counter-
similarity between A and B indicates that one is a secondary per-
sonality of the other, why should Feda, who is coimtersimilar to
John, Etta and Dora, as well as to the two Leonard forms, be re-
garded as essentially a secondary of Normal Leonard ?
”
The answer, I think, lies in the fact that there are only two alter-
natives open to us (apart from rejecting the evidence altogether), of
which we must select the less improbable.
We might, of course, suppose that Feda is “ really ” the primary
or normal personality of which N, P, J, E and D are secondaries.
This seems to me altogether fantastic, but some people might not
think the worse of it on that account. The other alternative is to
suppose that Normal Leonard is the primary personality, Feda the
secoirdary—countersimilar thereto—and that the countersimilarity
between Feda and the others arises, by reflection, as it were, from
the resemblance of these to Normal Leonard.
If this second view be correct, it is clear, I think, that the com-
mon countersimilarity to Feda of N, P, J, E and U must arise from
reactions to words with respect to which these agree, rather than
from those with respect to which they differ. In other words, it
must arise from what I have termed the “ common humanity
factor. If this is true, and l)earing in mind the account of the pro-
cess propounded in section 22 above, we should expect to And a
certain tendency for words which yield short times when applied to
Feda to give, regularly, long times when applied to the other per-
sonalities concerned. That is to say, if we make a list of the words
which give the shortest times for Feda and note opposite each
whether it gives a long or a short time for N, P, J and E, say, we
should expect to And a tendency for the “ longs ” to group themselves
into rows, rather than to be randomly distributed.
Unfortunately, it is very difficult to apply this test. Three dif-
ferent lists of words are involved, and two of these (Irving experi-
ment and first Thomas experiment) were carefully chosen so as to
contain a minimum of words of universal interest. {Cf. Q.S.f.P., I,
P- 184.)
In the case of the second Thomas experiment, where a stronger
It
I'
B
ft
I
(1
II
'
*(
ill
I
if
jlllll
f
JIti
|{|
»
to
El
iii
It
litf
i;
'kl
llioi
All
'Kp
('If
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 339
list was intentionally used (to which fact may presumably be
attributed the well-marked coimtersimilarities observed despite the
relatively small number of observations) the personality P is evi-
dently unreliable as regards reaction time (KN 45), while no data
were collected from Normal Leonard. We are accordingly left with
J and E, constituting a somewhat slender foundation for a test. I
find, however, a tendency to grouping in the expected sense rej^re-
sented by the figure
2= -5027. P=:-03 179
which may be regarded, in the circumstances, as tolerably good
evidence in support of the hypothesis adopted,
I need hardly say that I should not care to press the pomt, although
the fact here noted seemed just worth mentioning as a kind of make-
weight. There seems, however, no particular difficulty m the way of
supposhig that the countersimilarity of Feda to personalities other
than Normal Leonard arises in the manner suggested.
25
I must also add a few lines on the subject of the response words
given by Feda and Uvani.
Mr Drayton Thomas, who has made a special study of this aspect
of all the personalities concerned in the experiments which he con-
I ducted, contends that Feda’s replies have “ a strong Oriental
( flavour.” This is true enough, though I find nothing that cannot
I
reasonably be attributed to the vague knowledge of Indian life and
customs that any tolerably well read person can hardly fail to
; acquire ;
I find nothing, in fact, that cannot plausibly be ascribed
I
to Mrs Leonard’s own conscious or subconscious knowledge.
I
On the other hand, it is interesting to note that the very few non-
I Enghsh words appearing among Feda’s replies include Samisen,
I
which is Japanese ;
Amah, which is Chinese, and Yashmak, which is
. Arabic.
In fact, so far as her Orientahsms are concerned, Feda appears to
* desert the trite oidy to achieve the inappropriate.
!
Similar considerations apply to Uvani, who can produce nothing
,
better than Burnous, Mosque, Mirage, Karma (not a Moslem concep-
.i tion, I think). Shekel and Papyri among the data collected for my-
I
self, to which may be added Akaska (? Akasha ?) and Mazurka (in
reply to Woman and Bride !
!) from Mr Hereward Carrington’s
experiments.
Anyone who finds these convincing may be regarded as beyond
hope, while, on the other hand, there is a strong tendency to a stilted
340 Whately Garington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
pretentiousness of response (exemplified by such words as Affirma-
tion, Beneficence, Jeojxmlise. Endeavour, Introspective, Exhilaration,
etc.) which seem to me singularly out of character for an Arab who
purports to know no English.
In short, no attempt to sujjport the autonomy of either Feda or
Uvani by an appeal to the Indian or Arabian character of their
replies would appear to have a chance of standhig for a moment
against intelhgent criticism.
26
The question naturally arises as to whether what is true of reac-
tion time is true also of the psycho-galvanic reflex.
The available evidence, which will be found m Table I, is far from
conclusive, but, so far as it goes, it uidicates that this is the case. In
this (Garrett) group we hnd ^ for PGR Similarities
Positive Negative Total
Uvani Comparisons - - 2 3 5
Other ,,
- - 3 1 4
Totals - - 5 4 9
whence we have
X“ = M0. P = -15 180
a result which is in the same sense as those for RT, but a long way
from significance.
As against this, it should be noted that one result (RN 19-1) shows
a dehnitely significant comitersimilarity. It is true that the material
is poor (H. C.’s data for 1932) and contams a large number of nega-
tive deflexions, but there is no reason why this should affect the issue
one way rather than the other. Moreover, the effect is greater
(RN 19T) when the more reasonable of the two methods of treatment
is apphed (see Notes on Results).
On the whole the evidence may be said to be pretty strongly in
Ihvour of countersimilarity in PGR on the part of Uvani.
The obstacles in the way of accepting these indications at then-
face value are, first, the work of Prince and Petersen cited m Q.S.T.P.,
I, p. 176, and, second, the diliiculty of supposing that so very “physio-
logical ” a phenomenon as the reflex can undergo so curious an
inversion or reversal as the result of an essentially “ psychological
”
change.
The latter difficulty seems to me more apparent than real, and to
proceed mainly from an illegitimate and somewhat question-begging
^Neglecting “Abdulatif” as before and remembering that RN 19'1 and
2(J'l can only count as one negative result.
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Tersonalitieis 341
assumption to the effect that a verbal response is in some sense more
“ mental ” and less neurological than a p-g reflex. This is probably
nonsensical, while in any event we know—as Professor Fisher has
kindly remmded me—that in the expression of emotional attitudes,
etc., of opposite kinds very extensive reversals of imiervation take
place. Thus, as Darwin pomted out in his Expression of the Emotions
in Man and Anhnals, muscles which are contracted in aggressive
moods are relaxed in friendly, and vice versa ;
and it does not seem
altogether irrational to suppose either that this “ principle of anti-
thesis ” may extend to the hmervational mechanisms of the p-g
reflex, or that the normal and secondary personalities are antithetic
in a relevant sense.
As regards the results obtained by Prince and Petersen, I see no
reason for attempting to discount these and can only offer at present
the very tentative conjecture that countersimilarity may be a re-
latively superflcial phenomenon observable m respect of material
at levels above that down to which the process of dissociation has
been carried, but not ajjplicable to elements of so profound an emo-
tional significance as to be located, so to speak, m the subconscious
common to both. It seems likely also that countersimilarity would
not occur in respect of very superficial material of small affective
import, so that I would not be surprised if a thorough investigation
were not to reveal it as appearmg for words producmg a moderate
effect, but not so those of which the effect is either very slight or
very great.
But for our immediate purpose the point is one of academic
hiterest only, and I am well content to leave it in abeyance, pending
further evidence, and to base my judgment that Feda and Uvani are
secondary personalities on the coimtersimilarity of the reaction
times alone.
27
That this judgment is correct receives strong collateral support
from an experiment by Dr T. W. Mitchell, which he kindly allows me
to describe.
In the course of a sitting with Mrs Leonard, Dr Mitchell instructed
Feda that whenever during the immediately subsequent conversa-
tion, etc., Mrs Leonard being then in her normal condition, he should
lay special stress on the word you hi addressing her (Mrs Leonard)
—as by askmg “ What do you think about it ” or the like—she (Feda)
was to acknowledge the signal by touching {i.e. causing Mrs Leonard
to touch) a brooch she was wearing at the time. This duly occurred
and the formal identity of the procedure with that of the familiar
type of “ post-hypnotic ” experiment is evident enough. It is clear
342 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
that there is an intimate connection between Feda and Normal
Leonartl which is not dissolved by the cessation of trance ;
further,
this connection is such that Feda may be aware of what happens to
Mrs Leonard hr her normal state and may participate importantly
in her actions.
This constitutes a weighty confirmation of the conclusion inferred
from Countersimilarity, and the two taken together must, in my
judgment, be considered as settling the question of Feda’s status as a
secondary personality beyond any possibility of reasonable doubt.
28
This conclusion, in the formation of which the quahtative indica-
tions of one method are supplemented by the quantitative results of
another, constitutes, I venture to believe, an important advance
in positive knowledge.
Ihit not less important is the fact that the evidence from Counter-
similarity, which unmistakably proclaims that Feda and Uvani are
secondary personalities, assures us with equal emphasis that John,
Etta and Dora are not—or at least that these, if secondaries at all,
are of a demonstrably different type.
Controls, as the term is used hi psychical research—those “ slaves
of the lam]),” as it were, who habitually take charge as the medium’s
normal consciousness is superseded by the trance state—are char-
acterised by the property of coimtersirnilarity ;
Communicators,
jjurporthig to be discarnate entities particularly associated with
individual sitters, are not so characterised. Moreover, shice the
phenomenon of countersimilarity seems to be the natural consequence
of that process of repression to which the formation of secondary
jjersonalities may confidently be ascribed, its absence m the case of
Communicators leads us to suppose that some other mechanism is
responsible for their development.
This again is in accordance with general psychological considera-
tions ;
for it would be straining the psycho-analytic conception of
re])ression very far to postulate for every Communicator purporting
to manifest through Mrs Leonard a nucleus of repressed material not
only different from the others but a])pro])riate to the impersonation
required.
1 accortlingly conclude that Communicators, if and in so far as they
are not what they purport to be, are more in the nature of “ his-
trionic po.ses ” than secondary personalities in the ordinary sense of
tliiit term.
141 ] 1'he Q'uanlilative Study uf Trance Personalities 343
29
Unfortunately our only knowledge of “ poses ” is that derived
from the Besterman-Gatty experiment, and this affords too narrow
a basis for any assured generahsation.
The following considerations, on the other hand, do seem to indi-
cate fairly strongly that Communicators constitute a class of per-
sonality sui generis, possessiug properties which it is difficult to re-
concile with their representing any plausible modification of the
medium’s consciousness.
The tendency for disturbance hi reproduction to be associated with
prolongation of reaction time was first noticed, I believe, by Jung
in his early work on the word-association test. This was confirmed
by my own experiments of 1920-21 ;
for example, a group of 518
words gave the followmg distribution as regards long and short RT
and success and failure hi RPN :
Long Short Total
Successes - - 149 221 370
Failures 74 74 148
Totals - 223 295 518
whence we have
X“ = 4-08. B = -02 181
which may be regarded as significant.
In the present instance I have comjiuted the degree of association
between prolongation of reaction time and disturbance hi reproduc-
tion for each of the twenty personalities, or varieties thereof, for which
appropriate data were available. The results are shown in Table E.
344 W/lately Carimjlon, M.A., M.iSc. [fart
Table E
Association of RT and RPN : All Personalities
Non-Communicators
RN
Person-
ality
Successes Failures
x'^ P
Short Long SHcfel’ Long
182 G 173 73 44 48 14-75 10-4
183 U 133 39 66 45 10-31 -001
184 G(0) 184 190 78 43 8-55 <-005
185 G(H) 223 18 190 51 18-46 <10-4
186 S(N) 195 70 9 22 25-72 <10-6
187 S(A) 218 89 35 35 11-40 <-001
188 N1 130 64 64 71 12-64 <-001
189 N3 180 75 37 82 58-89 <10-6
190 PI 44 30 164 96 --31 -29
191 P2 58 17 29 42 5-58 <-01
192 P3 148 54 65 88 34-58 <10-6
193 FI 109 58 102 77 2-49 -06
194 F2 69 30 17 17 4-30 -02
195 F3 189 85 45 62 23-54 10-6
196 C 131 98 27 43 7-47 <-01
Communicators
197 J1 72 55 102 71 --15 -35
198 J2 61 40 22 12 --20 -33
199 El no 50 66 65 10-07 -001
200 E2 67 26 27 18 2-03 -08
201 D 185 137 43 29 --12 -36
N.B. (1) Here, as elsewhere, G = Mrs Garrett, U= Uvaiii, G(0) =
Gatty (Oxford), G(H) = Gatty (Hampshire), S(N) = Mrs Salter in
normal state, S(A) = Mrs Salter in automatic-writing state, N =
Normal Leonard, P = Prepared Leonard, F = Feda, J = “John,”
E — “Etta,” C = Mr Drayton Thomas, D = “Dora” (the late Mrs
W. S. Irving). The suffixes 1, 2 and 3 denote the first Thomas ex-
periment, the second Thomas experiment and the Irving experi-
ment respectively.
(2)
“ Short ” means a time less than the median HT of the sitting
to which it belongs ;
“ long ” means a time not less than 125% of
this median.
(3) A minus sign before the value given for uidicates an
association hi the opposite sense to that commonly fomid.
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 345
It is evident by mspection that significant values of x“
—
i-^- of fbe
association between disturbance in reproduction and prolongation of
reaction time—are far rarer among Communicators than among
other types of personality. If we talce P = -01 as our level of signi-
ficance and test the distribution of results reaching or exceeding this
among Commmiicators and others, we have
P<-01
Communicators - - 1
P>-01
4
Total
5
Others 12 3 15
Totals 13 7 20
whence we obtain
x‘^= 5-93. P--01 .
for the chance that this bias in the distribution is accidental.
30
The matter is, however, rather more complicated than this sug-
gests.
We may reasonably attribute the three exceptions (RN 190, 193,
194) to the rule among non-commmiicators to chance. P is unre-
hable at the best of times and in this case (First Thomas experiment)
neither her reaction times nor her reproductions are properly
organised (RN 44, 59). The same is true of Feda m the second
Thomas experiment (RN 48, 63), which yet contrives to give a value
of P = -02 ;
but RN 193 must, I thinli:, be attributed to the fortune of
war.
But we cannot take this line with Etta’s result from the first
Thomas experiment and must regard her as m some way genuinely
different from John and Dora. I will discuss this when I have dealt
with these two.
The point I wish to make in this connection is this : Whenever we
find a significant association between RT and RPN—as is usually
the case—we must conclude that a smgle mind, or undivided part
thereof, is at work ;
i.e. that both reaction times and reproductions
are, as it were, drawn from the same source. But if no significant
association is found and yet the two sets of data are well individual-
ised, we camiot ignore—even if we are not prepared unreservedly
to accept—the strong imphcation that they come from different
sources and are derived from two different minds.
In the light of these remarks, consider the contributions which go
to make up RN 197. The reaction times are fairly well individualised
(RN 50) ;
but they are significantly similar to those of Normal
Leonard (RN 73), and we must conclude that they are, in effect.
346 Whaiely Carington, M.A., 31. 8c. [PABT
contributed by her. The reproductions are signihcaiitly well
organised (RN 65), but it is titty to one agamst their being those of
Normal Leonard (RN 88-2), and the strong suggestion is that they
are not contributed by her.
Again, consider the results given hi this context by Dora. Both
her reaction times (RN 54) and her reproductions (RN 69) are very
significantly organised and cannot possibly be regarded as randomly
distributed. Her reproductions are mdubitably those of Normal
Leonard (RN 125T) ;
but even more emphatically (RN 115-2) her
reaction times are not. We camiot possibly attribute these latter to
chance and I find it very difficult to resist the conclusion that, hi this
case, two different minds are at work in the same prima facie per-
sonality, one of them being Mrs Leonard and the other someone
else—jiossibly the late Mrs W. S. Irving.
The same, of course, ap])lies to John with a slightly lesser emphasis
corresponduig to the relative weakness, numerically speaking, of the
Thomas as compared with the Irvhig results.
31
In order to fit Etta (RN 199) into the scheme of things, wc must, I
think, make one of two suppositions : we must either say that Etta
is not a true Communicator within the meanuig of the act, and ought
to be placed in the other group ;
or we must suppose that she has
brought the art of communication, or whatever corresponds to this
in non-spiritistic terms, to an appreciably higher pitch of perfection
than has either John or Dora, with the result that whereas each of
these last is significantly infiuenced by the medium hi respect of
either RT or RPN, she (Etta) is uidependent in respect of both.
The first of these alternatives seems to me to be frankly prepos-
terous ;
the second involves only a slight straining of the figures.
There is no question of Etta’s reproductions being identical with
those of Leonard (RN 89-1)—they are, on the contrary, very sig-
nificantly different (RN 89-2)—so that on the “ two contributors
”
theory advanced in the cases of John and Dora, we should expect to
find her reaction times significantly similar to Normal Leonard’s,
which they are not (RN 74-1), and this is also contrary to RN 199.
On the theory that Etta is emancipated hi both respects, we should
expect to find her reaction times significantly different from those of
Normal Leonard, but agaui (RN 74-2) this is not true. We must con-
clude that one part or other of RN 74 is in error, in the sense that
chance cttcumstances have conspned to conceal either a similarity
or a difference. But the strong association found between RT and
RPN (RN 197 already cited) practically compels the supposition that
14]] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 847
a single mind is at work, so that the minimum of distortion is in-
volved in sup2
)osing that RN 74-2 “ ought ” to show a significant
difference.
The view that Etta is somewhat more skilled at controlling the
medium than either John or Dora is also concordant with the history
other development, the amount of practice she has had and (so far as
the former is concerned) with various indications derived by Mr
Drayton Thomas from a study of the responses given. I accordingly
adopt it provisionally pending further evidence.
32
We may summarise the outcome of the work to date as follows :
1 . The Besterman-Gatty experiment shows clearly that significant
difference between two personalities in respect of either RT or RPN,
or both, is not of itself—as I had first supposed—any evidence of their
autonomy.
2. The phenomenon of Countersimilarity is significantly associated
with Controls, but not with Communicators or with other types of
personality ;
it implies a connection between the Controls and such
elements as are common to the personalities with which they are
compared, which can most reasonably be explained by supposing that
the former are secondary ])ersonalities of the mediums with whom
they are associated.
3. As a general and very extensive rule, whenever we are dealing
with an evidently single ])ersonality, whether primary, secondary or
a pose, we find a significant association between prolongation of
reaction time and disturbance in reproduction. In the cases of John
and Dora this is not found, although neither contribution can be
regarded as randomly determined. In each case one of the contribu-
tions is clearly made by the medium’s normal mind ;
there is accord-
ingly a strong suggestion that the other contribution comes from
some extraneous source.
33
So small a list of conclusions drawn so laboriously from so great a
mass of work suggests the extraction of radium from pitch-blende,
where some ten tons or so of material must l)e treated to produce a
milligram of the pure salt ;
but it is to be hoped that they may be
correspondmgly efiicacious in strilving a few sparks of light from the
dull screen of our ignorance.
I have said that I regard the establishment (for so I consider it)
of the status of Feda and Uvani as secondary personalities as a not-
able advance in positive knowledge. I will add that I think it an
348 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
iin]>orta.iit ste]> toward sliowing (if it be a fact) that Coraimmicators
«uch as John, Etta and Dora are, in some respect at least, what they
purport to be.
It is never any use saying “ That was not a monkey because it had
not got a tail,” unless you have established the possession of tails
as a characteristic pro])erty of monkeys, and it is no use arguing that
a Communicator is not a secondary personality, because it does not
behave like one, until yo\i have found out how secondary person-
alities do in fact behave.
I think we are now in a position to say firmly, “ John, Etta and
Dora are not secondary personahties because they do not show the
property of countersimilarity to the other members of their group.”
We could not do this before, because we knew of no property char-
acteristic of secondary personalities by which to judge them. Thus
the decision that Feda and Uvani are secondaries is an essential pre-
liminary to reasoned contention on these lines that John, Etta and
Dora are not. Spiritists will please note.
And in response to the very proper suggestion that the commmii-
cators are histrionic poses, we may plausibly enquire why it is that
they do not in general show the association of reaction time and re-
]:>roduction which seems to Ije—as indeed we should expect—the
hall-mark of a single and undivided personality, and is actually
shown by the two Gatty poses ?
^
The last thing I wish is to be dogmatic here, for if there is one
thing that is quite certain it is that the whole story is enormously
more complicated than I at first imagined. Still, I feel strongly that
the facts just referred to deserve to be taken very seriously indeed by
all who have not hopelessly prejudged the issues involved by decidmg
that discarnate influence is “ impossible.”
My own attitude is best indicated by continuing the quotation
with which this paper began :
“ I have added a lot more, hut it was sea, not shy ; there’s a boat
floativg on the top of it.” Perhajos next time it will have turned out to he
a parasol u'pside down. . . . The scientist has his guesses as to hoiv the
finished picture will work out ; he dejyends largely on these in his search
for other pieces to fit ; hut his guesses are modified from time to time by
unexpected develognnents as the fitting proceeds. . . .
Those who look over his shoidder and iise the present partially de-
veloped pichirefor purposes outside science, do so at their own risk.
^
Possibly, also, the strong covariance shown by these (RN 16.3‘.3) may prove
an additional distinguishing criterion.
141] The QmMifative Shtdy of Trance Persovalifies 349
Pakt IV
Various Observations and Comments
34
Bccnmjyufation of the Thomm Exj)erim,ents. These figures liave ))een
recalculated throughout oii the lines indicated in section 2 ahove
and now include Individualities and Covariances in addition to the
Similarities and Differences originally given.
It will be remembered that the second of the original sittings was
partially unsuccessful, inasmuch as the attempt to obtain 100 reac-
tions from each personality exhausted the “ power ” before repro-
ductions could be obtained from J, or any reactions from E. Addi-
tional material was later obtained with a view to making good this
deficiency ;
but in the interests of strict comparability I have
thought it best to use the data from sittings I and III to VI only for
computing S, D and C in all cases, though I have utilised—rather
arbitrarily perhaps—the additional material in working I for reaction
time throughout and for N, P and F in the case of reproductions.
Comparison with the figures given in Q.S.T.P., 1, which are now
superseded, will reveal various discrepancies. These are mainly due
to the modifications of treatment described in section 2 above, but a
few actual errors were detected and remedied. These, however, do
not mvolve any reinterpretation and accordingly need not be further
particularised.
35
The Irving Experiment. This consisted of five sittings conducted
by Mr Irving on September 13, 15, 17, 18 and 20, 1934, at which data
were collected from “Prepared Leonard,” “Feda,”and “Dora.” Mrs
Leonard in her fully normal state had previously been tested on
August 13, 18, 20, 23 and 27 by Mr W. H. Wilson, to whom I am
again much indebted for his help in this matter.
A list of 100 words was used throughout. In this list no word was
used which appeared in the original list used for the Garrett and first
Thomas Experiments, but it was derived from this by substituting
for each word some other which seemed likely to lie fairly closely
associated with it. For examjile :
Old List New List
Head Hair
Green Grey
Long Short
White Black
Fire Burn
etc. etc
350 Whately Caringfon, M.A., M.Sc. [part
I hoped ill tliis way to lie aide to ensure comparability by restrict-
ing the field of ojierations to approximately the same groups of ideas,
while avoiding the effects of “ staleness ” due to too frequent a re-
petition of the list.
I rather expected to find a fair measure of similarity between the
reactions to the two lists for the same personality ;
but in this I was
disappomted, as reference to RN 129 to 134 will show. The point,
however, is of academic interest only and not relevant to the mam
issues which interest us here.
The results obtained were extraorduiarily good—far superior in
precision and “ clear-cutness ” to those of the first Thomas experi-
ment, with which they may most fairly be compared.
This is evident by inspection of the relevant portions of Table II,
but it is interesting to note that significant results (takmg P = -01 as
the criterion) are significantly more frequent in the Irving than in the
first Thomas experiment. Thus we have
P>-01 P<-01 Total
First Thomas Experiment 48 14 62
Irving Experiment -
19 19 38
Total - 67 33 100
whence
x2 = 8-01. P- <-005,
The inqirovement may be partly due to greater familiarity with
the technique on the part of N, P and F, but I think it must be
ascribed mainly to the relatively small intervals between sittings—
a
point worth bearing in mind for future guidance.
36
Note on Rudi and OJga. In Q.S.T.P., I, p. 189, 1 commented some-
what unfavourably onRudi’s tendency to react with words apparently
determined not by the stimulus word j
ust given but by that imme-
diately preceding it or removed by only one or two places in the hst.
I think I ought in fairness to say that the same tendency is to be
observed in Prepared Leonard (a fact which I had not previously
remarked), while Rudi’s very low values of I for reaction time
(RN 1 43, 144 and compare 44, 45, 46) support the view that although
ostensibly normal he was actually in the lightly dissociated state
which seems to be characteristic of P,
On the other hand, I see no reason for supposing and much for
doubting that Olga is even a Control, still less a Communicator, hi the
sense in which the terms are used here. On the whole, it seems to me
probable that Olga represents a kind of semi-dream state of which
141] The. Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 351
Rudi may retain vague and fragmentary memories. This view,
which would more or less imply a condition of doubt on Rudi’s part
as to what happened in the trance state and who was resj)onsible for
it, would account for his evident apprehensiveness on the subject of
fraud and exposure without requiring us to postulate deliberate nmla
fdes in the ordinary sense.
37
The Psycho-galvanic Reflex. This phenomenon, of which, on the
basis of earlier experience, I expected great things when I started
this work, has proved definitely disappointing as an instrument of
research. It has been found almost impossible to obtain from any
subject (except Rudi and Olga) a compact and gapless block of
readings of reasonable size such as is required for statistical analysis.
This involves resorting to a variety of expedients and artifices, such
as the use of “ 1 or 0 ” methods, which seriously reduce the value of
the results obtained.
At first I thought that physico-physiological causes, such as
polarisation at the electrodes, were to blame, but it now seems fairly
clear that purely psychological factors—notably boredxnn—are
chiefly responsible. Mr Glatty came to substantially this conclusion
—largely, I gather, on introspective grounds ;
while it is shared, I
understand, by Mr J. C. Maby, who has done much work with the
reflex under a variety of conditions.
The view is perhaps a trifle difficult to reconcile with the almost
uniform success of my experiments in 1920-21, though the differ-
ences in the type of person examined may be an important factor
here ;
on the other hand, it receives a certain support from the be-
haviour of Rudi and Olga, whose relatively high performance may be
attributed to their being kept well keyed up, as it were, by the
periodical stimulation of the “ suspicion words.”
Further work on the reflex is clearly desirable, with special refer-
ence to the question of whether countersimilarity is shown by it, and
it seems likely that this can better be studied by using short lists of
words on numerous occasions and at short intervals rather than by a
few experiments with long lists.
38
Influence of the Sitter. We hear so much m the literature of
psychical research about “ telepathy from the sitter ” that it
seemed worth while attempting to ascertain whether there was any
appreciable similarity between the reactions given by Mr Drayton
2a
352 Whatehj Garhigton, M.A., M.Sc. [pabt
Tliomas ami Mr Irving and those obtained from the personalities
whom they tested.
This did not occur to me till after the first series of experiments
had been completed ;
consequently Mr Drayton Thomas’s reactions
were not collected until he himself had repeated the lists ad nauseam
in the course of collecting data. Mr Irving, on the other hand, was
tested not only Ijefore he conducted his experiments, but before he
had seen the test words at all. This was done by Mr J. W. Harrison,
of Newent, to whom I am greatly obliged for the trouble taken in
the matter.
It will be seen by reference to Table II (RN 81 to 85 ;
96 to 100 ;
119 to 122), that there is no appreciable similarity whatever between
Mr Irving and Dora, or between Mr Drayton Thomas and John and
Etta.
I do not know what effects telepathy (assuming this to be a fact
at all) may produce in other contexts, but there is certainly no excuse
for attributing to it the phenomena described in this paper ;
while
one cannot help feelmg that, if it were so potent a cause as is often
claimed in other connections, some reasonable measure of similarity
would have been found here.
But ardent spiritists should note that any construing of this re-
mark into the sense of “ telepathy hypothesis disproved,” or the lilm,
would constitute a gross and unwarrantable perversion of what I
have said.
39
Computation of Mr Hereward Carrington’s Data. It seemed to me
unfortunate that the nvimerous flowers of fact so laboriously gathered
by Mr and Mrs Carrmgton should Ije allowed to waste their sweetness
on the desert air when a little instructed distillation would ensure
their jjerfume being preserved for posterity. I accordingly decided
to a])ply ap])ropriate methods to as much as possible of the published
material.
As it ha])pens, Mr Carrington’s data proved, in a way, pecidiarly
suitable for this purpose, because, although they were of so frag-
mentary a character that few yielded an intrinsically reliable result,
yet the net had Ijeen so widely spread that a relatively large number
of results (54 in all) could be calculated of which the sign was observ-
able. From these, as explauied in section 20 above, it is possible to
conclude with reasonable assurance that countersimilarity occurs
with Uvani as well as with Feda.
Mr Carrington’s observations have thus provided an invaluable
contribution to the material available for analysis.
141 ] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 353
40
Experiment with Mrs Salter. This constitutes a kind of digression
from the main course of the work, and was imdertaken mainly be-
cause it was felt that it would be interesting, on general grounds, to
see whether the method was capable of showing appreciable dif-
ferences between the normal state and that in which automatic
writing, as opposed to full-blooded mediumship, occurs.
The results obtained (Table III, RN 141, 142, 148, 149, 159, 162)
are chiefly remarkable for the fact that they are unique among those
hitherto collected in showing significant similarity and significant
difference in respect of both reaction time and reproduction. This,
of course, is what “ ought ” to be observed in every case in which any
considerable change takes place yet leaves the roots of the mdividual
imimpaired. Usually, however, instabihty and restlessness introduce
so much error that the effects are obscured ;
whereas Mrs Salter is so
constant in either state as to constitute a veritable model of statistical
propriety.
The psychological status of the “ automatic ” condition is not easy
to assess precisely in the existing state of our knowledge. It shows
no trace of countersimilarity, and there is a strong association be-
tween reaction time and reproduction (RN 187), while generally
speaking—and especially in the strong covariance in reproduction
—
the relationship between the two states seems to resemble that be-
tween the two Gatty poses more closely than anything else available
for comparison.
Very tentatively, I should regard it as a kind of “ fantasy ” condi-
tion—midway, perhaps, between a pose and a dream—rather than as
a Control or Communicator m embryo.
Part V
Interim Note : Apparent Autonomy of John and Etta
Since writing the above, I have had the opportunity of comparing
certain data obtained by Mr Drayton Thomas in sittings with Mrs
Sharplin with the figures of the original Leonard sittings.
At these Sharphn sittmgs, John and Etta purported to take
control and were tested on three occasions each with the first fifty
words of my first list. Mrs Sharplin herself was similarly tested on
two occasions only. The experiment is accordingly on a small scale
and not to be regarded as more than exploratory. None the less the
results are very remarkable.
354 Whately Caringtnn, M.A., M.Se. [PAET
The vital question here, of course, is whether the J and E mani-
festing through Mrs Shar])lin show any signs of a non-chance
rcsemhlance to tlie J and manifesting through Mrs Leonard.
The actual similarities are :
Reaction Times Reproductions
z P ?•
JJ - -0845 -275 -0843
EE - -1892 -095 -1832
z P r
•0965 -250 -0962
•1997 -080 -1973
Here z is the familiar “ similarity z ” and P, as usual, the proba-
bility of obtaining a value of this magnitude and sign by chance
alone, while r is the corresponding correlation coefficient obtained
from z by Professor Fisher’s transformation
r = (e23_ l)/(e2« +1).
There is naturally no reason, a priori, why the two J’s or the two
E’s should show a positive rather than a negative correlation in
respect of either RT or RPN and the fact that all four coefficients
are positive indicates fairly strongly that a non-chance cause is at
work.
We naturally suspect similarity between the mediums, since
personalities similar to similar personalities would be likely to be
similar to each other.
The similarity between Normal Leonard and Sharplin is, in fact,
distinctly high, for we have
Reaction Times Reproductions
z P )• z P r
LS - -2972 -020 -2888 -2262 -055 -2225
I think we can eliminate the effect of this similarity by the method
of partial correlation. Writing, in each case, 1 for the Leonard
version of the communicator concerned, 2 for the Sharplin version,
3 for Leonard and 4 for Sharplin, we apply the usual formula
^ ab ^ac^bc
' ab-C
in which stands for “ the coefficient of correlation between a
and 1) after eliminating the influence of c ” and calculate successively
rj 2
-
4 ,
and r,3 .
4 . From these, by again using the same formula,
we obtain rj 2 .
34 ,
namely the coefficient of correlation between the
Leonard and Sharplin versions of the communicator concerned after
eliminating the influence of the similarity between Leonard and
Sharplin.
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities 355
We thus obtain (the whole process being four times repeated)
Reaction Times Reproouctions
r' P
JJ - -09290 -261
BE - -22276 -060
/ P
-03026 -418
-11649 -214
the P’s being calculated from the correspondmg values of z' with
two fewer degrees of freedom to allow for the two variables elimi-
nated.
As is to be expected, all these values of r' are somewhat less than
the original values of r ;
but all are positive and, from the statistical
point of view, the personalities and tests appear to be independent.
It accordmgly seems legitimate to take the continued product of the
values of P as giving the overall chance of the observed similarities
of J with J and E with E in the two tests being fortuitous.
This product is -0014, so that the chance of fortuitous occurrence
is no more than about one in 714.
It is interesting to note that Etta is again distinctly the better
performer (cf. section 31 above).
If the procedure be admitted valid, I see no escape (or, strictly,
only one in 714) from the conclusion that non-chance, non-Leonard,
non-Sharplin factors are at work behind the scene, and from this it
is but a trifling step to supposing that these factors are what they
claim to be—namely “ John ” m the one case and “ Etta ” in the
other—or just possibly a kind of joint personality combining the two.
The only alternative would be to suppose that Mrs Sharplin has
contrived to impersonate the Leonard Communicators, not as
regards words and behaviour (where the resemblance, I understand,
was definitely poor) but in hesitations on particular words and
failures to reproduce particular replies. Personally, I should regard
this as far more fantastic than the straight paranormal interpreta-
tion, and I have httle doubt that most others would do so too.
On the other hand, while I pubhsh these results as a matter of the
utmost general uiterest, I do so with very great reserve. I must
confess to some surprise at obtaining so well-marked an mdication
so easily, and although I can detect no flaw in the argument at
present, I should not be too surprised if one were to be discovered,
or if the more extended experiments now planned were to fail to
confirm the result.
So I venture to uisist that nothing I have said here is to be used
in evidence agamst me later, pending confirmation or the reverse.
At the same time, if there is no hidden pitfall in the work, it would
appear to constitute the strongest objective evidence in favour of
the autonomy of communicators that has yet been obtained.
356 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
Part VI
NOTES ON RESULTS
Abbreviations
General—RN = Result Number; PGR = Psycho-galvanic reflex;
RT = Reaction Time(s) ;
RPN = (disturbance in) Reproduction
Test; S = Similarity ;
D=Difference; C = Covariance ;
I = Indi-
viduality.
Garrett Group—H.C. = Mr Hereward Carrington ;
G = Mrs Garrett
in her normal state; U= “Uvani,” her regular control; A=
“ Abdulatff,” described as “ a secondary control ” ;
R, S, W, H=
communicator personalities as described by Mr Hereward Carring-
ton in Bull. A.P.I., I., q.v. {N.B. H is “ Hyslop,” not “ Hodgson.”)
Leonard Group—N, P, F, J, E, as in Q.S.T.P., I. ; C = The Revd
Drayton Thomas; I = The Revel W. S. Irving; D = “Dora,” i.e.
the personality purporting to be the late Mrs W. S. Irving.
Miscellaneous—R = Rudi Schneider in supposed normal state ;
0 =the alleged control known as “ Olga ” ;
G(0) =Mr Gatty in his
Oxford-oriented state ;
G(H) = Mr Gatty in his Hampshire-oriented
state ;
S(N) = Mrs Salter in her normal state ;
S(A) = Mrs Salter in
the state in which she does automatic writing.
N.B. Figures in brackets at the end of a Note, e.g. (2 x 100), in-
dicate the number of sittings and words respectively on which the
result concerned is based. In the case of comparisons (S, D and C)
their jiroduct must be multiplied by two (for the two personalities
involved) to give the total number of data used in each comparison.
Values of 0 not less than -01 are estimated and shown to two places
of decimals ;
in the case of values less than -01, an entry of <10~" is
to be taken as equivalent to <10~"^> ;
values less than 10"®
are not further evaluated.
REMARKS
Garrett Group
RN
1. H. C.’s Standard List, 1932, writing 1 for every imambiguous
positive reading and 0 for everything else. (2 x 100.)
2. Same material, but writing 1 instead of 0 for negative deflex-
ions. (2 X 100.)
3. H. C.’s Standard List, 1933, computed as for RN 1. (2 x 100.)
141] The Qtumtitative Stiuly of Trance Personalities 357
RN
4. W. W. C.’s data, 1933 ;
first four sittings only ;
computed by
“ 1 or 0 ” method as for RN 1. (4 x 100.)
5, 6, 7, 8. As for 1, 2, 3, 4 respectively, but for U instead of G.
9.
H. C.’s Standard List, 1932 ;
scaled. (2 x 100.)
10. H. C.’s Standard List, 1933 ;
from 56 words complete in both
G and U sittings. (2 x 56.)
11. W. W. C.’s data, 1933, sittings II to IV. (5 x 100.)
12. 13, 14. As for 9, 10, 11, but for U histead of G.
15. H. C.’s data, 1933 ;
from 72 words complete for both U and A
as used hi UA comparison. (2x72.)
16. H. C.’s data, 1933 ;
from 60 words available for both G and R.
(2x60.)
17. 18. W. W. C.’s data, 1933 ;
from 26 words for which 6 unam-
biguous attempts at RPN are available for both G and U.
(6x26.)
19, 20. Data and treatment as for 1 and 2, 5 and 6 respectively.
(2 X 100.)
21. H. C.’s Special List, 1932 ;
1 or 0 method. (1 x 40.)
22. Data and treatment as for 3 and 7. (2 x 100.)
23. H. C.’s Special List, 1933 ;
1 or 0 method. (2 x -50.)
24. Data and treatment as for 4 and 8. (4 x 100.)
25. H. C.’s data, 1933 ;
1 or 0 method. (2 x 100.)
26. „ „ „ „ „ (1 X 100.)
27. „ „ „ „ „ (1x100.)
28. H. C.’s “ Hyslop ” data, 1933 ;
1 or 0 method. (1 x 100.)
29. H. C.’s data, 1933 ;
1 or 0 method. (2 x 100.)
30. H. C.’s Standard List, 1932. (2 x 100.)
31. ,, Special ,, ,,
(1x40.)
32. ,,
Standard List, 1933 ;
for 56 words complete in both
sittings for both personalities. (2 x 56.)
33. H. C.’s Special List, 1933 ;
for 25 words complete m both
sittings for both personalities. (2 x 25.)
34. W. W. C.’s data, 1933 ;
last five sittings. (5 x 100.)
35. H. C.’s data, 1933 ;
for 72 words complete m both sittings for
both personahties. (2 x 72.)
36. H. C.’s data, 1933 ;
for 60 words complete in both sittings, etc.
(2x60.)
37. H. C.’s data, 1933 ;
for 97 words complete in the “ S ” sitting.
(1x97.)
38. H. C.’s data, 1933. (1 x 100.)
39. „ „ „ (“ Hyslop.”) (1 X 99.)
40. „ „ „ (2x72.)
41. W. W. C.’s data, 1933 ;
see RN 17, 18. (6 x 26.)
358 Whately Carington, M.A., M.Sc. [part
Leonard Group
RN
42, 44, 47, 50, 52. First Thomas Experiment ;
RN 52 includes
material from special sitting replacing No. 11, at which no E
data were obtained. (6 x 75.)
45, 48, 51, 53. Second Thomas ExjDeriment. Words accidentally
duplicated in list [Q.S.T.P., I, p. 238, note 43) omitted at
second occurrence. (4 x 48.)
43, 46, 49, 54. Irvuxg experiment. (5 x 100.)
55. Same list as for first Thomas experiment ;
data collected after
main expeiiment. (G x 75.)
5G. Same list as for Irving experiment ;
data collected before the
main experiment. (5 x 100.)
57, .59, G2. See 42, 44, 47. (6 x 75.)
G5, 07. See .50, .52 ;
but no data for second sitting. (5 x 75.)
GO, G3, GG, G8. See 45, 48, 51, 53. (4 x 48.)
58, Gl, G4, G9. See 43, 4G, 49, 54. (5 x 100.)
70. See 55. (G x 75.)
71 to 80. Second sitting omitted m all cases to ensure maxim um
comparability. (5 x 75.)
81 to 85. Second sitting included with extra material to fill E II.
(Gx75.)
8G to 95. See 71 to 80. (5 x 75.)
9G to 98. Second sittmg included. (G x 75.)
99, 100. Second sitting omitted. (5 x 75.)
N.B. In combinations containing N or C the question of
Covariance does not arise, because these personalities were
not tested on the same occasions as those with which they
are compared.
101 to 112. See 45, 48, 51, 53. (4 x 48.)
113 to 128. No covariance calculated for 113, 114, 115 or 123, 124,
125, because N and I were not tested on same occasions as
P, F and D. (5 x 100.)
129 to 134. Comparison of data for N, P and F obtained in first
Thomas experiment with those for same personalities and
first 75 words of Irving experiment list ;
different lists but
corresponding words ; cf. pp. 349-50. (5 x 75.)
Miscellaneous
135. From 5G unspoiled words {cf. Q.S.T.P., I, pp. 187, 188) by 1 or
0 method. (5 x 5G.)
13G. As 135, but eliminating 10 “suspicion ” words. Cf. loc. cit.
(5x4G.)
141] The Quantitative Study of Trance Peraonalitiev 359
EN
137. As 135. (5x56.)
138. As 136. (5 X 46.)
139. Corrected deflexions scaled by 50% of median classes and first
four values taken for each word ;
six words unusable ;
in-
different material. (4 x 94.)
140. As 139, but only two words rmusable. (4 x 98.)
141. Corrected deflexions scaled by 50% of median classes where
practicable ; 97 pairs from sittings I and III used for com-
putmg this result ;
bad material. (2 x 97.)
142. As above ;
but 45 pairs used, each consisting of 1 value from
Sittmg I and the other from the next sitting capable of pro-
viding one for the word concerned ;
very bad material.
(2x45.)
143. All sittmgs. (6x100.)
144. Omitting Sitting I. (5 x 100.)
145. Sittmgs II to VI only ;
first sitting unsatisfactory. (5 x 100.)
146 and 147. Unsealed ;
see text, p. 327. (6 x 100.)
148 and 149. (6 x 100.)
150 to 153. (6 X 100.)
154 and 155. As calculated and given hi Q.S.T.F., 1. (5x56 and
5 X 46 respectively.)
156. 56 unspoiled words ;
1 or 0 method. (5 x 56.)
157. As 156, but eliminating “ suspicion words.” (5 x 46.)
158. Treatment as for 139 ;
covariance mapplicable. (4 x 93.)
159. Treatment as for 141, but only 44 pairs made up as well as
possible from very bad material. (2 x 44.)
160. Sittmg I imusable. (5 x 100.)
161. Unsealed. (6x100.)
162 to 164. (6 X 100.)
GLOSSARY
Psycho-galvanic Reflex (PGR)—The change in the apparent elec-
trical resistance of the subject’s skin which accompanies the act of
replymg to a stimulus word. Measured with a Wheatstone bridge
and galvanometer.
Reaction Time (RT)—The time which elapses between the experi-
menter calling out the stimulus word and the subject replying.
Measured with a stop-watch in fifths of a second.
Rejjrodmtion Test (RPN)- - When the list has been called through,
the experimenter repeats it, asking the subject to give the same
replies as before, if possible. Failure to do so, or great delay, con-
stitutes a “ disturbance in reproduction.”
Similarity (S)—The degree of likeness between the reactions given
by any two personalities obtamed, by a process equivalent to
correlation, from the total reaction times, etc., for the various words
of the list on all occasions. The z of this procedure can be trans-
formed into the r of correlation by the formula
2 = Mlog( 1 -f r) - log(l - r)}.
Difference (D)—The differences between the total times, etc.,
given by the two personalities in response to the different words are
compared with their error, as shown by their occasion-to-occasion
variability to see whether it is attributable to chance.
Covariance (C)—The extent to which the personalities vary
similarly, from occasion to occasion, m respect of each word, is com-
pared with the corresponding error and the results pooled for all
words. Cf. p. 321.
Individuality (I) —The differences between the total reaction
times, etc., for a smgle personality, in response to the various words,
are coni])ared with the occasion-to-occasion variability to see whether
the consistency of such differences is greater than the error.
360
TABLE I : GABBETT GBOUP
INDIVIDUALITIES (I)
Pebsojj-
Rj; ALITY
Beflexe.s
R
1 G •1069 14
2 G •1036 •15
3 G •2209 •015
4 G •0139 •45
5 U •1512 •07
6 U •0226 •41
7 u •0222 •41
8 u •0731 •23
Keaction Times
9 G •2515 •005
10 G •1541 •13
11 G •5491 <10-9
12 U •3022 •002
13 u •0692* •30*
14 u •4759 <10-8
15 A 1667 •08
16 B •1397 •14
IIepko DUCTIONS
17 G •6002 10-1
18 U •0106 48
COMPAKISONS (S, D and C)
SlMILAEITY W/WP Difference WP/OWP VARIAXCE OWlOWP
RN Pair Z P Z P Z
‘
p
Reflexes
19 GUI -•3079* <•01* •2891 <•01 -•0368* •36*
20 GUI -•1648* •05* •0848 •20 -•1921* •03*
21 GU2 •0186 •45
22 GU3 •0872 •19 •1757 •04 •1565 •06
23 GU4 -•0746* •30* -•2486* •04* - -2476* •04*
24 GU5 -•0152* •44* •0604 •23 •0781 •14
25 GA -•1323* •09* •2114 •02 •2384 •01
26 GS -•0287* •38* - -
27 GW •0220 •41
28 GH •1115 •13
29 UA •1320 •09 •0243 •40 . _
30 GUI -•0600*
Reaction
•28*
Times
•3115 <•01 •1659 •05
31 GU2 -•3083* •03*
32 GU3 -•0229* •43* •0461 •37 •2271 •25
33 GU4 -•0692* •37* 0133 •47 -•2495* •11*
34 GU5 •0890 19 •4814 10-9 •0449 •19
35 GA •0914 •22 •4577 <•001 •2111 04
36 GR -•0045* •37* •1509 •06 •1023 •22
37 GS 0131 •45
38 GW •1333 •09
39 GH •0938 •18
40 UA -•0008* >•49* 1972 •05 —
Bepeoductiuns
41 GU5 •0581 •38 -iieo •005 •0409
Total Eesults : 69.
TABLE n : LEONARD GROUP
INDIVIDUALITIES |
FIRST THOMAS EXPERIMENT SECOND THOMAS EXPERIMENT
('ll- I)lF- \VP' Cu- u\V
Person- Sl.MIL.UilTV W/WP Diffbrence WP/UM'P VARIANUJi U\V/()\VP Similarity W'/M’P FBKENfF. OWP VAKlANfE uw'i'
X ALITY 2 P UN i'AlU - P 2 P 2 p KX I'aik P z P P
Reaction Times Reaction Times Reaction Times
12 N1 •2378 <•01 71 NP 1195 •15 -•0838* •18* —
13 N3 -1642 <10“ 72 NK -•0400* •37* 2073 U015 — -
II IT - •1393* •06* 73 N,l •3119 <•005 -•0052* •48* -
15 P2 - •1022* •20* 71 NE •0425 •36 (.)646 •24
16 P3 •0306 35 75 PK •1 171 •10 - -0407* •33* •IK KX •50 101 PE -•1478* •16* - 0102* •47* - -0027* •49*
17 FI •2128 <•01 70 P.l 1716 •07 0197 •42 •0608 •15 102 PJ •1642 •12 0050 •48 •0726 17
IS F2 •0051 48 I
77 PE •1461 •10 -1371* •07* •0285 •31 103 PE -•0325* •41* 0743 •27 •0301 •36
19 F3 •4392 <io-’ 78 E,1 •0828 24 1566 •04 0114 •12 1
104 F.J -•1105* •22* 0914 22 -•1747* V.-02*
50 J1 •1536 •04 79 E16 -•1061* •18* •1795 •025 •0414 •24 105 EE -•0734* •31* 1595 •09 0118 •II
51 J2 •2597 <015 80 .JE 2:368 •02 •0142 •44 -•0431* •23* 106 JE 1.504 •16 1981 •05 •0607 •23
52 El •1022 09 81 CN •0814 23 •2300 <•01
I
53 E2 •2595 <•015 82 CP -•0446* •31* •0822 •18
1
51 D •4730 <iu-“ 83 Ch -•0864* •23* •2758 <•04
55 P.D.T. •3007 <-(X)l 81 C.l -•0245* •42* •2175 <•01 — .. _
56 W.S.l. •4684 <io-“ 85 CE •0355 38 •1486 •05
Repkodoctions Reproductions
57 N1 •2729 <01 86 NP •3822 <•001 •0037 •48
58 N3 •1510 •03 87 NE 2577 •015 16.56 •04
59 PI •0997 •14 88 N.J •1 L50 •16 •2030 <•02
1
Repkoductions
60 P2 •2514 <•02 89 NE •1195 15 •3198 <•001
•24* 107 PE •2373 •05 (K)58 •Ps -•1875* •015*
61 P3 •2294 <01 90 PF •2977 <•01 •0554
06 108 PJ •1945 •09 2106 01 -•1334* •06*
62 Pi 2611 <•01 P.l -.3278 <•01 0887
•10* 109 PE 2996 •02 •1522 •10 0990 13
63 F2 •0722 •27 " 92 PE •2258 •03 •1557
• II4K9, •21 110 E.l 0982 •27 1843 •00 •02 is •10
64 F3 •4107 <io-“ r 93 E.J -.3910 ^'•001 0661
45 !
Ill EE •3726 <01 - •0236* •42* 0712 •19
65 Ji •2815 <•01 94 EE -.3671 < -005 1283
•Q3E8* •25* 112 .1 3184 <•015 •0282 •41 -•0916* 14*
66 J2 3.571 <•005 95 JE •4953 <10 •0264
67 El •4117 < 10-s 96 CN •0775 •25 2027 <•015
68 E2 •1343 13 97 CP •1660 •08 •1908 <•02
69 D •4295 < Rr’ 98 CE •0671 •28 •2567 <•005
TO G.D.T •3322 <001 99 C.l 1188 •15 2450 <005
- W.S.l. Not computed. 100
11
CE •L541 09 •2943 •001
- - - - -
IRVING EXPERLMENT
KX P.uu
SlMII.AIUTV \V \VP
P
Dif-
fer KNCK
z
Co-
WP/OIVP VARIANCE
P S
ow/
OWP
p
1 13 NP •1 N3
Reaction Times
13 .0885 -22
111 NP' -•0307* •38* 3877 l(|-“ — —
115 Nl) •0.585 •28 •3828 10-“ — —
1 16 PK 3310* •001* 3617 lo-‘ •U985 •03
1 17 PI) 0260 •10 •2718 V -OOl •0258 •30
IKS El) O
1 •33* •1699 10 " -•0057* •45*
119 IN 1269 •10 2879 <•001 — —
120 IP •Ol 66 13 •1706 •015 — —
121 IK -0236* •41* •5078 ,
10-" — —
122 ID 0632 •26 •1146
1
O
V — —
Hei'uoductio.n.s
123 NP 2321 •Ol •0371 32 — —
124 NK •0816 •21 •3171 <10 1 _ _
125 Nl) •3561 •
.-(Mil •0637 21 — —
126 PK •2376 •Ol •2183 •c,-(K)5 -IKIOI 13
127 IT) •2317 •C.-02 •1815 <•02 -0116 •13
128 Kl) •3115 <•001 •2075 <•005 --0414* -21*
IN I
IP I Xol ciimiuilcd . W.S.l. missed oiiIy 13 in 500, which
IK is not I'lio iifili to give usiTuI ro.sults.
ID J
Total Results: 181
INTER-LIST COMPARISONS (Similarity only):
P.X Pair
129 NN' J
130 PP' 1 >
131 EE'
Kkactios Ti.mks
-•0727* P -27*
•0781 „ -2r)
•0801 ,,
-25
UN Pair l< EAUTIUN Times
132 NN' i --1235* •14*
133 IT" „ -1190 •15
1.34 EE’ „ 1925 •05
S'
f
I
.
I
if
I
j
TABLE ill; :\rJHrELLANEOU,S
INDIVIDUALITIES
J NDIVI-
Perwon- duality W/0\V
KN ALITir Data z P RN Pair
Reflexes
135 R R03 2362 <•015 154 ROl
136 R R04 •0551 •32 155 R02
137 0 R03 •4237 <10-^ 156 R03
138 0 R04 •1591 •09 157 R04
139 0(0) 00 -•0370* •32* 158 G(0) G(H)
140 0(H) 00 -•0223* •42*
I4I S(N) ss •1566 •06 159 S(N) S(A)
142 S(A) ss •1358 •18
Reactiox Times
143 R RO -•1070* •08* 160 RU
144 R RO -•1318* •05*
145 0 RO •1765 •015
146 0(0) 00 •2135 <•005 161 G(0)G(H)
147 0(H) 00 •4251 <10-7
148 S(N) ss •3452 <•001 162 S(N) S(A)
149 S(A) ss 3362 <001
Refrouuctions
150 0(0) 00 •2104 < -005 163 G(0)G(1I)
151 0(H) 00 •1827 •01
152 S(N) ss •2709 <•001 164 S(N) S(A)
153 S(A) ss •3144 <10-4 1
COMPARISONS
IIIF- U'lV (Jo- OW'
Similarity W/WP fekence (,)\V'P variance oWP
z P 2 F z P
Reflexes
6336
3957
5886
0518
<10-5
<•005
<10-4 -
36
-•0798*
•0671
•23*
•28
-•0456*
•0228
•25*
•38
•0282 •39 -•0326* •35* — —
•0036 •49 •1595 •15 -•0126* •47*
Reactiux Times
•1216 •13 •0488 •27 0216 31
•1473 07 •1894 <•01 -•0354* •22*
•2502 <•01 •2797 <•001 -•0180* •34*
Reproductions
•1073 •14 •2633 <•001 •1157 <•01
•2602 <•01 •1924 <•01 •1428 001
Total Results : -17
TABLE IV: SUBSIDIARY RESULTS GIVEN IN TEXT
RN
165*1 Average number of entries per calculation - - 635
„ *2 ,, ,, „ times an observation is used - 8*3
166*1 Mean reaction time (sec./5) for Gatty (0) - - - 14-7
„ -2 „ „ „ „ (H) - - - 7-8
,,
*3 Mean p-g reflex (scale divisions) for Gatty (0) - - 87
,> -4:
„ „ „ „ „ (H) - - 185
167*1 Number of successful reproductions by Gatty (0) - 448
„ -2 „ „ „ „ „ (H) - 505
,,
*3 Chance of above difference being accidental - - <*000,1
168 Correlation between RT and PGR (W. W. G.’s early
data) - -- -- -- -- 4- -46
169 Chance of preponderance of positive results being
accidental (all data)
170 Chance of preponderance of positive results for Co-
variance being accidental ----- *05
171 Chance of preponderance of positive results for Indi-
viduality being accidental <10“®
172 Chance of preponderance of positive results for Differ-
ence being accidental <10~®
173*1 Chance of small number of negative results for Repro-
ductions being accidental - - - - - < 10~®
,,
*2 Chance of RPN showing relatively fewer negative
results than PGR and RT being accidental - - *001
174 Chance of greater proportion of negative results for RT
compared with PGR similarities being accidental - *23
175*1 Chance that excess of negative PGR and RT similarities
compared with all other results is accidental - - <*000,1
,,
*2 As above for PGR only, not including RT in the re-
mainder *04
,,
*3 As above for RT only, not including PGR in the re-
mainder <*000,1
176 Chance that preponderance of countersimilarities in
Feda comparisons is accidental - . . - *000,5
177 Chance that preponderance of countersimilarities in
Uvani comparisons is accidental - - - - *05
178 Chance that preponderance of couutersimilarities in
Feda and Uvani comparisons is accidental - - *000,1
179 Chance that observed grouping of long J and E words
with short Feda words is accidental - - - *03
180 Chance that distribution of positive and negative
PGR similarities (Garrett group) is accidental - *15
181 Chance that connection between RT and RPN (in
W. W. C.’s early material) is accidental - - - *02
182 to 201 See Table E, p. 344.
202 Chance that significant association of RT and RPN is
as common with Communicators as with Controls - *01
203 Chance that preponderance of significant results in
Irving Experiment is accidental . - - - *005
361
NOTE ON ME CAEINGTON’S INVESTIGATION
By J. Cecil Maby, B.Sc., A.E.C.S.
Having studied with the greatest interest Mr Whately Carington’s
two papers on the Quantitative Analysis of Trance Personalities, as
well as having been so fortunate as to correspond with Mr Carington
and Mr Drayton Thomas (as chief observer in the Leonard sittings),
and to be permitted to examine some of the word-response and re-
action-time sheets, I should like to make a few friendly queries and
suggestions regarding the actual data and experimental technique
employed in this work. Nor am I, it appears, alone in this matter,
judging from discussions that I have had with several other gentle-
men in a position fairly to evaluate the experimental aspect of the
investigation.
It was at once evident that such an enquiry would both attract
general psychological attention and carry considerable weight. It
was equally evident, however, that, no matter how infalhbly and
scrupulously the data were manipulated mathematically, there were
bound to exist certain problematical issues, upon both the psycho-
analytical and experimental sides, that would require very careful
consideration before final deductions might quite safely be made by
quantitative analyses. Such a consideration is the aim of the present
note.
It so ha|)pened that I, myself, had for several years been engaged
in psychoanalytical problems and experimental methods nearly
coincident with those here in question, but employing “ normal ”
everyday subjects, picked at random—of various ages and both sexes
—rather than trance personalities. On the publication of Mr Caring-
ton’s first paper, therefore, I decided at once to repeat his word
association tests, with reaction times and psychogalvanic reflexes,
on several suph normal subjects. The results of these experiments
cannot—as space is limited—be given here, but I may say that they
sufficed to confirm certain doubts that I felt already as to the possible
value of the emphical data used by Mr Carington in his analyses of
the trance personalities. His reassurance on these heads would
therefore be welcome.
(1) In order to exclude telepathy—a highly probable affair under
the circumstances—between the operator and the subject, the
stimulus words should preferably be printed on white cards,
362
[part 141 ]
Note on Mr Carinrjtov's Investigation 363
shuffled (face down) by the operator, and presented one at a time to
the view of the subject, in a standardised manner, so that the operator
himself is unaware of the word under presentation d The subject’s
reply would then be unbiased by any idea in the operator’s mind, un-
less, indeed, the operator were also a good clairvoyant—which, I be-
lieve, he was not in the present case, especially under the forecon-
scious preoccupation of the tests.
In the present instance the subject’s eyes were closed, so that some
other mechanical method would have to be adopted. Nevertheless,
the point is a most important one.
(2) Mr Carington was not, I gather, himself present or acting as
operator at the various sittings ;
the actual observations having
been made by Messrs Besterman, Drayton Thomas, and others.
Whatever the reason for this procedure, and no matter how expert
and scrupulous the actual operators may have been, one feels that
Mr Carington would have further benefited, as regards detailed
knowledge of the circumstances attending each sitting and the
individual reactions, by himself being present at the tests. Experi-
ence with far less complex cases has long taught me this vital
necessity.
(3) The psychogalvanic reflex is fraught with great difficulties ;
and, granted -a smoothly working apparatus, a steady and also re-
sponsive ^ subject, an experienced operator (who must also interpret
and sift the data as they accumulate), this reflex still remains insuf-
ficiently understood in all its complex significance to be employed
in any routine tests, and upon such difficult psychological subjects.
I say this with all deference to Mr Carington’s own long experience
of the psychogalvanic reflex, in view of general and personal experi-
ence of the reaction. Mr Carington himself has also admitted, in
correspondence, that this approach is a difficult and unreliable one.
Even the most responsive subjects rapidly become “ bored,” emo-
tionally speaking, so that their reflexes tend to fall off progressively,
both throughout a single recitation of a word Ust (or other series of
monotonous stimuli) and also from sitting to sitting—even if
separated by days or weeks. ^ The effect is greatest at first and
^ It is easy to make a mechaiiical device for doing this, which can be clamped
on the front edge of the operator’s table or desk. Stop-watch timing is done as
usual.
^ As a rule, the more responsive the less steady the subject is, and conversely.
Hence the practical impossibility of rehable routine observations on a suitably
sensitive subject.
® By taking the mean galvanic reflex or mean reaction time in verbal re-
sponse for a given word list, a very perfect “ mental facilitation ” curve may
be obtained. The writer hopes, shortly, to pubUsh an account of such tests in
a psychologicalj ournal
.
364 J. Cecil Maby, B.Sc., A.R.C.S. [part
rapidly declines in a given sitting. Wechsler and Jones (see pp. 223-4
of W. W. C.’s first paper) appear to be justified in their statement,
that position in a serial list is of considerable importance. There is
no cut and dried “ starting effect.” Thus, sooner or later, one is left
with no reflexes at all, or, if present, they can be shown to be the
result almost entirely of the mere neuro-muscular effort of articu-
lated word response, and are hence quite small, and all almost
equal in magnitude ;
while all emotional or “ meaning ” content is
lacking, except in connection with one or two words only from such
a list.
The few values for p.g. reflexes given by Mr Carington for Mrs
Garrett and Herr Rudi Schneider strongly suggest, by their
smallness, that such reflexes were mainly due to articulation
and not to emotional significance. If the former, they would
have occurred some 2 secs, after the spoken response (not the
stimulus word), and would have ceased if the spoken response were
suppressed.
Personally I always mistrust and discount such small reflexes
when working at high instrumental sensitivity.
(4) A change of mood in the operator, a change of operator, or
even an accidental change of tone, clarity or sharpness in the
enunciation of a given stimulus word would (I find from actual tests)
considerably modify the resultant reaction times or p.g. reflexes.
Since all these variable factors clearly entered into the present
tests, the numerical values obtained will undoubtedly be disturbed
accordingly, and hence rendered of questionable value. Such a state
of affairs is suggested by the variability of the actual values in con-
nection with any given word. {See below.)
In so far as these changes are apt to modify the reaction values
steadily in one direction or the other (in normal subjects), statistical
analysis of the data should not mask the effects ;
it can also mini-
mise errors about a mean. But although such a method permits us
to draw such conclusions as are quantitatively possible, systematic
error will not be evaded. As I suggested with regard to the possible
telepathic factor, it would be desirable to make such valuable
investigations as criticism-proof as possible :
—and it is only for such
reasons that the present Note has been submitted, I need hardly
remark.
(5) Brief study of the word reaction times for the Leonard group
of personalities showed the followmg important points, to which I
do not recollect Mr Carington having called attention :
(a) The trance personalities gave reaction times too high for
normality or reliability, as compared with any of my ordinary sub-
jects, tested on the same word list.
365
141] Note on Mr CaringtoNs Investigation
E.g. these approx, values :
Ln - l"-2—2"-8 (mean l"-75)
Lp - 2"-l—7"-l (mean 3"-95)
F - 2"-5—7"-8 (mean 4"-20)
Cf. my normal subjects, who gave between 0"-5 and 3"-0 (mean
l"-2). Note the resemblance between Lp and F, and great difference
from Ln—as also indicated by my actual word analyses [see below)
and Mr Carington’s quantitative investigation. Note also that Ln
gave the most normal reaction times, and most normally distrilmted.
{b) The reaction times in connection with any particular stimulus
word were extremely variable—far too much so for normal straight-
forward response, which is generally under 3" at hmit—or else no
answer at all—and relatively constant from sitting to sitting with
respect to each given word.
Either (1) Special retardation owing to the trance state,
(2) Wandering of thought from the natural reflex replies, or
(3) Conscious dehberation of a suitable answer is here im-
plied, I think.
(c) The mean reaction time (for all words) on any given occasion
often varied markedly frotn one personality to another, but was
reasonably consistent for each personality individually, it seemed.
These divergences were far greater than for any normal subject
in a variety of moods, states and conditions, and often varied m a
rather extreme manner as compared with 20-30% changes under
extreme circumstances for a normal subject, according to my data.
This mutually distinctive character (as to mean time) between the
various personalities ^ would appear to be a signiflcant point
physiologically incomprehensible, unless the whole organism of the
medium be supposed to change with each assumed personality.
Mr Carington, in the process of his statistical method, by taking
the mean of the lot for each personality, and then subtracting each
individual word-value from that mean, etc., would surely eliminate
such detailed inter-personal distinction—reducing them all to a
common basic level. This is one of the points that Mr Dra}don
Thomas wished, I believe, to make after the reading of Mr Caring-
ton’s second paper, but which was not quite clearly understood at
the time. Perhaps Mr Carington will kindly elucidate the point.
Such are the chief points upon which I personally—and I believe
others amongst his readers—would value a further explanation from
^ The resemblance as to mean time between Lp and F, noted above, is due
to averaging out the values for all sittings, en masse, and does not controvert
the distmction here noted.
366 J. Cecil Mahy, B.Sc., A.R.G.S. [part 141 ] !
Mr Carington, and which I do not doubt that he will be in a position
to supply. '
For the rest, I shoidd add that an unbiased examination of the
actual word responses and reaction times of the Leonard group i
suggested to me, as to Mr Drayton Thomas, that the several per- \
sonalities behaved in a remarkably self-distinctive manner. But a ;
|
psychoanalysis of the reaction words (results and figures held over ‘
for the time) certainly hinted—as Mr Carington now concludes
—
that Feda might be a secondary sub-personality of Mrs Leonard
herself. Otherwise, Messrs Carington’s and Drayton Thomas’s
mitial results were, in general, confirmed, so far as I could arrive at
any fair conclusions by that rather micertam method.
REPLY TO MR MARY’S NOTE
Mr Maby does not indicate a single numerical result or interpretative
conclusion with which he disagrees, so I take it that he just wants
to tell us how much better it would have been if I had done it all
differently.
The only thing he seems sure about is that my data are of im-
perfect relrabihty. He is perfectly right ;
but he does not seem to
realise that the whole purpose of statistical treatment is to enable
one to draw, if and in so far as it is possible, reliable conclusions
from data which are individually susceptible to error ;
while the
tests of significance freely used ui this work, without which statistics
are practically worthless, tell us precisely how far we have succeeded
and just how reliable our result is.
I have given, I think, three hundred and thirty-six numerical
results of one kind and another in the Tables and text of Q.S.T.P. II
and every single one of these has a probability attached to it, telling
the reader just what the chance is of its being due to the unrelia-
bility {alias
“
error ”) which Mr Maby postulates. I can do no
more.
That is my total answer to the whole “ unreliability ” story ;
and
if it is considerably my misfortmie, it is in no degree my fault, if
Mr Maby (or others) are insufficiently acquainted with modern
statistical theory and practice to appreciate it. But I shall always
be most willing to learn from those who know the subject.
As regards specific points :
1. Telepathy
:
Who is supposed to have telepathed what to
whom ? What feature of which result is due to this, and how did the
telepathing cause it ?
Until I am told this, I cannot reply ;
meanwhile, the available
evidence {Q.S.T.P. II 38) suggests that telepathy was absent.
2. My own absence from sittitigs : I do not agree. The experi-
ments are behaviouristic, not psycho-analytical, and one of their
chief aims has been to secure objectivity by eliminating personal
judgments.
Is it suggested {a) that if I had been present I would have recorded
times, words or reproductions other than those actually given, or
(b) that Mr Drayton Thomas, Mr Besterman or Mr Irving did so,
or (c) that I would have faked the calculations into conformity
with my impressions ?
2 B 367
368 Whaiely Carington, 31.A., 31. Sc. [part
3. Psycho-galvanic reflex : Tliis has admittedly been disappointing
{Q.S.T.P. II, 37) so I have dejjended on it very little.
Mr Maby ignores totally the figures given by me in my comment
on Wechsler and Jones {loc. cit.) and is necessarily unaware that I
have applied a correction in all cases to deal with the effect he
mentions. (Q.S.T.P. II, "lb.)
In the case of Rudi and Olga, statistically significant similarities
were obtained (RN 154, 155) which shows that the data were pretty
good—as inspection indicated. (Cf. Q.S.T.P. I, 15.)
My only other conclusion, namely that countersimilarity probably
extends to the reflex, is quite tentative. (Q.S.T.P. II, 26.)
With which of these conclusions does Mr Maby disagree ? If
with the first, how does he explain the significant residt, in spite of
the correction for “ fatigue ” ? If with the second, would he rather
draw a tentative conclusion opposed to the evidence than one in
accordance with it, as I do ?
4. Variability of operator, etc., etc. : The beauty of the technique
known as the Analysis of Variance, which I used in this work, lies in
the fact that—as its name implies—it permits one to analyse the
total variability of the data into its component parts and to ascribe
to each of the headings under which the material is classified its
proper share of this. Whatever is not so ascribable constitutes
Error—which may, indeed, be defined, for statistical purposes, as
the results of all causes which we cannot identify or in which we are
not interested.
Thus, in so far as the factors mentioned by Mr Maby are constant
for a given word, personality or occasion, they enter (as is proper)
into the calculated quantities concerned with these ;
but in so far
as they are not constant they enter into the quantity OWP (see my
first paper. Appendix II) which constitutes Error and is used as a
“ yard stick ” to test whether observed differences are significant or
not. The obtaining of a significant difference is automatically a
guarantee that the error (howsoever occasioned) is statistically small
compared with the difference observed. 3Iutatis mutandis, similar
considerations apply to similarities, etc.
The latter part of this section (“ In so far as . . . not be evaded.”)
almost completely defeats me, but I think it is covered by what I
have just said. In so far as “ these changes . . . modify the . . .
values . . . steadily ” they will be sorted out by the analysis under
their proper headings and eliminated ;
in so far as they do so
unsteadily they will automatically appear as Error—which is just
what one wants.
The technique employed is, I fear, a little more advanced than
minimising “ errors about a mean ” ;
but the drawing of “ such
141 ]
Beply to Mr Mahy’’f< Note 3cn
conclusions as are quantitatively possible ” is, of course, exactly
what it claims to do- -neither more nor less—except for adding a
statement of their value.
As regards the “ systematic error ” : Does Mr Maby suggest that
the experimenter has contrived to vary his “ tone, clarity or sharp-
ness,” etc., systematically with respect to a combination of per-
sonality and word ;
and, if so, what reason has he for supposing
this ? If not, I fear I must baldly assert that every other sort of
systematic error ivill be eliminated ;
those who doubt this must
study the technique for themselves.
Similar considerations apply to most of Mr Maby’s section 6,
throughout which—as in the last—he seeks to override calculation
by inspection.
I am only too pleased, of course, to concede the obvious point that
trance personalities and Prepared Leonard are much slower in re-
sponse than normal persons (or even Normal Leonard—herself,
perhaps, a trifle slow). This is of some general interest but irrele-
vant to the question of identity. But to say that the times are too
long “ for reliability ” is demonstrably false. I must repeat
—
ad
nauseam, I fear—that if the data were “ unreliable ” thev could not
yield significant results, except by the inclusion of freak values which
the process of “ scaling ” removes. (Q.S.T.P. II, 2a.) Direct evidence
on the point is added by the figures for “ Individuality ” in my
second paper (notably RN 42 to 70), which are obtained by comparing
the inter-word differences for the various personalities with their
sitting-to-sitting variations. These flatly refute Mr Maby’s con-
tention.
{N.B. Prepared Leonard is admittedly not reliable—as noted in
the text—but the other personalities are satisfactory, with rare
exceptions.)
As regards 5a : It would be mildly interesting if it could be shown
that Etta, say, gave consistently (to a non-chance extent) longer
times than Feda or John, and that this could not be ascribed to
fatigue {cf. my first paper, p. 236, note 37). Unfortunately, we are
not so situated, and a whole new series of experiments would be
necessary to clear up the point. At best, however, it would be rather
like trying to identify individuals by their weight alone to the
exclusion of all other anthropometrical data. The possible existence
of detailed inter-personal distinctions is, of course, the whole motive
for analysing with respect to the different words. I strongly suspect
that Mr Maby has not merely missed this point, but completely
failed to understand the nature of the quantities calculated.
As a matter of interest, I have just made an ad hoc test to see
whether there is any indication that the mean time for Feda is
370 Wha.tely Carington, M.A., M.Se. [part 141]
significantly greater than tliat for Etta, using the figures given in
the above-cited note. The chance of these figures differing fortui-
tously to the extent they do, having regard to the observed variation
from occasion to occasion, is about -275. In other words, the dif-
ference is very far from significant, even if we ignore the effect of
fatigue, which the figures so strongly suggest.
There is accordingly no justification (since this difference is the
largest observed between trance personalities in this experiment)
for claiming that the overall mean time is in any way distinctively
characteristic of the (trance) personality, though slow response is
clearly a characteristic of the trance state as such.
In conclusion : There is any amomit of error in the data ;
that
is the reason, and the only reason, why we use statistical methods
at all. These would be altogether unnecessary if the errors of
measurement were known to be small compared with the quantities
in which we are interested—as, usually, in weighing cheese for
mouse-traps. But statistical methods may be worse than useless
unless they not only give us the best estimate obtainable from the
data of the quantities which concern us but also tell us what these
estimates are worth, i.e. what is the chance that they have been
spuriously generated by the error in question.
Thanks to the ingenuity of professional statisticians, this is
exactly what is done by the methods here employed ;
they give us
the best available estimate and add a measure of its reliability based
on the amount of error actually found in the data used. Anyone who
imagines that any process whatsoever, statistical or otherwise, can
do more than this cherishes an illusion ;
in fact, any process of
treating measurements which does not include a test of significance
necessarily does less.
The matter is one on which the enquirer may reasonably be
referred to text-books on statistics rather than to the Proceedings of
this Society, and I certainly do not feel called upon to demonstrate
it stej) by step—apart from the fact that I am very doubtfully
capable of doing so. But as regards the validity of the results I have
])ublished the position is very simple :
To the question “ Are your data reliable ?
” I reply “Not alto-
gether,” and if asked, “ To what extent does the unreliability vitiate
your results ?
” I answer “ Precisely to the extent indicated by the
value of P which I have carefully attached to each of them. Idcirco
genueram.”
WlIATKLY CaRTNGTON.
Bottrbdam,
June, 1935.
THE WOKD ASSOCIATION EXPERIMENT WITH
MRS OSBORNE LEONARD
By C. Drayton Thomas
The Response Words, showing characteristic reactions of Feda,
John, Etta, Leonard.
The Responses Considered Numerically : Similarities and Dif-
ferences.
What the Figures Indicate.
In a recent paper entitled The Quantitative Study of Trance Person-
alities {Proc. S.P.R., July 1934) and in a second paper printed above,
Mr Whately Carington describes and discusses a series of experi-
ments in the association of words, some of which I conducted under
his guidance and at his suggestion with Mrs Osborne Leonard in the
winter of 1933-34.
Those papers deal with figures. I am about to discuss the actual
reply words given by the various personalities.
The course of the experiment was as follows :
A list of 75 words prepared by Mr Carington was used at each of
six sittings. At each sitting I first read the list to Mrs Leonard before
she went into trance and wrote down her response to each successive
word. When the fist was ended I immediately went through it again,
making a note whenever Mrs Leonard gave a reply identical with
that given previously. I ignored all other replies that she made.
This second reading of the fist is termed the Reproduction Test.
Mrs Leonard’s replies at this stage are shown as the responses of
Lp (Leonard prepared), because Mrs Leonard’s mind may have been
in some manner affected by her preparations for the sittuig.
Having completed this, I waited until Mrs Leonard was in trance
and then repeated the above procedure with Feda. On finishing
with Feda I did the same with John and then with Etta as they in
turn took personal control. The exact time for each reaction was
taken by stop-watch. Those reaction times do not affect the ques-
tions here to be considered and they are fully dealt with by Mr
Carington.
When the above six sittings were over I arranged with Mrs
Leonard that she should allow me to go through the 76 words with
her at a time removed by hours, or by days, from my sittings. This
was for the purpose of ascertaining whether there would be any
371
372 C. Drayton Thomas [part
marked difference between her reactions when she was about to give
a sitting and those taken when she was in the midst of household
occupations and therefore, presumably, in a state of mind entirely
normal. Her replies on these six later occasions are shown as the
responses of Ln (Leonard normal). In addition to the 75 words
six times repeated, we tried a short list of 50 further words and the
present study of reaction words is based on replies to both lists.
When later in this paper I come to the counting of similarities and
differences the longer list alone will be used.
A long experience with Mrs Leonard led me to expect results of
value and I was curious to see how far the personalities would retain
their individual characteristics when bombarded with stimulus
words, each of which was virtually an inquiry into their experience,
memory and predilections. It had long been my wish to discover
some means of ascertaining the extent to which a communicator’s
conversation was influenced by its passage through the medium’s
mind, or, to express it differently, to ascertain what proportion of a
medium’s mentality mingled with that of the communicator during
a sitting.
It had always seemed to me that while the communicator supplied
the thought, the form of its expression depended largely upon the
verbal furnishing of the medium’s mind. Was the result two-thirds
communicator and one-third medium, or, if the proportion varied
according to circumstances, what was the average infiltration from
3Irs Leonard while my communicators were sjieaking ?
The j3roposed experiment might perhaps show statistically to
what extent communicators are able to remain isolated from the
medium, and, conversely, what degree of mental osmosis takes place
during a sitting.
It will be observed that I assume the reality of communication
with departed friends. Yet, although this may have made my part
in the experiment more easy, it neither influences my presentation of
the results nor lessens the force of the emerging facts.
141] Word Aasociation Experiment with Mrs O. Leonard 373
THE RESPONSE WORDS
A Fkw Reactions compared for all Personalities
Words in capitals are those which were repeated in the Reproduc-
tion Test.
Sitting I II III IV V VI
Stimulus Ln Top Note HIGH Sheep HIGH Fast
Word Lp Tired Animal Paper VOCAL Affair Manuscript
E Wing SAMISEN Nightmgale high HIGH SAMISEN
Sing ,1 Joy Hymn Psalm Bowhng MISSION Choir
E ARABY DUETS DUETS ANTHEM DUETS DUETS
Lii SHADE GLASS SHADE GLASS Post GLASS
Lp Cape Toad Case LIGHT SHADE SHADE
Laiiijj E Square ROUND PALACE OIL Gold Oil
J Wi.se Green GREEN Red GREEN RED
E TIPPING TILT TILT TILT TILT TILT
Ln MAY GERANIUM MAY Mumps HAVE MAY^
Lp Desolate Powder MAY Twelve MAY MAY^
Month E Toad Monsoon Cypress TWELVE THIRTEEN MONSOON
J Measure January JANUARY JANUARY JANUARY JANUARY
E JUNE APRIL APRIL APRIL APRIL MAGAZINE
Ln SHARP HECTOR CHASE Chase Price MEDICINE
Lp Hillside Dark Frost ROPE Rail NURSE
Doctor E Nasty Trouble WIZARD WIZARD WIZARD WIZARD
J MISSION Smith Chest HELP Thorpe HAPPY’
E Appendicitis Williams Sudden OPERATION Illness HURRY
Ln Tide TASTE TASTE TASTE Carousal TASTE
i.p Tepid Shoes Spirit China Brass Depression
Nasty E Spots Powder Bitter Law BITTER Apothecary
J Aching Lozenge Taste Stupidity Town Cold
E PAIN MEDICINE Pain Medicine MEDICINE MEDICINE
A glance at the above gives a fair impression of what was taking
place through the whole experiment. There is a small duplication
of the same reaction word by two personalities, but much greater
is the repetition by the same personality of a word previously given.
The number of these duplications and repetitions will be given in the
second part of this paper.
The effect of Feda’s reactions, given with her usual animation, was
heightened by asides and explanations. Unfortunately pressure of
time compelled me to discourage these. They certainly added to the
picturesqueness of the reactions, the Oriental atmosphere of which
will be noticed in the following examples :
374 C. Drayton Thomas [part
1. Feda
^Vords in capitals were repeated in tlie Reproduction Test.
Mountain : Himalaya. Himalaya. Himalaya, white. Himalaya.
Sing : SAMiSEN. samisen.
Make : curry. Sari.
Go : Slave.
Friend : amar. Amar. nabob, mission.
Village : Black. Multitude, plague, poor. Plague, poor.
Sick : Slave, leper, leper.
Bring ; Salver. Salver. Salver.
Angry : Prince.
Head : turban, turban.
Dead : widow, pyre.
Cook : Curry, curry, curry, boy.
Pay : rupee. Gaekwar.
Dress : Sandals, sari, muslin. Gauze.
Hat : SILLY. SARI. Drapery.
Wild : Elephants. Dervish, jungle, lion.
Month ; Monsoon, monsoon.
Walk : SEDAN, sedan.
Wicked : Driver. Hyderabad. Gaekwar. prince.
Lamp ; palace. Gold.
Bread : black, black, black, maize, black.
Tree : Mango, mimosa, mango, mango.
Pity : Leper.
Street : bazaar, bazaars, bazaar. Village, bazaars.
Justice : missionary. Nabob.
Paint : nails, toes. toes. toes, toenails.
Book : Koran. Koran, koran. tablets.
Carry ; mule. mule. Water. Mule.
Rich : nabob, nabob, nabob, prince. Beggars.
Jump : PURDAH.
Yellow : mimosa, roof. robe.
ihiry : Pyre. pyre.
Doctor : wizard, wizard, wizard, wizard.
Box : Incense, cedar, jewels, jewels.
White ; Turban.
Sad : Widow. Eunuch.
Dog ; Pariah, pariah.
Travel : canopy. Procession. Sedan.
Beat : slaves, drum. drum. drum.
Old : PRIEST. Priest. Priest.
Hunger : Dog. village.
141 ]
Word Association Experiment with Mrs 0. Leonard 'il6
Brown : skin. Holy-man, Eunuch.
Home : harem.
Insult : Idol.
Purpose : Mosque.
Horse : jungle.
Fear : Sandals, slave, scimitar.
Sleep : Mosquito, hashish.
Bet : ANNA. DURBAR. DURBAR.
Drive : purdah, purdah, sedan. Chair.
Pray : mat. mat. mat.
Black : Scribe, eunuch.
Proud ; warrior, nabob.
Young : husband. Bride. Amar.
Cash : rupee, rupees, rupees.
Bald : priest, priest, priest.
Mad : dog. pariah.
Read : koran. koran.
Bath ; jade. jade.
Town : Delhi. Prhice. burmah. Judge. Simla. Mud.
Poor : multitude, village, village.
Pen : scribe, scribe.
Noise : drum, drums, drums.
Fetch : Sandals. Salver.
Shoot : ELEPHANTS.
Hill : HIMALAYA. HIMALAYA. HIMALAYA. HIMALAYA.
Girl : nautch.
Hot : COUNTRY. MANGO. CURRY. RICE.
Eat : CURRY, mango. Curry, curry.
Dance : nautch. nautch. dervish.
Door : curtain, curtains. Hut.
Build : PALACE, temple. Palace.
Call : SLAVE. Eimuch. slave.
Red : henna.
Here are some of the asides made by Feda on giving her reactions :
Drive-Purdah :
“ When you are in purdah you wants to go for a
drive and you can’t.”
Bet-Anna : “I don’t like bets, and you don’t want to use more than
one anna, that’s quite enough for a bet.”
Sleep-Heavy :
“ Pipes, you know, when you smoke pipes.”
Land : “I have not got a word for that. It doesn’t interest Feda.
Gladys is always thinking of it. You see, I doesn’t like land,
much land isn’t interesting.”
376 G. Drayton Thomas [part
Mrs Leonard had lately bought land at Tankerton and was
building there.
Door-Curtain :
“ Nicer than a door.”
Bring-kSalver : Not understanding this owing to unusual pronuncia-
tion, I asked Feda to repeat. She gave the same word. I then
asked what it meant. She replied thus, “We brings it ;
beaten
copper or brass or silver. Beaten silver is nicest. We had
beaten brass most. When a slave brings you a letter he brings
it on a salver.”
Wicked- Gaekwar ; Not being sure I heard aright, I asked its meaning.
Feda said, “ A man. He was a naughty man.”
Yellow-Roof :
“ Near where I lived there was one with a bright gold
roof.”
Noise-Drums ; “You would never forget them if you had heard
them as Feda has.”
Broud-Warrior :
“ He is proud, yes he is very proud.”
Fray-Mat ;
“ That is what you always have to pray on, a nice little
mat.”
Bath-Jade ;
“ Princes has them.”
Hill-Himalaya :
“ The only hill I ever knew.”
Town-Simla :
“ Yes, I was born there, when I was young I heard a
lot about it. I don’t know the town but a place near there.”
Call-Eunuch :
(Claps hands) “ You clap and they have got to come.”
Kiss-Noses : (Why do yon say that, Feda ?)
“ Because I have heard
of somebody that does it. Black people does it, we do not do it,
we aren’t coloured people, we are only brown.”
Pool-Drown :
“ That’s better than drowning people in the wells !
”
Veil-Yashmak :
“ It is what you puts in front of your face.”
Sing-Samisen : “It is what you sings to. When you sings you plays
a samisen, and yon go tinka, tinlva, tink—like that.”
Dead-Pyre :
“ We should not be put on it now. It was stupid.
Some of the widows that was put on the pyre was nicer than the
man who died. But they didn’t want to go—some of them
didn’t.”
Book-Tablet ;
“ They used to make books of tablets. We used to
have some kind of stuff like ivory.”
Bmy-Serf :
“ You buries them and not bother about them much.”
Wicked-Hyderabad :
“ He was a very nasty man. Poisoned.”
As I was uncertain about some things implied in the foregoing, I
questioned an Indian student and also an Fnglishman long resident
in India. Their replies are hero given.
Eunuch. “ In wealthy Mohamedan houses eunuchs used to be
employed about a hundred years ago. I have seen some of them
141 ] Word Association Experiment with Mrs 0. Leonard 377
going about, but do not know wbat they do. They are generally
considered by the average man as objects of pity.”
Slaves. “ The idea of slaves came to India with the Mohaniedan
invasion. Even when slaves were being used, only the rich Mohanie-
dans used to have them. Slaves were never common in India.”
Drums. “ Drums are played on practically every occasion among
the lower middle class people, in marriages or special festivities and
sometimes before a funeral procession.”
Tablets for writing. “ I do not know if, or when, paper superseded
tablets. Bark was used in early centuries, and palm leaves are still
written upon in the villages.”
Mud buildings. “ Even now a good many houses in small villages
are built of mud ;
a brick house with tiles is a luxury except in fairly
large towns.”
Prayer Mats. “ Among Mohamedans the mat consists of an ordi-
nary cloth. The Hindus use either a mat or sometimes a skin.”
Blessing water. “ Yes, there is a custom of blessing water.”
Mule. “ The mule is used for carrying loads only and so is kept in
the stables of rich people. I have rarely seen it. Ordinary people
employ horses or bullocks.”
Painting fingers and toes. “ This is a common custom in India
and has been for ages.”
Salver. “ A tray, not necessarily large, is commonly used in great
houses by servants to bring letters or visiting cards. But this
custom is observed only in very rich houses, especially among the
Mohamedans.”
I asked whether there was in India anything corresponding to the
African Witch Doctor, and if so, whether the terms would be inter-
changeable among country folk.
“Yes, but in very remote parts and smallest villages. He is not
so important as in Africa. The Witch Doctor and Black Magician
are almost interchangeable terms among the country folks.”
Samisen. The meaning of this word is unknown to me. Feda ex-
plained that it was an instrument to which one sang. According to
the dictionary is seems to have one, two or three strings, a sort of
primitive banjo used in the East, especially Japan and China. Long
after the experiment I introduced the word in conversation with
Mrs Leonard. She appeared to be unfamiliar with it and said that it
suggested nothing but the title of some old song.
Gaekwar. This is the family name of the rulers of Baroda, and has,
by the English, been converted into a dynastic title. Since Baroda
is some five hundred miles from Simla, which Feda claims as her
native district, it might be asked whether she would be likely to have
378 C. Drayton Thomas [part
heard the term in her lifetime. One cannot say, yet it is not improb-
able ;
for the dynasty was foimded by a succession of warriors during
the first half of the eighteenth century, and news of such an event
would spread throughout northern India. Here I may quote from
the Enc. Brit. :
“ The princes of Baroda were one of the chief
branches of the Mahratta confederacy, which in the eighteenth
century spread devastation and terror over India. . . . During the
last thirty-two years of the century the house fell a prey to one of
those bitter and unappeasable family feuds which are the ruin of
great Indian families.”
These events happened shortly before the period which Feda
indicates as that of her earth life, and may possibly explaiu why she
now associates Gaekwar and the Prince with the stimulus word
“ wicked.”
It is true that the title Gaekwar is familiar to English people, but
Feda used it in an entirely appropriate connection. It is to be noted
that she did not use the word Maharajah, which is equally well known
and which is particularly familiar to Mrs Leonard because a Maha-
rajah and his wife were at one time regular visitors.
2. John
My father, John Drayton Thomas, was a Methodist minister for
forty years before he retired from active work, but he continued to
take services up to the day before his death in 1903. When I began
to study mediumship in 1917, the most regular and skilled of the
communicators identified himself with my father and proceeded to
give evidence which I consider to be logically compelling. During
the mtervenmg seventeen years he has continued to speak with me,
principally through Mrs Leonard, both by using her control, Feda,
and by taking personal control himself.
He expressed the utmost willingness to take part in the word-
association experiment and I now give a selection of his reactions.
A glance at the fist of reaction words shows a number which relate
to the work of the ministry, among them the following :
Bible. Scripture. Testament. Ministry. Missionary. Mission.
Chapel. Vestry. Aisle. Choir. Sermon. Preach. Visits. Class.
Preaching. Truth. Evil. Hymn. Psalm. Communion. Collec-
tion.
Build : CHAPEL, mission. Mission.
Young : class, minister, assistant, missionary.
Speak : Sermon, carefully, audibly, carry.
To the last he added that he always felt the importance of
making the voice carry.
141 ]
Word AssociaMon Experiment with, Mrs 0. Leonard. 379
Black : suit. suit. coat. coat.
My father dressed in black throughout the whole of his
ministerial life, and was very jiarticular about it.
Wine : Supper. Bread. Communion.
Book : Bible. Bible, scriptures, moppat.
My father admired the outstanding missionaries, and espe-
cially Moffat. He once gave me a book on Moffat’s work.
Sing : Hymn. Psalm, mission. Choir.
Window ; Chapel, vestry.
Read ; Testament, testament.
Travel : Circuit. Circuit.
Go : Circuit. Circuit. Circuit.
Each Methodist minister is sent to work in a locality which
is termed his Circuit. At the expiration of a few years he must
go to a different Circuit. Ministers who thus move aliout are
termed “ travelling preachers,” and the term “ to travel ” is
used in that sense. A minister is said to have “ travelled
”
such-and-such a number of years, i.e. the period dtuing which
he has been in the ministry.
Walk : Long. long. Long.
Long : Walk. Sermon.
Although such associations as these are too trite to be evi-
dential, it is worth noting how jieculiarly they ap]dy to my
father. He certainly preached long sermons and he delighted
in long walks. For many years he constantly walked long
distances to fulfil preaching appointments ;
he was jiroud of
his speed and endurance. After his death I found a detailed
record of the miles he had walked in the forty years of his
ministry.
The following are strongly reminiscent of my father’s character,
teaching and practices :
Bet ; Silly, never.
Say : truth, sermon. Preach. Truth.
Love : obey. Teaching, honour, neighbour.
Life : bright, busy. Habits, routine.
Silly : Foolish.
He then added, “ Foolish ” was more my word than “ silly.”
This I remember was so.
Beer : Bad. Stupid.
My father was a strongly convinced total abstainer.
3 so C. Drayton Thomas [part
The following I>il)lical associations are too well known to require
(‘luciclation :
Lamp : Wise.
Bread : Stone.
Rich : NEEPLE. Needle. Camel.
Tree : Bay.
We now come to reactions suggestive of particular memories.
Town : bath. Newport, taunton. bath.
My father was educated at Bath. He married from Newport
and I was born at Taunton.
Street : Newport, row.
Our residence in my early childhood was at Yarmouth, where
our house was close to some of the famous Rows. These are
narrow alleys connecting wider streets.
Village : Island.
Only once in his forty years’ ministry did my father reside in a
village, and that was in the Isle of Wight. At all other times
he was in towns or cities.
Girl : HETTFE. ETTA. ETTA.
My sister’s name was Henrietta ; she was always called either
Hettie or Etta.
Brother : Alfred. John. Alfred.
Alfred was my father’s favourite l)rother. John was an elder
brother who died in infancy and, as my father was the next
male child, he was also called .lohn.
Brown : circuit.
The Rev B. Browne worked with my father in the same cir-
cuit, and there was an unusually close intimacy between them.
Cook : COPPY.
Colloquial name for Co])p, a cook who was in our family for
some thirty years.
Friend : Johnson.
A common name and therefore likely to fit several friendships
in the course of a long life ;
this cannot therefore weigh as
evidence. Yet it is peculiarly apposite here, for the Johnson
family were among our closest friends, Mrs Johnson presiding
at my sister’s birth. It is a name which would live in my
father’s memory.
Pay : Stipend. Tin. quarter.
Many stipends besides those of Methodist ministers are paid
quarterly and the above reactions would have been without
14-1] Word Association Experiment with Mrs 0. Leonard 381
significance had it not l)een for the inclusion of “ tin.” I am
aware that the word is vulgarly used as synonymous with
money, but that does not deter me from giving a much more
satisfying explanation. My father once invested a considerable
sum of money in tin mines and the money was finally lost. The
incident made a great impression upon my father and he often
spoke of it ;
while “ tin mines ” became a family term for ri.sky
speculation.
Month : January. January. January. January. January.
His aside was, “ An anniversary, you know.” “ January
—
there is an anniversary—Mother’s.” My mother’s birthday is
in January.
Needle : Bag.
Carry : Bag.
I place these together for convenience of comment. After
making the latter reaction John asked me, “ You remember my
coat with the cape ?
” I replied that I did. He continued, “ I
carried a bag and wore a coat with a cape. Cannot you see me
so now ?
” I remember that coat with its Inverness cape, and I
still have the bag which my father always carried when leaving
home for week-end appointments. In that bag he took needle
and thread, explaining that he might have occasion to sew on
loose buttons.
Box : Tools, long.
No one familiar with our home in my father’s time could fail
to be struck with this combination of words. His tools, as far
back as I can remember, were always kept in a very long narrow
box and he rather prided himself upon his skill with its contents.
Tool-box is obviously a commonplace association, but it is
doubtful if the word “ long ” woidd be ordinarily associated with
“ tool-box.”
Window : Plants.
He added, “ You remember ?
” I certainly do remember that
my father for many years always had a stand of plants in his
study window, as well as hanging plants in the windows of the
dining room.
Paper : Methodist. Methodist.
My father’s favourite church paper was The Methodist
Recorder.
Chair : red. Reading. Red.
On giving the first reaction John added, “ You remember it,
don’t you, Charlie ?
” But for that cpiestion I should have
noticed nothing relevant in this association of “ red ” with
382 C. Drayton Thomas [part
“ chair.” Biit I then recollected that, when furni shing his
study on retirement from the itinerancy, he bought at a sale an
easy chair. It was specifically his in a sense applying to no other
chair in the house.
For years this chair has been covered and I had to make an
inspection after this sitting in order to ascertain its original
colour. I found it was red morocco !
I had never thought of it as a “ readiirg chair,” but always as
an “ easy chair ” ;
nor was I aware that its colour had originally
been red. The red is still visible where the leather has been
protected from fading.
Finger : numb.
He added, “ You remember ?
” On repetition the medium’s
fingers gave a snap as the word was spoken.
This is peculiarly interesting. My father’s fingers, when he
washed in cold weather, would often turn whitish and feel numb.
My mother used to remark upon the change of colour. The
question, “ You remember ?
” together with the snapping of
fingers during repetition of the word “ numb,” was eloquent
of a personal recollection.
3. Etta
My sister Etta was an ideal mother and housewife. Her chief
recreation was painting. For long years she suffered ill health and
pain, and her passing followed upon a severe operation which was
suddenly found to be necessary.
Among the reactions of E we find the following ;
Get well. Strong. 111. lUness. Anxiety. Ambulance. Opera-
tion. Instruments. Nurses. Dressing. Nursing. Anaesthetics.
Sick. Surgeon. Pain. Hospital. Medicine. Suffering.
Interest in sketching and painting is indicated in other reactions :
Painting. Sketching. Paints. Ochre. Lines. Sky. Picture.
Drawing. Canvas. Distance.
Household associations are common to many women, but they
are strongest in the mind of a good mother and house manager, such
as was my sister. In the reactions of Etta we find many such :
Accounts. Meals. Child. Dinner. Work. Beds. Order.
Garden. Lawn. Tidy. Home. Darn. School. Fireside. Jam.
Meal. Eggs. Carpet. Pudding. Sheets. Linen. Table. Apron.
Breakfast. Economy. Firewood. Chimney. Babies. Mother.
141] Word Association Experiment tvith 3Irs 0. Leonard 383
Family. Christening. Grate. Rug. Slippers. Houses. Sash.
Flannel. Daughter. Bathroom. Tub.
The following suggest my sister’s personal memories and char-
acteristics :
Nasty ; pain, medicine. Pain. Medicine, medicine, medicine.
Doctor : Sudden, operation, hurry.
Bed : Nursing. Anaesthetic.
Knife : operation. Table, operation.
Proud : mother, family.
Name : Joy. christening. (Joy is the name of Etta’s only
daughter.)
Love : CHILDREN. Stuart. Family. (Stuart is Etta’s younger son.)
Kiss : CHILD. Stuart, children, children.
Girl : JOA’. Daughter.
Pain : operation. (Etta’s operation was preceded by a period of
intense pain.)
Child : JOY. joy.
Dead : arisen. Operation. Arise.
Etta’s asides. Comments upon reaction words
Finger : sore. sore.
^\^len giving the reaction “ sore ” Etta added, “ Clara’s
finger.” This conclusively showed knowledge of the follow-
ing fact : my wife, Clara, while strugghng to draw reluctant
curtains, rasped her index finger so severely that the skin was
deeply wounded beneath the second joint. In this position the
wound was slow to heal and caused much inconvenience. Dur-
ing the first few days I fixed the bandage, but afterwards scarcely
gave the incident any further thought. The finger was hurt
nine days before this sitting, and was still sore and stiff, as I
ascertained by inquiry on reaching home. My wife was not at
the sitting and the medium could not have been aware of the
incident.
The allusion can scarcely be attributed to chance coincidence.
I do not recollect my wife having ever hurt a finger before. If
Etta noticed on this occasion a small happening in our home, it
was no more than she had done scores of times before. Many of
her allusions to home events I can recognise at once, but others
have not been within my knowledge and were only verified by
inquiry of others in the house.
Mountain : Island.
The only mountain Etta climbed was one in the Isle of Man.
384 C. Drayton Thomas [past
Green : Carpet.
Etta bought a green carpet when furnishing her first
home. She was rather proud of the selection, and it was in use
during all her married life.
Ked : Grimm’s.
Etta added, “ For the children, dear.” I learn on inqmry
that her children had Grimm’s Fairy Tales. This may be com-
mon enough to-day, but we never read them in our childhood.
Foot : ARCH.
She added, “ I was thinking of something that happened
long ago. It was an important matter and I am glad we put it
right at the time.” This looks like a recollection of what was a
great trouble to her during the childhood of her younger boy ;
he developed flat-feet and was pronounced incurable by several
doctors. Finally a bonesetter put him right and there was no
recurrence of the weakness.
Hill: ROCHESTER.
Etta lived at Star Hill, Kochester, for three years. It was
on a steep rise.
Ball : TENNIS. TENNIS. TENNIS.
Etta was very fond of lawn tennis and apart from cycling it
was her only sport.
Box : Trunk.
She added, “ Do you remember I had a box which I
used instead of a trunk and sometimes people used to laugh ?
”
Yes, she had a rather out-sized box which we jocularly termed
“ The Ark.”
Head : Sunbonnet. sunbonnet.
Hat: SUNBONNET. sunbonnet. sunbonnet. sunbonnet. sun-
bonnet. SUNBONNET.
This reaction was evidently a clear-cut association. I gave
Etta a sunbonnet under exceptional circumstances during a
holiday shortly before the war, and she often alluded to it.
Cook : HANNAH. HANNAH. ^
The name of a maid who lived with us during Etta s child-
hood.
Town : leek. Newport, leek. Newport.
Etta was born at Leek and later stayed there with friends.
Newport was regularly visited, as grandparents resided there
and we regarded it as our second home.
Bil'd: HURT. HURT. HURT. i ,• i
Our nickname for a friend of Etta’s childhood was ‘
The little
hurt bird.” This was once made the subject of a strikingly
141] Word Association Experiment with Mrs 0. Leonard 385
successful identity test in Leonard sttings. See Chapter V in my
book Life Beyoi^ Death with Evidence.
Lamp ; tipping, tilt. tilt. tilt. tilt. tilt.
This is reminiscent of an accident our mother once had with
an oil lamp which tilted over and fell to the floor. We were much
concerned lest the accident should happen again with more
serious results, and were relieved when our parents removed to a
house with gas lighting.
Month : june. april. apeil. april. april.
Etta’s honeymoon was in June. April was the month of her
death.
Box : PAINTS. PAINTS. PAINTS.
Work ; painting. Sketching.
Paint : Sketching, pictures. Canvas, pictures, pictures.
FLOWERS.
The above three stimulus words brought out references to
Etta’s favourite recreation, which was painting ;
her favourite
subjects were flowers.
Brother: you. one. in-law. albert.
The word you refers to me ;
I was Etta’s only brother. Her
only brother-in-law was Albert.
Knife: operation. Table, operation.
Doctor : Sudden, operation, hurry.
Both the above are reminiscent of the circumstances attend-
ing Etta’s death.
The above reactions were peculiar to E alone, but the following
three were also given by J :
Blue : J. Ribbon.
E. Ribbon. Identical reactions but given on different days.
Dog : J. SOMETIMES. BLACK. COLLIE.
E. COLLIE. COLLIE. Both give “ Collie ” but on different
days.
Town : J. Newport.
E. NEWPORT. NEWPORT. Identical reactions but Oil different
days.
The reaction “ ribbon ” may be reminiscent of the time when both
my father and my sister wore “ the blue ribbon,” at that period a
popular badge of total abstinence. In an aside following the reac-
tion “ sometimes,” J said it meant that he kept a dog sometimes but
not always. That was the case in my father’s household ;
his first
dog was “ black,” but this was before my sister’s birth and I doulit
386 C. Drayton Thomas [part
if she ever heard of it. In later years they kept a “ collie,” as Etta
would well remember. Their only other dog had belonged to Etta
and she took it away when she married. Newport has many associa-
tions for our family. Thus all reactions were consistent with the
memories of my father and sister.
With the above exceptions no personally evidential reaction was
shared by two personalities.
As to conmionplace duplications, it was inevitable that these should
occur in response to lists containing so many words having conven-
tional associations ;
but every such duplication will be counted in
the second part of this paper.
Although it has no bearing upon our examination of the reaction
words, it may be of interest to quote Feda’s remark upon her condi-
tion during these tests.
[
Feda. Do you know what I does ? ]
C.D.T. No.
I
Feda. I have not got to get messages or evidence, so I bees myself.
|
It is very nice. Look, when I ordinary give sittings I does i
not be myself, because if I did the sitters and communicators i
would think me a nuisance. So I have to be a kind of machine i
for taking messages from communicators, mostly from Eng- |
lish people which are very dense. So I have to keep saying '
what they say and think.
But now I can be myself, and I can think myself back as I
was on earth. It is beautiful.
Etta and Mr John say that they become very personal and I
think just only of the words and what they suggest. I
The above, given in Feda’s own pecuhar grammar, harmonises with
what may be termed the watertightness of the several commuiii-
cators. Feda gives words indicating an interest in the East, quite
consistent with her claim to be a native of India. John s replies
contain many Scriptural, ministerial and personal allusions, while
Etta’s list is rich in references to home life, family interests, sketching
and illness.
From any point of view it is noteworthy that these several interests
did not overlap, but were strictly confined to the personalities to
whom they were appropriate. Feda shows no interest in minis-
terial life or in family matters, while neither John nor Etta reveals
any acquaintance with the East.
4. Mrs Leonard
We have three sets of Mrs Leonard’s reactions—two (of which one
is for Lp, the other for Ln) of seventy-five words on each of six
141] Word Association Experiment ivith 3Irs 0. Leonard 387
occasions, and one (for Ln) of fifty words on each of four occasions.
This gives a total of 1,100 stimulus words. The reactions may be de-
scribed as commonplace and non-identifying. I have known Mrs
Leonard for seventeen years and am famihar with her interests and
history. Yet a survey of her reactions rarely shows anything dis-
tinctive of either. They might be given by anybody or by every-
body ;
there is nothing to indicate Mrs Leonard—or almost nothing.
The following are the only exceptions I can find ;
Lamp : shade, glass, shade, glass, shade, shade.
Build : HALL. Hall. hall. hall.
During the period in which these experiments were proceed-
ing Mrs Leonard was building a hall suitable for meetings. She
was having the hall fitted for electric fighting and discussed with
me the best kind of glass shade to select.
Land ; Lease, price, price.
Previous to building the hall she had built her present house.
Naturally the question of lease or freehold and of price had been
prominent in her mind on both occasions.
Ball : PLAY. Play.
For some years Mrs Leonard took exercise m a game which
consisted in keeping a ball on the bounce as long as possible.
Book : TEST. TEST. TEST.
As Mrs Leonard will have been aware, her sittings have pro-
duced a remarkable number of highly interesting book tests
which were once made the subject of a paper by Mrs Sidgwick
in Proc. S.P.R., vol. xxxi, p. 241.
Beat : time. time. time. time.
This might possibly be a memory of the period during which
iirs Leonard was training for the concert platform before an
attack of diphtheria impaired her singing voice.
Doctor ; hector.
Hector is the Christian name of Mrs Leonard’s doctor.
Home : Haven.
Mrs Leonard’s present house is named The Haven.
Wild : Alcohol.
Wicked : cruel. Trap.
These reactions might relate to Mrs Leonard’s interest in total
abstinence, and in the prevention of cruelty to animals.
The above fist includes everything indicative of Mrs Leonard’s
identity. Had she been a communicator, instead of the visible
medium, I should have had grave doubts about the performance,
and should certainly have refused to accept it as emanating from the
388 C. Drayton Thomas [part
]Mrs Leonard I had known ! And this notwithstanding the advan-
|
tage she had in giving 450 more reactions than either of the others.
THE RESPONSES CONSIDERED NUMERICALLY
Primary Associations and Reproduction Test
Let ns now deal with all reactions to the seventy-five Stimulus
Words used at six sittings.
I first examined the responses for any similarities to be formd be-
tween them. We need to know how many reactions of each pair of
Personalities were identical. The result was as follows ;
JE 38
LnE 37
LpE 37
LnLp 36
LnJ 24
LpJ 19
FJ 18
FE 17
LnF 15
LpF 12
These figures represent identical reactions to the same Stimulus
Word. Each occasionally responded with some word which another
personality gave in answer to a different Stimulus Word, but that can
be disregarded ;
for our interest is with identical responses to one
and the same Stimulus Word.
Perhaps allowance should be made for the fact that Mrs Leonard
must have grown familiar with the list of seventy-five Stimulus
Words before the Ln reactions were taken. She had responded six
times to the list as Lp ;
and while in trance she may have had some
consciousness of the list being called over to F, J and E, six times
each ;
there had been also the Reproduction Test. The list had
actually been called over forty-seven times before the first Ln
reactions were taken.
From personal experience I know that it becomes easier to respond
with identical words the more frequently one hears the list of
Stimulus Words, whether it be called over for one’s own reactions or
for those of another. This may be the explanation of the fact that
Ln gave more identical reactions with J and F than did Lp.
Why did LnE, LpE, JE, LnLp give more identical replies than
any of the other pairs ? That Ln and Lp, being aspects of the same
individual, should show a likeness needs no explanation. As to the
others, I hazard the opinion that E exerted some degree of influence
over Ln and Lp and that the likeness between J and E is due to their
earth-life relationship. It is of course possible that this supposed
influence was exerted by Ln and Lp upon E, rather than vice versa
y
but we shall, I think, find reasons for concluding that it was not so.
Be that as it may, we note that Leonard and Etta show some
141] Word Association Experiment with Mrs O. Leonard 389
similarity, as also do John and Etta ;
while Feda is markedly less
like the others.
I have been asked whether the similarity between J and E, and in a
lesser degree between them and L, might not have been produced by
telepathy from me. It is difficult to see why, if that had been the
case, the same telepathy did not act with F also.
^
It is to be noted that L, J and E might be expected to show some
similarity in view of their sharing English birth and education, while
F s asserted Indian origin would explain the preference for words of
another type.
It has been suggested that Feda elected to play the part of an
Indian and chose her reactions accordingly ;
in support of this
hypothesis reference is made to the facility with which some
hypnotised subjects can sustain the part they are commanded to
play. As against this I would point to the highly persistent and
impressive way in which Feda repeated her Eastern responses at
sittings separated from each other by intervals of weeks.
The Eeproduction Test
After taking the reactions to the seventy-five words I immediately
went through the list a second time with the same personality, asking
that rephes should be as quick as possible. A reproduction of the
previously given reaction word indicates perhaps a retentive
memory, but more probably a definite mental association. Especi-
ally is it likely to be the latter when the identical word is reproduced
at a sitting or sittings several weeks after the first. For example,
Etta gave “ Sunbonnet ” as her reaction to the word “ Hat,” and
repeated it at every sitting and at every Eeproduction Test, while
no other personality even mentioned the word.
Similarity
Identical reactions, and identical Eeprodiictions, to the same
stimulus word by two personalities ;
^^’'ORDS Reproductioxs Total
LnE 37 19 56
JE 38 17 55
LnLp 36 16 52
LpE 37 12 49
LnJ 24 10 34
LpJ 19 14 33
FJ 18 5 23
LnF 15 5 20
FE 17 2 19
LpF 12 3 15
390 C. Drayton Thomas [part
As we are inquiring whether the responses were given by several
minds or by one, it is pertinent to notice which of the personalities
was first to give the response which was later duplicated by another.
In ascertaining this I have to omit figures of the second sitting, as
the trance on that occasion terminated before E had taken part and
before J had completed the Reproduction Test.
Firsts Firsts
LpE E 21 Lp 15
JE J 23 E 11
FJ J 7 F 4
LpJ J 10 Lp 5
FE F 5 E 3
LpF Lp 7 F 2
Ln cannot be classed, as her whole set was done after the conclusion
of the first experiment. It should be noted that Lp always had first
turn, Feda always the second ;
E came before J in four sittings.
Despite the disadvantage of following the other two, E and J head
the list
:
J 40 L 27
E 35 F 11
J heads his pair three times, whereas the others head their pairs but
once each.
These results seem to indicate the predominating influence of J
and E over L.
This is undoubtedly significant. Mr Carington found that J had a
high average likeness to the other personalities, and it therefore be-
came of interest to inquire whether this was due to his bemg in-
fluenced by the others or vice versa. In the above figures we get an
indication that J exerted the dominating influence. That this should
be so is entirely in accord with his mentality as known to me during
his lifetime. He was accustomed to positions of authority in which
he had to take the lead ;
moreover he was naturally strong minded
and held his opinions with great firmness.
The figures indicate a close connection between J and E, and re-
veal the dominance of the JE combination. This agrees with what
one would have expected ;
for my sister Etta shared, to some degree,
my father’s strength of character. They inevitably had much in
common, for they were living in the same environment and mental
atmosphere up to the time of my sister’s marriage.
Difference
We may here inquire whether our estimate of similarity can be sup-
ported by a consideration of differences. We wiU try to ascertain
141] Word Association Experiment ivith Mrs 0. Leonard 391
whether the observable unlikeness does, or does not, suggest the
action of varying aspects of the same mind.
Responses peculiar to one personality and not given by any other :
Reproductions and
Repetitions of
Words alone THOSE Words Totals
F 377 142 F 519
E 315 153 E 46S
.J 328 90 J 418
Lp 334 37 Lp 371
Ln 252 91 Ln 343
F is seen to be markedly distinct from the others.
J and E keep together.
Mrs Leonard is least distinguished of any.
In the following tables we shall take no account of reproductions
or repetitions. By comparing the responses of Lp with those of Ln
we find that the former used 396 words not found in the responses of
the latter ;
also that Ln used 273 words not used by Lp. The dif-
ference between Lp and Ln is found by adding those figures,, viz. 669.
The following figures will enable us to treat each pair m tliis way.
The difference between :
Lp and Ln is 396
Lp 3 3
F „ 421
Lp 3 3
J „ 411
Lp 33 E „ 394
Ln 33 Lp „ 273
Ln 33 F „ 295
Ln 33 J „ 286
Ln 3 3
E „ 271
F 33 Lp „ 367
F 33 Ln „ 363
F 33 J „ 362
F 3 3
E „ 369
J > i
Lp „ 384
.J 33 Ln „ 379
J 33 F „ 389
J 33
E „ 368
E 33 Lp ,, 353
E 33 Ln „ 344
E 33 F „ 376
E 33 J ,, 350
392 C. Drayton Thomas [part
^Ve can now place the pairs in order of greatest difference.
Lp differs from J by 795 words
Lp J > >3 F 3 3
788 33
F >3 J 33 751 33
Lp fi 53 E 33 747 33
F > J 3 5
E 33 745 33
E 33 J 33 718 3 3
Lp 3 3
Ln 33 669 33
Ln 33 J 33 665 33
Ln >> 33 F 33 658 33
Ln >> 33 E 33 615 33
The above results indicate that Feda is markedly distinct from
the others ;
while the normal Mrs Leonard is the least isolated of any.
The following figures suggest that the influence of E over the
others is greater than that of J.
Lp differs from J by 795 words
Lp ,, ,, E ,, 747 ,,
i.e. E and Lp are more alike than J and Lp.
F differs from J by 751 words
F E 745
i.e. E and F are more alike than are J and F.
Ln differs from J by 665 words
Ln „ ,, E „ 615
be. E and Ln are more alike than are J and Ln.
It is interesting to find, by the above method, the dominating
influence of E, because Mr Carington reaches the same conclusion
l)y quite a dilferent method, viz. by comparing and contrasting time
reactions and the Reproduction Test.
While we need have no doubt about F, E and J, I think that the
figures for Ln were lessened m value by the fact that Mrs Leonard
gave these reactions after the first set of six sittings was completed.
As previously stated, she had heard the list twelve times when she
was not in trance, and it had been read over no fewer than thirty-five
times while she was in the trance state. This may well have familiar-
ised her mind, conscious and subconscious, not only with the Stimulus
Words but with many of the reactions given by the other person-
alities. This lessens the value of all Ln computations in this paper.
They are included for the sake of completeness, but no strong argu-
ment can be based upon them.
The following remarks were given some years ago, but would seem
141] Word Association Experiment with Mrs 0. Leonard 393
to bear upon our experiment and the attempt to apportion the in-
fluence on each other of medium and the controlling personality.
Feda : Your father says that he refrains from saying many things
which he wishes to give lest they should come through in a
distorted form. Feda feels that also ;
for she does not
always make the Medium’s voice speak as intended. Feda
touches something which wakes the Medium’s mind and
then it goes off on its own account.
C.D.T. : Feda, can you hear the words spoken by the Medium ?
Feda : Yes, but cannot stop her speakmg if what she says is wrong.
Often Feda camiot get the power to check the words.
Your father says that over-pressure taps the subconscious
mind of the Medium and then something escapes before
Feda can stop it. Even after hearing those escapes and
inaccuracies Feda cannot always so control the Medium’s
mind as to put things right. As each thought is given it is
fixed on the co-operative mind which is created partly by
the Medium and partly by Feda. Once it is registered there
a counter-suggestion is not easily put through. Your
father says that Feda thinks she works directly on the
Medium’s brain, but he does not consider that this is en-
tirely accurate. He says that Feda really works upon the
Medium’s mind-essence, which, in its turn, works the brain.
This mind-essence belongs to the Medium’s organism.
The above explanation of a composite mmd, created partly by the
controlling personality and partly by the medium, is of special
interest hi view of the varying degrees of similarity which we find
between the medium and the personalities.
We have seen that any similarity existhig between the reactions of
the personalities and those of the medium varied with the personality
controlling. We also found these variations appearuig in the char-
acter of the words peculiar to each, and in the degree of divergence
from the reactions of the medium. Indeed, all that we found seems
to favour the supposition that with change of control there comes
into operation a differently composed mind and memory.
WHAT THE FIGURES INDICATE
The figures indicate a small common element in the reactions of
L with both J and E, and very much less so with F.
Does the common element indicate that L influenced J and E, or
was their influence exerted upon L ? Evidently it is the influence of
394 C. Drayton Thomas [part
J and E which is the stronger ;
for they are more frequent than L in
first giving the word which one or other of them duplicates with L.
E first 21 times and Lp 15
J „ 10 „ „ Lp 5
Inquiring whether it is J or E who most influences L, we find that
E has most influence ;
not only was E first 21 times as shown above,
but EL stand only second to EJ for identical reactions.
This result is supplemented by calculation of difference. LpJ
have 795 words different from each other, LpE have 747. This
indicates a closer affinity between L and E than between L and J.
Continuing the examination of “ difference,” we find that F (519)
is again isolated from the other personalities by a wide margin.
Next in order comes E (468), and L is la.st (Lp 371, Ln 343).
It is noteworthy that F should be at one extreme and L at the
other. One might have expected a rather close likeness between
iMedium and Control, but Feda’s isolation reveals itself in various
ways throughout the whole experiment.
Written plain over all the figures is the close connection of J and
E. The figures for F isolate themselves, almost as much as did
Feda’s reaction words, with their strong Oriental flavour, which none
else shared. It is surprising, considering the long years in which
they have been associated as Control and Medium, that no strong
similarity should have grown up between her and I\Irs Leonard.
The influence of both J and E over L is much greater than that of
F over L. This is the more surprising seeing that J and E are only
occasional Controls, while F is controlling at every sittmg. Taking
this fact m conjimction with the general colourlessness of the L re-
actions, and the almost entire absence of personally characteristic or
evidential responses by L, we may conclude that Mrs Leonard is
peculiarly happy in being able to keep her mind in the “ clean slate
”
condition. I am av>-are that she has practised this for many years,
fearing that if she thinks of anything particularly interesting just
before a sitting it will interfere with its success. Doubtless this habit
has had much to do with her success in mediumship, and accounts for
the influence she exerts upon Communicators being almost nil.
Yet it does not follow from this that the Communicators are able
to express all they wish ;
the medium’s influence may be, and I
think is, a strongly limiting one. I constantly notice this limiting
influence in my sittings, although rarely, if ever, can I detect any-
thing to suggest that the L influence is overriding that of my com-
municators. The passage of thought through the L organism seems
subject to some degree of check, but not to any serious distortion.
Mr Carington’s examination, being based on reaction times and
w
141] Word Association Experiment with Mrs 0. Leonard 395
reproduction tests, might be expected to show relationships or dif-
ferences of a character other than those based on examination of
response words. Nevertheless there are similarities in our conclu-
sions which strongly support each other. Prominent among these
stand out
:
(i) The close relationship of John and Etta.
(ii) Their tendency to dominate the medium.
Had time permitted my communicators to expand their replies
they would probably have explained several response words of which
I failed to see the significance. As it was they explained some which
I should not otherwise have understood.
This leads me to remark that the method of free association might
be used with advantage when communicators find difficulty in ex-
pressing their ideas, a difficulty which seems to be increased when
one puts direct questions. Direct questions seem to create a condi-
tion of strain which defeats their object. My father explains it thus :
“ To put anything m a specific form is most difficult of all. I have
to dodge a machine. You see, there is the medium’s brain, and Feda
manipulating that brain, and I have to dodge both. I find I can get
thmgs through most easily when I take Feda off her guard, when she
is not looking for a word or name. MJien there is a great effort, and
Feda is aware that I am trying, she holds the brain m a strained
condition. Suppose you are about to play a game, or something of
that kind, say to shoot at a target ;
if you know you must hit the
bull’s-eye or not make the attempt, you will have less chance of
success than if you think it does not matter whether you do it or not.
Anyone anxiously w^aiting to see you hit the bull’s-eye makes for
you a shghtly strained condition ;
this strained condition is not with
me but with Feda.”
MTien, as in these experiments, the communicator is in personal
control of the medium, the above-mentioned strain would, of course,
be felt by himself. This strained condition is evaded by the method
of free association. Skilfully used, it might be effective in eliciting
information which direct interrogation would have blocked.
We have discussed differences and similarities between personalities
making use of the same physical body. WTiether four ordinary
people thus tested might prove less alike in their reactions than do
the personalities under inspection in this paper I do not know, for I
have not made a control experiment.
We have, however, discovered something significant in the fact
that these four maintain certain relationships consistently, always
showing the same or similar relations whether we consider their
reaction words, their likenesses or their dissimilarities in response.
C. Drayton Thomas
396 [part 141]
The two closest are J and E ;
the most widely separated are F and
L. It remains for others to interpret these facts.
Jlefore commencing this experiment at Mr Carington’s suggestion
I had no idea as to its probable result. MTiether my Communicators
would be able to respond at will without being confused by the action
of the medium’s mind, I could not guess. During the progress of the
experiment I refrained from any attempt to study the accumulating
material. By previous arrangement the word lists were not retained
in my possession.
When this material was finally returned to me for examination its
character afforded some surprises. I had, of course, noticed some
indications of personal memory in the responses of my communi-
cators, but had not realised that this method of free association was
providing data by which various degrees of reciprocal influence be-
tween the different personalities wonld be indicated. Mr Carington
is to be congratulated upon the insight and enterprise to which so
illuminating an experiment is entirely due.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 142
NORMAL COGNITION, CLAIRVOYANCE, AND TELEPATHY ^
By Peofessor C. D. Broad, Litt.D.
Introduction
When the Society did me the honour of making me their President
they chose, presumably with their eyes open, a professional philo-
sopher with very little first-hand experience of Psychical Research.
I think I shall be most likely to be of use to the Society in my presi-
dential address if I stick to my last and speak as a philosopher.
All of us are aware that our subject differs from most others in
the following important respect. It is much harder for us than for
workers in other experimental fields to get any empirical facts or
first-order generahsations estabhshed and universally admitted.
No one doubts, e.g., that hght is sometimes reflected and sometimes
refracted ;
so the physicist can go on at once to seek for the laws of
reflexion and refraction and the conditions under which such events
take place. But contrast our position in respect of supernormal
cognition. For my own part I have no doubt that telepathy among
normal human bemgs happens from time to time. And it is quite
clear to me that, in order to account for the information which is
sometimes conveyed by good trance-mediums and automatic
writers, a very extensive and peculiar telepathy among the living
is the very least that must be postulated. Probably most, if not
all, of those here would agree with me. But we know quite well that
most scientists and the bulk of the general public would not admit
this for an instant. And we know that this is not because they have
^ Presidential Address, delivered at a General Meeting of the Society on
1st May, 1935.
2 D 397
398 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
loolced into the evidence and found it faulty or have suggested '
plausible alternative exj)lanations. They would no more thinlv of
looking into the evidence for telepathy than a pious Christian thinks
of looking into the evidence for Mahometanism, or a pious Mahome- j
tan of looking into the evidence for Christianity. When we leave
tele])athy and pass to other forms of supernormal cognition there
is no agi-eement even among ourselves. Many of us would say that '
non-inferential foreknowledge of an event is plainly impossible,
and that no evidence could convince us of it. And many of us i
would feel that the modus ojoerandi of pure clairvoyance or of non- i
inferential cognition of past events by a person who never witnessed
them is so difficult to conceive that we could hardly be persuaded of
the occurrence of such cognition.
Of course each of us is influenced to some extent by psychological
causes, which are logically irrelevant, when he accepts or rejects an
alleged fact or a suggested theory on the strength of evidence sub-
mitted to him. But an important logical principle is involved too.
The degree of belief which it is reasonable to attach to an alleged ]
fact or a proposed theory depends jointly on two factors, viz. :
(a) its antecedent probability or improbability, and (b) the trust-
j
worthiness of the evidence and the extent to which it seems to I
exclude all alternatives except the one suggested. On precisely
similar evidence it would be reasonalde to believe much more strongly
that an accused man had cheated at cards if one knew him to be a i
bookmaker than it would be if one knew him to be an Anglican l
bishoji, l)ecause the antecedent probability of the alleged event is i'
much greater in the former case than in the latter. Now antecedent
probability depends very largely on analogy or coherence of the
suggested proposition with what is already known or reasonably
believed about the sul>ject-matter with which it is concerned.
Antecedent improbalulity depends very largely on lack of analogy
or jiositive discordance with what is already known or reasonably
believed.
The application of this to our sid)ject is obvious. People have at
the back of their minds a certain system of knowledge and belief
about the nature and conditions of normal cognition. They suspect
that the various kinds of supernormal cognition which have been
alleged to happen would be utterly different in nature and would
presu])])ose an entirely different kind of causation. They therefore
regard the occurrence of supernormal cognition as antecedently |
very unlikely, and they demand for it evidence of such amount and ;
such quality as they would not think of requiring for alleged facts of
a normal kind. This attitude is, up to a point, perfectly reasonable,
and it is impossible to say just where it ceases to be so. It seems to
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 399
me that the whole situation would be very much clarified if the
two following requests coidd be fulfilled. Tu the first place, we should
like to have a clear and explicit statement of what may reasonably
be regarded as well-established facts about the nature and conditions
'
of normal cognition. Secondly, we should like to get from psychical
researchers a moderately clear statement of what they understand
by “ clairvoyance,” “ telepathy,” “ pre-cognition,” etc., and some
suggestions about the possible modus operandi of these forms of
cognition if they do occur. If such statements were forthcoming, we
might be able to see where precisely there is analogy or lack of
analogy, coherence or discordance, between alleged supernormal
cognition and admitted normal cognition. This would be a great
advance on the present vague impression of oddity and upsetting-
ness.
Now a professional philosopher, interested in Psychical Research,
ought to be of some use in this connexion. He ought at least to be
able to make a moderately coherent answer to the first request, and
he might be able to make a few suggestions towards answering the
second. I propose to devote the rest of my address to these topics.
The forms of supernormal cognition which have been alleged to
1
occur may be roughly classified as follows. We may divide them
first into supernormal cognitions of contemporary events or of
the contemporary states of things or persons, and supernormal cogni-
tions of past or futiire events or the past or future states of things
or persons. Under the first headmg would come Clairvoyance and
Telepathy. Under the second heading woidd come such knowledge
of the past as was claimed by Miss Jourdain and Miss Moberley in
their book An Adventure, and such foreknowledge as is claimed by
Mr Dunne in his book An Experiment with Time. We will call these
“ Supernormal Postcognition ” and “ Supernormal Precognition
”
respectively. Smce Clairvoyance, if it happened, would involve no
complications about other minds than that of the cogniser or other
times than that at which he has his cognition, I shall begin with it.
I shall then consider Telepathy. I shall not attempt to deal with
Supernormal Postcognition or Precognition in this paper.
Clairvoyance
Suppose that a person correctly guesses the number and suit of a
card in a new pack which he has never touched, and which has been
mechanically shuffled so that no one else has the information in his
mind at the time. If this were to happen often under test condi-
tions, there would be a jwinia facie case for postulating pure clair-
voyance. It would then be reasonable to raise the following ques-
400 Professor G. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
tion :
“ Supposing that pure clairvoyance does occur, how far, if at j
all, is it analogous to ordinary sense-perception ?
” This is the
c|uestion which I am now going to discuss. I
Normal Sense-perception
Plainly we cannot hope to answer this question until we have
stated clearly what happens in normal sense-perception. I shall
therefore begin by giving what seems to me to be, on the whole, the
most reasonable account of this in view of all the known facts. We
shall have to consider it in its psychological, its physiological, and
its physical aspects. The subject is very complex and highly con-
troversial, and I shall have to be rather dogmatic in order to be
reasonably brief.
}
I think that the first point to be made is that there are several
forms of sense-perception which are, prima facie, fundamentally
different in nature. Philosophers have too often confined themselves
|
to a certain one of them, viz., visual perception, in discussing the
subject. It is essential that we should not make this mistake if we !
are seeking for analogies between clairvoyance and normal sense- 1
perception. I begin, therefore, by dividing sense-perception into i
“ extra-somatic ” and “ intra-somatic.” In the former the perci-
j
pient seems to himself to be perceiving foreign bodies and events ;
:
in the latter he seems to himself to be perceiving the inside of his ’
own body and processes going on in it. Now there are at least three
important forms of extra-somatic sense-perception, viz., hearing,
sight, and touch, which seem, primafacie, to be unlike each other in
certain fundamental respects.
Sight and hearing agree with each other and differ from touch in
that they seem to reveal to us things and events which are located |
at various distances out from our bodies. But hearing differs from (
sight in the following important way. When I say that I hear a j
bell I should admit that this is an elliptical expression. Strictly (
speaking, I hear a noise of a rhythmic booming kind which seems to
be emanating from a distant place and coming to me in a certain i
direction. I take it that this place contains a bell, and that a certain j
rhythmic process in it is causing it to make the noise. On this point ;
there would be no difference in principle between the account which i
an unscientific percipient would give of the experience as it seems to
him and the account which a scientist would give of it from the
standpomt of physics. But, when I say that I see a bell, I do not !
readily admit that I am using an elliptical expression, as I should j
admit that “ I hear a bell ” is short for “ I hear a bell tolling.” I j
seem to myself to be directly and intuitively apprehending a remote
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 401
coloured area which I take to be part of the surface of an independent
foreign body. I may learn from the scientists that the situation,
in its physical aspect, is very much like that which exists when I
hear the bell. I may learn that certain rhythmic processes are
going on in the place where the bell is, that these cause a disturbance
to be emitted in all directions from this centre, and that this dis-
turbance eventually travels to my body and produces a visual sensa-
tion. But, even if I accept this as proved, it remains a fact that the
situation does not present itself to me in that way when I am having
the experience. I continue to seem to myself to be directly appre-
hending the surface of a remote extended object and to be actively
exploring it with my eyes. In this respect visual perception re-
sembles tactual perception, except that the objects are perceived
as remote from the percipient’s body in the one case and in contact
with it in the other.
We may sum up these likenesses and unlikenesses as follows. VV e
may say that hearing is projective in its epistemological aspect, and
is emanative in its physical aspect. We may say that sight is osten-
sibly prehensive and not projective in its epistemological aspect, but
is emanative in its physical aspect. And we may say that touch is
ostensibly prehensive in its epistemological aspect, and is non-
emanative in its physical aspect.
Now the question at once arises whether sight and touch are really
,
as well as ostensibly, prehensive. We will now consider the two
kinds of perception in turn. The mere fact that sight is physically
emanative does not, as some people have thought, suffice to prove
that it cannot be epistemologically prehensive. It is logically
possible that the function of the light-waves which emanate from a
distant object, strike the percipient’s eye, and thus eventually
affect his visual brain-centres, should be purely that of evoking and
directing a cognitive act and not in the least that of producing or
modifying a cognisable object. In fact the disturbance hi the perci-
pient’s brain, produced by the light-waves, might simply cause his
mind to apprehend dhectly the coloured surface of the remote
object from which the waves emanated. If so, visual perception
would really be prehensive. But, although this is logically possible,
I think it may quite safely be dismissed as inconsistent with the
facts taken as a whole. The argument for this conclusion is cumu-
lative. Each kind of fact which seems to conflict with the view that
visual perception is prehensive can, perhaps, be squared with it if
we choose to make a complicated and ingenious enough supplemen-
tary ad hoc hypothesis. But these various supplementary h}qio-
theses are logically independent of each other ;
and, when one takes
them all together, the prehensive view becomes as complex and
402 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
artificial and incredible as the Ptolemaic system of astronomy had
become just before it expired.
I shall content myself with mentioning one jiarticularly obvious
difficulty. Light travels with a finite velocity. It is therefore
possible that, when the light which started from a distant star
reaches my eye, the star should have moved away from its original
position, changed its original colour, or blown up completely. If
sight were really prehensive the result of the light now striking my
eye and affecting my brain would be that I now directly apprehend
the surface of the star as it was when the light left it perhaps a
thousand years ago. My act of direct acquaintance would thus have
to bridge a temporal gap of a thousand years between the date of its
own occurrence and the date of existence of its own immediate
object. Yet the object which I see is most certainly perceived by
me as simultaneous with my act of seeing it.
I conclude that visual percejition, though ostoisihly prehensive of
external objects, is not really so. All the facts conspire to support the
following conclusion. W hen I have a visual j^ercejition I seem to my-
self to be directly apprehending an area of a certain size and shape,
coloured in a certain way, and forming part of the surface of a certain
material thing at a certain position outside my body. Put the shape
and size and position which I perceive it as having, and the colour
which I perceive as pervading it, are completely and finally deter-
mined, on the physical side, by certain jirocesses which are going on
at the time m a certain part of my brain. Provided that these
processes are going on in this jiart of my brain, and that my mind
is functioning normally, I shall have exactly this kind of visual
experience no matter how the brain-process may have been set iqi,
and no matter whether there is or is not an external body such as I
seem to myself to lie directly apprehending. If the brain-process
has been set iqi by light which has travelled fi’om an external source
through a homogeneous medium to my eye, the visual perception
will be as nearly veridical as it is ])ossil)le for a visual perception to
be. If it has been set up by light which has travelled from an
external source but has undergone reflexions or refractions before
reaching my eye, the visual perception may be highly misleading
hi many respects, Imt it will not be utterly delusive. If it has been
set up liy events in my own body, as in dreams or delirium, or by
such abnormal causes as the suggestions of a hy|jnotist, the visual
perception will be utterly delusive. Thus, even in the most favour-
able case, where there is or has been an external source and where
the visual perception gives the ])crcipient correct inlbrmation aliout
its shape, jiosition, and physical state, the connexion between the
act of perceiving and the external source is extremely remote. Even
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 403
in this case the source and the processes going on in it are at most a
remote causal ancestor of the visual perception and are never the
immediate object of it. Thus there is always a certain element of
delusiveness in even the most normal and veridical visual perception.
For the percipient always seems to himself to be directly a'pjnehend-
ing the surface of a remote object as it now is, whilst at best he is
only cognising very indirectly certain facts about an emitting source
as it forfnerly was. Owing to the very great velocity of light the
time-error is practically unimportant except when the source is at
an astronomical distance from the observer. But ostensible prehen-
siveness, like original sm, is a taint which equally and systematically
infects all visual perceptions, good, bad, or indifferent.
One important consequence of this is the following. Consider
the statement ;
“
You and I are seeing the same part of the surface
of the table.” There is no reason to doubt that such statements
often record facts, and that they do this quite efficiently for most of
the practical purposes of daily life. Nevertheless there is a suygestio
falsi about them. They suggest that there is a certain part of the
surface of a certain external body which you and I are both directly
apprehending. But the fact which they record, when they ilo record
a fact, is much more complex and of a very different kind. It would
be more accurately expressed by the statement :
“ This visual
ex]ierience of mine and that visual experience of yours, though they
are not prehensions of a common object, have a common causal
ancestor in an emittmg source outside our bodies.”
We can now turn our attention to tactual perception. As I have
said, this is ostensibly prehensive in its epistemological aspect, and
is non-emanative in its physical aspect. In tactual perception we
must distinguish three factors, (i) Awareness of various sensible
qualities, such as hotness and coldness, roughness and smoothness,
etc. This may be compared with awareness of auditory qualities in
hearing and of colours in seeing, (ii) Awareness of shape and extent.
This may be compared with the corresponding factor in visual ])er-
ception. There is, I think, nothing like it in hearing, (iii) The
experience of actively pulling and pushing foreign bodies which are
in contact with one’s own and making them move in spite of their
varying degrees of resistance to one’s efforts ;
the experience of
trying to move them and failing because the resistance which they
offer is too great ;
and the experience of being forcetl to move, in
spite of resisting to one’s utmost, by the thrust and pressure of other
bodies on one’s own. I will call this dynamic experience. I know of
nothing analogous to it in any other form of perception.
It is this dynamical factor in tactual perception, and the systema-
tic way in which variations in it are correlated with variations in
404 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
the non-dynamical factors, which makes it difficult even for the most
sceptical to doidjt that tactual perception is really prehensive of ex-
ternal objects. We may admit at once that there is not here, as in the
case of visual ])erception, a large coherent mass of facts which it is
dilHcult or impossil)le to reconcile with the prehensive view. It might
even be argued with some plausibility that, unless we realhj are di-
rectly acquainted with foreign bodies in the experience of active man-
ipulation, we should never have seemed to ourselves to be dhectly ac-
quainted with them in visual perception. But we must not let our-
selves be rushed into accepting the prehensive view of tactual per-
ception until we have noted one important fact which may bear in
the opposite direction.
Tactual perception shares with sight and hearing a characteristic
which we have not yet mentioned. It is transmissive m its physiolo-
gical aspect, i.e., it depends on the existence and functioning of
nerves which connect the periphery of the body to the bram and
convey disturbances at a finite rate hiwards and outwards. Now it
IS certain that the occurrence of a characteristic kind of disturbance
in my brain is a necessary condition without which I shall not have
a perception of myself as touching and interacting with a foreign
body. The question is whether the occurrence of such a process in
my brain is also the sufficient physical condition of my having such
an experience. If it is sufficient I should have exactly the same
tactual experience, provided that this process in my brain were to
occur and that my mind were workmg properly, even if there were
no foreign body in contact with my skin. If this were so, my tactual
perceptions could not be jirehensive. It is difficult to settle this
question conclusively, because it is doubtful whether precisely that
kind of brain-state which occurs when I am actually manipulating
and struggling wfith a foreign body ever does arise from purely
internal causes. But the fact that I can dream that I am struggling
with a foreign body, though I am in fact doing nothing of the kind,
certainly suggests that even the experience of active tactual mani-
pulation may not be really prehensive.
My own tentative view is that tactual perception is probably not
prehensive of external objects, but that, in spite of this, it justifies us
in being practically certain that there are foreign bodies and that they
do interact with our own bodies. It seems to me just conceivable,
though extremely uidilmly, that I might have had the kinds of ex-
perience which I describe as “ seeing ” or “ hearing ” foreign bodies
even if there had been no foreign bodies or if they had never emitted
light-waves or sound-waves to my body. But I find it almost im-
possible to believe that I could ever have had the kind of experience
which I describe as “ pushing ” or “ pulling ” or “ struggling with
142]
Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 405
” foreign bodies unless there bad been foreign bodies and they had
quite often interacted dynamically with my own body through con-
tact. Granted that this has quite often happened, it is not hard to
explain how occasionally, m dreams or delirium, I may have a close
imitation of this experience although no foreign body is then inter-
acting dynamically \vith mhie.
There is one important point on which I want to insist before
leaving the topic of extra-somatic perception. I have argued that,
when we have the experience of hearing, seeing, or touching some-
thing, we are not in fact apprehendmg directly the foreign body, if
such there be, which we say we are hearing, seeing, or touching.
Now at this stage there is a risk of making a serious mistake. It
might be thought that, because hearing, seeing, and touching are
indirect and mediate, in the sense of being non-prehensive, they
must be indhect and mediate m the sense that they involve infer-
ence. This would be a profound mistake. Even in the case of hear-
ing I do not argue, from the fact that I am hearing a booming re-
current noise and from certain general principles of physical causa-
tion, that there is probably a bell tolling in a certam place outside
my body. The fact is that my auditory experiences have been
closely correlated with certain of my visual and tactual experiences
in the past, and this correlation has established a persistent system
of traces and dispositions in my mind. When I now hear a booming
recurrent noise a certain part of this dispositional system is excited,
and the auditory sensation is at once invested with an aura of
acquired meaning in terms of a remote visible and tangible source.
It is still more obvious that there is no element of inference in the
experience which I call
“
seeing this ” or touching that. I
doubt whether we can account psychologically for the ostensible
prehensiveness of visual and tactual perception by any process of
acquirement of meaning through association in our early years. I
think we must assume that visual and tactual experiences are taken
by us, from the very first, as revelations of an external material
world. No donbt all the later detailed development of this primitive
vague conviction depends on the actual course of our experience
and on the particular associations which are established m our early
years.
So much for the purely psychological pomt. There is a logical
point closely connected with it. Behefs which were not reached by
inference may be capable of being supported or refuted by inference.
Now, in my opinion, something like the commonsense behef in a
world of extended movable interacting bodies can be shown to be
highly probable, on the basis of our auditory, visual, and tactual
perceptions and their correlations, if and only if the following premise
(
406 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part .
'
is granted. Our primitive uncritical conviction that our visual and
'
tactual perceptions are manifestations of an external material world, i
,
and that distinctions and variations in them are signs of distinctions
and variations in it, must be allowed to have an appreciable ante- !
cedent probability. There is no way of proving this indispensable
premise. Some people may find it self-evident and count it as an !
axiom. I am content to take it as a postulate. We will call it the
Postulate of Perceptual Transcendence.
Finally we must consider intra-somatic perception, i.e., the per-
ce})tion which each of us has of his own body, and of no other body, |
by means of organic sensations. Each of us is almost always aware i
of a general somatic background or field, which is vaguely extended
'
and fairly homogeneous in quality throughout its extent. It is
fairly constant in general character, though its specific tone varies
from time to time. Such variations are recorded by expressions like : |
“ I am feeling tired,” “ I am feeling well,” “ I am feeling sick,” and
so on. No doubt the general character changes very slowly as we
get older, and it may undergo profound and fairly sudden modifica-
tions in illness or at certain periods of normal life such as puberty. ;
Against this fixirly homogeneous and constant background there
happen from time to time outstanding localised feelings which are i
independent of one’s volition, e.g., a sudden twinge of toothache, a
prolonged and voluminous stomach-ache, and so on.
We might compare the general somatic field to the visual field of
which one would be aware if one lay on one’s back and looked up at
the sky when there is not much movement among the clouds. And
we might compare the occasional localised outstanding toothaches,
stomach-aches, etc., to the visual sensa which we should sense if
there were occasional flashes of lightning, dark masses of cloud, and
so on, in the sky.
Lastly, we must notice that, whenever we deliberately act upon
or react against a foreign body, there are characteristic localised
changes in the somatic field, connected with the pressures, tensions,
and movements of our muscles and joints.
The following points are of special importance for us to notice.
(i) Intra-somatic perception, like all other normal perception, is
transmissive in its physiological as])ect. If I am to have the kind
of ex])erience which I record by saying “ I am feeling a pain in my
toe,” it is not sufficmit that there should be a process of a certain
kind going on in my toe. It is necessary that a certain process should
l)e going on in my brain. Moreover, we are told on good authority
that persons who have had a limb amputated may yet have experi-
ences of the kind which they would record by saying “ I have a pain
where my amputated limb used to be.” It therefore looks as if the
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 407
occurrence of a certain process in the brain were the final and sufficient
physical condition of the occurrence of this kind of experience. If so,
intra-somatic perception cannot be really prehensive of one’s own
body, however much it may seem to be so to the percipient, (ii) There
is, however, no reason to doubt that the brain-process, which is the
final and sufficient physical condition of an intra-somatic perception,
generally arises from and corresponds in structure with a certain
process in a certain other part of the percipient’s body, such as his
stomach or a tooth or a toe. Thus, although intra-somatic percep-
tion is probably not prehensive, there is no reason to doubt that it
is generally veridical in outline if not in detail, (iii) One’s aware-
ness of one’s somatic field as extended, and one’s awareness of this
or that outstanding bodily feeling as happening in this or that part
of it, are, I think, psychologically quite primitive experiences. But
the identification of this extended somatic field with the region
occupied by one’s body as a visible and tangible object, and the
correlation of each part of the former with a certain part of the latter,
are, I am sure, products of early experience and association.
Before I leave the topic of normal perception I want to point out
a certain analogy between sight and intra-somatic perception which
seems to me interesting and important. So long as it is light and
one’s eyes are open, one really is directly apprehending something,
though it is not what one uncritically takes it to be. This something
is an extended, spatially continuous, variously coloured and shaded
field, which is presented as a finite but unljoiinded whole. Out-
standing coloured patches are presented as differentiations of this
whole, not as independent elements, like bricks, out of which it is
built. The mistake which each of us makes is to identify this
directly apprehended field and its differentiations with something
public, neutral, and independent of him, viz., the ground, the sky,
the surfaces of houses and trees, and so on. There really is a con-
nexion between the two, but it is much more remote than we un-
critically take it to be. 1 am going to sum up these facts about
visual perception by calling it synojyic and macrocosmic. Now
intra-somatic perception may be described as synoptic and microcos-
mic. It is synoptic because the somatic field is presented as a whole,
and the outstanding bodily feelings are presented as localised differ-
entiations of this whole. It is microcosmic because, in apprehending
it, one does not seem to oneself to be apprehendmg a public neutral
world of independent objects. On the contrary, one seems to
oneself to be ap])rehending in a uniquely intimate way a certain
particular object which is uniquely associated with oneself.
Touch, in contrast with sight and intra-somatic perception, gives
us information piecemeal about foreign bodies and the surfaces of
408 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
our own bodies. And, as we have seen, it makes us aware of bodies
’
as dynamically interacting substances. Thus sight, touch, and intra-
somatic jjerception severally supply their own characteristic con- '
tributions to our knowledge of ourselves and of foreign bodies. And ,
it is only through their co-existence and their intimate co-operation
that w'e acquire the general world-schema which is the common
background of daily life and of natural science.
Clairvoyance and Sense-Perception
Let us now turn from normal perception and consider an alleged
case of clairvoyance. It is essential to take something quite concrete
and not to talk vaguely. I will suppose that a special pack of cards
has been made on the following plan. Every card has for its face a
white background on which are either squares or circles, but not
both. Every card has black pips or red pips, but no card has a
mixture of both. There are thus four suits, which we can call Red
Squares, Black Squares, Red Circles, and Black Circles. Lastly, in
each suit there are ten cards in sequence from ace to ten. The
backs of all the cards are uniformly brown. Let us suppose that the
percipient correctly guesses that the sixth card from the top of a
new and mechanically shuffled pack of this kmd is the eight of red
squares. And let us suppose that such guesses of his have so often
been right that we cannot ascribe his success to chance. Could we
suppose that anything analogous to normal sense-perception is
taking place ?
To assert that a certaui card is the eight of red squares is to assert
three independent propositions, viz., that there are eight outstanding
patches on the surface, that these are square in outline, and that they
are red in colour. Now all these propositions could be known by
sight to a person who could look directly at the front of the card in
white light. This implies that there are eight square patches on
the card, which differ physically from the background in such a way
that they selectively reflect the red-stimulating light-waves whilst
the background reflects equally hght of all wave-lengths in the
ordinary spectrum. Let us try to suppose that the clairvoyant
gets his information by some mode of perception analogous to sight
or hearing.
We shall have to suppose that the percipient’s body is being
stimulated by some kind of emanation from the front of the sixth
card in the pack, although the back of the card is towards him.
We shall have to suppose that the five cards which are on top of the
selected one are transparent to this emanation, though they are not
transparent to light. We shall presumably have to suppose that
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 409
the five cards which are on top of this one and the thirty-four which
are beneath it are all equally emitting radiation of this kind.
^
Thus
the emanation from the selected card will reach the percipient’s body
mixed up with the emanations from all the other cards in the pack.
Next we shall have to assume that, although the emanation is not
light, yet there is a characteristic difference between the emanation
from the pips and the emanation from the background, correlated
with the difference between red-stimulating and white-stimulating
light-waves. Without this there is no hope of explaining how the
clairvoyant can tell that there are pips and a background and judge
the number of pips. Still less could we explain how he can tell the
colour of the pips on the selected card. When we look more care-
fully into the last mentioned assumption we find that it is equivalent
to the following supposition. We are, in effect, supposmg that the
physical difference between the pips and the background, which
makes the former selectively refiect red-stimulating light-waves and
the latter indifferently refiect a whole mixture of light-waves, is
correlated with another physical difference which is concerned with
another and unknown kind of emanation. This is certainly not
very plausible. ^
We have not yet attempted to deal with the clairvoyant s know-
ledge that the pips on the sixth card from the top are square in
outline. No assumption that we have so far made will account for
this. If the face of the card were being looked at directly in white
light, the light reflected from its surface would travel in straight
lines to the percipient’s eye. There it would pass through the pupil
and be focussed by the lens on the retina. There it would excite
different parts of a certam area in various ways. The area as a
whole, and the distribution of the excitement over it, would be geo-
metrically a projection of the surface from which the light came.
From this excited area, through the optic nerve, a corresponding
pattern of excitement would be transmitted to the brain. At this
stage the percipient would directly apprehend an outstanding oblong
patch in his visual field, with a white background and eight red
squares scattered about it. This he would automatically and un-
critically, but erroneously, take to be the surface of the card. In
order to have any analogy with all this we should have to assume
that the emanation travels in straight lines through the medium
between the card and the percipient’s body, and that there is in his
body some organ for collecting it and focussing it on a sensitive
surface. I need hardly say that we know of no part of our bodies
which could plausibly be regarded as such an organ. Moreover, the
fact that we have had to assume that ordinary matter is transparent
to this emanation makes it difficult to see how a material organ
410 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
could collect and focus it. It is like being asked to construct a
camera, or a telescope, or a microscope when the only material
provided is clear transparent glass.
I have now dealt with the physical and physiological assumjDtions
which would be involved in supposing that clairvoyant cognition is
analogous to sight or hearing. It remains to consider the psycholo-
gical as]‘)ects of this supposition. In the first place, we should have
to assume that the ultimate result of this emanation being received
by the appropriate organs, and of the disturbance being transmitted
to the appropriate part of the Ijrain, is that the clairvoyant directly
apprehends a total sense-field of a characteristic kind. This experi-
ence must be analogous to the normal man’s apprehension of his
visual or his auditory field. So far as I know, there is no introspec-
tive evidence for the occurrence of any such experience in persons
who claim to be clairvoyant. We should therefore have to assume
that this peculiar kmd of sensory experience belongs to a part of
their mind which they cannot introspect in normal waking life.
Next we must assume that this peculiar sense-field is differen-
tiated, and differentiated in a very special way. There must be in
it an outstanding sensum which in fact corresponds to the sixth
card from the top of the ])ack, and there must be in this sensum
eight outstanding differentiations which in fact correspond to the
eight pips on the face of this card. Moreover, there must be a
certain determinate sensible quality in these eight outstanding differ-
entiations which in fact corresponds to the visible squareness of the
pips as they would appear to sight. There must also be a certain
other determinate sensible quality in these eight outstanding differ-
entiations which in fact corresponds to the visible redness of the pips
as they would appear to sight. Although emanations are coming in
on top of each other from all the cards in the pack, and presumably
from the table and the walls too, we must assume that the sensum
specially connected with the emanation from any particular card is
distinct enough to be discriminated from the rest of the sense-field
I)y the percipient if he pays enough attention. We must also assume
that such a sensum has enough discriminable detail to display those
features in the card which would appear to sight as a certain number
of pips of a certain shape and a certain colour.
It must be admitted that this involves a very heavy draft on the
I)ank of possibility. I think that the nearest known analogy is pro-
vided I)y hearing. The waves from a number of simultaneously
sounding sources, such as the instruments in an orchestra, do come
in on top of each other. Yet it is possible with practice and attention
to discriminate the noise which in fact comes from one instrument
from the noise which in fact comes from another. It is also possible
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 411
to distinguish overtones, if one has an acute ear, in the noise which
conies from a certain instrument. This analogy, thougli it is not
to be despised, does not carry us very far. The noise which in fact
comes from a certahi mstrument has no auditory quality which is
invariably correlated with the shape or the colour which that instru-
ment manifests to sight. The analogy would be a little closer if,
when we looked at the various instruments, they appeared to be
visibly vibrating at various rates and with various amplitudes.
Then there really would be a systematic correlation between the
auditory qualities of the noise which comes from a certain instrument
and certain visible characteristics in the appearance which that in-
strument would present to sight.
We are not yet at the end of the psychological assumptions which
we should have to make. It is not enough that there should be in
the clahvoyant’s peculiar sense-field a certahi discriminable sensum
which in fact corresponds to the sixth card from the top of the pack.
If he is to answer our question :
“ What is the sixth card from the
top ?
” he must knoiv or have reason to believe, with regard to a
certahi discriminable sensum in his field, that it corresponds to the
sixth card from the top. Again, it is not enough that this sensum
should have eight ditferentiations which in fact correspond to the
eight differentiated areas on the card which ajipear to sight as
eight red squares. If he is to answer our question, he must hmtv or
have reason to believe that the eight differentiations in this sensum
correspond to eight differentiated areas on the card which would
appear to sight as eight red squares. He must therefore know or
have reason to believe, with regard to a certain sensible quality of
these differentiations in this sensum, that it corresponds to visible
squareness. And he must know or have reason to believe, with
regard to a certain other sensible quality of these differentiations,
that it corresponds to visible redness. Unless the clairvoyant knew
these facts he would be in much the same ])osition as a man born
blind who had acquired plenty of tactual experience and was then
suddenly enabled to see. In the visual field of such a man there
would be outstanding coloured patches which are in fact visual
appearances of various things from which he has already received
tactual sensations. And the visible shape of these visual sensa
would in fact correspond to the tangible shape of the corresponding
tactual sensa. But the newly cured blind man would not know these
facts or have any reason to suspect them. So, if we were to ask him
a question about an object which he has touched in the past and
is no longer touching but is seeing for the first time, his visual
experience would not help him in the least to answer it. It is not
until his experiences of sight and touch have become correlated and
412 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
associated, so that a certain kind of visual appearance has come to
represent for him a certain kind of tactual apjiearance, that his newly '
acquired power of visual perception will enable him to answer our
questions about external objects.
How could the clairvoyant acquire such knowledge or belief as
we have had to assign to him ? The extremely intimate association
between sight and touch, which is established in infancy in all normal
people, seems to provide the only helpful analogy. Here we must
substitute for it an intimate association between sight and the
peculiar kind of sense-experience which we have assumed the clair-
voyant to possess. We shall have to suppose that all or most things
which are visible also emit the peculiar emanation which gives rise
to this peculiar kuid of sense-experience when it reaches the clair-
voyant’s body. And we mxist suppose that every variation in the
light reflected from bodies is correlated with a corresponding varia-
tion in this emanation. On this assumption, the clairvoyant will
from infancy have been apprehending two co-existing and intimately
correlated sense-flelds, viz., the normal visual held and the peculiar
sense-field connected with the emanation. This may be compared
with the case of the plain man who apprehends from infancy a
visual and a tactual field which are intimately correlated with each
other. The difference is that the normal man is constantly aware
of apprehending both the visual and the tactual field, whilst the
clairvoyant in ordinary waking life is not aware of apprehending the
pecuhar sense-field connected with the emanation. In consequence
of this constant and detailed correlation between the contents of
the visual sense-field and those of the peculiar sense-field, in the
clairvoyant’s case, an intimate association will be established in his
mind between the two, just as an intimate association is established
in the case of the normal man between his visual and his tactual
sense-fields.
When a normal man in the dark has a tactual sensation of a certam
familiar kind, which has become associated through frequent past
ex]:)erience in the light with a certain kind of visual appearance, he
is able to describe in visual terms the object which he is at present
only touching and not seeing. Similarly, when the clairvoyant has |
a familiar sensation of his own peculiar kind, which has become
associated through frequent past experience with a certam kind of
visual appearance, he will be able to describe in visual terms the i
object which is evoking this sensation by its emanation but is at |
present hidden from his view.
It seems at first sight most unplausible to postulate in the clair-
voyant’s mind a whole special group of sensations of which he is
totally unaware, and then to postulate that they are intimately
'
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 413
correlated with, his ordinary visual sensations and eventnally become
associated with the latter. Yet it must, I thinlc, be confessed that
a very similar postulate is unblushmgly made by the most orthodox
psychologists in trying to explain normal visual perception of
distance and solidity. We are told a great deal by these scientists
in this connexion about sensations of accommodation and sensations
of convergence. We are told that these become so intimately asso-
ciated with purely visual sensations that the minutest variation in
the one represents to the percipient a corresponding variation in the
other. But the fact remams that most of us at most times are quite
unaware of these constantly occurring and continually varying
sensations of accommodation and convergence. If we focus our
eyes for a long time on a very small and very near object, we may
begin to notice sensations of accommodation. If we indulge in
elaborate and deliberate squinting, we may notice sensations of
convergence. But it is only in these exceptional circumstances that
such sensations are noticed or noticeable by the person who, pre-
sumably, is in fact never free from them. So orthodox psychologists
are not in a position to cast stones at the postulates which would
have to be made about the clairvoyant’s special sense-field.
I have now enumerated and explained the various assumptions,
physical, physiological, and psychological, which would have to be
made if clairvoyance is to be regarded as a peculiar kind of sense-
perception, emissive ui its physical aspect, like sight or hearing. It
must be confessed that they make a formidable list. But it is better
to set them out fully and to face them squarely than to talk vaguely
of analogies to wireless and television and “ the marvels of
modern science.” Many people will be mclined, when faced with
this hst of necessary assumptions, to conclude that the attempt
to make clairvoyance analogous to sight or hearing must be
dropped.
Now, unless clairvoyance be analogous to a physically emissive
form of sense-perception, like sight or hearing, it can hardly be
analogous to any form of normal sense-perception. If we tried to
compare it with touch, we should have to suppose that the clair-
voyant’s body is provided with invisible and intangible organs,
supplied with sensitive spots on their surface and with conducting
nerves. W^e should have to suppose that he can tlmust these out
and poke them between two cards which are, and remain throughout
the experiment, visibly in continuous contact with each other. And
we should have to suppose that the square areas ou the card which
differ from the background by selectively reflecting red-stimulating
light-waves also differ from the background by giving a special kind
of stimulus to the sensitive spots on this quasi-tactile organ. It
2e
414 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
scorns liardly woi tli wliile to linger over these fantastic sii])positions,
or to consider wliat others might lie needed in addition to them.
Perha])S some ]isychical researchers will welcome these conclusions.
They will remind us that they have always insisted that clairvoyance
cannot he analogous to any form of sense-perception, and they will
feel that I have only lieen underlining the obvious. I cannot share
their satisfaction. Have those who believe that clairvoyance occurs,
and deny that it is analogous to any form of sense-perce})tion, any
positive notion of its ])sychological nature or its modus ojjerandi ?
If they have, it is most desirable that they should expound it. If
they have not, they are just postulating what Locke would have
called “ a something, I know not what.” Since their postulate will
then have no discernible analogy or connexion with anything that
is already known and admitted to be a fact, it will be impossible to
assign a degree of antecedent probability or improbability to it.
In that case we shall be unable to come to any rationally justified
degree of belief or dislielief when they produce their empirical
evidence, however impressive it may be.
Cdairvoyance as Non-sensuous Prehension of Physical Objects
The only intelligible positive interjiretation which I can put on
this view of clairvoyance is the following. Those who deny that
clairvoyance is analogous to any form of sense-perception might
su])pose that the clairvoyant really does directly apprehend remote
])hysical objects, as the ordinary man seems to Inmself to do in sight
and touch. This supposition is, I think, prima facie intelligible. As
I have said in discussing normal sense-jierception, each of us really
does directly ajiprchend something when he is seeing, hearing, etc.
In seeing, e.g., one is directly apprehending an extended continuous
variegated coloured field ;
though one uncritically mistakes it for
something else, of a rpiite different nature, which one does not directly
ap])rehend. So we can understand, in general outline at any rate,
what we are being asked to suppose in the case of the clairvoyant.
But, as soon as we begin to consider the suggestion in detail, it
becomes less and less intelligible. The card called the “ eight of red
squares ” is a physical object which, when suitably illuminated, re-
flects light-waves. If these reach the eye of a normal human ob-
server, they stimulate it in a characteristic way, and at a certain
stage in the jiroccss a characteristic kind of disturbance is set up in
his optic centres. If and only if all this should happen, the card will
1 )e represented in the observer’s visual field by an outstanding white
oblong sensum with eight outstanding square spots on it. There is
not the faintest reason to believe that the card itself, which is the
142] Normal Cognition,, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 415
locus of a remote causal ancestor in this long and variegated chain
of events, has literally and intrinsically any colour whatever. That
which corresponds in a physical object to the colour which it is
perceived as having is presumably some special configuration or
some rhythmic motion of its minute constituents, which causes it
to reflect certain kinds of light-waves and to absorb others. If, then,
the clairvoyant directly apjirehends the card, as it intrinsically and
independently is, he will not apprehend it as a thing with a white
continuous surface on which there are eight square red spots ;
for
it is almost certainly nothing of the kind. He might, perhaps, appre-
hend it as a swarm of very small colourless electric charges in very
rapid rhythmic motion ;
for, according to the best information
available at present to those of us who are not clairvoyants, this or
something like this is what the card most probably is.
Now, if clairvoyants do directly ajtprehend physical objects as
having those characteristics which scientists laboriously infer that
they must have, they show no sign of being aware of their own
knowledge. If they were, they could presumably put it, at least
roughly and in outline, into words. They would then be invaluable
helpers in all physical laboratories ;
for their information, artlessly
expressed but “ straight from the horse’s mouth,” would suffice to
head scientists off from plausible but false theories and to suggest
fruitful lines of experiment and speculation. We shall have to
assume, then, that the clairvoyant’s direct apprehension of physical
objects, as they intrinsically are, occurs in a part of his mind which
is cut off from his ordinary waking experience.
The clairvoyant describes the unseen card in terms of colours,
visible shapes, etc., and not in terms of electric charges, waves, and
rhythmic motions. We shall therefore have to explain how he
translates his direct apprehension of the unseen card, as it intrinsi-
cally is, into the colours, visible sha])es, etc., which it would appear
to have if it were being seen by a normal human being in daylight.
It will be renrembered that there is a rather similar problem for
those who regard clairvoyance as a peculiar form of sense-x^erception.
The suggestion which I made in that connexion might, qjerhaxjs, be
modified to deal with the present problem. We shall have to suppose
that the clairvoyant has, from infancy, been continuously though
unconsciously apx)rehending directly all those objects which he has
also been cognising indirectly through sight and touch. Then we
can suppose that an association woidd be set up between, e.g., the
conscious exj^erience of seeing an object as red and the unconscious
experience of directly apprehending it as having that intrinsic
characteristic which makes it selectively reflect red-stimulating
light-waves. Suppose that, on some future occasion, such an object.
416 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
though no lo]iger visible, is still being directly Init unconsciously
a])j)rehended by the clairvoyant. He will still apjjrehend it as
having that intrinsic characteristic, whatever it may be, which has
now become associated in his mind with the visual appearance of
redness. Consecpiently the idea of it as a red-looking object will
arise automatically in his mind, and he will announce that the \m-
seen object is red.
I have now stated and tried to work out in some detail two alter-
native views of what clairvoyance would be if it took place. Neither
of them is in the least attractive or plausible, but I know of no other
alternative that is even intelligible. I hope that some of those who
think that there is adequate evidence for clairvoyance will be in-
s])ired to suggest some other view of it which will be equally intelli-
gil)le and much more ]ilausible. Though I can offer no hint of a
solution, I may possildy have given them some help by setting out
elements of the ])robleni in a clear and orderly way.
Telepathy
Teleqxithic Interaction
It is comnronly assumed that one embodied mind can affect
another only in an extremely roundabout way. It must first affect
its own body ;
then this change in its own body must set iip a series
of physical changes which eventually affect another ensouled body ;
and, finally, this change in the other ensouled body must produce a
change in the mind which animates it. Thus the process involves a
psycho] )hysiological transaction at one end, a physiologico-psychical
transaction at the other end, and a purely physical causal series
between the two. A further restriction is commonly imposed on this
general scheme. It is usually assumed that the process set up within
the one ensouled body must issue in some overt macroscopic change
of it, such as emitting a sound, making a gesture, or assuming a new
facial expression ;
and it is assumed that this must affect the other
ensouled body by sight, hearing, touch, or some such form of normal
sensory stimulus. The wider assumption may be summed up in the
following general principle :
“ The only thing, other than itself,
with which an embodied mind can directly interact is the brain and
nervous system of the body which it animates.” If this be granted,
the rest follows.
We can now imagine various stages in which the commonsense
assum])tion might be given up. (i) We might keep the general prin-
ciple, but drop the further restriction which is commonly put on it.
We might supj)Ose that, in certain cases, the disturbance set up in
A’s brain by an event in his mind mitiates a physical process of an
142]
Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 417
emanative kind whick travels out in all directions ;
that this may
set up a disturbance in B’s brain, if it reaches the latter ;
and that
this disturbance in B’s brain may affect his mind. On this view
there need be no overt macroscopic change in A’s body, such as
emitting a noise, makmg a gesture, etc. And B’s brain need not be
stimulated through any of the ordinary sense-organs by what is
happening in A’s body. Yet the general prmcij)le about interaction
will remain intact.
(ii) The next stage would be to drop one half of the general prin-
ciple and to keep the other half. This would give two possible alter-
natives. (a) We might continue to assmne that A’s mind can directly
affect only A’s bram, and that B’s mind can directly affect only
B’s bram. But we might now suppose that A’s mind can, in some
cases, be directly affected by disturbances in B’s brain ;
and that
B’s mind can, m some cases, be directly affected by disturbances in
A’s bram. (6) We might contmue to assume that A’s mind can be
directly affected only by A’s bram, and that B’s mmd can be
directly affected only by B’s brain. But we might now suppose that
A’s mind can, in some cases, directly produce disturbances in B’s
brain ;
and that B’s mmd can, in some cases, directly produce dis-
turbances in A’s brain.
(in) Lastly, we might drop the general jninciple altogether. We
might suppose that, in certain cases, one embodied mind can affect
or be affected by another embodied mmd directly, without any
physiological or physical mediation. I propose to call the first
alternative the “ Brain-wave Theory,” and the third alternative the
“ Theory of Direct Intermental Transaction.” Theories of the
second kind might be called “ Theories of Extended Psycho-
physiological Interaction.” I camiot pretend that this is a “snappy
”
title, but I think it is accurately descriptive.
If either of these three suppositions were ever reahsed in j>ractice
we should say that there had been a case of “ Telepathic Inter-
action.” If it were an instance of the Brain-wave Theory it would
involve no supernormal interaction between mind and matter or
between mind and mhid. It would involve nothing but an miusual
transaction between two brams and an intervening physical medium.
If it were an mstance of either form of the Theory of Extended
Psycho-physiological Interaction it would mvolve supernormal
interaction between mind and matter, but no direct interaction
between mind and mind. The supernormality of the transaction
would consist in the fact that an event in one man’s mind directly
affects or is directly affected by an event m another man’s brain. If
it were an instance of the Theory of Direct Intermental Transaction
it would involve supernormal interaction between two embodied
418 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part 1
minds, but it would not necessarily involve any supernormal inter-
action between mind and matter. *
If the Brain-wave Theory would fit the empirical facts, it would j
be preferable to the other two in respect of antecedent probability. I
But the general opinion of those who have studied the facts seems
to be definitely adverse to this theory. ;
In favour of the Theory of Extended Psycho-physiological Inter-
action it may be said that we do know that each embodied mind
directly affects and is directly affected by at least one brain and ner-
vous system, though this kind of transaction has to be accepted as a
completely mysterious brute fact. This one brain and nervous
system is, of course, that of the one material system to which this
mind stands in the peculiar relation of “ animating.” Now the
theory under discussion is that this direct interaction between minds
and brains, which is admitted to occur, is not necessarily or iavari-
ably restricted within these limits. Either the range within which
direct interaction between a mind and a body is possible extends
beyond the limits marked out by the relation of animation, or the
relation of animation extends more widely than commonsense
recognises. The latter suggestion amounts to supposing that an
embodied human mind may animate a material system which
includes, in addition to one human body, parts of another human
body which is animated by another human mind. This relation
might be mutual as between two human individuals A and B. A’s
mind might animate a material system which includes, beside what
we call “ A’s body,” a part of what we call “ B’s body ” ;
and B’s
mind might animate a material system which includes, beside what
we call “ B’s body,” a part of what we eall “ A’s body.” In some
cases of multiple personality it looks as if there were two minds
simidtaneously animating either the whole of a eommon brain and
nervous system, or, at any rate, animating two parts of it which
overlap each other. This at least supplies empirical support for
the general conclusion that the relation of animation between minds
and bodies is not always one-to-one. If two minds can animate
one body, it may not be unreasonable to contemplate the possibility
that one mind may animate one body and a bit of another body.
These speculations are, I know, very wild ;
but I make no apology
for them on that account. The admitted relation of animation
between the mind and the body of a normal human individual, and
the admitted interactions between the two, are so mysterious that
we are left with a wide field for legitimate conjectures. The situation
is very different from that which faced us when we were considering
normal sense-perception and alleged clairvoyance. We have a great
deal of positive knowledge about normal sense-perception, in its
142]
Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 419
physical, its physiological, and its epistemological aspects ;
so the
field for legitimate conjecture is there much narrower.
Passing finally to the Theory of Direct Intermental Transaction,
we must, I think ,
assign to it the lowest antecedent probability of
the three typical theories. So far as I am aware, it is supported by
no known analog}’ with admitted facts. We should, therefore,
hesitate to resort to it unless the evidence rules out all theories of
the other two types.
Telepathic Cognition
We have so far considered the possible causal relations between
two embodied minds ;
we must now turn our attention to what
primarily concerns us in this paper, viz., the possible cognitive rela-
tions between them. It is important to be quite clear that these are
different problems, for the word “ Telepathy ” seems often to be
carelessly used to cover both supernormal causal influence of one
embodied mind on another and supernormal cognition of one em-
bodied mind by another. We have given the name “ Telepathic
Interaction ” to the former, and we will call the latter “ Telepathic
Cognition.” Probably telepathic cognition would be impossible
without telepathic interaction, but there is not the least reason
why there should not be telepathic interaction without telepathic
cognition. Cognising or being cognised, on the one hand, and
affecting causally or being affected causally, on the other, are utterly
different relations. If either of them can be analysed, which is
doubtful, it is certain that neither of them forms any part of the
analysis of the other. So there can be no logical impossibility in
two terms being related by one of them and not by the other. And,
if it be granted that two minds could influence each other tele-
pathically at all, it is quite easy to imagme that two minds which
remained completely ignorant of each other might yet be ui fact
influencing each other frequently and profoundly by telepathic
interaction.
Having made this distinction clear, we can now turn our attention
to the cognition by one mind of another mmd and its experiences.
I shall begin by stating and explaining two principles which are
commonly, if tacitly, assumed to apply to embodied human minds
and their normal cognitions. The first is that one and the same
experience cannot be owned by more than one mind. I do not think
that anyone would question this. It is true that we sometimes use
expressions which, if hterally interpreted, would imply that one
and the same experience is owned by several minds. \\ e might, e.g.,
say of two people who both beheve that Francis wrote the Letters of
Junius that they both have the same behef about the authorship of
420 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
the Junius letters. But we all recognise at once that such state-
ments are not to be taken hterally. One belief that Francis wrote
these letters occurs in A’s mind and not in B’s ;
another belief that
Francis wrote these letters occurs in B’s mind and not in A’s. When
we tall-: of the same behef occurring in two minds we mean that two
beliefs, which stand in a common relation to one and the same fact,
viz., the actual but unknown authorship of the Junius letters, are
occurring, and that one belongs to one mind and the other belongs
to the other mind. A similar interpretation would have to be put
on any statement that seemed to conflict wfth our jjrinciple. We
will call this the “ Principle of Unique Ownership of Experiences.”
W e come now to the second principle. It may be stated as follows.
Any particular existent which can be directly apprehended by an
embodied mind can be dii’ectly apprehended only by one such mind.
Let us consider what kinds of jjarticular existents a given embodied
mind M can directly apprehend. They are (i) M itself, perhaps ;
(ii) some, if not all, of M’s experiences ;
(iii) certain mental images ;
(iv) somatic sensa connected with the jJi’Ocesses in M’s body ;
and
(v) certain visual, tactual, auditory, and other kinds of extra-
somatic sensa. Of course the plain man would have included m this
list something which we have not included, viz., the surfaces of
certain foreign bodies and of his own body, and certain kinds of
events happening from time to time in such bodies. And he would
not have mentioned certani items which W’e have included, viz.,
various kinds of sensa. The cause of both these differences is the
same, viz., the fact that the plain man mistakes what he directly
apprehends in sense-perception for parts of physical objects and
events in such objects. We have seen that he does not directly
apprehend such particidar existents, and so we have had to exclude
them from our list. But we have also seen that he really is appre-
hending particular existents of some kind in sense-perception, and
so we have had to introduce them into our list under the technical
name of “ sensa.”
Now let us go through the list, and we shall see that, if it is ex-
haustive, it proves our principle, (i) Everyone would agree that
normally no embodied mmd but M could directly apprehend M.
(ii) Everyone would agree that normally no embodied mind but
M could directly apprehend any of M’s experiences, (iii) Everyone
would agree that normally no embodied mind but M could directly
aj)prehend any mental image that M can directly apprehend,
(iv) Everyone would agree that normally no embodied mind but M
could directly apprehend the aches and pains and pressure-data and
so on which arise in connexion with processes in M’s body, (v) As
regards extra-somatic sensa a difference of opinion might arise, but
142 ]
Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 421
it would certainly be due to verbal confusion. A person might say :
“
A noise is an extra-somatic sensum. Now we all know that M and
N may both hear the same noise. So N can directly apprehend an
extra-somatic sensum which is also being directly apprehended by
M.” There is nothing in this argument. When M and N are
correctly said to be “ hearmg the same noise ” each is directly appre-
henduig a different auditory sensum. But these two auditory sensa
are related in a certain characteristic way to each other, and they
are manifestations of a common physical event at a remote common
source. When the fact that normal sense-perception is not really
prehensive ofexternal obj ects is clearly understood and firmly grasped,
and when the various verbal confusions which have arisen from its
being ostensibly prehensive have been removed, we see that there is
not the least reason to believe that, in normal life, N can ever directly
apprehend any sensum which M can directly apprehend, or vice versa.
Now I thhik that, with the explanations which I have just given,
it will be admitted that the above list includes all the various kinds
of particular existents which any embodied muid, under normal
conditions, could directly apprehend. And we have now seen, with
regard to each of these classes of particulars, that any member of it
which can be directly apprehended by any one embodied mind
M cannot, under normal conditions, be directly apprehended by any
other embodied mind. And so we reach our second general principle .
“ Any particular existent which can be directly apprehended by an
embodied mind can be directly apprehended only by one such mmd.”
I will call this the “ Principle of the Privacy of Prehensible Parti-
culars.”
Before gomg further I will make some remarks on these two prin-
ciples. (i) The Unique Ownership of Experiences is ui a much
stronger position than the Privacy of Prehensible Particulars. Many
people would say that it is self-evidently impossible that one and
the same experience should literally be an experience of two mmds,
no matter whether the minds were embodied or disembodied, in a
normal or an abnormal condition, or what not. Without com-
mitting myself to this view, I must admit that it is highly plausible.
Now the Privacy of Prehensible Particulars, as a general principle,
is not in the least self-evident. We reached it simply by a process of
enumeration and inspection, and there is no apparent absurdity in
supposing that there might be exceptions to it. As we have seen
commonsense does unhesitatingly take for granted that, in normal
visual perception, one and the same particular can be, and often is,
directly apprehended by several embodied minds. We rejected this,
not m the least because it seemed intrinsically absurd or impossible,
but because it was impossible to reconcile it with the relevant em-
422 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
pirical facts taken as a whole. The outcome of this comparison
between the two principles is that an alleged exception to the Privacy
of Prehensible Particulars has an appreciable antecedent proba-
bility, whilst an alleged exception to the Unique Ownership of
Experiences has far less, if any at all.
(ii) Some people have held that images and sensa are themselves
experiences. Many others, who have not gone so far as this, have
taken a view which may be roughly expressed as follows. They
have held that a mental image can exist only as a logically insepar-
able factor in someone’s experience of imaging it, and that a sensum
can exist only as a logically inseparable factor in someone’s experi-
ence of sensing it. If either of these views were accepted, we could
replace the Privacy of Prehensible Particulars by the following
principle ; “No embodied mind can directly apprehend anything
but itself, its own experiences, and objects which are logically in-
separable factors in its own experiences.” This principle does not
seem to me to have any better claim to l)e self-evident than the
Privacy of Prehensible Particulars. And I am not convinced that
either of these two views about sensa and images is true. So 1
prefer to keep the second principle in the form in which I originally
stated it.
(iii) Some people have held that, whenever a mind has an experi-
ence, it directly apprehends that experience. Others have held that,
whenever a mind has had. an experience, it could have directly appre-
hendcd that experience if it had attended, though it may not in fact
have done so. If we accept either of these views, and combine it
with the Privacy of Prehensible Particulars, the Unique Ownership
of Experiences follows as a logical consequence. For suppose, if
jmssible, that two minds, M and N, both owned a certain experience
E. According to the view under discussion M could or would directly
apprehend E, since E is an experience of M’s. Similarly, on the
view under discussion, N coidd or would directly apprehend E,
since E is also an experience of N’s. Therefore E could be directly
apprehended by two different minds, which is contrary to the Pri-
vacy of Prehensible particulars. So the supposition that E could
be owned by two minds must be rejected if the Privacy of Prehen-
sible Particulars is to be retamed and the view under discussion is
to be accepted.
This result seems to me to be of logical interest rather than of
practical importance. In the first place, the view that, whenever a
mind has an experience, it directly apprehends that experience,
seems to me obviously false. And the view that, whenever a mmd
has had an experience, it could have directly apprehended that
experience if it had attended, seems to me quite imcertain. Put,
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 423
even if one or other of these doctrines were indubitable, it would
still be a logical perversion to base the Unique Ownership of Experi-
ences on it and the Privacy of Prehensible Objects. For, as we have
seen, the Unique Ownership of Experiences has some claim to be
self-evident, whilst the Privacy of Prehensible Objects has no such
claim. We should therefore be basing the stronger of two proposi-
tions on the weaker. I conclude then that the two principles are
best regarded as independent propositions.
(a) Telepathic Prehension
We have now stated, explained, and commented on the two prin-
ciples which are assumed by commonsense to govern the region with
which we are at present concerned. We can look upon telepathic
cognition as mvolving a real or apparent breach of one or other of
these principles. Any breach of the Privacy of Prehensible Objects
would, ipso facto, be an instance of telepathic cognition. To be more
precise, it would be an mstance of what I will call “ Telepathic Pre-
hension.” Under this heading would come the followmg five
possible cases, (i) One mind directly apprehendmg another mirid
as a unit, (ii) One mind directly apprehending an experience which
is occurring in another mind, (iii) One mind directly apprehending
a mental image which is being imaged by another mhid. (iv) One
mind directly apprehending a somatic sensum which is being sensed
by another mind and is the manifestation of a process going on in
the body which that other mmd animates, (v) One mind directly
apprehendmg a visual, tactual, or auditory sensum which is being
sensed by another mind in seeing, touching, or hearing an external
object. Telepathic prehension of the first kind seems to be clahned
for Mrs. Willett (see Lord Balfour’s paper, Proc. S.P.R., Part 140,
pp. 90-94). There are plenty of cases which look, prinia facie, as if
they were instances of the four remaming kinds. Are they really so ?
In considering this question the first point to notice is the follow-
ing. A breach of the Unique Ownership of Experiences would not
be ipso facto an instance of telepathic prehension, for in itself it
would not be an instance of cognition at all. It would best be
described as an instance of “ Intermental Confluence.” But, it
intermental confluence were to take place, telepathic prehension
would almost certainly follow as an immediate consequence of it.
Suppose, e.g., that, through mental confluence, N’s experience of
sensing a certain sensum or of imaging a certaui mental image were
also an experience of M’s. Then M woidd be sensing or imaging the
very same sensum or image which N is sensmg or imaging. Now
sensing and imagmg are instances of directly apprehendmg. So
M would be directly apprehending a sensum which N is sensing or
424 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
an image which N is imaging. And, of course, the converse would
also be true. So, if there were hitermental confluence of this kind
between M and N, there would necessarily be telepathic prehension
of sensa or images by both M and N. This particular example can
at once be generalised. If any experience which is a direct apprehen-
sion of a jiarticular were, through mental confluence, owned by
both M and N, M would be directly apprehending something which
N is directly ap>prehending, and conversely.
We have seen, however, that intermental confluence would be
ruled out by many people as self-evidently impossible. So we may
now put the following question. Supposing that we rule out inter-
mental confluence, is there any need to assume that telepathic pre-
hension occurs 1 It seems to me quite unnecessary to assume this in
order to account for successful experimental results in which one
person conveys supernormally to another figures which he sees or
draws, images which he calls up and fixes, or bodily feelings which
he is experiencing. All that we need to suppose here is a particular
form of telepathic interaction. It is enough to suppose that the
occurrence ol a certain sensation or unagination or bodily feeling in
M s mind causally determines in N’s mind the occurrence of a sensa-
tion with a similar sensum, or of an imagination with a similar
image, or of a bodily feeling with a similar quahty and feeling-tone.
In experiments it may generally be assumed that N knows that it
is M, and no one else, who is trying to convey an impression to him.
And it may generally be assumed that he knows roughly at what time
M is going to try the experiment. Suppose that, at about the agreed
time, N suddenly has a sensation or bodily feeling or becomes aware
of an image. Suppose that there is no noticeable feature in N’s
surroundhigs at the time, or in his immediately previous train of
thought, which would supply an obvious normal explanation for the
occurrence of just this experience at just this moment. Then he
will naturally suspect that the experience is caused by M, whom
he knows to be experimenting at the time. So there is no need
whatever to assume that N has any telepathic prehension of
M or of M’s experiences, however successful such experiments
may be.
So far as I can see, it is quite possible that each of us may be
often, or even continuously, influenced telepathically by other
minds, and yet this fact might always have escaped notice. Suppose
that an event in M’s mind does in fact determine telepathically an
event in N’s mmd. N will have no reason to regard this as an
instance of telepathic interaction unless all the followmg conditions
are tulfilled. (i) The effect on N must take the form of an experience
which he can and does notice. Now the effect might equally well
142 ]
Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 425
be a change in his mental dispositions, or be an experience which
he does not or cannot notice.
(ii) Tills experience must be so discontinuous with his other con-
temporary and immediately past experiences and with his usual
trains of association that he is surprised by it and is led to suspect
that it is not caused normally. Now this condition would seldom
be fulfilled. Very often I suddenly image an image, visual or audi-
tory, which seems quite disconnected with my other contemporary
and immediately past experiences and with my usual trains of
association. But even I, who am professionally interested in such
things, tend to dismiss it as just one more unexplained oddity in
the workings of my mind. Most people are occupied for most of
their lives in practical dealings with other people and things ;
so
an experience of theirs would have to be very odd indeed before they
would seriously raise the question whether it was or was not caused
normally. Moreover, if an experience in N’s mind be telepathically
caused by an event in M’s mind, the event in M’s mind would never
be the complete immediate cause of it. It would at most be one of the
immediate necessary conditions. Another, and equally necessary,
factor in the total immediate cause of this experience of N’s would
be the permanent dispositions, the acquired associations, and the
contemporary or immediately past experiences of N himself. There
is therefore no reason to beheve that most telepathically caused
experiences would be so outstanding and discontinuous as to attract
the special attention of the experient.
(iii) Even if N notices this experience with surprise, and is led
to wonder whether it may not be telepathically caused, he can get
no further unless he can discover that, at about the same time, a
certain other person was having an experience which was specially
closely related to his own. Now this condition could not be fulfilled
unless all the followmg conditions were also fulfilled, (a) M, the
person who is in fact the telepathic agent in this transaction, would
need to be known to N, the telepathic patient, or they would need
to have common friends. Now it is obvious that M and N might be
complete strangers. (6) The event in M’s mind which telepathically
determined this exjjerience in N’s mind would have to be an experi-
ence which M noticed and could describe to N or to their mutual
friends. Now the event might not have been an experience at all
;
it might have been a change in the dispositional structure of M s
mind. Or the event might have been an experience which M did not
or could not notice, (c) There would have to be some specially inti-
mate observable relation between M’s experience and N’s experience,
which would make it reasonable to single out the former as a factor
in the total cause of the latter. The only two relations that I can
426 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
think of in this connexion are likeness and the relation of fulfilment
to intention. The first would hold if the two experiences were alike
in quality or if they were jirehensions of similar objects. The
second would hold if M’s experience were that of intending to pro-
duce in N an experience of a certain kind, and if N’s contemporary
exjierience were in fact of the kind intended. Plainly there is not
the least reason to su])pose that either of these very sjjecial relations
would hold as a rule between the telepathic cause-factor and the
experience which it co-operates in producing. An effect may be
extremely unlike every one of the factors in its immediate total
cause. And most telepathic interaction may be entirely uninten-
tional.
The upshot of the above discussion is this. If telepathic inter-
action takes place at all, it may well be a very common occurrence.
Put it will be noticeable only when a large number of independent
and rather special conditions are simultaneously fulfilled. And,
when these conditions are fulfilled, so that it does become noticeable,
the experience which is telepathically produced in N will be very
liable to be mistaken for a telepathic prehension by N of that experi-
ence of M’s which is its telepathic causal determinant. It is easy to
find analogies in the physical sciences to the situation which I have
just shown to be possible about telepathy. Consider, e.g., ordinary
magnetic forces, and the history of our knowledge of them. Such
forces occur whenever electric charges are moving or electric forces
are varying, and they pervade all space at all times and are pro-
foundly important factors in the physical world. Yet they would
hardly have been discovered had it not been for the happy accidents
that the earth contains a good deal of the one element, viz., iron,
which is very strongly siisceptible to magnetic forces ;
that it con-
tains natural magnets, viz., lodestones ;
and that it is itself a natural
magnet. For centuries magnetism seemed to be a freak of nature
which occurred exclusively in connexion with certain very special
kinds of matter. Yet in fact it was all the time operating every-
where. And the very sj^ecial characteristics which it displays in
connexion with iron and with permanent magnets, masked its real
nature almost as much as they revealed it.
I have now said all that seems necessary in support of my conten-
tion that experiments in telepathy, however successful they may be,
would prove only telepathic interaction, of one or other of the three
kinds which we distinguished as theoretically possible. They would
not force us to abandon the Privacy of Prehensible Particulars and
to ])ostulate telepathic prehension. It remains to consider two other
kinds of ostensibly telejjathic phenomena, for which there is ample
evidence, some of which is of excellent quality. The first is spon-
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 427
I
taneous telepathy, such as is reported iu Phantasms of the Living.
I
The second is the supernormal knowledge which mediums often
display with regard to facts known to the sitter or to some other
:
living person.
A good many cases of spontaneous telepathy can be regarded
as similar in princijrle to the cases of experimental telepathy which
I
we have already considered. Suppose that M, sitting in his dining-
room in a mood of intense depression, eventually takes poison,
suffers great bodily pain, and dies. Suppose that there arise in N’s
ij mind, through telepathic interaction, visual sensations or visual
||
imaginations very much like those which M is experiencing through
li normal visual perception of his surroundings. If N is familiar with
I M’s dining-room, his telepathically induced visual experiences will
!' naturally make him think of that room and of M. Suppose next
that there arises in N’s mind, through telepathic interaction, a
feeling of intense depression very much like that which M is experi-
encing because of illness, financial trouble, or some other normal
cause. It will be natural for N to connect together these two simul-
taneous abnormal experiences, and to suspect that there is some-
:
thing seriously wrong with M. Suppose finally that there arises in N’s
mmd, through telepathic interaction, a sensation of intense bodily
pain very much like that which M is experiencing in consequence of
i
the action of the poison on his body. It will be natural for N to
i
assume that M must be very ill and perhaps dying. If N shoidd be
asleep or in a dreamy state when the telepathic interaction takes
place, it is extremely likely that the data supplied, and the normal
associations which they excite, will be supplemented by a great
deal of imagery. The whole thing may then be worked iip into a
vivid dream or waking hallucination, with the gaps filled in and the
inconsistencies smoothed out correctly or incorrectly. No kind of
telepathic prehension needs to be postulated here. Nothing need
be assumed except the special kind of telepathic interaction, which
we postulated to explain the experimental results, together with
the normal workings of pre-formed associations in N’s mind.
(6) Telepathic Discursive Cognition
1
It is doubtful whether all well-attested cases of spontaneous tele-
!
pathy can be dealt with on these lines. And it is fairly certain that
this cannot be a right explanation of the supernormal knowledge
which mediums often display with regard to facts known only to
the sitter or to some other living person. We may best approach
the subject in the following way. There are at least two fundamen-
tally different, though intimately connected, kinds of normal cogni-
tion, viz., prehensive and discursive. So far we have considered
428 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
only the possibility of telepathic prehension, and we have found no
direct evidence for it. Now it looks as if the mediuniistic cases, and
some of the spontaneous telepathy cases, might involve telepathic
discursive cognition. I will now explain these statements and con-
sider whether there is reason to postulate such cognition.
The distinction between prehensive and discursive cognition is
roughly identical with the familiar distinction between “ directly
apprehending ” and “ thinking about.” It is illustrated, e.g., by the
difference between actually hearing a set of noises which form a tune
and knowing or believing that this tune consists of a series of noises
of certain pitches and durations following each other in a certain
order. We may, of course, have discursive cognition about a parti-
cular which we are also directly apprehending ;
and the ground of
our discursive cognition about it may be what is manifested to us
in our prehension of it. But we can have discursive cognition about
objects which we are not at the time prehending, aboxit objects
which we never have prehended, and about objects which we never
could prehend. We can also have an experience which woidd pro-
perly be described as “ thinking of an x,” e.g., a dragon, or “ think-
ing of the y,” e.g., the King of the Fairies, although there may be noth-
ing answering to the description “an x ” or the description “ the
y.” But it would be impossible to have an experience which would
properly be described as “ directly apprehending an x ” or “ directly
a])prehending the y
” unless there were something answering to the
description “ an x ” or to the description “ the y,” respectively.
Discursive cognition consists in either hnowing a fact or taking up
one of a number of alternative cognitive attitudes towards a proposi-
tion which may be either true or false. Among these cognitive atti-
tudes are included believing, disbelieving, opining, uncritically
accepting, supposing, and probably many others. All such cogni-
tive attitudes towards a proposition equally presiippose a more funda-
mental cognitive experience which may be called “ entertaining
”
the proposition. One and the same person may entertain the same
proposition on many different occasions, and he may take towards
it the same or different cognitive attitudes on different occasions.
At one time he may doubt it, at another he may believe it, and so on.
Again, several ])eople may entertain one and the same proposition
on the same occasion, and they may take various cognitive attitudes
towards it. Smith and Jones may both believe it, whilst Brown
doubts it and Robinson disbelieves it. (In saying these things I do
not mean to imply that there is a ])eculiar class of entities called
“ propositions.” I thiidv it most likely that all the statements which
I have just been making could be restated without introducing the
word “proposition” or any synonym for it. But the translations
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 429
would be extremely complicated and verbose. Tbe use of the word
“ proposition ” enables me to express in a reasonably simple verbal
form what everyone admits to be facts about discursive cognition.
No further excuse is needed for continuing to use it.)
There is one other general fact of very great importance which we
must mention before we can profitably consider telepathic discursive
cognition. At any moment far the greater part of any man’s
“ knowledge ” or “ beliefs ” or “ opmions ” certainly does not take
the form of experiences of knowmg such and such facts or believing
or opining such and such propositions. The truth about him is that
he would have these experiences if he chose to direct his attention in
a certain way, or if he were to be suitably stimulated. We may
express this by saying that, at every moment of our lives, much
the greater part of our knowledge, beliefs, and opinions consists of
relatively permanent dispositions to know certain facts or to believe
or opine certain propositions. It is always assumed that, to every
such relatively permanent cognitive disposition, there must corre-
spond some relatively permanent actual existent. This is generally
supposed to be some actual modification of the structure of our
minds or our brains, or to be some actual persistent unobservable
process in our minds or our brams.
It is as well to recognise that we know nothing at all about the
intrinsic nature of the actual existents which are supposed to corre-
spond to our cognitive dispositions. We do not kiiow whether they
are persistent structural features or persistent Tinobservable pro-
cesses. And we do not know whether they are modifications of our
minds or our brains or of both or of neither. All that we know of
them is that they are produced and modified by our actual experi-
ences, and that they are important factors in producing and modi-
fying our experiences. There is very good reason to believe that the
actual existents which correspond to the various dispositions of
various kinds of nmiter are special peculiarities in the spatial arrange-
ment and the motions of the ultra-microscopic particles of which
bodies are composed. But, unless we assume that the actual existents
which correspond to mental dispositions are themselves purely mater-
ial, we cannot suppose that they are spatial arrangements or modes of
motion of ultra-microscopic particles. Now it is extremely difficult
to form any positive conception of purely mental structures or of non-
introspectible mental processes which could plausibly be supposed
to correspond to our mental dispositions. So we are between the
horns of the following dilemma. If we put the correlates of all
mental dispositions into the bram, we get a theory which is famihar
and intelligible m outline but incredible when we come to consider
detail. If, on the other hand, we postulate mental structures and
430 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
non-introspectible mental processes as the actual correlates of our
mental dispositions, we have no clear idea of what we are postulating
and we run the risk of paying ourselves with words.
We are now in readiness to consider telepathic discursive cognition.
Suppose that M knows the fact F or entertains the proposition P.
The only normal way in which M’s knowledge of F or his entertaining
of P can cause another mind N to think of this fact or to entertain
this proposition is the following. ]\1 must express the fact or the
propiosition by uttering or writing a sentence which expresses it in
accordance with some conventional system of symbolisation. N
must hear or see or in some other way perceive with his senses
either this spoken or vnitten sentence itself or some reproduction
of it, e.g., on a gramophone-record or in a book. Of course profound
physical transformations may take ])lace during the process which
intervenes between M’s utterance and the occurrence of the repro-
duction of it which N perceives ;
but a fundamental identity of
structure must l)e preserved throughout, though it may be realised
in verv different media at different stages. This is well illustrated
by telephonic or wireless transmission of speech. Next, the sentence
which N eventually perceives must mean for him, in accordance
with some system of conventional symbolisation with which he is
familiar, the same fact or proposition which M expressed by his
original sentence. If N perceives M’s sentence itself, it is essential
that he should lie familiar with the system of symbolic conventions
which M uses. If N perceives only a reproduction of M’s original
sentence, this condition need not be fulfilled, but another will have
to be substituted for it. M might express himself in French ;
and
N, who knows no French, might still l)e caused to entertain the pro-
position which M was entertaining provided that N perceives a
sentence which is an English translation of M’s sentence. But, in
that case, it is essential that there should have been a third person
T, familiar with both M’s and N’s systems of conventional symbol-
isation, who made a translation from one set of symbols to the other.
The following remarks are worth making at this stage, (i) M’s
knowledge of F or his entertainment of P may be an essential factor
hi causing N to think of F or to entertain P ; and yet N may have
no knowledge or thought of M or of M’s cognitions. If N perceives
and understands a sentence, and if he cares to reflect on the matter,
he will indeed recognise that some mind or other must have enter-
tained the proposition which this sentence means and must have
expressed it in a sentence. And he will recognise that this event in
another mind must be a causal ancestor of his own entertainment
of this proposition. But N need not know or believe anything more
definite about this other mind, (ii) Suppose that N perceives and
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 431
understands a certain sentence, and also knows that it was uttered
by M or is a reproduction of one of M’s utterances. N will then know,
or have very strong reason to believe, that the proposition which
he has been led to entertain has also been entertained by M. But
he may know nothing about M’s cognitive attitude towards this
proposition. If N has any beliefs on this subject, they may well be
mistaken ;
as is abundantly proved by the occurrence of successful
lies and political propaganda, which are taken by the duped hearer
to express the knowledge or the beliefs of the lying speaker.
It is now easy to dehne the phrase “ Telepathically Induced
Discursive Cognition.” Suppose that a certain mind N thinks of a
fact F or entertains a proposition P at a certain moment. Suppose
that N would not have done this unless a certain other contemporary
mind M were knowing this fact or entertaining this proposition.
Lastly, suppose that M’s knowledge of F or his entertainmg of P
does not bring about N’s thought of F or his entertainment of P
by the normal process which we have just described Either M
never expresses the fact or the proposition in a sentence, or N never
perceives the sentence or any reproduction of it, or N cannot under-
stand the sentence or the reproduction of it which he perceives. If
these conditions, positive and negative, were fulfilled, we should
say that N was having telepathically induced discursive cognition
of this fact or this proposition. And we should say that he was de-
riving this cognition telepathically from M’s mind. Now it looks
as if telepathically induced discursive cognition, m the sense just
defined, were involved in some cases of spontaneous telepathy be-
tween normal people and in many cases of trance-mediumship. Can
we say anything further about it ?
(i) I suspect that some people have at the back of their minds a
certain tacit assumption about the modus operandi of telepathically
induced discursive cognition. It may be stated as follows. Suppose
that N is cognismg a fact or a proposition, and that this cognition of
N’s is derived telepathically from M’s mind. Then, it is assumed,
N must be telepathically j^rehending M’s cognition of this fact or pro-
position. And in so doing, it is further assumed, N will ipso facto
be himself cognismg the fact or ^proposition which M is cogmsmg.
To sum up the theory in a sentence :
“ N’s telepathically induced
cognition of what M discursively cognises depends upon N’s tele-
pathic prehension of M’s experience of cognising.”
I should very much hesitate to accept this theory. In the first
place, we have so far foimd no reason to admit the occurrence of
prehensive cognition by one mmd of exjperiences belonging to another
mind. Secondly, I would question the assumption that, if N
directly apprehended M’s experience of knowing the fact F or
432 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part
cognising the proposition P, he would ipso facto be himself cognising
F or P. It is, no doubt, true that a person could not directly appre-
hend his own experience of knowing a fact F or cognising a proposi-
tion P unless he were knowing F or cognising P. For, unless he
were knowing F or cognising P, there would be nothing answering
to the descri]hion “ his experience of knowing F or cognising P.”
And, unless there were an experience answering to this description,
he could not directly apprehend such an experience. But this argu-
ment will not lead to the desired conclusion if we apply it to N’s
prehension of M’s cognitive ex])eriences. The only conclusion to
which it leads in this case is quite trivial. The conclusion is merely
that, if N directly apprehends M’s experience of knowing F or
cognising P, then M must be knowing F or cognising P. The desired
conclusion is that N must be thinking of F or entertaining P. And
this certainly does not follow.
Now, if the fallacy which I have just indicated is avoided, there
seems to be no reason to accept the assumption under discussion.
Why should not N directly apprehend an event, which is in fact
M’s experience of knowing F or cognising P, wdthout realising that
the event which he is apprehending answers to this description ?
And, if this is possible, why should N ipso facto think of F or enter-
tain P ?
It might be plausible to maintain that N could not directly appre-
hend an experience of M’s without ipso facto being aware of its
psychological quality, e.g., without apprehending it as an experience
of knowing or as one of believing or as one of doubting, as the case
might be. But it is not plausible to maintain that N could not
directly apprehend an experience of M’s without ipso facto being
aware of its epistemological object, i.e., of the fact of which it is a
knowing or of the proposition of which it is a believing or a doubting.
Yet, when telepathy takes place from M to N, the result is usually
that N cognises a fact or proposition which M is cognising, but
remains unaware of the psychological quality of M’s cognitive
experience. So there seems to be very little to be said in favour of
the theory which we have been discussing.
Before we leave this theory there is one more remark to be made
about it. If it were acceptable on other grounds, it could be applied
to explain the apparently telepathic prehension by N of images
which M is imaging or of sensa which M is sensing. The explanation
would, of course, take the following form. N, it would be said, tele-
pathically prebends M’s experience of imaging the image I or
sensing the sensum S. In doing this, it would be assumed, N
ipso facto prebends the image I or the sensum S which is the object
of M’s experience. The general principle assumed is that, in pre-
142] Normal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 433
hending any experience which is itself a prehension of an object,
one w’ould be ipso facto prehending its object. I see no reason to
accept this principle ;
and I have already tried to show that the
results of experimental telepathy can be interpreted in quite a
different way, which involves telepathic interaction but does not
involve telepathic cognition.
(ii) I think that certain cases of telepathically induced discursive
cognition could be explained on the same lines as the simple cases of
experimental telepathy. Suppose that M knows the fact F or
cognises the proposition P. Although he does not utter or w'rite a
sentence which would express F or P in his own language, he may
image a series of auditory or visual images corresponding to such
a sentence. Certainly when I am thinking I often find myself doing
this. Suppose now that a series of visual or auditory images, similar
to these, were produced by telepathic interaction and imaged by
another mind N. If N knew’ the language in which these image-
sentences are composed, he would automatically entertain the pro-
position or think of the fact which they express in that language.
He w’ould thus have been telepathically induced to entertain the
proposition which M is cognising or to think of the fact which M is
knowing.
It must be noticed that this theory presupposes that N know’s the
language in which M would express himself if he were to speak
or to write. It therefore could not explain how an Englishman could
telepathically induce in a Frenchman, who knew no English, a
cognition of a fact w’hich the Englishman knows or a proposition
which he cognises. I do not know whether there is good evidence of
telepathically induced discursive cognition in such cases. It would
be a very important subject for experimental investigation.
(iii) Even if the explanation just proposed should be true of some
cases of telepathically induced discursive cognition, I do not thuik
that it could possibly cover all or most of them. In most cases it
seems certain that the person from whom the cognition was tele-
pathically derived was not thinking at the time of the fact or pro-
position concerned. And, if he was not thinkhig of it, he w’as a
fortiori not imaging a set of spoken or written words which would
express it in his ow’ii language. When N derives telepathically from
]\I a cognition of a fact w’hich i\I knows or a proposition which M
believes, it is not usually the case that M is actually having an
experience of knowing the fact or believing the proposition. Usually
IM’s knowledge or belief is at the time purely dispositional, as most
of our knowdedge and our beliefs are at every moment. It is possible,
of course, to evade this contention by saying that M must have been
“ unconsciously having an actual experience of know’ing the fact
434 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. PART
or of believing the proposition at the time when the cognition is
telepathically induced in N. This, however, would be a wholly
gratuitous assumption, for which there is no independent evidence,
and I shall ignore it.
The position, then, seems to be this. Suppose that N telepathi-
cally derives from M a cognition of a fact F, which M knows, or of a
proposition P, which M believes. Then the operative factor on M’s
side will not as a nde be any actual cognitive experience which M is
having at the time. The operative factor on M’s side will usually
be what we may call his “ potentiality of knowing F ” or his “ poten-
tiality of believing P.” By M’s “ potentiality of knowing F ” I
mean that persistent modification of structure or process, whatever
it may be, which ensures that, whenever M is suitably stimulated by
a reminder, he will have an actual experience of knowing F. By
M’s “ potentiality of believing P ” I mean that persistent modifica-
tion of structure or process, whatever it may be, which ensures that,
whenever M is suitably stimulated by a reminder, he 'ftfill have an
actual experience of believing P. I have already said that wn know
nothing whatever about the intrinsic nature or location of these
assumed persistent modifications. We know them only as relatively
permanent after-effects of actual experiences, and as relatively
permanent cause-factors in producing and modifying subsequent
experiences. Let us call them “ Experientially Initiated Potentiali-
ties of Experience.”
Now the normal rule is this. Any such potentiality which is a
cause-factor in producing or modifying M’s later experiences has been
acquired from 31’s earlier experiences. I wish to point out that this
is merely an empirical ride based on normal experience. Since we
know nothing about the intrinsic nature or location of experientially
initiated potentialities of experience, we cannot possibly see any kind
of necessity in this or any other rule about them. It is logically
possible that a potentiality which is an after-effect of M’s past
experiences should be a cause-factor in producing or modifying, not
only M’s future exjieriences, but also those of N. Many cases of
telepathically induced discursive cognition seem to suggest that this
logical jjossilulity is in fact sometimes realised.
Let us begin by considering normal thinking. Here, as we have
said, the only experientially initiated potentialities which affect a
person's later experiences are those which were initiated by his oivn
earlier experiences. In low-grade thinking, such as day-dreaming,
it would seem that some one potentiality is activated by some very
contingent experience of the thinker, and that this then activates
another, and this in turn another, and so on, in an almost automatic
way dependent on association by contiguity, similarity, etc. The
142] Normal Cognitio7i, Clairvoyaiice, and Telepathy 435
result is a series of thoughts or images which have very little logical
interconnexion ;
though the thinker himself, if he reflected on them,
or a psychologist, if he performed a psycho-analysis, might be able
to conjecture why the experiences had followed each other in this
particular order. If, on the other hand, the person is actively pur-
suing a directed train of thought on some deflnite problem, those
potentialities which would give rise to experiences relevant to the
problem will tend to be stimulated and those which would give rise
to experiences irrelevant to the problem will tend to be kept quiet.
Even here the potentiality which would give rise to an experience
highly relevant at a certain stage m the process often fails to be
activated at the appropriate moment. And potentialities which
give rise to irrelevant or misleading experiences often do get activ-
ated. Even when a process of thinking, directed to solving a certain
problem, is eventually successful, the thoughts which are the stages
in this process seldom arise in their proper logical order. The right
logical order usually comes as a result of retrospective reflexion on
the process by the thinker, followed by an act of rearrangement.
The point which I want to emphasise now is the followmg. W hen
normal directed thinking is contrasted with normal low-grade think-
ing, it may fairly be called a “ volmitary ” process. And it may
fairly be said that the thinker “ deliberately selects,” out of the mass
of potentialities of experience w'hich his past experiences have
initiated, those which would give rise to relevant exjieriences if
they were stimulated. But it is most important not to be deceived
by such phrases. W e must not imagine that the thinker pierceives the
various potentialities of experience, as a man might perceive a lot of
ties and socks and shoes and pullovers in his bedroom, and then de-
liberately activates a certam selection fro7n them, as a man might deliber-
ately put on a certain tie, a certain pair of socks, a certain pair of
shoes, and a certain pullover, in order to produce a certain colour
scheme. The following analog may make the fallacy quite plain.
When the process of constructing a machine wdth one s hands is con-
trasted with bluiking or jerking one’s knee, it may fairly be called
a “ volimtary ” process. And it may fairly be said that the agent
“ deliberately selects,” out of a mass of potentialities of movement
derived from his past bodily actions, those which would give rise
to the relevant overt movements if stimulated. But he certainly
does not perceive his own motor-nerves and muscles, select certain
of the former, and decide to send such and such nervous impulses
down the former in order to activate the latter in such a way as to
make his Angers move as he wants them to do. He is perceiving
and thinkmg of nothing but his hands and the materials with which
he is working. He is desiring nothing but to make certain compli-
436 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part :
cated movements with his hands against the resistance of the mat-
erials. This autoniutically
,
and m ways utterly unknown to him, |
sets up unfelt processes in unperceived nerves. And, in the main,
these are in fact the appropriate processes in the appropriate nerves ;
since, in the main, the expected and desired overt movements result.
To imagine that a thinker literally selects and deliberately activates
those potentialities of experience which are relevant to the problem
that he is trying to solve is like imagining that a manual worker
literally contemplates his own brain and nervous system as if it
were a complicated switch-board and deliberately presses such and
such buttons. The thinker or the manual worker wills that a certain
process of thought or bodily action shall take place ;
and auto-
matically, in ways unknown to him, his volition initiates and sus-
tains, among unobservable entities, unobservable processes which
do ill fact tend to bring about the desired process of thought or
bodily action.
I have insisted upon this point about normal thinking because it
has an important bearing upon telepathically induced thinking. It
seems to me that there are two ways in which we are liable to make
needless difficulties for ourselves in connexion with this subject.
(i) W e tacitly assume that potentialities of experience initiated by
M’s experiences must be located in M’s brain or in M’s mind ;
and
similaily, mutatis mutandis, for A and for each other individual.
(ii) M e tacitly assume that, wffieii a certain set of co-existent poten-
tialities of experience are activated in such an order as to give rise
to a certain coherent train of thought in M s mind, M must have con-
templated a whole mass of co-existent potentialities and must have
deliberately selected and activated this particular sub-group. Then
we are faced with telepathically intluced discursive cognition. We
thereupon raise such rpiestions as these. How can N contemplate po-
tentialities of experience which are located in M’s brain or in M’s
mind ? How can N select from these just that sub-group which is
relevant to his own problem at the moment ? How can N activate
this sub-group located in M’s mind or brain ? And, if N does this,
why are the corresponding exjieriences produced in N’s mind and
not in M’s ?
Now these difficulties are at least lightened by the two following
considerations, (i) Even it the potentialities of exjierience which are
initiateil by M’s experiences are located in M’s mind or M’s brain,
there is not the least reason to suppose that N would have to con-
template them and deliberately activate a certain selection of them.
For we have seen that this is certainly not the way in wffiich the set
of potentialities which are relevant to a normal train of thought are
activated by the mind in which that train of thought occurs.
142] Norynal Cognition, Clairvoyance, and Telepathy 437
(ii) We have very little ground for assuming that the potentialities
of exjjerience which are initiated by Ws experiences are located in
M’s mind or in M’s brain. If I say that an actual experience is
located in M’s mind, I know what I mean. I mean that it is one of
M’s experiences, and I know perfectly well what it is for a certain
experience to belong to, or occur in, a certain mind. But experi-
entially initiated potentialities of experience, whatever they may be,
are certainly not themselves experiences. MTien I say that a certain
acquired potentiality of experience is located in M’s mind this can
only be an abbreviated way of sapng that it was produced by a past
experience of M's and that it is a cause-factor in producing or
modifying later experiences of M’s. If the statement means any-
thing more than this, I have no idea what it means. If, on the
other hand, I say that it is located in M's brain, I must mean that it
is a more or less persistent modification in the spatial arrangement
or the movements of the ultra-microscopic particles in some part of
M’s brain. Xow there are well-kno^\m empirical facts about the
loss of a person’s normal memories through injuries to his brain and
his subsequent recovery of these memories which make it very
difficult to accept this view of experientially initiated potentialities of
experience. So the statement that potentialities of experience in-
itiated by M’s experiences are located in M’s mind seems to be either
metaphorical or meaningless ;
and the statement that they are
located in his brain, if taken as the whole truth, seems to be difficult
to reconcile with admitted facts about the effects of brain-injuries
on normal experience.
We must therefore consider seriously the possibility that each
person’s experiences initiate more or less permanent modifications
of structure or process in something which is neither his mind nor his
brain. There is no reason to suppose that this Substratum would
be ami:hing to which possessive adjectives, such as “ mine ” and
“ yours ” and his ” could properly be applied, as they can be to
minds and to animated bodies. The situation would be this. The
modifications which are produced in this common Substratum by
M’s experiences normally affect only the subsequent experiences of
M ;
those which are produced in it by X's experiences normally
affect only the subsequent experiences of X. But in certain cases
this normal camsal ” self-confinement,” as we might call it, breaks
down. l\lodifications which have been produced in the Substratum by
certain of M’s past experiences are activated by X's present experi-
ences or interests, and they become cause-factors in producing or
modifying X’s later experiences.
As we know nothing about the intrinsic nature of experientially
initiated potentialities of experience, we cannot say an}d;hing definite
438 Professor C. D. Broad, Litt.D. [part 142]
about the intrinsic nature of the common Substratum of which we
have assumed them to be modifications. As there is no reason what-
ever to think that such potentialities of experience are, or could be,
themselves experiences, there is no reason whatever to suppose
that the Substratum is a mind. On the other hand, it could hardly
be any particular finite body. It does not seem impossible that it
should be some kmd of extended pervasive medium, capable of
receiving and retaining modifications of local structure or internal
motion. But I do not thinlv that we have at present any adequate
data for further speculations about its nature.
PROCEEDINGS
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
PART 143
A PROXY CASE EXTENDING OVER ELEVEN SITTINGS
WITH MRS OSBORNE LEONARD
By C. Drayton Thoma,s
FOREWORD
The following letter by Mr H. Hatch vouches for the accuracy of
statements made in this narrative.
Thornton House,
58 Hibson Road,
Nelson, Lancs. March 11, 1935.
Perhaps some matters in this book will be clearer if I explain my
connexion with Bobbie. I am his mother’s stepfather, but he lived in
my home all his short life. His own father only knew him when a baby
and I looked upon Bobbie as my son, and he thought of me as his father.
I ought to say also that I have no connexion with Spiritualism, that
I have taken an Honours degree in Science, and that I have spent most
of my life in teaching science and in writing text-books.
I am perfectly certain that the evidence proves that knowledge of
facts and places was obtained in some abnormal way—how, it is for
psychic researchers to say.
Fraud is quite out of the question. As explained in the book, none
of the facts, places or people were known to either the sitter or the
medium. I was most careful in my letters to make no statements other
than comments on evidence already given.
Chance coincidence is an equally absurd theory. Consider some of
the names given. “ Bentley ” (96) was given as a place name—a clue
to the “ pipes ” ;
actually Bentley Street is one minute’s walk from my
home in that direction. “ Catelnow ” (140) is given as a place near by ;
actually Catlow is a hamlet some two miles away to which Bobbie and
I walked on the last occasion he left the house before his death. Are not
2g 439
C. Drayton Thomas
440 [part
the chances against correct guessing in each case thousands to one, and
therefore millions to one in combination ?
I would direct particular attention to the statements about the photo-
graph of Bobbie with “ a board in front ” and “ a round thing without
a peak ” on his head (34 and 35). The chances against correct guessing
here seem to me to be so high as to make the theory absurd.
Telepathy can only be an explanation if by that vague term one here
means the power of the medium to read the subconscious thoughts of
]ieople (1) whom she did not know, (2) of whose locality in Britain she
had no idea, (3) who did not know when the sittings were in progress,
(4) who were actually over 200 miles distant. I suggest that this hypo-
thesis is too far-fetched.
I wish to say that all the statements of fact made by Mr Drayton
Thomas are absolutely true. I shall be glad to answer any questions
relating to them.
(Signed) Herbert Hatch.
143]
^4 Proxy Case 441
INTRODUCTION
In the Proceedings of our Society for May 1933 there is an account
of some proxy sittings with Mrs Osborne Leonard which I took on
behalf of various applicants. Two or three sittings were given to
most of these cases, but in the experiment now to be described there
were eleven sittings and the series extended over many months.
The longer opportunity for accumulation of material may in some
measure account for its better quality. It is possible that, had I
given more sittings to each of the cases above mentioned, the results
would have been better.
Although the present case concerns a young boy it was said that
he was helped by others : it may have been owing to their ex])crience
and suggestion that the child was able to select so much appropriate
material. The subject of chief interest in this study was not origi-
nated by the boy, but by my regular communicators. The ojiinion
expressed by them as to the cause of the boy’s death is highly im-
portant ;
firstly because it had been suspected by no one on earth,
and secondly because we were unable, for several months after the
clues were given, to trace any connexion between the boy’s illness
and its asserted origin.
This therefore merits special consideration and will form the
subject matter of Part II, for which all relevant material is reserved.
I shall, however, indicate in Part I the place in each sitting where
reference was made to this topic.
The first sitting introduces the baffling subject of psychometry.
It is rarely that I have tried this with Mrs Leonard, but I haj)pened
to do so on this occasion. The psychometrising was of doubtful
assistance ;
for although Feda (Mrs Leonard’s Control) seemed to
begin with pure psychometry this quickly changed into the familiar
type of message. Feda meanwhile was apparently uncertain
whether the information came to her by means of the article, or
direct from some imseen communicator.
The series affords illustration of problems connected with trance
mediumship which still await final solution. Prominent among
these is the question of wodws operandi and the fact that information
which one could express in a few sentences will often emerge in
diffused and extended form. Whether the cause is to be sought in
telepathy, imjjerfect clairaudience, the medium’s inhibitions, or the
communicator’s difficulty with memory—or various combinations
of these—one would much like to ascertain. It is my ho].>e that the
material here provided may be useful to those studying such
questions, and may directly or indirectly help toward a solution.
442 C. Drayton Thomas [part
I am grateful to Mr Hatch and Mrs Newlove for allowing me to
give their names and postal address. This will enable anyone
wishing to make further enquiries to go to headquarters, and it
disposes of the objection which might otherwise arise that the whole
of this story would seem to depend upon my unsupported word. It
happened that Mr Besterman and Mr Gerald Heard were present
at Sitting No. 6, and heard Feda give the remarkably correct
description of a route which would lead towards the locality where
the mysterious “ pipes ” were said to be.
Part I consists of a slightly abbreviated record of the twelve
sittings, with verifications and an analysis of results.
Part II gives a complete story of the “ pipes ” problem.
Part HI is a numerical analysis of successes and failures.
Part IV is an inquiry into Telepathy and the modus operandi of
trance messages.
Feda is the name of Mrs Leonard’s Control.
John my father, and Etta my sister are my regular communi-
cators.
C. D. T. are my initials and will indicate my part in dialogue with
Feda.
Readers will be able to place theh own valuation upon the evi-
dential material of these sittings, but in the table appended to each
sitting will be found the mark given by me.
The name of the child from whom I was seeking information was
Bobbie Newlove ;
he will be called Bobbie in these records. His
messages of affection and all personal matter which has no definitely
evidential value will be omitted, as also his descriptions of the life he
is living in the Beyond. We shall confine ourselves strictly to evi-
dence which can be tested.
Much of the material connects with the boy’s memories, while
some of it relates to his opinions, or to things he was said to have
observed since his passing. These items I distinguish by M. for
memories, and by 0. for opinions or observations. Feda, John and
Etta occasionally offered opinions.
.4 Proxy Case 443
PART I
BOBBIE NEAVLOVE
Ix September 1932 I received a letter from a stranger, a l\Ir Hatch.
He wrote from Nelson, a town 200 miles distant, of which I had no
knowledge other than the fragmentary memories of having once
lectured there ten years before.
Here are relevant portions of the letter.
For ten years my stepdaughter has lived with me and my wife, and
her little boy has been the life and centre of our lives. He was parti-
cularly intelligent and extraordinarily loving and lovable. A few weeks
ago he died suddenly of diphtheria, aged ten. The loss is so dreadful that
we feel we must ask if you can in any way obtain comfort similar to that
recounted in your book. Life Beyond Death.
I discouraged expectation of receiving messages ;
it seemed to me
that this boy would be too young to make a successful communi-
cator. Meanwhile the family remained unaware, until receiving
extracts from the first sitting, that I was attempting (by methods
previously successful in similar cases) to make contact with the child.
It was in these circumstances that I took the letter to my sitting of
November 4, 1932.
At an appropriate moment during the sitting I said to Feda, “ I
have a very earnest request for news of a little boy, Bobbie True-
love ”. (By a slip of memory I gave the surname wrongly, it should
have been Newlove. It will be noticed that I corrected this at the
begiiming of the third sitting.) I then suggested that Feda should
hold the letter. She accepted the idea. Needless to say I had folded
it in such a way that no uiforniation could be ascertamed by glancing
at it. Added to this I watched carefully during the few minutes it
was in the medium’s hands, and observed that her eyes did not open.
I will now set out Feda’s remarks consecutively, adding the
comments received from the family.
First Sitting, November 4, 1932.
(1) Feda : Isn’t there a name connected with them beginning with
a ‘
T ’
1
When I said that I did not know, Feda added that it was an
“ important name ”. The family’s comment on this was that Bobbie
loved his mother to call him by a pet name beginning with the
letter ‘
T ’.
It is mifortunate that in so many cases Feda gives only the initial
letter instead of the full name. In the present case there is nothing
444 f\ iJrai/to)) Thomas I'PAIIT
to make one sure tliat Bobbie’s pet name was lacing attempted ;
on
tlie. otlrer hand, an attemj^t to announce this name would be quite
natural in the circumstances. As we shall shortly see, Feda had the
impression that the child was actually present.
(2) Feda ; Will you find out whether this l)oy had had a pain in his
hand. I felt such a funny pain in the hand while touching this
letter.
As the medium was holding the letter I assumed that psychometry
was in progress. If so, then the pain in the hand would presumably
refer to the writer and not to Bobbie himself. I learned on enquiry
however, that the writer, Mr Hatch, did not recognise this as
applying to himself, but that Bobbie, who had always been a delicate
child, occasionally lost the use of the right hand after a bout of
excessive laughter ;
at such times he did not complain of pain, but
he was unable to use the hand for writing while the condition lasted.
(3) Feda ; I am also getting a name beginning with ‘
M ’, it sounds
like Mar— something, connected with this letter too ... Is
there a name in or on this letter starting with ‘
M ’
?
One is left in doubt as to what may have l)een intended by this
reference to Mar—. The first comment I received was as follows ;
“ Yes, Bobbie’s godmother, whom he loved, I think, more than
anyone outside the family circle, is named Marie.”
There is, however, no doubt that Bobbie’s thoughts had often
reverted to a child named Marjorie, whom he had frequently met
and who had made a great impression on him. There will be several
references to this on later pages. Neither this name, nor any other
commencing with ‘
M ’, was mentioned in the letter I had received.
Feda was not sure of the source of these ideas ;
for, in relation to
this name, she added :
“ I think I am getting that from the letter,
or it may be in the thought of the person who wrote the letter to
you.” The phrase, “ It sounds like Mar— ”, certainly seems to
suggest clairaudience and not psychometry.
(4) Feda ; The little boy has been trying to get in touch with them
before.
[His people wrote :
“ We have had very vague messages from local
mediums.”] ^
(5) Feda : You said a few weeks since he j)assed over, Feda feels it
would be several months now.
^ Short comments interspersed between quotations from the record of the
sittings are in square brackets. These comments, unless there is some state-
ment to the contrary, are based upon information received from Mr Hatch or
Mrs Newlove, either in letters or verbally when I made their acquaintance
during my visits to Nelson in June and July 1933.
143 ]
J Pro.rti Case 44.")
[1 was iul'omied that the child had died some three months before this
sitting, i.e. on August 12, 1932.]
(6) Feda ; Glands ;
ask if he had anything the matter with his glands.
When I get anything like that it helps to find out if I am getting
the right one.
[Mr Hatch replied :
“ I do not know whether the glands are affected
in diphtheria, but it is probable.”
I was equally ignorant, but on referring to books, discovered, as did
Mr Hatch, that the glands are affected by diphtheria. So this point,
which had been neither in my mind nor in Mr Hatch’s, was correct.]
(7) Feda : All boys are fond of cakes and things, but a little while
before he passed over I get such a feeling of a lot of cakes and
cooking going on as if for some special occasion.
[This is vague. The only fact at all relevant is that, at some time
within six months of passing, Bobbie and a friend, after having studied
a cookery book, had a grand toffee-making.]
(8) Feda : Do you know if he was connected with a town, not London
but a town, not one of the biggest in the provinces ?
[This was, as I knew, correct for Nelson where Bobbie had lived.]
(9) Feda : Is there something to do with a place—does anybody go
there to do some special study, not like Oxford or Cambridge,
Eton or Harrow.
C. D. T. : No, it is a manufacturing town.
Feda : The studying they are doing is not so much of a scholastic
kind. It is more as if they are learning to do something in a
practical way.
C. D. T. ; And who is this that is studying ?
Feda : Somebody connected with the boy, like making a study of
how to make something, like specialising in the making of some-
thing, not just making it and turning it out with a machine, but
a kind of study of it.
[After a short break this subject was continued, see below.]
(10) Feda : It is a busy place, but not one of the very biggest of those
towns. I don’t think you would call it the biggest of those towns,
and yet it is a largish place where they are concentrating on
important things.
C. D. T. : I should say that is correct, so far as I know.
[Mr Hatch wrote :
“ This is unquestionably an accurate description
of Nelson.”]
(11) Feda : Do you know if some manufacturing places are on the banks
of a canal or river there ? It does not feel pretty enough to call
a river because of the buildings and the things on the side of it.
[There is a river and a canal, and there are factories on the banks of
the river. Bobbie knew both river and canal.]
Feda : (Resuming previous theme 9). Oh, are they partly making
some stuff, there in this place, is it earthenware or pottery, some-
44(5 ('. Drayton IVioma.s [part
i
t hing like stone '!
I think they are making more than one tiling
there, but I do get a feeling of something being made of a hard |
nature, something like stone, something is being put together,
I get a feeling of it lieing put together very closely in lumps ;
it i
is not steel or iron or metal, it is more like things being made,
and I think it is rather a new industry.
[i\lr Hatch replied :
“ Bobbie had a great friend who is a working
man engaged usually in making mortar and cement. He took a great
interest in the boy and was most distressed when he died. Later he
suggested that he should make a concrete cross for the grave. We
thankfully agreed, feeling that work with real love behind it was better
than anything bought from a monumental mason. This friend has never
made one before and had to ‘
make a study of how to make something.’ ”]
Readers will feel that this is not convincing. When, however,
after the conclusion of these sittings, I visited Nelson and met the
person above alluded to, Mr Burrows, and saw the grave—the cross
not yet erected, but blocks of concrete making a curb with a concrete
platform round the grave, and noticing that the concrete was made
in small portions fitted together,—I realised how apposite had been
the above description. Mr Burrows will be mentioned hereafter.
Bobbie greatly admired him ;
for, in addition to teaching Bobbie
gymnastics and boxing, Mr Burrows was the professional at the
skating rink, and Captain of the Rink Hockey Club.
It is only my fear that readers will not be in a position, at this
point, to share my opinion that Feda’s remarks actually apply to
the concrete-and-cement work around Bobbie’s grave, that restrains
me from pointing out in detail how clear it is that Feda did not know
what it was she was describing. But it is unwise to build upon
inadequate foundations, and there wdll be other opportunities, as we
])roceed, for illustrating this fact, namely, that the mind originating
the message is not Feda’s and that Feda is frequently unable to
realise what it is that she is describing. There is abundant evidence
indicating that Feda’s part is simply to transmit from one who knows
the facts, and w'ho is trying amid difficulties to convey information
which can be recognised by those for whom it is intended.
(12) Feda : These people are not very poor and not very rich, sort of
between people ;
I think they have a comfortable home and nice
surroundings—the family of the boy.
[This remark was accepted by Mr Hatch as a correct description.]
(13) Feda : Ask them if the boy’s neck or throat was affected. I keep
on getting something about that.
[The diphtheria affected the boy’s neck and throat, but he had
previously been troubled with enlarged tonsils which would have lieen
operated upon had Bobbie been less delicate.]
143 ]
447
Mr Hatch’s reaction to this first sittmg may be judged from the
following passages which I extract from his letter of comments.
“ There certainly seems more in the above than coincidence would
explain. Yet do you not think that psychometry, while showing that the
mind of the medium has certain unknown powers, is yet no evidence of
survival ? If Bobbie were trying to communicate I cannot believe that
he would refer to any of the matters mentioned. Still, as you say, it is
a foundation, and if you will be good enough to try again we shall indeed
be grateful.
“ I have heard it said that those who are desperately anxious for
evidence are very credulous. I do not think it is so with me. My fear
is lest I should be deceived by evidence that can be explained by some
other faculty of the mind, perhaps one that has not been investigated
as yet.”
First Sitting.
Abbreviations used.
M ; Memory.
0 : Opinion or
Observation.
E, ; Eight.
G : Good.
F ; Fair.
P : Poor.
D : Doubtful.
Classed as
—
0 : F. A name ‘
T ’
(1).
0 : D. Pain in hand (2).
0 : G. A name Mar— (3).
0 ; E. Tried to get touch previously (4).
0 ; E. Passed several months ago (5).
0 ; E. Glands (6).
M : P. Special cooking (7).
M : E. Town in provinces (8).
0 : F. Making something like stone—studying it —(9)
put together in lumps.
M : E. Largish town and important things (10).
M ; E. Manufactories on canal or river (11).
M : E. Financial status of family (12).
M : E. Neck and throat affected (13).
Eesult of above analysis
—
Bobbie's
Bobbie's opinion
or observation Feda’s
memory. since passiiiy. opinion.
E 5. E 1. E 2.
P 1. F 1. G 1.
F 1.
D 1.
44S Drai^tou Thnvias [
PAR1'
Second Sitting, November 18, 1932. ,
(14) A previous weakening. (See Part 11.) !
[This is the first of 33 references to the subject discussed in Part II, j
The Problem of the Pipes. It seemed better to deal with them as a whole i
and so I have removed them from among the miscellaneous matter of
the sittings. The position of each is shown as above, by number and a
t)rief indication of contents.
The valuation marks are included in the analysis at the end of each
sitting.]
(15) Peda : Etta thinks he had a good constitution as children go.
[Mr Hatch says that Bobby had not a good constitution but was ;
always frail.]
(16) Feda : He seemed rather a lively boy and he was not what Etta j
would call a naughty boy in temperament, he was a boy who was
what you would call “ all there ”. He had a very nice nature,
and though he was quite a boy he could be, and was, very |
affectionate too ;
she says, I think his mother would say “ yes ”
|
to that. Many boys are so undemonstrative, but this boy would j
be very affectionate. ji
[It should be noted that it is Etta who says, “ I think that he had a j
good constitution as children go.” This seems to have been an inference
''
of hers and therefore the mistake is less important than would have been
a misstatement made by Bobbie himself. The rest of the paragraph is
correct. Bobbie was very lively, very good, and particularly affectionate.] i
(17) Feda : He was very appreciative of his mother and his relations |
and his home life.
[Mr Hatch writes ;
“ This is all true.”]
(18) Feda : There was a little girl that this boy was very fond of.
(19) Does the girl’s name begin with ‘
J ’
? I keep seeing a ‘
J ’.
J. G. and P.
(20) There is a girl’s name beginning with ‘
G ’
;
there are really
two names beginning with ‘
G ’
connected with him. One is a
proper name and the other is a little made-up name, a pet name.
[“ A little girl he was fond of ” : Yes, Marjorie, a child of twelve who
was a semi-professional at the skating rink. There will be several
further allusions to her, usually by the letter ‘
M ’.
Feda here seems to have assumed that because the letter ‘
J ’
came
after the reference to a girl it was therefore the girl’s name ;
and
similarly with the name ‘
G ’. The initials are all quite relevant, how-
ever.
‘
J ’
and ‘
P ’
: Jack and Peter were two of Bobbie’s special friends.
The two names ‘
G ’
may refer to his mother, whose name is Gwendoline,
but often called in the family Gennie.]
441)
I4:i] ,4 Proxy Case
(21) Feda : There is a rather elderly gentleman he is very iVmd of. Etta
thinks it is someone he regarded as a relation, I am sure too old
to be the father.
[Mr Hatch says that this may refer to himself. Mr Hatch is older than
Bobbie’s father and is step-father to Bobbie’s mother.]
(22) Feda : I understand he had given him something the boy was very
pleased about only shortly before he passed over.
[Mr Hatch frequently gave things to Bobbie, but remembers nothing
to which this would specially aqiply.]
(23) Feda : Had this gentleman taken out something in the boy’s name
that would be of monetary advantage to him later on, putting
something on one side for him that would have been useful to
him later.
[Not understood. They gave Bobbie money for his Savings Certificate
at school, but cannot think of anything further to which this would
apply.]
(24) Feda : There was something that Bobbie was very interested in,
but I don’t quite understand. He had been allowed to build
something. I think he was not doing it alone, he was going to do
it with another young person ;
it seems as if he was going to
build something. It felt to me like building an outhouse, but he
seemed too young for such an interest. There was something of
that kind being done in which he was very interested and going
to take his part. It is one of the things he would have wanted
to talk about if he had been on the earth.
[With a boy friend, Bobbie had planned to build a glider—an im-
practicable scheme, but one upon which, for a time, he had worked with
much enthusiasm. His mother allowed the boys to do this in the
scullery. Note : Etta says, “ It felt to me like building an outhouse,
something of that kind ”. Did she confuse the scullery with the object
under construction there ?]
(25) Feda ; He was fond of someone who was attached to a school.
[This might refer either to one of Bobbie’s teachers, or to Mr Hatch,
to whom he was much attached ;
Mr Hatch teaches in a school.]
(26) Feda : And he sent his love to someone whose initial was ‘
M ’,
I don’t mean his mother. It is a woman, that is to say, it is a
female name.
[This is highly appropriate for his godmother, of whom he was very
fond and with whom he had stayed in London. She was always alluded
to as “ Auntie Marie ”. Alternatively, it might mean the little girl
Marjorie, above mentioned, to whom Bobbie was much attached.]
(27) Feda : Someone called Joyce he liked.
[Two years back Bobbie had known a Joyce, but the family do not
think it likely he would name her in this connection. There were others
4r)(j C. J)r(ii/lo)i Thovuifi (part
of that name whom he knew' at his co-education school, also others
among the Brownies ^ with whom he was acquainted.]
(28) Feda : He was very pleased at winning something not very long
before he passed over.
[Not long before he died Bobbie was pleased at being top of his form
for the half-year’s examination, as well as for the term’s marks.
Nine weeks before his death Bobbie won, in a competition, a salt-
sifter shaped like a dog. This article gave him much pleasure. He
called it his “ bow-wow ”. (See Fig. II.) It will be referred to later :
see Nos. 54, 56, 61.]
(29) Feua ; Etta says he was very fond of something which he did not
do by himself ;
and it seemed to do with numbers, as if he played
with something with numbers on, and he used to take turns with
it. Whatever this was with numbers he used to like to do some-
thing with curved lines, grooves and curved lines and numbers :
he used to do this after tea, it occupied some time after tea.
[At a recent Fair he was particularly successful w'ith one of the auto-
matic machines from which he won pennies by shooting into numbered
circles. “Not by himself”; he was always accompanied there by
others and of course would take his turn at the machine and not mono-
polise it. “ After tea ” : he did this several times during evenings
after tea.]
(30) Feda : He played indoors with coloured marbles, it was something
they did on a table.
[Yes, he played a game with coloured marbles and a card pattern on
the table.]
(31) Feda : They had been trying to make something—this is nothing
to do with what I said about building—they had been doing
something intricate in the house that Bobbie was interested in,
they got a lot of parts for it, like fixing them all up together.
They were wanting some other 2
>arts for it not long before Bobbie
2
)assed over.
[Mr Burrows was fitting up a gymnasium for Bobbie and it was not
yet finished. They still required a horizontal ladder and other items.
It was being made in an upstairs room and Mr Burrows added to it each
time he called. Bobbie’s diary has the follow'ing references :
March 31. The instructor came and put u^) two parts of gymnasium.
May 10. Instructor came and fixed up parallel bars.
June 15. Got bellbar for gym.]
(32) Feda : Was he interested in rabbits 1
1 For the information of foreign readers the name “ Brownies ” may be
explained as the junior branch of the Girl Guide organisation. Its chief aims
are the building up of good character and bodily health. Brownies have their
counterpart for boys in the well-known Boy Scout movement, whose younger
members are called Wolf Cubs.
143 ]
^4 Proxy Case 451
[Yes, Bobbie frequently visited Mr Burrows’ garden, and when there
was interested in the rabbits kept by a neighbour close by.]
(33) Feda : I think he will come again and let me see him. I feel he is
a bit on the dark side, not a fair boy.
[No, the boy was decidedly fair. Feda’s idea, which she seems to have
obtained by feeling rather than by sight, was wrong.]
Second Sitting.
Abbreviations used.
M ; Memory. R : Right.
0 : Opinion or G : Good.
Observation. F : Fair.
P : Poor.
D : Doubtful.
W : Wrong.
Classed as
—
0 : R. A previous weakening (14).
0 : W. Etta thinks his constitution good (15).
0 : R. Description of Bobbie’s character (16).
M ; R. Happy home life (17).
M; R. Little girl friend (18).
M : F. Initials J and P (19).
M : G. Two names G (20).
M : G. Fond of elderly gentleman (21).
M : D. Recent gift from gentleman (22).
M : P. Money put aside for him (23).
M : G. Interested in building something (24).
M : F. Friend attached to a school (25).
M ; G. Sent love to M (26).
M : P. Liked Joyce (27).
M ; R. Won something shortly before his passing (28).
M : R. Played with grooves and numbers after tea (29).
M ; R. Coloured marbles on table (30).
M: R. Something yet incomplete making in the house (31)
M : F. Interested in rabbits (32).
0 ; W. Feda’s attempt to describe him (33).
Result of above analysis
—
Bobbie's Feda’s Etta’s
memory. opinion. opinio)i
R 6. W 1 R 2.
G 4. W 1.
F 3.
P[2.
D 1.
452 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Third Sitting, December 2, 1932.
C. D. T. ; Have they been able to bring Bobbie Newlove ?
Feda : You mean Truelove, don’t you ?
C. D. T. : I made a mistake, the name is Newlove. Let us call him
Bobbie. Have they brought him ?
(34) Feda : Yes, and they thought about passing over a few messages.
What is that you are showing me ? Will you ask is there a
photograph of Bobbie in a rather peculiar position 1 I see him
full faced, or very nearly full faced, but with something in front
of him, as if there is a board in front of him. It is as if he had
been photographed sitting at the back of something, like at the
back of a board or a tray or something. In the position he
seemed to be leaning a bit forward towards the tray or board or
whatever it is, I get a feeling of a crouching position.
[Mr Hatch writes :
“ This is certainly remarkable. The last photo-
graph we have of Bobbie is in fancy dress. He is the Jack of Hearts
with boards back and front like a sandwich-man. On his head is a
crown as in a pack of cards. It is wrong that he was sitting or crouching,
he was standing erect (see Fig. I.).”
One is uncertain whether Feda was given a visual impression of this
particular photograph or whether she received Bobbie’s generalised
impression of his various attitudes while wearing the fancy dress.]
(35) Feda : Will you ask also if he had been given—I think it must
have been a joke—something new that he was fond of using or
wearing on his head, something round ;
if it was a cap it had no
peak to it. He used to put it on his head and I think he liked it.
Mr John is trying to draw just like a ring, like something he had
put on. It has no peak to it at all. You had better say some-
thing round that was new, to wear on his head, that he was
pleased at having. It was as if he thought it was rather im-
portant putting this round thing on his head.
[This apparently refers to the crown. He was so fond of putting it
on that his mother had to check him lest it should be worn out. (See
Fig. II.)]
(36) Feda : What does Bobbie want to say about his nose, his nose hurt ?
(hand rubs nose).
He is making me feel as if something had hurt his nose on the
side towards the end of his earthly life. Oh, he doesn’t think it
caused his passing or anything of that kind.
[Mr Hatch writes :
“ Bobbie was learning to box, and on the last
lesson his instructor, usually very gentle with him, gave him a blow on
the nose which brought tears to his eyes. He complained afterwards
that it hurt when washed.” When, on visiting the house, I was shown
Bobbie’s little diary, I noticed that he humorously referred to this
under its date thus
—“ .Tune 14. The instructor came. Burst my nose.”
This ha]ipened shortly before Bobbie’s death.]
II.
-(A)
'I'lii'
siilt-siftri',
slia|)c(l
likr
a
staiiiliii”
453
143] A Proxy Case
(37) John repeats the reference to a predisposing cause for Bobbie’s
illness.
[See Part II where this topic will be dealt with in its entirety.
Wherever this matter of the “ Pipes ”, is alluded to in these sittings the
paragraph will be represented by its number, and a reference to Part II
where it will be found in full.]
(38) An event nine weeks before the death for which the “ pipes ” will
be the clue. [See Part II.]
(39) Feda : Did I tell you last time about a girl a little older than
Bobbie that he was fond of ? She seemed as if very kind to him,
like giving up things to him and being very nice to him, and this
girl has been—I can’t get this quite—but it is something to do
with a ball that belonged to Bobbie. I don’t think this is much
good—you see I am not getting this from Mr John now, I am
getting it from Bobbie. Something this girl has been doing about
a ball that Bobbie was fond of "when he was here, the girl has
been doing something with it.
[The child Marjorie at the Rink had a special part which she played
at the commencement of hockey matches. The team termed her their
mascot, and she began their competitions by an exhibition of skating in
which she finally drove a ball into the goal. Bobbie enjoyed watching
this. She was twelve years old and they were great friends. While
Marjorie was away on a visit Bobbie said to his mother, “ If I don’t see
Marjorie soon I shall go mad ”. This was only a month before his death.
The sittings allude to her several times. The ball did not, of course,
belong to Bobbie although he may at times have joined in playing with
it ;
for he often skated with Marjorie.]
(40) Feda : And will you ask them if he went to a j^lace where there was
a broken stile ? At least it may not have been the stile itself that
you put your foot on was broken, but a part of the construction
through which the stile was made was broken.
(41) And there was a long footpath there too, part of it seems to go
between something, like as if you were going between something
rather high, I get like a high wall on one side. There is not
usually building near stiles now, but I get the feeling of some-
thing close to the path and the stile.
(42) When you get over the stile it is more open.
(43) Then I think there is a church with a group of trees round it.
(44) I feel you have only got to go a little way over the stile, and
there is something that would be dangerous near to this stile,
something you can fall down, as if you would say to children,
“ Now, don’t go that way.” It is something you could fall down
into.
And it is wet too ;
I can’t see the water—I think they want me
to say that—and yet it feels sticky and wet there.
(
45 )
454 C. Drayton Thmnas [PAET
(46) This is a place that Bobbie would know very well, would have
reason to know. He has been thinking of it lately when he has
been with his people on the earth. He must have been near this
place with them and it made him think about it again, whereas
he would have forgotten it.
]\ir Hatch writes ;
“ This is very good. A favourite walk was by
a stile. Whether it is damaged I do not know, but I will find out.
And beyond it is a church with trees. His body is buried in the
churchyard. Past the stile the path leads to a quarry, at the foot of
which is water. (See Fig. Ill, p 488.) Bobbie wanted to go there to
play, but we forbade it.” Mr Hatch wrote later ;
“ I have been the
walk described in your last notes, but cannot find any damaged
stile ;
however, these last messages are the best we have had.”
Mr Hatch enclosed a plan of his walk, which is here reproduced
(Plan 1 ). The stile, which had been there in Bobbie’s time, and was
Plan ].
143 ] A Proxy Case 455
broken, had now been completely removed. Beyond the site of this
stile a footpath runs along the precipitous edge of a quarry. Bobbie’s
mother tells me that she used to regard this unprotected path as
dangerous. It is now made safe by a fence. There is no high wall
on the side opposite the quarry but a row of houses ;
these houses
might be described as “ something rather high ” and “ like a high
wall on one side ”. “ When you get over the stile it is more open ” ;
yes, there is an extensive view over the quarry on the left. “ Church
with a group of trees round it ” ;
this is a few minutes’ walk from
the quarry, not connected with it, but part of a walk which the
family often took. “ He must have been near this place with them,
etc. ” ;
Mr Hatch adds, “ Yes, almost every time we have gone out
since his passing we have been either to the grave or to a friend who
lives near.”
On re-reading the above, while preparing this paper, I mistakenly
assumed that the walk which the family often took included the
path by the stile. It therefore seemed inexplicable that, if passing
the site of the stile “ almost every time we have been out since his
passing ”
—a j^eriod of several weeks—they should have been un-
aware of the stde and its subsequent removal.
To my letter of enquiry about this Mr Hatch replied on February
24, 1935, “ You are mistaken in thinking that we had often taken
the walk by the stile after Bobbie’s death. The walk we did take
was up the road to the grave. Gwen {i.e. Mrs Hewlove) went the
walk after your sitting and could not find the stde, though she had
thought there was one. We then vuote you that the description of
the walk was correct except that there was no broken stile. Some
weeks afterwards I found from a friend that a broken stde had been
there but had been removed shortly before Bobbie’s death.”
Third Sitting {Continued).
(47) Feda : A place near there beginning with Sw— It is near the
place they have been describing. There seems to be an ‘
L ’
a
little further in the same name—‘ Sw ’
and ‘
L ’
:
(48) Bobbie would sometimes go by ways and means of this stile to
a building that has collapsed, he would not go to it exactly, but
he would go near it. Why it has collapsed Mr John does not
know, and he doesn’t think Bobbie does either, but it is left there
in heaps, partly standing and partly a heap of debris.
[Sw . . . L ” ;
These letters present an unsolved puzzle.
As to the ruined building, Mr Hatch wuote :
“ Nearer our house than
the quarry is an old barn, partly standing and partly a heap of debris.”]
2h
456 C. Drayton Thomas [part
(49) Feda : What was it Bobbie used to do with that ? Bobbie wants
to tell me about a very wonderful strap he had got, it went round
something. He was always fitting it on and taking it ofi, making
it a bit longer and a bit shorter, as if he was trying to pull it like
that. (Medium’s hands here acted as if pulling up to the shoulder.)
As if it was made of rubber or elastic. He was always pulling it,
and his mother did not like it much, she used to say, “ Now be
careful, mind what you do with that ”.
[His mother remembers that he would pull out an elastic band or
something similar, and she warned him, being afraid that it would fly
in her face or his.]
(50) Feda : Did he tell you anything about a man relative who had
passed over not long before he did ? Mr John says it is almost
impossible for us to be correct in calculating time, but he would
have thought it would be about two years. He was connected
with the family ;
and there is a letter ‘
A ’
in connection with
this.
[His father’s brother-in-law, named Arthur, died suddenly about two
years before this.]
(51) Feda : Bobbie was funny about his food, some foods that boys like
he was rather strange about, as if he did not like a certain food,
he was very difficult about it, and there was something that he
was being given only a little while before he passed over that he
did not like at all. It was one of his pet aversions. It was a food,
quite an ordinary food that many boys would like but he hap-
pened not to. He was given it towards the end of his earth life.
[Quite correct. He was funny about food ;
for instance, he would
never touch jam, not even a cake that had a little jam in it. He disliked
milk too. Bobbie’s mother wrote :
“ The food which Bobbie was being
given towards the end of his earth life, his pet aversion, was the white
of egg. He hated it and always left it, but I was beginning to insist that
he should try to eat it.”]
(52) Feda : Did Mr John tell you that for a boy he would think Bobbie
was rather affectionate, sensitive to people’s words and actions
and even thoughts, a particularly understanding kind of boy.
Thinks there would be a very strong link between himself and
his family. He was not quite the casual off-hand boy. He was
a boy with a good deal of deep feeling and understanding.
(53) He was rather fond of flowers, which not many boys are. Mr
John says, T think he means some particular plants that perhaps
he took an interest in and would notice more than many boys.
[Mr Hatch wrote :
“ The first part is correct, but I do not think he
was very fond of flowers ”.
During my visit I was talking with Bobbie’s friend Mr Burrows, the
143 ]
A Proxy Case 457
boxing instructor, who told me that Bobbie liked to come with him to
his garden. While there he showed much interest in potato plants,
which he had never previously seen. He had not understood that
several potatoes grew on a single root. Mr Burrow's therefore gave him
one to plant, and Bobbie was excited about its growth and over zealous
in watering it. He often inquired when he might dig it up, and fre-
quently spoke of it at home. He lived to see it flower only.]
(54) Feda : You must not take it off the shelf, you must leave it on the
shelf near the corner. Leave it on the shelf where the others
could see it and have it. He used to take it sometimes—I think
I have got this right—there was something that used to be on the
corner of the shelf, and sometimes Bobbie wanted it, and they
used to say, “ Leave it on the shelf in case the others want it ”,
—something round and smooth and polished.
C. D. T. : I wonder w'hat he did with it when he took it in his
hands ?
Feda : Was it a watch ?
C. D. T. : Are you guessing, Feda ?
Feda : I was only asking him, because it looked like a watch he
was holding in the palm of his hand.
C. D. T. : What does he say ?
Feda : He seems to be twisting something like you do a watch or
a clock.
C. D. T. : Winding it ?
Feda : Yes, winding something.
C. D. T. : Is it Bobbie showing this ?
Feda : It is Bobbie giving it to me. It feels something like a
watch.
C. D. T. : It looks like a selected bit of evidence, but it just lacks
the definite indication. I could think of at least four things.
Feda : You had better not guess. He rolls it or winds it. It was
not a watch. They still have it. It is not in that place, it has
been put somewhere else, but they have still got it. Bobbie
thinks it has been put in a drawer instead of on the shelf. Is it
on a plate ? He is giving me the idea of a plate being near it.
[Mr Hatch writes :
“ Bobbie was very fond of a little salt-sifter which
he won at Morecambe. It was kept at the corner of a shelf and he used
to twist the cork at the bottom and to roll it along the dinner table. It
has been moved, but not into a drawer. It is of glazed earthenware,
shaped like a dog. ‘
Round, smooth and polished ’
is correct. It is now
kept on a shelf just below the dinner plates.” (See Fig. II.)]
458 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Third Sitting.
Abbreviations used.
R : Riglit.
G: Good.
F : Fair.
W : Wrong.
Classed as
—
M : R. Photograph with boards (34).
M : R. Cap without peak (35).
M : R. Injured nose (36).
0 : R. John repeats the reference to a predis})osing cause for
Bobbie’s illness. Cf. 14 (37).
0 : R. An event nine weeks before the death for which the “ pipes
”
will be the clue (38).
M : R. Girl with a ball interested Bobbie (39).
M : R. Broken stile (40).
M : R. Footpath descril)ed (41).
M ; R. Open view past stile from path (42).
M : R. Church with group of trees (43).
M : R. Dangerous place near stile (44).
M : R. Place sticky and wet there (45).
0 : R. Bobbie was reminded of this place lately when his })eople
went there (46).
]\I : W. Sw—. Name of a place (47).
M : R. A collapsed building past stile (48).
M: R. Description of a strap about which Bobbie was warned (49).
M ; R. Male relative ‘
A ’ passed about two years ago (50).
M : R. Unusual fancy about food and a pet aversion (51).
0 : R. Characterisation of Bobbie (52).
M : F. Interested in special plants (53).
M ; G. A treasured oliject described (54).
Result of the above analysis —
Bobbie's Bobbie's observation John's
memory.
R 14.
G 1.
F 1.
W 1.
since passing.
R 1.
opinion
R 3.
Fourth Sitting, January 13, 1933.
Mr Hatch wrote at this time :
“ Is it possible for you to put two
or three questions ? If they were answered correctly it would be
well-nigh overwhelming proof of survival. I leave it to you, of
course, but to save time I append the questions :
143 ]
A Proxy Case 459
1. What (lifl P)ohbie keep in the bathroom cuplioard i
2. Where did he like to go with his Mummie last winter in the
evenings and was looking forward to going again this winter ?
3. What did he do in the attic besides boxing ?
I put these questions, and it will be observed as we proceed that
two of them were answered with some detail. It is as well to
mention here that I thought it would be interesting to compare the
result with my own guesses. I therefore wrote to Mr Hatch that
I guessed ;
(1) Boat, (2) the Pictures, or Ice Skating-rink, (3) playing with
trains. It became clear after the next few sittings that my alter-
native guess for number (2), Skating-rink, was partly correct. I did
not learn mitil the sittings were completed that my guess for (1)
“ Boat ” was also correct. But it is, perhaps, of some significance
in view of the telepathic hypothesis, that this never emerged in
replies to these questions, nor did my third guess, which proved
completely wrong.
Feda ; Etta says that she has brought the boy ;
you know, Bobbie
Newlove, and that he wanted to say one or two things before they
went on to anything else.
C. D. T. : Bobbie, I can’t think what it was you used to do in the attic
besides boxing. I have been trying to guess.
(55) Feda : Had he been given by his people something that was in a
box, and he used to take it out and it seemed to be in an awful lot
of pieces? I think he had two boxes to do with it, he used to take
things out of the boxes as if he was fastening them together.
What he is building seems as if it comes up to a 2
Joint, or there is
a high something sticking iqi on top of it. I feel there is a poking-
up j3art on top ;
and I think there is a picture to do with it too,
as if he was trying to build something from the picture, or to look
like it.
[Mr Hatch :
“ This might be his Meccano. Bobbie was fond of
making cranes with it which certainly come uj) to a jJoint. He also had
a Meccano aerojdane in two boxes. Both have j^ictures as a guide.”]
(56) Feda : Had Bobbie a duck ? I will tell you what he is showing
me ;
it looks something like a duck. Will you ask if he had a toy
duck ? I think that is right. I see it in his hand like as if he is
pushing it towards me. I don’t think its legs is very long, or else
he is holding his legs up a bit, but ducks have not got very long
legs. I think it must be a duck because of its legs.
[Possibly this was an attempt to refer again to the dog salt-sifter
which Bobbie had won at Morecambe (see Third Sitting, No. 54). If so,
the subject is resumed later in this sitting, No. 61. The dog stands on
short hind legs with fore legs inconspicuous.]
460 C. Drayton Thomas [part
(57) Feda ; He keeps on saying “ mice He was interested in some-
thing to do with mice and 1 think someone else is mixed n]) with
this, l.iecause I get a feeling of another child, or young person, who
was interested in and had as much to do with the mice as Bobbie
had
.
[Bobbie’s mother wrote ;
“ 1 have at last been able to make inquiries
with regard to the mice. Bobbie, it appears, was interested in some
mice which a friend of his had. Apparently he brought some to show
us, but was shooed off again because I am frightened of them. I have only
a very vague remembrance of this, but the boy friend is quite certain.”]
(58) Feua : What are you showing me ? Did you pull a string out of
the wall ? Bobbie did some funny things for a boy, now look, he
i s going to the wall and he seems as if he is untwisting something
and he is pulling something from the wall, either thick string or
rope, and on the end he seems to be fixing something carefully.
That is important, what he is doing with it. It is the pulling it
out that seems to be the important thing. It is something about
drawing it out as far as is possible and then letting it go back to
the wall again. It is something that he seemed to do rather
regularly.
[Mr. Hatch :
“ This is good ;
in the attic he had, among other things,
an arrangement for strengthening the muscles. The drawing appended
will show you the idea. Drawing it out was the important thing, and he
did it rather regularly.” (See drawing.)
This is evidently the answer to question No. 3, which was, “ What did
he do in the attic besides boxing ? ”]
(59)
Feda : Ask if he was going to have something done to his teeth a
little while before he passed over, something that was delayed a
143j 461
little. That was before he got very ill. He remembers having
his teeth looked at, and that something was to be done.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Yes, we knew he would have to visit the dentist soon,
and we were rather worried about it.”]
(60) Feda : His mother had a rather important engagement before he
passed over, he thinks it was a Saturday, and he thinks that his
being ill would have in some way interfered with it. He thinks
it was something for the Saturday afternoon.
[Mrs Newlove tells me that she had such an engagement fixed for the
Saturday, it was with the Brownies of which she was an official. Bobbie
was taken ill on the previous Sunday. Directly his illness became
serious, Mrs Newlove wrote to postpone the engagement. Bobbie died
the following Thursday night. Bobbie knew that his mother was to
have spent that Saturday with the Brownies.]
(61) Feda : Not the name Bobbie, but another name beginning with
‘
B ’
that was rather important in their house. I mustn’t say
sound because I am getting this by feeling. He gives ‘
B ’
by
sound, but now I get the feeliiig that this would seem to be more
like an animal’s name, or the name of a toy. It is something in
their house that he was very fond of, and he calls it a funny name
beginning with ‘
B ’, not a long name. Wait a bit—Ber, Bunkey,
Bussey. The name he is giving me sounds as if it began Bus
or Bos.
[This is possibly a further reference to the salt-sifter mentioned
previously (see No. 56). It is shaped like a dog in sitting posture.
Bobbie was very fond of it and called it his “ bow-wmw ”. Cf. Like an
animal’s or toy’s name. A funny name beginning with ‘
B ’.]
(62) Feda : There is someone he liked and was interested in whose
name began with ‘
W ’
and it sounds like Wenda, or Wendy, that
is the nearest I can get to it.
[Mr Hatch :
“ We can only think of a Winnie in whom he was
interested.”]
(63) Feda : Bobbie wants to say something about handwriting. He
was told to do something which would help, and he had been
trying to do it. He wanted to improve it, and he tried to before
he passed over.
(64) The reason he is mentioning this is because it has been spoken
of lately, and he wanted to say, “ Yes, I was trying to do it a
little while before I passed over.”
[Mr Hatch :
“ We begged him to try with his writing as it was keep-
ing him back at school. We had mentioned his bad writing when trying
to read his diary
—
after his passing.”]
(65) Feda : His people have been talking about going to a place that
was much connected with Bobbie when he was here, and they
know that they ought to go some time. It may make them a bit
C. Drayton Thomas [part
4f)2
sad lifcause of the connections with Bol)l)ie when he was on the
earth. There is an initial ‘
H ’
connected with where they are
going. I get Ha- They have been thinking of going to this
place. He feels as if something is making them go to this place.
[Mr Hatch : “We have thought of visiting friends near Halifax. The
jdace has no associations with Bobbie, but the ’bus journey there would
remind us vividly of him, as we have been most of the way there with
him.”
If this Ha— was an endeavour to transmit the name Halifax, it is an
instance of Feda’s imperfect clairaudience, similar to the preceding B,
Ber, Bunkey for bow-wow, and the Wenda for Winnie.]
(66) Feda ; Will you ask his mother if she has been thinking or doing
anything about Rosemary ;
will you say that ? He means it
as a little message for her. He wanted it to be symbolical. He
felt it was in her mind.
[Boldue was interested in the Guides and the Brownies and his
mother’s work with them. After Bobbie’s death she began to receive
letters in connexion with this work from Lady Rosemary Stopford.
The name Rosemary might be considered symbolical of this work, but
it did not strike Mrs Newlove until some time after she had written to
inform me that the name was not recognised.]
(67) Fepa : He keeps on saying he has seen Arthur there.
[Mr Hatch :
“ In a previous sitting (see ])aragraph 50) it was correctly
stated that a connexion, actually his father’s brother-in-law, died
suddenly about two years ago. The initial ‘
A ’
was given ;
now the full
name is correctly given.”]
(68) Feda : And there is a funny name he is remembering, sounding
rather like Euan. It is a name that Bobbie remembers, some-
body he used to be interested in, and the name does sound very
much like Euan.
(This is not recognised.]
((i!J) Feda : l)o you know if there was some discussion about having
another doctor, if another doctor had to be got to look at him,
suddenly, late ;
Ijecause I keep getting a mix-up between two
doctors.
[Mr Hatch ;
“ Correct. Another doctor, a specialist on the throat,
happens to live next door. He saw Bobbie a few hours before he died.”]
(70) Previous constitutional weakness, and further reference to “ the
pi])cs ”. (See Part II.)
C. U. T. : Bobbie, have you given the answers to those three things
your mother asks, they were—(I )
What was kept in the l)athroom
cuj)board ? (2) What did you do in the attic besides boxing ?
and (3) Where did you go last winter evenings with your mother
and were hoping to go again this winter ? It may be that you
have given the answers already.
468
143 ] A Proxy Case
(71) Feda : When he went with his mother didn’t he carry something
for her 1 feel it is ratlier imjxirtant that he carried something
for her, not sometliing that he put under his arm, hut something
swinging a bit.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Bobbie was keenly interested in roller-skating and it is
curious that you guessed correctly this answer to the question about
what he did on winter evenings. Bobbie used to carry his skates
swinging. His mother sometimes olfered to carry them but he would
never allow her to do so. Possibly he feels that he carried them to save
her trouble.”]
(72) Feda : And when they walked did he hold her arm ? I don’t know
if he always did this, but I get a very strong feeling of holding her
arm. Boys don’t usually do that, but I seem to get him doing
this when they went out at night.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Yes, correct.”]
(73) Feda ; Tliey had spoken and thought about buying something
new for this winter that was going to be rather expensive in
connexion with where they were going together. It was a bit
expensive, but it would be rather an improvement on what they
had. He enjoyed going to tliis place, and lie would talk about
it a lot afterwards, and about the progress they had made.
[Mr Hatch :
“ There was some talk of a pair of skates for his mother.
She had none, but used a pair from the rink. It is true that he enjoyed
going and would talk about the progress they had made.”]
(74) Feda : What a funny place it is, there did not seem much furniture
there. Will you ask if it was rather a bare place, because I am
getting a feeling of a place that is rather bare, perhajis it is
purposely bare ? It feels as if it was a ]ilace where they cleared
the furniture ;
it feels as if there were a lot of other people there
too. I keep hearing voices. That has to do with where they went
on winter evenings, and t hey hojied to go again, only after buying
something special.
C. D. T. : He has not told you what it is ?
Feda : No, I can’t get what it is.
[Mr Hatch :
“ A correct description of the rink.”]
(75) Feda : There was someone they used to expect to see there, a
youngish man, someone they knew particularly well, someone
much older than Bobbie. Now I am seeing an ‘
M ’, I think that
would be the man’s name. And getting warm there.
[Mr Burrows, a great friend of Bobbie’s, was a prominent person at
the rink. The little girl, Marjorie, previously mentioned in these notes,
was there also as a semi-professional.
Note Feda’s wrong inference :
“ M—I think that would be the man’s
name.” “ Getting warm there ” ;
one certainly does in roller skating.]
(76) Feda ; Did she ask him to get new boots for it ? I get a discussion
464 C. Drayfoii Thomas [part
about boobs or shoes to do with it, which he knows she will
remember. He is losing it a bit, he is going back a bit.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Bolibie wanted new lioots for the rink.”]
(77) 0. D. T. ; Bobbie, what did you keep in the bathroom cupboard ?
Show a jhcture of it, think about it and let Feda see.
Feda ; No, Bobbie, I amseeing that wrong, what is it ? not a balloon,
Bobbie, it would go bang ! I don’t know what he means now, he
shows me a picture which looks like a balloon, and it came when
you asked him. I feel it is light and round, like something that
floats in the air. Will you ask them if he did keep one in the
bathroom cupboard ?
[There is no known connexion between this reply and the bathroom.
I suspect that we have here an example of the confusion which inevi-
tably follows when the sitter’s question is ignored and the communi-
cator continues his previous train of thought. Bobbie had just been
speaking about the rink—carrying skates, buying new skates, the rink,
persons he knew there, new boots for skating. What more natural
than that he should think of the Festal Nights at the rink in which he
usually captured several of the coloured balloons ? On those nights a
bunch of balloons was dropped to be scrambled for by the children. I
have repeatedly noticed that, for reasons which we can guess, a com-
municator either does not catch one’s question, or prefers to complete
what he has in mind to say.]
C. D. T. : Can you show Feda what you did in the attic ?
(78) Feda : He is lying on the floor. I suppose you are lying on the
floor ? He is showing me something like stretched on the floor.
I think he wants me to go flat on the floor or something. It feels
as if I have got to lie on the floor and move something. I want
to waggle altogether, sort of squirm about. I think my hands
and feet and head is going. That is all I can get about it.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Lying on the floor is correct. Bobbie was given drills
there ;
raising legs while on his back, raising the body from the hands
and toes, and various tricks.”]
C. D. T. : I was very interested when they sent me a photograph
of Bobbie showing the board that Feda seemed to see him looking
over, and the round thing on his head without a brim that Feda
described. It was all perfectly shown in the photograph. The
only discrepancy was that he was not crouching. It was a fancy
dress occasion, and he was representing someone, and he had the
large card half as big as himself slung in front of him to illustrate
the character he portrayed.
(79) Feda : No, Etta, no, what do you mean about a book ? Something
is coming back to my mind about that, but I am not in a position
now to ask Bobbie to verify this, but you know we have told you
that when we are bringing a would-be communicator to you
U3] A Proxy Case 4(i5
we often know something ahout it Ix'forehand, we know tlie
synopsis of what they are going to give. Well, to my mind now
there comes l)ack the recollection about a book. Will you find
out, did he get it from a book, had he been interested in a book
that is in some way connected with what he pretended to be ?
I do remember that he was going to speak about a book.
[Mr Hatch :
“ The boards had been used before, not by Bobbie, but
he knew about it ;
they were used in a play by Brownies taken from
Alice in Wonderland. Bobbie had read the book Alice in Wonderland
and was very thrilled with it.”]
Classed as-
—
M : R.
M : P.
M: G.
M : R.
M : R.
M : R.
M : R.
M : F.
M : R.
0 : R.
0 ; G.
0: R.
0 : R.
M : D.
M : R.
0 : G.
M ; R.
M : R.
M : F.
M : R.
M : R.
M : R.
M : F.
M : R.
M : G.
Fourth Sitting.
Ahhrev ia f ions used
.
R : Right.
G: Good.
F : Fair.
P : Poor.
D : Doubtful.
Building to picture pattern, with jioint (55).
Something like a duck (56).
Mice (57).
Apparatus fixed to wall (58).
Attention to teeth (59).
Mother’s plans for Saturday altered (60).
Name ‘
B ’
of toy or animal (61).
Interested in a name ‘
W ’
(62).
Handwriting to be improved (63).
His handwriting spoken of lately (64).
Family going to a place ‘
H ’
thinking of him (65).
Mother thinking about Rosemary (66).
Has met Arthur (67).
Name like Euan (68).
Doctors and liis illness (69).
Previous constitutional weakness. Further reference to
the “ pipes ” (70).
Carrying for his mother something swinging (71).
Manner of walking with his mother (72).
A purchase for the winter (73).
A frequented place described (74).
People met there, etc. (75).
Discussion re footwear for the above place (76).
Something that floated in air (77).
Exercise in attic (78).
Bobbie’s fancy dress was connected with a book (79).
466 C. Drayfan 'Vhomas [part
Bobbie s memory.
Bobbie's opi»ion or observation
since passing.
K 13.
G 2.
F 3.
P 1.
D 1.
R 3.
G 2.
F-ifth Sitting, January 27, 1933.
(80) Pipes not in house, reached via a second place. (See Part XL)
(81) Connexion between pipes and infection. ,,
(82) The animals will be clue to pipes. ,,
(83) An alteration has made the pipes less dangerous. ,,
(84) Bobbie’s people not familiar with the pipes place. ,,
(85) Another boy went there with Bobbie. ,,
(86) Not quite country where pijjes are. ,,
(87) Stables, straw. One side partly open. ,,
(88) View of country hidden by buildings. ,,
(89) Water trickling or swilling. ,,
(90) Feda : Bobbie wants to ask his mother does she remember how
the doors were changed at that place they went in the evenings ?
They shut up one lot of doors and opened the others, went in by
a different set of doors to what there were first. There was a
different arrangement of the doors afterwards. He only just
remembered about that.
[Mr Hatch ;
“ This is incorrect. No change has been made regarding
the doors of the skating rink.”]
(91) Feda : And did he use something made of celluloid, something that
he used and they wanted him to stop using it ? They thought it
might make a flame or explosion.
[Mr Hatch ;
“ Yes, he had bought a second-hand cinematograph
lantern, and we were a little nervous about the celluloid films.”]
(92) Feda ; Will you ask his mother whether she had the bathroom
done after he passed over, the walls, because he remembers she
wanted to have them done ? there was something that she was
talking about having done before he passed over, about the bath-
room ;
talking about the bathroom reminded him.
[The family say that parts of the bathroom wall and ceiling needed
attention where the lincrusta was loose. This had been put right since
Bobbie’s passing.]
467
143]
A Proxy Case
(93) Feda ; Wait a bit, Bobbie. I nearly got what you are trying to
give me. He saw that his mother had folded up a coloured paper
thing that he had used. It was something he wore. You know,
tissue paper ? Well, he is showing me that and in several colours,
and as if they were folded up into conical shape and triangular
shapes ;
but she has had to fold them very carefully, because they
have been folded up before, and there seems to be several of them,
because they seem to make a big lump. It was something that
she had an idea might come in useful again, and it was something
Bobbie had helped her with. Part of it was a puce pink, and also
there was a bright green and blue ;
there seemed to be several
colours, white as well, and he thinks his mother folded them and
put them all in a box together ;
but he did not use them again,
because he passed over. There has been an occasion since he
passed over in which, and for which, they could have used them,
but they did not, and he rather thought they would, but yet was
not surprised when they did not.
[Mr Hatch writes :
“ This might be the caps out of Christmas crackers
which were folded up, and which would have been used again if Bobbie
had lived.”
In answer to my further inquiry I was assured that these caps amswered
to the description, including the “ puce colour ”.]
(94) C. D. T. : They did not know what you meant about the month of
April. They don’t think anything happened in April ;
was it
your birthday, Bobbie ?
[In a previous sitting Feda had mentioned April but failed to catch
Bobbie’s meaning. Finally she had said, “ He keeps on saying April.
I think they will recognise it.”]
Feda : Xo, it was not, nor his passing.
C. D. T. : Was it connected with your school, Bobbie ?
Feda : A"es, in a way. Sir. You are getting very near it.
C. D. T. : Did you win something then ?
Feda : Xo, but he tried something.
C. D. T. : Work or play 1
Feda : It was a bit of both. It was something that he tried to do,
there was a kind of meeting about it, which he was rather im-
portant in, and which he thought a lot of and looked forward to.
(Long pause.) And Atkins, there is a name he is giving me sound-
ing like Atkins. It is either Atkins or Atkinson. I get At—
,
Atk—,
and that is all mixed up with the April thing.
[This may refer to the following facts wFich were given me by the
family on my visit to them. Bobbie had wished to enter for his school
sports. He asked permission, and the matter was discussed by the family.
Although the sports were held in the summer the competitors’ names
were taken in April. There was a similar family discussion as to his
entering for the fancy dress parade of the Hospital, at which he wore
the Jack of Hearts costume. The name is not recognised.]
468 C. Drayton Thomas [part
C. D. T. ; They thought that that animal beginning with the letter
‘
J1 ’
Mms his bow-wow.
Feda : That is right, but what a silly name.
C. D. T. : I believe it is what he called the china article that he
won and kept on the shelf.
Feda ; I think it is something to do with bow-wow, he seemed to
come forward and somehow open to me about that.
C. D. T. : The little girl they thought was Winnie, whom Bobbie
knew so well. You said Wendy.
Feda : That is the right one, but that was Feda’s fault.
[My object in reporting on these items was partly to give encourage-
ment, and partly in the hope of eliciting further confirmatory descrip-
tions. I attach little value to a mere assent when I ask if such-and-such
is the right solution.]
CJ. D. T. ; And what else did you do in the attic besides exercises
to strengthen the muscles ? You boxed, but you did other things
there too ?
(95) Feda : What is he pretending to l)e ? Is he being silly ? He is
jumping about, putting his hands like that—(here medium’s arms
were thrown upward), bowing and like that. He is pretending
to be acting, like clowns or something ;
it is something like that
he did, because he made me feel he wanted to be something like
posing and all that.
[Mr Hatch :
“ I think this is good. We had fitted up the attic as a
gymnasium. The ‘
bowing ’
is a good description of his movements
when lifting dumb-bells or other weights.”]
Feda : Some of the things I have got for them I don’t understand,
and just a little bit of a twist would make them get the WTong
meaning.
Fifth Sitting.
Abbreviations used.
R : Right.
G: Good.
F: Fair.
P : Poor.
D : Doubtful.
W : Wrong.
Glassed as
—
M : R. Pipes not in house, reached via a second place (80).
M : G. Connexion between pipes and infection (81).
M : R. The animals there will be clue to pipes (82).
0 : D. An alteration has made the pipes less dangerous (83).
.M : R. Bobbie’s people not familiar with pipes place (84).
M : R. Another boy went there with Bobbie (85).
143 ] A Proxy Case 469
M : R.
M ; R.
M : F.
M : P.
I\I : W.
M : R.
M : R.
M : R.
M : F.
M : D.
Not quite country where pipes are (86).
Stables. Straw. One side partly open (87).
View of country hidden by buildings (88).
Water trickling or swilling (89).
Change of doors at the rink (90).
Celluloid article he was using which was di.sapproved of (91).
Bathroom repairs (92).
Shape, colour, etc., of articles in ti.ssue paper (93).
Reference to April event and Atkins (94).
Further activities in the attic (95).
Result of the above analysis
—
Bobbie's memory.
R 9.
G 1.
F 2.
P 1.
D 1.
W 1.
John’s opinion.
D. 1.
Sixth Sitting, February 16, 1933.
(96) Bentley is a clue to the pipes place. (See Part 11.)
(97) Also Stock. ,,
(98) A route given in detail. ,,
(99) The name Phil is a clue. ,,
(100)
And other boys’ names. ,,
Sixth Sitting.
Abbreviations used.
R : Right.
G ! Good.
D : Doubtful.
Classed as
—
M : R. Bentley is a clue to the pipes place (96)
M: G. And Stock (97).
M : R. A route given in detail (98).
M : D. The name Phil is a clue (99).
M ; D. And other boys’ names (100).
Result of the above analysis
—
Bobby’s memory.
R 2.
G 1.
D 2.
470 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Seventh Sitting, March 10, 1933.
(101) Feda : Etta says Bobbie had very good powers of observation
and you might tell his people I say so. I think that would be
marked in him as a boy, because boys are very careless in many
things, and Bobbie was not. He was a normal boy, but he had
strong powers of perception and observation.
'
[Mr Hatch :
“ Very true. Bobbie certainly had powers of observation
above the average.”]
(102) Feda ; Another thing about him, he would have had a rather [
scientific mind.
|
[Mr Hatch ;
“ I think that, as far as one can judge a boy of ten, this ,
is correct. He used to pore over some books of mine on palaeontology.
He mastered the names of certain extinct monsters. He loved chemical
or electrical toys.”]
(103) Feda : He also had a strongly artistic side which I think he gets 1
from his mother. She says he is not telling you this, it is Etta.
Bobbie gets some artistic power through his mother’s side of
the family.
Will you ask his mother whether someone rather closely con-
nected with her became rather well known and esteemed for
some special artistic work that I think was connected with
drawing or designing ? Bobbie has inherited that, not in the
exact form that his relative had it, but the same gift in a rather
different form. (See 104.)
[Mr Hatch :
“ We do not think he was artistic. He could not draw
at all well, but he had good taste. His mother is not artistic either, but
an uncle of hers is well known in the east of England as an architect.”]
(104) Feda : Bobbie has an exceptionally good idea of form, outline,
shape, proportion, perspective—I gather that his people have
concrete evidence of it.
[Mr Hatch :
“ No, Bobbie had not good ideas of form, perspective,
etc., and we have nothing concrete of artistic value of his.”
On my vi.sit to Nelson 1 was shown some of Bobbie’s artistic efforts
with paints ;
they are crude, and scarcely equal to the average for boys
of his age. Etta’s impression of his abilities in this direction seems
mistaken.]
(105) Feda : A little thing that Bobbie mentioned to her ;
an oblong
wooden box with a flat lid that just comes down on top of the
thing. Inside this seems to be a collection of, well—metal things ;
Etta says, I can’t remember what he said it was now—1 think
some kind of tools. But they are special things.
I gather he had had a set given him as a present not very long
before he passed over, and something about them had to be
changed, exchanged. 1 don’t know whether he meant the box
had to be exchanged, but something in it had to be exchanged.
143 ]
471
A Proxy Case
It was not quite right for what he wanted. Somewhere on the
box is a round stamp or label. I think Bobbie said it was near
the edge or corner.
[Mr Hatch :
“ We do not know what this means. He had no wooden
box as is described, and he had not had a set of tools for a long time. At
the last Christmas he was given a Meccano aeroplane construction set,
but it was in a cardboard box. It had a large number in a circle like a
label in the corner.”
I incline to think that two boxes are here confused, either in Etta's
memory or in the transmission through Feda : (1)1 was shown the one
given to Bobbie more recently, and its lid answers to the description.
(2) The aeroplane set, which he had two years before, was beyond his
power to 2)iece together, and so was taken back to the shop to be built
up.]
(106) Feda : Are Bobbie’s jreople hel^ring a very old j^erson ? I forget
what Bobbie told me, but I think it was an old lady, whom they
were sorry for and doing their utmost for, and Bobbie is very
pleased about it. Bobbie’s people feel they must give special
heljr for the time being.
[The family informed me that, at the date of this sitting, they were
thinking of sending daily dinners, and were inclined to select as the
recipient a certain old lady whom they knew. Shortly after this they
decided upon this widow, aged 63, but who looks older and is toothless.
They were still sending dinners to her when I visited them in June 1933.]
Seventh Sitting.
Abbreviations used.
R ; Right.
P : Poor.
W : Wrong.
Classed as
—
0 : R. Bobbie’s powers of observation (101).
0 : R. A scientific mind (102).
0 : R. A relative on the mother’s side is artistic (103).
0 : W. Bobbie and perspective, etc. (104).
M : P. Description of toy box. changed ;
round label (105).
0 : R. Bobbie’s people help an aged lady (106).
Result of the above analysis
—
Bobbie’s
memory.
P 1.
Bobbie’s
observation
since passing.
R 1.
Etta’s
opinion
.
R 3.
W 1.
2i
472 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Eighth Sitting, March 24, 1933.
(107)
Etta certain tliat the pipes will be discovered. (See Part 11.)
Ninth Sitting, April 10, 1933.
(108) Brook and inland water to which Bobbie went. (See Part II.)
(109) Feda : Do yon know if Bobbie would be very interested in—well,
I could only describe it to you as a kind of chemist’s shop, a
place where there are bottles ? I don’t think it is a chemist’s
shop, really, but it is a place with bottles and weighing things,
and like instruments and things of that kind. I have a feeling
that he had been in such a place, and was very interested in it,
and liked going, too. I get a feeling of a clean, white place, all
nice and clean and white. Clean tajrs and bottles and measuring
things. He went there for some reason.
[Mr Hatch :
“ This is very good. I had a good deal to do with a
laboratory in the town, and Bobbie liked to go there with me. The
reference to taps, bottles and weighing things is quite correct.”
I gathered later, when discussing this with Mr Hatch, that Feda’s
emphasis upon the cleanliness of the place was a trifle overdone.]
Tenth Sitting, May 19, 1933.
C. D. T. : I am wondering whether Bobbie Newlove will give more I
messages.
(110)
Peda : He is a very bright boy, and he is rather polite too, I think
if you would ask his mother that she would tell you that it is so.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Yes, he was certainly polite.”]
Ill) Feda: His mother has been thinking something about a cap,
thinking something rather special of it lately. It is only a little
thing, but he just wanted her to know it.
'
[Mr Hatch writes :
“ Yes, she has been thinking about his cap.”]
(112) Feda : She came across something with a special badge on it. It is
not a heart e.xactly, but the lower part is rather shaped like a
heart, at the bottom it is heart-shaped. It is something like a
straight line goes through the top of it, and a little upstanding
piece comes out of the top.
Mr Hatch replied that they knew no badge of this shape. On my '
visit to Nelson I asked whether Bobbie had a badge on his school i
sports jacket, or other kind of badge. They knew of none. I there-
fore marked this as a failure. Later in the day I was shown the
boards and cap which had been spoken of in an earlier sitting, and of ^
which I wished to take a photograph. On seeing the Jack of Hearts i
143 ]
^4 Proxy Case 473
cap I recognised it as answering exactly to this description. Cf.
photograph (35) and notice the heart on the front of the crown or
cap, with the line going each side the top of the heart, and the
“ little upstanding piece at the top The one inaccuracy was the
statement that “ it is not a heart exactly ”, unless one takes this to
refer to the cap itself, upon which the heart is fixed. Referring to
my notes I saw the words, “ she came across something with a
special badge on it ”. A question elicited the reply that Bobbie’s
mother had turned out this paper crown while spring cleaning. The
date of this sitting agrees closely with the time when it had come
under her notice.
Sitting continued.
(113) Feda : Wait a bit, don’t be in a hurry. (Long pause.) “ Church.”
Wait a minute, Bobbie. I don’t see quite what you mean.
(This was all whispered.) “ Church ”, something about a
church. I don’t know—anyhow he is showing me a church, the
outside of a church, and the churchyard.
C. D. T. : Church and churchyard ?
Feda : Yes, he is taking me to the side. I think the right-hand
side of the church as you face it. I think it is somewhere his
mother has been lately. Not going into the church, but going
down into the churchyard to the right, and I think the ground
slopes down a bit just there too. It is somewhere his mother
has been lately, and where she was thinking of him very much.
(The above was whispered softly and with long pauses between the
sentences.)
[Mr Hatch ;
“ This is quite correct ;
his grave is in just the position
indicated.”
On visiting Nelson I found that this description was exact. One
enters the gate, passing the stocks, which are on the left side of the path ;
then, going along the right-hand side of the church, the ground dis-
tinctly sloping downwards, one comes to the grave. It was true that
his mother had been there shortly before this sitting, indeed, she
frequently goes there, and naturally thinks then of Bobbie.]
(114) Feda : His mother has been thinking very much of apples in
connection with him.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Yes, he was very fond of ap^jles, and his mother has
thought often of this lately.”]
(115) His people’s attitude respecting the pipes problem. (See Part II.)
(116) Underground. ,,
(117) Pipes can be reached past the school. ,,
(118) A turning to the right. ,,
474 C. Drayton Thomas [part
(See Part II.)
(119) Route uphill described.
(120) Place ‘B ’.
(121) Enter at corner of side road.
(122) Building that was added to.
(123) District there is ‘
H ’
—
(124) Another living there went too.
(125) Route near place with precipitous drop.
(126) Can be reached by alternative routes.
(127 and 128) Feda : He thinks his mother wants a new dressing gown
for herself.
[His mother had been to Manchester and, while there, purchased
material for a dressing gown, as requested by her mother. It was not
for Bobbie’s mother herself, but she had thought much about it.]
(129) Feda : He wanted to tell his mother that he is usually with her
early in the mornings.
Will you ask her if cardboard boxes made her think of him
just lately ?
[Mr Hatch :
“ Correct, it was in connexion with the spring cleaning.”]
C..D. T. ; I expect she thinks of you a great deal, Bobbie.
(130) Feda : She and I were such chums. We were not so much like
mother and son, we were chums. He says he felt so grown up,
sometimes she felt as if he was taking her out, felt really as if
he was taking her. He says, “ I think she will understand if you
tell her.” And she used to love to plan things she and I would
do and go to together, especially that last year in which I was
on the earth. I seemed to have got more grown up than ever,
and she depended on me so much that last nine months. I had
grown more, so that she and I could enjoy things together that
usually are enjoyed by two people of just the same age, and we
really enjoyed them as if we were the same age ;
and she used
to tell me things that she had done, and even about things she
had bought, you know. She would even mention things about
her clothes which I suppose most mothers don’t do, but she
used to often tell me about things she had bought.”
“ I was always happiest when I was with her ”, he says.
“ She was like another boy as well as a mother. When you
know her better you will think she is a boy too.”
“ She is not mannish to look at, but I could always talk to
her like I could to another boy.” He says, “ She always talked
to me as if I was grown up.”
[Mr Hatch :
“ This is a remarkably correct description of his relations
with his mother.”
“ When you come to know her better, etc.” Having now met Mrs
Newlove, I can entirely agree with this.]
475
143] ,4 Proxy Case
(131) Feda : Do you know who DeoSrey is i There is somebody called
‘
G ’
whom he thinks of and remembers.
[Not traced, but Bobbie had many school acquaintances whose names
his people do not know.]
Classed as
—
0 : R.
M : F.
M : R.
0 : R.
0 : R.
M & 0 :
0 ; R.
0 : R.
0 ; F.
M : D.
M ; R.
M ; R.
M: R.
M; R.
M : R.
M ; F.
M : R.
M : D.
M ; R.
M; R.
0 : R.
0 : W.
0 : R.
M ; R.
M ; D.
Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Sittings.
Abbreviations used.
R : Right.
F : Fair.
D : Doubtful.
W : Wrong.
Etta certain that the pipes will be discovered (107).
Brook or inland water to which Bobbie went (108).
Visited place like chemist’s shop (109).
A polite boy (110).
His mother thought of his cap (111).
R. She found his heart-shaped badge (112).
Four items re his mother visiting churchyard (113).
She thought of ajiples in connection with him (114).
His people’s attitude respecting the pipe problem (115).
Underground (116).
Pipes can be reached past the school (117).
A turning to the right (118).
Route uphill described (119).
Place ‘
B ’
(120).
Enter at corner of side road (121).
Building that was added to (122).
District there is H— (123).
Another living there went too (124).
Route near place with precipitous drop (125).
Can be reached by alternative routes U26).
His mother wants a new dressing gown (127).
For herself (128).
Cardboard boxes brought him to his mother’s mind (129).
Description of his mother and their friendship (130).
Geoffrey (131).
Result of above analysis
—
Bobbie’s
Bobbie’s observation Feda’s Etta’s
memory. since 'passing. opinion. opinion.
R 11. R 5. R 1. R 1.
F 2. F I.
D 3. W 1.
('. Drayloii 'riioiiia.s
I
i*ART
47C)
Eleventh Eilting, June. 2, 1933.
(132) Feda ; Bobbie says, they will think at home about showing you
a special photograph showing me down to the waist : I have got
a kind of sweater on, it is one that mother likes. It is practically
full face, only my hair is coming down a bit at the side of the
forehead, and 1 am not exactly frowning, but as if I am drawing
my eyebrows down over my eyes. I think you’ll notice that
particularly.
[During my visit to Nelson I was shown numerous photographs of
Bobbie. In several 1 noticed “ hair coming down a bit at the side of the
forehead ”, and one of them, in addition, showed the facial expression
here descrilied ;
it was apparently caused by the fact that the boy was
facing bright sunlight. In this photograph the child, wearing a jersey,
stands upon a stool.
“ Sweater . . . that mother likes ” :
Mrs Newlove writes of this stool photograph, “ I did not care for the
likeness, Init did like the jersey. I remendjer being rather disappointed
because Bobbie looked so untidy and his hair needed cutting so badly.’]
Feda : 1 think she has been thinking about this photograph just
lately, as if she would like to show it to you.
[It is not clear which photo is meant ;
luit for the fact of its showing
Bobbie at full length it might be the above in which he stands on a stool.
Mrs Newlove had not thought of that one recently.]
(133) Feda : I wonder if she will show you something that belonged to
me that is not—well, I can’t show Feda the shape of it. It is
made of yellow wood, it looks like varnished wood, a very high
polish on it, he says. It was something he was very fond of that
he had rather towards the end of his earth life. It used to smell
of varnished stuff. I think it still does ;
he says there are plenty
(jf woods that do not smell at all, Init that this is more like a
varnish.
[For some time this object could not be traced. Later it was noticed
that the above-mentioned photo showed Bobbie standing on a stool
which is of “ yellow, varnished wood ”. The stool does not now smell of
varnish, for the photo was taken in 1926, and the stool was then several
years old. Mrs Newlove thinks BoI)bie would consider that this stool
belonged to her and to himself especially.]
Feda : There is a connexion between photographs and this
wooden thing. I think he will have to leave it like that.
[The yellow stool apj)ears in this photograph of Bobbie ;
but as he
said, “ showing me down to the waist ”, and he is here seen full length,
one is doubiful whether it is the one meant.]
(134) Feda : Would you ask my mother if she has planted a small tree
or has got a small tree especially for me ? It is rather a peculiar
green, it is jiyramidical in sha|.)e, I believe the tree has some
—
^4 Proxy Case 477
u:i]
well, your father calls it
—“ symbolical meaning She has been
thinking of me just lately in connexion with it.
[Mrs Newlove wrote :
“ This is only a surmise, but the ‘
tree with
symbolical meaning ’
might possibly mean his Christmas Tree. Every
Christmas Bobbie had a very large one, decorated with coloured glass
ornaments, such as are used for Christmas Trees, and toys. Last
Christmas, of course, we had no tree, and it would be about May when,
turning out some drawers in preparation for the spring cleaning, I found
some of these coloured ornaments ;
and my thoughts naturally went
back to the memories they recalled . . .
‘
She has been thinking of me
just lately in connexion with it ’.”]
(135) Feda : Cajrtain, someone he used to call Captain, someone he
liked, I think his mother is going to see this Captain.
[Mr Hatch :
“ Mr Burrows, captain of the rink hockey team, a great
friend of Bobbie’s and who is now often at the house. But Bobbie did
not call him Captain. The diary consistently terms him ‘
the In-
structor
’
”.]
(136) Feda : The swings, the place where the swings are, he used to go
there and his mother did not like it much. Jolly at this time of
the year. Mother will remember.
[Mr Hatch :
“ The Fair comes soon to Nelson. Bobbie loved the
swings, but his mother did not like him to go on them much.”]
(137) Feda : Will you ask her whether she remembers the track I was
so interested in, that she did not like, the track where there was
some racing ? I think something had happened, I think it was
rather dangerous, and I know I wanted to go, and I think it must
be this time of the year. It was a sort of circular track. It was
something I wanted to look at, and I don’t think mother liked it.
[Mr Hatch :
“ This is good. There was a kind of motor cycle racing
at the Fair which he wanted to see, but his mother disapproved.”]
Feda : I think something happened about it, an accident or some-
thing, I have a feeling of something dangerous and unpleasant,
but that would have been after we saw it.
[Mr Hatch :
“ There was an accident there. He never saw the racing,
however.”
Bobbie was familiar with the track, even if he did not see the racing.]
(138) Feda : He says, did I tell you that ours was a hilly district? Did
I tell you we lived close to hills, you seemed always to be
walking up or down hills ?
C. D. T. : I happen to know that it is hilly.
[This is more correct than I realised at the time ;
the hills are much
steeper than I then supposed.]
(139) Feda : He says it is pretty well straight down there. You know
one part going that way. You know you get very near to where
478 C. Drayton Thomas [part
the ground was cut away to make that road down there, rather
a steep part, as if it is sliced away to make one side of the road,
and, he says, I don’t think this was very long ago. It is like a
sort of wall it makes at one side. There is an awkward tramline
at one part. People used to complain about it. He says, I don’t
know whether they have altered it, but there were a great many
complaints about it. He says, like two lines coming close to-
gether, in a narrow part, it couldn’t have been a worse place to
make them close together.
(140) There is a place ‘
C ’
—close by, a long name sounding like
Catelnow, Castlenow. There seemed to be two or three syllables,
like a Ca sound, cattle or castle something.
[Mr Hatch :
“ The name given is like Catlow, a hamlet near here.
Bobbie and I went there the day he was taken ill, the last occasion that
he left the house. About one-quarter mile along the road leading to it
jmst the church is a place which was dangerous for buses—there are
no trams. It was altered a little while before Bobbie’s death and made
safe by the removal of a braiding. Leading from this spot is Scholefield
Lane and below it lies the hamlet of Catlow.”]
[One of the last entries in Bobbie’s diary, August 7, reads
—“ Went
to Catlow Bottoms. Sore throat. Went to bed.”]
(141) Feda ; His mother’s neck has been worrying her a bit lately. In
the throat, the neck, she felt rather tired there. I don’t know
whether she got a cold there, but she seemed uncomfortable.
[Mr Hatch :
“ His mother says she has had exactly this feeling in her
throat, but never mentioned it to anyone.”]
(142) Feda : Wait a minute, there is a young girl Bobbie is interested
in at home, her name begins with an ‘
M ’, and a boy with the
initial ‘
K ’, and also another one beginning with ‘
E ’
;
they
are all special friends of Bobbie’s and people his mother has been
thinking of and doing things with just lately.
[Mr Hatch :
“ This is exactly correct if you take ‘
home ’
to mean the
town but not the house.”
In conversation they gave me particulars as follows :
‘
M ’
; Marjorie
(M the rink, several times previously alluded to. ‘
H ’
: a boy Eoy
whom Bobbie knew at the rink. They had given some of Bobbie’s
toys to Boy. ‘
E ’
: a youth, Earle, whom Bobbie knew at the rink,
aged 19.]
(143) Feda : There is another woman there as well as his mother. A
woman talking about Bobbie ;
this woman is in the house.
[This may be an allusion to Bobbie’s grandmother, who lives with
them.
In a recent letter Mr Hatch had written :
“ Bobbie used often to
cycle in a garden ;
will you ask him where % ” I therefore now put that
question.]
A Proxy Case 470
143 ]
(144) C. D. T. ; You often cycled in a garden. Why you did it in the
garden I can’t think ;
it wasn’t your own garden, was it ?
Feda : Wait a minute, I wonder who it belonged to. Bicycle
through a gate, when you got to the gate you could turn to the
left down a side path and you could bicycle there if you wanted
to.
(145) I think there is another boy with him, and I see a tall lady.
Is there a clergyman, minister, connected with this place 1 I
don’t think he lives there, and yet I get a feeling of clergy and
ministers. I see a tall lady and another boy.
[Mr Hatch :
“ This is remarkable, as the garden referred to belongs
to the family of a minister who died about three years ago. The de-
scription is exact, except that there was no other boy.”]
When discussing this with the family I learnt that “ a tall lady
”
lives there ;
so that item is also correct. How shall we accomit for
the reference to another boy which does not apply to that garden ?
Since A\uitmg the foregoing I have received the following note in
answer to my inquiry.
“ ‘
Another boy with him, and I see a tall lady ’. We have discovered
since you asked us about this that on one occasion only Bobbie wished
to take another boy with him into this garden. The owner, however, did
not allow him to do so, as she felt, quite naturally, that if she allowed one
she might be expected to allow more, and the garden would be overrun.
This other boy did not go into the garden, but only to the gate, while
Bobbie tried to obtain permission to have him in. On no other occasion
did Bobbie bring a boy with him while in that garden, nor did any other
boy friend of the family go there. The owner of the garden herself told
me this.”
In order to make sure that the above account was accurate in
every detail it was submitted to the “ tall lady ” who owns the
garden, with the request that she would correct it where necessary.
It was returned unaltered and with her signature ap])ended in testi-
mony to its complete agreement with fact.
Sitting continued.
(146)
C. D. T. : Do you know the name of the people who lived there 1
Feda : I am seeing the letter ‘
C ’
again, I think that is the name
of somebody living there. The letter ‘
C ’
comes up very big.
Co—,
I must not guess as to whether it has got anything to do
with it, but it sounds like Ke—,
Ce—,
Coo— .
C. D. T. : What about spelling it ?
Feda : I don’t think he can give any more, he is going back a
bit now.
[This is not recogni,sed.]
-ISO l)mj/toii I'homa.'i PART
Eleventh Sitting.
Abbreviations used.
R : Right.
F : Fair.
W : Wrong.
Classed as
—
M : F. Description of photograph to be shown me (132).
M; F. Description of an object connected with above photo (133).
0 : F. His mother and a pyramidical tree (134).
0 : F. His mother will see the Captain (135).
M ; R. Swings at this time of year, disliked by his mother (136).
M : R. Dangerous racing track and accident there (137).
M : R. Home is in hilly district (138).
M; F. Steep and awkward place about which complaints made (139).
M : R. Place near the above with name like Cattle (140).
0 ; R. His mother’s throat trouble (141).
M : R. Names indicated by initials (142).
M : R. Possible allusion to grandmother (143).
M : R. Reply to question about cycling in a garden (144).
M : R. Another boy with him there (145).
M ; W. Attempted name (146).
Result of the above analysis
—
Bobbie's Bobbie's opinion or
memory. observation since 'passing
R 8. R 1.
F 3. F 2.
W 1
.
A full analysis of Successes and Failures will be found in Part III.
^4 Pmxjf Case 4SI
u;{
PART II
The outstanding feature of the foregoing record is the story of
“ The Pipes
For convenience of reference 1 have gathered together the scattered
statements and placed them in order. This is prefaced by an ab-
breviated outline of the course of events from the first mention of the
pipes to their final discovery.
BOBBIE NEWLOVE
THE PROBLEM OF THE PIPES
[Abbreviated outline.)
The story opens with a letter of appeal from Mr Hatch in which he
informed me of the recent loss of a boy aged ten. The cause of
death was diphtheria. In a further letter the boy’s name, Bobbie
Newlove, was given. Beyond this, and the address of the boy’s
home, I knew nothing of the facts which subsequently emerged at
my sittings with Mrs Leonard.
On the 2nd December, 1932, my father, while speaking about
Bobbie, expressed the opinion that there had been some cause which
facilitated his taking diphtheria.
He then added that this predisposition might be traced to some-
thing which happened nine tveehs before the boy’s death, and he asked
my special attention to this fact. I quote one of his sentences
verbatim :
“ If it had happened to anyone coimected with you, you
would have immediately connected up the two happenings, nine
weeks before his passing and his actual passing.”
It may be that I saw in this some challenge to my intelligence ;
for I resolved to discover what was imjDlied in those remarks.
When I asked to be told exactly what it was which the above
assertion hinted, the reply came, “ pipes—pipes, he just says this
—
pipes. That word should be sufficient.” This seemed to suggest
infection from defective drainage, and I expected that the family
would acquiesce in this. But they refused to accej;)t any suggestion
of the kind, and replied that they could not trace the matter at all.
The word “ pipes ” conveyed nothmg to them.
We must now' trace the indications given in successive sittings
which finally led us to discover w'hat w'as meant by “the pipes ”.
It was not until three months after this first mention of pipes that
the family learnt of the exact place where Bobbie and his friend had
played ;
but even this left them without any clue as to why pipes
482 C. Drayion Thomas [part
had been mentioned, and it was not until my visit on July 1, 1933,
that one pipe was discovered there. The second pipe, which justified
the use of the plural word, was not found until later.
At the sitting m January 1933 Bobbie repeated the assertion that
his trouble was traceable to the pipes, and when I replied that his
people failed to find any connection between his illness and pipes
Feda merely remarked that she considered Bobbie a very clear-
minded and intelligent boy. I therefore asked the family if they
thought it probable that Bobbie might have heard diphtheria
spoken of in connection with bad drains. The reply was :
“ We
do not know. It is very unlikely that Bobbie had heard of anyone
catching the disease from pipes.”
The subject was resumed at a sitting later, in January 1933, and
the further information was then given that the pipes were not in a
place to which he went regularly, nor to which he went direct from
home, but that he had gone to them when in a second place. Clues
to this second place were then given, and included a reference to
animals, which my father asked me to note particularly because,
“ his j^eople may say w'hen they first read it that Bobbie never went
to a place where there were such things. But he did.” Among
further descriptions of the j^lace was reference to a barn, having one
side nearly or entirely open, more like a place of shelter, and con-
taining bundles of straw. Another boy was said to have been there
with Bobbie and to have been the reason for Bobbie’s going. Al-
though these clues eventually led us to the right spot they were of
no help at this early stage because the family were not familiar with
the locality in question.
During a sitting in February 1933 I expressed a wish that some
definite name might be given in order to assist the search. Feda
then said that she was being given a name like “ Bentley ”, and then,
after some struggles and uncertainty as to the word intended, she
pronounced “ Stock ” and proceeded to describe a town and certain
streets. In fact, a route was described and, as I learnt afterwards,
quite correctly, which started from Bobbie’s home, taking a loop
round the railway station near by, and then going up hill past
Bentley Street (in which Bobbie’s school was situated) and leading
onward towards the old Stocks. The latter stand at the entrance to
the Churchyard. Now that we know where the pipes are, it is easy
to see that Bobbie’s description led us three-quarters of the way to
the place. These descriptions make it 'p&'>'f(^tly clear that the intelli-
gence giving them ivas intimately acquainted with Bobbie’s home and
its surroundings. I should add here that I knew nothing whatever
about it, and that Mrs Leonard was never told that the town hi
question had become of interest to me. In subsequent sittmgs
143 ] A Proxy Case 483
additional touches were given which, while they gave us no help at
the time, are significant because ultimately found to be correct.
At a sitting in the middle of May 1933 a further description was
given which eventually led us to the place itself,
—“ A place with
an address on ‘
B ’
. . . he went to this ‘
B ’ place at certain times.”
I say it led us eventually to the place itself. It is easy to see this now
that one knows the facts, but at the time it only puzzled us.
It was not unnatural that ‘
B ’
should suggest the Baths, and I
inquired whether the family had heard of any infection in connexion
with pipes at the Baths. This, however, was a false scent, and led
to nothing. In the same sitting the actual locality was mdicated by
the letter ‘
H ’, but this, like the previous letter ‘
B ’, failed to convey
anything to us at the time.
It is now obvious that ‘
H ’
meant “ the Heights ”, and ‘
B ’
the
name of Brierfield, the locality in which the Heights are situated.
Guided by the clues given in reply to my inquiries the pipes were
finally discovered. Water issued from the ground through iron
pipes ! It was there that Bobbie had so often played during the
weeks preceding his death. Infection from the water may have
caused a condition of blood w^hich weakened the boy’s system before
the oncoming of diphtheria. Justification for the Communicator’s
opmion that the boy’s death might be attributed to his playing there
is found in a statement by the Medical Officer of Health for the
district. His letter will be quoted in full.
Let us now take the sittings seriatim.
THE PEOBLEM OF THE PIPES.
Second Sitting, November 18, 1932.
Feda : Did you tell Bobbie’s people anything 1 felt about him
here ? (Hand touches medium’s throat.)
C. D. T. : Yes, that was right, throat trouble, he died from diph-
theria.
Feda :
1 got it very strongly, that feeling, it is the same one that
Gladys had {i.e. Mrs Leonard, who once had diphtheria). Etta
says everything was done for him that could be done, he evidently
couldn’t be kept here.
C. D. T. : So sad for them.
Feda ; Oh, what does she mean ? She says he passed over with it.
Explain that, Etta, will you ? Oh, all right—Etta says, yes, she
(14) feels he had diphtheria, but was his heart not strong ? Because
it seemed to her that it was not just the throat trouble that killed
him, it seemed to her there was something which affected his
heart apart from the diphtheria.
C. D. T. : I have an idea that the two things sometimes go together.
484 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Feda ; Etta says, I don’t think it was quite that. I wonder if he
had had something apart from the diphtheria, perhaps before the
diphtheria, that had been rather a strain on his heart, weakened
his heart in some way, so that the diphtheria was too much for it.
Perhaps you can find that out. If it had not been for this con-
dition of heart the diphtheria would not have been too much for
him. There was something that weakened his system before ;
she
got a very strong feeling about that.
[Mr Hatch writes :
“ Yes, the illness started with tonsilitis, turned to
quinsy, and no doubt these weakened the heart.”
Apparently Etta meant more than this.]
Third Sitting, December 2, 1932.
(37) Feda ; Mr John says again he knows he is right about what he said,
that the people on earth might have put down about Bobbie’s
throat and the diphtheria causing his passing, but there was
something behind that, and, Mr John says, he feels certain he is
right. There was something behind that condition ;
he would
not have passed over with that condition alone, there was some-
thing before that.
[Mr Hatch writes : “We know of nothing except the tonsilitis and
quinsy which I have mentioned before ”.
Note. In later sittings this elusive cause of a predisposition to infec-
tion is insisted upon and becomes an intriguing problem. Its final
solution was reached during my visit to the house in the summer of 1933,
as will be seen when we come to my account of that visit.]
(38) Feda : Will you ask if there is anything they can trace to nine
weeks before, something that at the time might not have seemed
important ? Now, must be careful about this, nine weeks before
Bobbie passed over there was something that ought to have been
very significant in the face of his passing, something that, in a
sense, led up to his passing, but not the weakening process that
they spoke of before ;
it was not the something that weakened
him, but nine weeks before Bobbie passed over there was some-
thing happening, something very significant that had a link with
his passing. Well, if it had happened to anyone connected with
you, you would have immediately linked up the two happenings
—nine weeks before his passing and his actual passing.
C!. D. T. : I suppose you could not put in one word what this is ?
Feda : I will see if I can put in a nutshell what I feel about it.
Wait a bit, “ pipes, pipes ” ;
well, he says just this
—“ pipes ”.
That word should be sufficient. Leave it like that.
C. D. T. : Was it Bobbie who was telling you about this incident
to do with pipes ?
Feda : No, Mr John. He says, 1 asked Bobbie a few questions
before the sitting that I thought might have a bearing on his
earth life, and this was one of them.
143 ]
A Proxy Case 485
[Mr Hatch writes :
“ We cannot trace this at all. Nine weeks before
his passing I took him to Morecambe for a very short holiday, but
nothing of importance happened that I know of. The word ‘ pipes
’
conveys nothing to us.”]
In subsequent sittings this subject is repeatedly touched upon, and
the word “ pipes ” became our term for it. Not until my visit to
Nelson, in June 1933, did we find any justification for the word. It
was then, on learning that Bobbie had kept a diary, that I asked to
see it, and at once turned to the date nine weeks before his death in
order to discover whether there might be anything relevant to the
above. My search was successful. The date, June 13, 1932, con-
tained the statement, “ Had two ice creams ” ;
and at June 15
were the words, “ joined gang ”. The mention of ice creams sug-
gested possible infection, and the second entry aroused curiosity.
Nine weeks before the boy’s death on August 12 would be June 10,
which is but a few days from the date on which he joined the gang.
I inquired what was meant by the “ gang ”, and learnt that it was
a secret society formed by Bobbie and one or two of his boy friends ;
they used to play at having adventures, and chose for the place a
spot in the locality which I shall describe when giving an account of
my visit to Nelson. It is called The Heights. This spot was decided
upon in March and used for play during the summer. The visit to
Morecambe, which was for three days at the end of June, would seem
to have no bearing on our quest.
Fourth Sitting, January 13, 1933.
(70) Feda : Bobbie thinks all the time that there was something that
would be wrong with him first, that caused him to take it.
C. D. T. : I don’t think his family know of that.
Feda : There was.
C. D. T. : Is that what he thinks now ?
Feda ; He does : he had been told there was something in his case
which was making it easy not only for him to get it, but not to be
able to throw it off when he did get it.
[Mr Hatch :
“ His tonsils were unhealthy : this may have caused
him to take it.”]
Feda ; 1 don’t know what you mean, Bobbie, you say you got yours
from the pipes.
C. D. T. : That is curious, because my father said that previously
and Bobbie’s people can’t find any connection with pipes.
Feda : 1 think Bobbie is a very clear-minded boy, he seems very
intelligent.
[Mr Hatch replied to this :
“ We don’t know. 1 think it is very
unlikely that Bobbie had heard of anyone catching the disease from
pipes.”]
486 C. Drayton Thomas [part
Fifth Sitting, January "21
,
1933.
C. D. T. : Etta, about the “ pipes Bobbie’s people still can’t
trace them. If Bobbie could tell them anything about the pipes it
would be very interesting.
(80) Feda : It was not in his home. It was not in a place where he was
regularly. There was a place that he went to, notfrom his home,
but while he was in a second place he went to a third one, and
through these—what he calls pipes—he picked up the condition
which was not the cause of the trouble in the first place, but it
introduced a destructive element which resulted in diphtheria.
(81) Feda : You know I told you, didn’t I, that there had been a wrong
physical condition of Bobbie’s for some time before, not a good
condition at all ;
but he went somewhere, you see, not straight
from his home, to this other place ;
while he was at the second
place, outside his home, he went to a third place where the pipes
were wrong, where he introduced into his system this poisonous
condition—where he infected his system.
[Here I must anticipate by giving the interpretation which was only
arrived at eight months later than the date of this sitting.
Mr Hatch wrote me on September 27, 1933, after we had discovered
the first pipe :
“ He would go from the ruined hut, where we believe he
played in the Delf, to the pipe which, as you will remember, was quite
apart in the open space beyond the Delf.” The Delf would be the second
place from which he went to the pipes.]
C. D. T. : I wonder where they will be able to trace that place.
Feda : He is trying to think. I think Bobbie is there. (Hand
points.)
C. D. T. : There ? Oh, good, perhaps he can tell father.
(82) Feda : He is getting this from him. I get a feeling wherever this
place was, of there being animals you call cattle. Mr John says,
make a point of this. I am quite sure of this ;
yet his people may
say when they first read it that he never went to a place where
there were such things. But he did. We know we are right in this
matter, and that if inquiries are quietly persisted in, it may
eventually come to light. Bobbie himself is wishful that this
might be so, and two or three friends of his who have passed over
are also helping, so that, sooner or later, the matter will be brought
to light in what will appear to be an accidental and yet natural
manner.
(83) Either before or after Bobbie caught it there—we think after
—
there was something done to apparently improve matters with
regard to those “ pipes There was something altered that
probably now has improved the condition, made it safer ;
it was
certainly unsafe before.
143] A Proxy Case 4S7
“ A 2
)lace he went to . .
.
pipes.” As I have found it necessary to
introduce a reference to our final solution of the “ pipes ” problem,
it may be well to give the complete story here. This was for long a
puzzle to the family, as they knew of no place answering to this de-
scription. “ Cattle . . . his people may say ... he never went to a
place where there were such things.” “ Before or after . . . there
was something done to improve matters with regard to these pipes.”
“ The matter will be brought to light in what will appear to be an
accidental and yet natural manner.”
Note how the above remarks fall into line with the following facts.
On July 1, 1933, I visited “the Heights” in company with the
family. First we inspected the lower portions of the ground, and
then explored the disused and overgrown quarry, locally termed
“ the Delf ”. On leaving this I noticed a shed somewhat higher up
the hill and near the road which bounds the area on its topmost side.
On nearing this shed the ground showed marks of animals, and hay
was visible in the shed. We therefore examined this shed and found
that one end of it was used as a stable, and the other end had stores
of hay and straw for bedding. One end was open, and this fact
excited interest, since one of the clues was “ an open end ”. Indeed,
this shed answered in several particulars to descriptions given in the
sittings, as also did the surroundings. (All these points will be found
in later sittings.) While we stood there a woman approached. I
made some remark about the fine view ;
she responded suitably, and
we entered into conversation. With the puzzle of the “ pipes ” still
revolving in my mind I inquired whether she knew if children came
to play in the quarry. She replied that they did, and that they some-
times made mischief, that among other misdeeds they had “ broken
the pipe ”. The mention of a pipe in connexion with this spot to
which Bobbie’s descriptions had led us, and wdiich we already knew
answered in several ways to those descriptions, inspired hope that
we were on the right track. Further inquiries elicited the informa-
tion that there was a spring part-way down the hill, where water
issued from a pipe. She added that they now had the town water
laid on, and so were not dependent upon the pipe. 1 gathered that
this alteration had been made some years before.
We then walked down the slope to see the spring. Water issued
from the hillside by the side of the displaced pipe, an iron pipe
several feet in length. Past this pipe the water trickled down the
slope in a small channel of its own making.
We had discovered one pipe, and it was in the place to which the
clues given in the sittings had led us. We saw no second pipe, and
why the word was used in the plural we failed to guess. Our dis-
covery of this pipe was entirely due to the meeting with our infor-
2 k
488 C. Drayton Thomas [part
2 nant. It is unlikely that we should have seen the spring and its pipe
but for her remark ;
for we had visited the same locality a few days
liefore and had not suspected its existence. The pipe is inconspicu-
ously placed, and not visible until one goes quite near, being hidden
by the formation of the ground.
A letter from Mr Hatch dated September 27, 1933, says :
“ Since
your visit last June I have been to the Heights several times, and
on one occasion I came across water running from another pipe in
quite another direction from the first one, but nearly as close to the
Delf—it was about three minutes’ walk from it. This pipe protrudes
over a kind of trough filled with water, and is tucked away at the
end of a footpath. Mr Burrows and I made the discovery.”
Thus was the term “ the pipes ”, used by the communicators ever
since December 2, 1932, found, in the following September, to be
justified by the discovery of two pipes situated in the immediate
vicinity of the place frequented by Bobbie and his friend.
Having thus glanced at the end of the story, let us continue the
January 1933 sitting.
(84) Feda : The animals will be the best clue. He understands from
Bobbie— he says Bobbie seems to suggest to him that his parents
were not so familiar with this place, or did not go to it to the same
extent that he did.
[“ Animals the best clue.” Yes, it was the sight of animal tracks
which led us to examine the shed. “ Parents not familiar with this
place ” ;
they had not seen it. Bobbie once brought his mother to view
the Heights from the lower road, but, finding it would be some distance,
and the weather being inclement, they returned home.]
(85) Feda ; There was another boy mixed up in this, who went to this
place and seemed to be the reason for Bobbie going.
[” Another boy.” Yes, “ the gang ” comprised Bobbie and his friend
Jack, and they had decided upon this place as their field of operations.
A letter dated November 8, 1933, from Mr Hatch says :
“ Did I tell
you that I questioned Jack about the pipe that we first found on the
Heights and he admitted that he and Bobbie played with the water ?”]
C. D. T. : I wonder what sort of a place it was and where ?
(86) Feda : Wait a minute, I am getting a feeling of it not being quite
a country place.
[This is accurate.]
C. D. T. : I wonder what Bobbie did when he was there ?
(87) Feda : They are showing me places like stables now ;
you know
what barns are, well, like barns and stables. I am getting straw
in big bundles, I have got to call it a barn, with one side nearly,
or all, open more like a shelter place.
I-'k!. Ill, —1,’atli to the Ukl t^uarry. now jiroteeted liy a railing.
Flo. —One of the Pipes.
I
t
<
\
,
.
1
48!)
143] ^4 Proxy Case
(88) I don’t seem to be quite in the country, there is so much
building round that it hides what country there may be.
The shed is a stable at one end and a store, or small barn, at the
other.
“ One side nearly or all open, more like a shelter place ” : an
exact description. (See Fig. IV.) “ Building round hides what
country there may be ” : there are buildings near which hide the
view in two directions, yet there is an extensive view over Nelson
and the country from the front of the barn. So the description is
not strictly correct. One may hazard the guess, however, that
Bobbie was giving his recollection of the prospect as seen from
within the Delf. From that position one sees nothing of the sur-
rounding country, because the sides of the quarry and the building
bomid the view all round.
Sitting co ntinued
.
(89) Feda : I must not say this is anything to do with it, but I hear
water running, as if big taps were turned on, and water trickling,
as if it is running into a kind of gutter or drain. Like a swilling,
they are trying to make me say the word “ swdlling ”.
[Mr Hatch did not understand this, but, assuming that it related in
some way to the pipes, replied, “ We still cannot trace this matter of
the pipes. We will make further inquiries.”]
These further inquiries were, how^ever, fruitless.
It was not until three months after this sitting of January 13,
i.e. in March 1933, that the family accidentally learnt the "where-
abouts of the gang’s playground ;
but only on July 1, 1933, was
the mystery solved by our discovering the first of the two pipes. It
was then fine weather and the water was only “ trickling ”, but after
heavy rains the sound would certainly convey the idea of “ swilling
for then the water comes out with a rush. It falls into a pool, which
overflows into a kind of gutter which runs down the steep slope of
the hill.
Sixth Sitting, February 16, 1933.
Feda : Bobbie says he is very pleased with the result of his
messages, but there has been something that rather puzzled him.
He was puzzled because they could not make it out.
C. D. T. : Woidd he like to make it easier for them by giving
clues ?
Feda : It was to do with what he calls “ the pipes ”.
C. D. T. : I thought so. That is the most important point of all,
and the one that has puzzled them most.
490 C. Drayton Thomas [paet
Feda ; He says, I know I am right about it ;
and did he tell you
before that the pipes were not at home ?
[Mr Hatch replied to this :
“ We are still very puzzled about the
references to ‘
the pipes
C. D. T. : Isn’t it a pity, Feda, that we can't get the name of the
place ?
(Feda’s f>art of the following dialogue is reproduced in her character-
istic diction.)
(96) Feda : I am getting a funny name, it sounds to Feda like Bentley.
This is what he calls a clue to it.
(97) Bentley and Stoo, something. Stock, Stop, begins Stoo.
(98) Feda : He is trying to show me—make me feel—a town, not a
pretty town, it is full of streets, you know, streets full of ugly
jreople that does not know anything about Feda.
C. D. T. : You mean ugly streets and houses, not people.
Feda : No, ugly people, not the streets ;
you see they doesn’t know
anything about Feda, or about this subject.
G. D. T. :
“ But knowledge to their eyes her ample page.
Rich with the spoils of time did ne’er unroll.
Chill penury repressed their nobler rage.
And froze the genial current of their soul.”
Feda ; 1 should like to learn poetry. I don’t think they have got
many “ spoils ” of anything, and they all goes miserable and
looking on the ground, and coughing and sneezing and being
awful unhappy.
C. D. T. : Did Bobbie tell you this ?
Feda : Yes, and they are going down hill where shops is and
houses and they goes down this hill and they come to a cross
road ;
and I think there is a big station fhere ;
because there is
a bridge just down that turning.
One of the cross roads leads to a dark bridge where trains goes
what you say “ expectorating ” like that, ch—ch—ch— and
blowing out sparks and stuff. That is what a lady told me is
right “ spectorating ”. And then if you does not turn down to
where the trams is you go straight up a hill opposite you, and I
see Bol)bie going up that hill, and 1 am following him up it, and
he is getting a little bit away from the town part, he is getting
more towards houses and less shops and cleaner and less of the
poor miserable people. It feels a bit brighter, you see, there.
Oh, now I am getting the name again that sounds like Ben or
Bentley.
Mr Hatch’s comments are given below. Enclosed with them was
a rough sketch which I have embodied in the lower part of the one
here shown (Plan 2).
491
143] .4 Proxy Crise
“ You will see l)y the enclosed sketch-niai) that the description ot the
town is quite a good one. The name Bentley is particularly good, as you
will notice that there is a Bentley Street near our house and adjoining
Feb. 16th 1933 -
Bentley and Stock
given as clues
.
Downhill and cross roads,
one of which leads to
a bridge.
Railway and Station there
Avoiding road to trains
So uphill to Bentley.
Quarry
From which the
described route
starts. The line
of dots shows the
route round the
railway station and
uphill past Bentley
Street towards the
Stocks and the
Heights
.
Bobbie’s School. In the Churchyard higher up, mentioned before in the
sittings, are the Stocks used long ago for ill-doers. But we can see no
connexion between these and the ‘ pipes ’. It is true that it is cleaner
and brighter as you go up the hill.
“ It seems from this sitting, and from a previous one, that Bobbie went
from School to the place where the pipes were. But, so far as our know-
ledge goes, the only place answering to this description is the Baths, and
this does not fit in with the account of a barn-like place, with hay, etc.”
The solution was reached at a much later date, namely, on July 1,
1933.
492 C. Draylon Thomas [part
The effort for a name, Stoo, Stop, etc., once achieved “ Stock ”,
which is almost Stocks. The Stocks are just inside the entrance of
the Churchyard previously mentioned.
I have marked the described route by a dotted line in the map.
The description seems to start from Bobbie’s home and, going down
hill, takes left-hand turn to railway station and railway bridge ;
turning back from the tram lines, which would be reached if one
should proceed some yards further, it goes uphill past his home again
in the direction of the Church, passing one end of Bentley Street,
which Bobbie would specially remember, as his School was there.
Mr Hatch wrote on March 17, 1933, “ First with regard to the
route which you have traced on the map : It certainly does agree
with the description, and I agree that it seems to reveal an ultimate
knowledge of the locality. It is somewhat puzzling to understand
why this particular route should have been described.”
Sixth Sitting continued.
(99) Feda ; There is somebody there called “ Phil ”, it sounds to Peda
like Phil. Will you tell them that the name Phil is a clue ?
(100) Feda : There was a boy called Peter who knew this place too.
Bobbie is not quite sure whether his real name was Peter, but
they called him Peter. And, wait a bit, and another boy whose
name sounds like Eric or Alec.
Mr Hatch, in referring to the above, wrote, “ We are trying to
trace the names Peter, Alec or Eric, but have not succeeded yet,
also Phil.”
Bobbie often talked of his school companions, but the names of
many of these are not remembered by the family.
In the above-quoted letter of March 17, 1933, Mr Hatch said :
“ With regard to references to the ‘ pipes ’
I may say that we seem
at last to be on the track of what has been insisted upon so fre-
quently. The references seem to point to a place which had been
visited by Bobbie and a boy friend, and by them only. Neither his
mother nor I had ever been there. Perhaps I had better not say
more at present as some more information may come through. We
cannot trace the names of his friends that were given. Do you think
it will be possible to get any further information about Bobbie’s
visits to the place where the ‘
pipes ’
were ?
”
The family tell me that, in view of this possibility, they thought
it better not to question Bobbie’s friend Jack, but to see if Bobbie
could solve the mystery himself.
143 ] A Proxy Case 493
Eighth Sitting, March 24, 1933.
(107) Feda ; Etta says 1 am perfectly certain that they will verify the
evidence about the pipes.
C. D. T. ; 1 would like you to give them all the help you can
because it would be such a good point.
Feda : She says, a very good evidential point indeed. And,
bearing that in mind, will you write and ask them not to tell
you anything they discover until we have given you a little
more about it ? in case they should write and tell you something
that we might be just waiting to give you.
Ninth Sitting, April 10, 1933.
(Early in the sitting came the following dialogue :)
C. D. T. ; I want to ask about little Bobbie, have they heard any-
thing more about him ?
Feda : Would you like them to get any more about him ?
C. D. T. : Well, it was all very interesting, and I think it would be
worth while getting more. 1 am eager that his people should
find out about those pipes ;
if 1 could help them to do that we
might finish the case, but we can’t really finish the case until
they have found out about the pipes.
Feda ; Mr John thinks they are on the track.
(Later in this sitting the subject was continued thus :)
(108) Feda : Something has just come to Mr John’s mind about Bobbie,
he wondered whether he had given it before. Has Bobbie ever
said anything at the sittings about a brook or inland water ? It
seems to be some special piece of water, and he would often go
to a place situated close to this water, it almost feels like swampy
to Feda.
C. D. T. : That was mentioned once, but not a brook, merely a
little place near a stile where water was. (See No. 45.)
Feda ; No, it is not to do with that either, another place alto-
gether. It is rather important to him, as if he did something
rather special there.
Mr Hatch replied to this, “ The reference to a brook or inland
water might mean a boating pool which he liked to visit, but the
swampy condition is incorrect.”
On my visit to Nelson in June 1933 it was explained that on this
boating pool in Thompson’s Park Bobbie used to row in the canoes.
On July 1 I paid my second visit, during which we found the first
of the pipes on Marsden Heights. It was w’hen reconsidering this
paragraph (108) after that visit that I noticed how perfectly it
applied to the place where w*e saw water issuing from the pipe.
(See Fig. V.) The water made a small pool and swampy area around
494 [part
C. Drayton Thomas
the spot where it issued from the hill. If this w^as a reference to the
“ pipe ” place it would be specially relevant in view of my request
early in this sitting, and conversation about Bobbie’s people being
on the track of the place. I incline, therefore, to think that this
alludes to the place where “ the gang ” used to play and where we
later discovered the pipe.
Tenth Sitting, May 19, 1933.
(115) Feda : Now, look, he wanted to say that he thought that they were
on the track of what he spoke about, the trouble he spoke about,
that had a connexion with his passing.
0. D. T. : Can you help them any more about it ? I have not
heard whether they have found it or not.
Feda : Well, now, he says this, that they were on the right track,
but there has been a difficulty, they have been held up in their
investigations. Bobbie has been expecting this, and he is not
disappointed about it, because he felt it was going to be difficult,
he felt there would be obstacles in the way of proving it, or
bringing it to light. You see, there are two different bodies of
people to contend with. He says they know what I am talking
about, two different bodies, and neither of them would make it
easy, but one might make it easier than the other.
[Mr Hatch wrote :
“ PerhajDS we had better leave this till we can talk
it over with you ;
there is a strange confusion with parts very correct.
The mystery might have been already solved by this time, for any-
thing I knew to the contrary ;
but Bobbie seems to have been aware of
the progress of events.
“ Two ... to contend with ”, the family interpret this as meaning
that they were divided as to the places meant, which was indeed the fact
at the date of this sitting.]
(116) Feda :
“ Underground ”, something to do with taking up ground,
underground. I don’t know what he means, but this is what he
says ;
he can’t hel]) them very much more about this just now.
[This is vague, but may possibly have been an endeavour to indicate
the spot where we eventually found the pipe and a small stream issuing
from the ground.]
(117) C. D. T. : Bobbie, I am going there in about a month’s time ;
if
I wanted to go to the place where the pipes are, and wished to
start from the Railway Station— do you know what I should
do ? I should walk up the hill past your house ;
and when past
your house and a little uphill, what ought I to do then ? Is that
the right direction ?
Feda : Yes, and there is another way to it, past the school. He
says, I should think past the house and keep straight on.
C. D. T. ; Yes, and what am I to look out for ? Would the place
be on the main road or should I have to turn somewhere ?
143] ^4 Proxy Case 4it5
(118) l^EDA : It seems to i)e on the right. I don’t think it is very far
from the main road, I think it is on it.
[My question was based upon the sketch map sent by Mr Hatch to
illustrate a previous sitting. I aimed to provide Bobbie with a starting
point from which he might describe the route to the pipes. It so
happened that my suggested route was c[uite in order, for that is one way
to Marsden Heights.
“ Another way past the school ” ;
this is correct.
“ Turn right ” ;
correct. One goes past the Church some distance
and then turns up a short blind road on the right. A gate at its end
opens on to the Heights. (Cf. Plan 3.)]
steeply
up
f
Hill
496 C. Drayton Thomas [part
(119) Ff:i)A : On that main road he shows me it goes uphill, all the way
almost, not just a little bit of a hill. Now for a good distance
is it more open on the left than right 1 You see a main road,
and yet I feel spaces. It is not all built on, there are lots of
buildings, but lots of spaces as well. He says there are still
some sjraces. The whole of that main road is rather a mixture.
This main road at one time was not much built on, and it has
been much built on lately, like a mixture of space and new
buildings.
C. D. T. ; Then I go on up the hill and what do I come to ?
(120) Feda : Is there a place with an address on ‘
B ’
? He is trying to
write it up on a board. The place seemed to be close to a place
where he went to. He went to this ‘
B ’ place at certain times.
I had l)etter wait and see.
[“ Uphill ” is correct ;
“ Spaces and buildings ” also correct. In
Bobbie’s time it was still more open on the left-hand side than on the
right. “ Place' B ’
”, the Marsden Heights, in which the pipe was found,
is in the Brierfield Urban District.
“ Went at certain times ” ;
this locality was the chosen play place of
“ the gang ”.]
C. D. T. : Don’t you mean the Baths, Bobbie ?
Feda : He does, it was connected with and mixed up with the baths
somehow.
C. D. T. : Is it within the same walls, under the same roof ?
(121) Feda : Isn’t it a nuisance I can’t quite get that ? Don’t ask him
that, I think there is something he is trying to get. I have got
to be awful sure about this—the place that he would go in the
doorway—because it is on the corner of the side road, and I get
the feeling that often he would go a bit down the side road to
get to the j)lace where he went.
It seems clear now that, at this point, I introduced much confusion
by assuming that the letter ‘
B ’
stood for the Baths ;
for Feda
accepted my idea and referred to it as the Baths under the impression
that Baths was the correct name.
My second question about being under a roof evidently puzzled
and confused, and f|uite naturally so, if I am right in my surmise
that the boy w'as describing an out-of-door place.
“ Doorway at corner of side road ” ;
the gateway into the Heights
is at the left corner at the top of the short, blind road. Bobbie would
go through it to get to the gang’s playing spot near the water pipe in
the hill side.
Sitting continued.
C. D. T. : I want to ask him if he had been drinking the water at
the Baths.
497
143] .4 Proxy Case
(122)
Feda : He knows what he had been told it is. He has been told
that this was the cause of it. You know what he would call the
baths—I am letting him say what he wants to, because you can
see if he is accurate—He says he thinks what he remembers is
that a part of this building is not quite the same. You puzzled
him a bit asking whether it was near the building, because it
was not all built at the same time, there was something that
had to be built on afterwards. When it was thought to be all
complete there was something added to it, quite a good big
portion.
“ You know what he would call the baths ” ;
here Feda accepts
my term for the place in question and alludes to it as “ the baths ”.
We must, however, keep in mind the probability that what Feda and
I are terming “ the Baths ” is really the place which Bobbie and my
communicators call “ the pipes ” or “ B ”. Let us see if what follows
will apply to the latter place ;
for it certainly does not apply to the
Baths.
“ You puzzled him . . . something built on afterwards.” This
addition to a building correctly describes the shed or barn by the
Delf : this erection shows clear evidence of having been added to
from time to time. It is a home-made structure of wood and corru-
gated iron put together as need arose. It is quite likely that an
observant boy would have noticed these additions.
Sitting continued.
(123) Feda : Is there a district there that begins with the letter ‘
H ’
near the baths, a longish name ? He calls it the district.
C. D. T. ; I’ll inquire.
(124) Feda : You see, he knew somebody living in the ‘
H ’ part that
used to go to the same place.
[The Marsden Heights were always called by Bobbie “ The Heights ”.
Who is meant by “ somebody ” is uncertain. There are alternative
explanations.]
(125) Feda : Look, you have been going up hill, haven’t you ;
suppose
you were to go down to the right, like a side way, when you have
gone up a hill, you wouldn’t go very far to the right before you
come to a place that was—There are no cliffs there, are there ?
—
he is trying to make me feel such a peculiar place, it feels to me
almost like a drop, a kind of abrupt drop down, not an ordinary
hill. And as if there is still some evidence of it being there, but
not quite as it was.
The above correctly describes a road to the right, after one has
come uphill from Bobbie’s house, and a walk by the quarry alluded
to in a previous sitting (Cf. Nos. 41-44). “ Not c^uite as it was ” ;
498 C\ Drayton Tkonuis [part
in Bobbie’s time a stile separated this walk by the quarry from the
side road. The stile has since been removed, and jjrotective railings
now separate the path from the abrupt edge of the quarry. The sides
of the quarry are like cliffs.
Sitting eontimied.
(126) Feda : And you can get to that place by walking up the hill and
turning to the right near the baths ;
not, perhaps, the best way,
but you could get so.
[This short paragraph summarises the foregoing and is perfectly
correct if one substitutes “ Brierfield Heights ” for the Baths ”.]
Sittings.
2 Nov. 0 : R.
3 Dec. 0 ; R.
0 : R.
4 Jan. 0 : G.
5 Jan. M ; R.
M : G.
M : R.
0 : D.
M : R.
M ; R.
M ; R.
M : R.
M : F.
M : P.
6 Feb. M :: R.
M ; G.
M : R.
M : D.
M : D.
8 Mar. 0 : R.
9 Apt, M :: F.
10 May. 0 ; F.
The Pipes.
Abbreviations used.
R : Right.
G ; Good.
F: Fair.
P : Poor.
D : Doubtful.
A previous weakening (14).
Predisposing cause for Bobbie’s illness (37).
Event nine weeks before the death for which “ pipes
”
will be the clue (38).
Previous constitutional weakness and further refer-
ence to the “ pipes ” (70).
Pipes not in house, reached via a second place (80).
Connexion between pipes and infection (81).
Animals there will be clue to pipes (82).
An alteration has made the pipes less dangerous (83).
Bobbie’s people not familiar with the pipes place (84).
Another boy went there with Bobbie (85).
Not quite country where jiipes are (86).
Stables, straw. One side partly open (87).
View of country hidden by buildings (88).
Water trickling or swilling (89).
Bentley is a clue to the pipes jilace (96).
and Stock (97).
A route given in detail (98).
The name Phil is a clue (99).
and other boys’ names (100).
Etta certain that the pipes will be discovered (107).
Brook or inland water to which Bobbie went (108).
His people’s attitude respecting the pipes problem
(115).
143 ] A Proxy Case 499
M : D. Underground (116).
M : R. Pipes can be reached past the school (117).
M : R. A turning to the right (118).
M : R. Route uphill described (119).
M ; R. Place ‘
B ’
(120).
M ; R. Enter at corner of side road (121).
M : F. Building that was added to (122).
M : R. District there is ‘
H ’
(123).
M : D. Another living there went too (124).
M : R. Route near place with precipitous drop (125).
M : R. Can be reached by alternative routes (126).
Result of the above analysis—
Bobbie’s Bobbie’s John’s Etta’s
memory. opinion
.
opinion
.
opinion
R 16. G 1. R 2. R 2.
G 2. F 1. D 1.
F O.
P 1. Bol)bie succeeds 23. J. & E. succeed 4.
D 4. ,, fails 5. 5 5
fail 1
.
500 C. Drayton Thom,as [part
PART III
Before proceeding to discuss the significance of the foregoing
messages it may be convenient to notice in brief summary how the
evidence accumulated month by month from November 1932 to
May 1933.
In November, December and January we find Etta, John, and
finally Bobbie himself expressing the opinion that Bobbie’s illness
could be traced to something connected with pi]>es. (14, 37, 38, 70.)
An event nine weeks before death will be a clue. (38.)
In January my request for further clues brought the information
that these pipes were not at the boy’s home ;
that animals woidd be
a guide to their position ;
that Bobbie’s people did not know of the
])lace, but that he went there with another boy. As a further clue
there was described a barn or stables. (80, 82, 84, 85, 87.)
In February the route leading to these pipes was described in
part. (96, 98.)
In March Etta expressed certainty that the pipes would be
tliscovexed. (107.)
In May Bobbie gave directions pointing to the exact locality
where the pipes were eventually found. (117, 118, 119, 120, 123,
126.)
In Jidy the first of the two pipes was discovered and the second
in September.
No maps of Nelson were to be had, either in guide-book or local
directory, and it was not until these sittings were over and the pipes
found that I ins|)ected ordnance survey maps, both the large scale
and the small. I found springs indicated, but no mention of pipes.
My knowledge of Nelson was restricted to the fact of its being a
manufacturing town, united with others in a valley, and that the
surrounding country was hilly. Mrs Leonard was told nothing
whatever aljout the subject of these sittings, nor did I mention the
j)lace to Feda.
We have seen that the information given about the existence and
whereabouts of these pipes was correct. Let us now consider whether
there was justification for the opinion, so confidently expressed, that
Bobbie’s death might be attributed to the pipes.
The water issuing from the hillside is pure, but it falls into pools,
one of which is on the open hillside where it would be visited by wild
birds, poultry and animals.
At my request the Brierfield Medical Ofticer of Health, Dr J.
501
143] A Proxy Case
Strachan Wilson, M.B., C.M., visited the place. He afterwards sent
me the following report ;
Town Brierfield,
Lancashire, February 21, 1934.
Dear Sir,
Your letter of the 10th instant, re springs on Marsden Heights,
to hand.
Mr Haigh, the Sanitary Ins]jector, and myself visited the two springs
you mention. The water in both pools is obviously liable to contami-
nation from surface water and is not fit for drinking purposes. Any
person, child or adult, might develop a low or even an acute infection
from the drinking of such water.
We have had samjiles of the water issuing from the hillside, in both
cases, analysed, and the analysis shows that the water from both sources
is suitable for drinking.
Yours faithfully,
J. S. Wilson,
Medical Officer of Health.
That verdict about the pools into which the pipe water falls is
decisive. We are certain that Bobbie frequently played by this water
during several weeks ;
then came an illness which, beginning with
tonsilitis, turned to quinsy and then to the diphtheria which over-
came him.
The accompanying photograph of the pipe and pool nearest to the
Delf shows how close is the surface of the water to the mouth of the
pipe. The fall is only two inches. Bobbie’s friend, Jack, says that
they “ played with the water ”. A boy who was playing with water
as it issued from the jiipe could scarcely avoid wetting his hands in
the contaminated pool below. Those wet hands might easily convey
infection to the mouth, either by wiping on handkerchief or by
cupping them for a mouthful of water from the pipe. Bobbie lived
in a healthy part of Nelson and there were, as I am informed by the
local Medical Officers of Health, only two other cases of diphtheria in
Nelson at that time, and four in the Brierfield area.
There our definite information ends.
The communicators may or may not have been correct in con-
cluding that Bobbie’s death was caused directly or indirectly by his
playing with this water. We cannot be certain, nor would the proved
truth or error of their opinion affect the evidence that they were in
possession of facts on which such a conjecture might reasonably be
based. These facts were : the existence and locality of the pipes, the
pool into which the water discharged, the frequenting of this place
by the boys and their playing with the water. Anyone acquainted
with these facts might have suspected that the throat affection
C. Drayton Thmnas [part
wliich followed was traceable to tbe contaminated water. But no one
on earth had the least suspicion of this until it was stated in the course
of these sittings.
What makes the incident really remarkable from the evidential
point of view is that the members of Bobbie’s family were entirely
ignorant of the facts, and that the only person acquainted with them,
be,sides Bobbie himself, was his companion Jack—certainly a most
unpromising and unlikely source of telepathic information on the
subject. Yet the existence of this water was asserted and reasserted
during a period of six months, and the pipes were finally discovered
by our following up the clues given.
Whence, then, came the knowledge so clearly displayed ? Was it
from minds on earth ? Doubtless many persons were aware of those
])ipes on the Heights ;
yet it is certain that not one among them ever
suspected that I was taking .sittings on behalf of Bobbie’s family.
That fact was private to the few persons in Bobbie’s group. The
only others who knew, namely, my stenographer, my wife and I,
were unaware of the exi.stence of the Heights. No one person knew
both facts, viz. that the pipes existed, and that I was inquiring
about Bobbie. Whence, then, came the information ? It is a
])roblem which I commend to the attention of those who may hesi-
tate to share my conviction that Bobbie Newlove and his friends in
the Beyond gave the mes,sages.
Telepathy from minds on earth is regarded by some as an alter-
native hypothesis to communication from the departed.
There is little to be said for it. We have no record of long and
fletailed messages being conveyed from one person to another by
telepathy. Whether spontaneous or experimental, telepathy is
always fragmentary.
Consider our .story of the pipes. There were no people on earth
who knew the two facts which are so emjrhatically and continuously
interwoven in the sittings, viz. (1 )
that Bobbie played with the water
on the Heights, and (2) that I was trying to get from him messages
for his people. These two facts were, however, known to some very
acute intelligence somewhere, who made use of them during a period
of six months in face of incredulity by Bobbie’s people and our
failure to understand.
This knowledge about the ])ipes—which proved to be accurate
—
could not have come by telej^athy from Bobbie’s home circle, because
no one there was aware of the existence of the pipes. Members of
the “ gang ”, on the other hand, would have no idea that Bobbie
hurt himself by playing with the water, nor of the fact that I was
seeking to obtain messages from him.
Critics who wash to apply the telepathic hypothesis to this case
1431 A Proxy Case 503
will need to assume, without any justification for such an assumption,
that thoughts pass between people who have not heard of each other
and between whom there is no link save that they were interested
in a person who died. And further, the selection must be assumed
to act with unerring discretion, so that no facts are allowed to pass
which do not relate to the inquiry in hand. In short, everything vnust
happen exactly as if an intelligent supervisor were obtaining infor-
mation from the deceased for the purposes of the inquiry.
Examination of Bobbie’s Failures.
Abbreviations used.
N. Name difficulty.
I. Insufficiently described.
U. Some of his school friends unknown to his people.
Memory.
POOR.
DOUBTFUL.
WRONG.
Note.
7. Special cooking. I.
23. Money put aside for him. I.
27. Like Joyce. U.
56. Something like a duck. I.
92. Water trickling or swilling. I.
105. Toy box described. I.
22. Recent gift from gentleman. I.
68. Name like Euan. N.
95. Further activities in the attic. I.
99. The name Phil is a clue. N or U.
100. And names of other boys. N or U.
116. Underground. I.
124. Another who lived there went also. I.
131. Geoffrey or “ G ”. N or U.
47. Sw— name of place. N.
90. Changed doors at rink. (See below.)
146. Attempted name of garden. N.
Opinion.
128. Who wanted dressing gown. (See below.)
90. I can find no explanation of this.
128. A mistaken inference.
We have examined Bobbie’s failures and now turn to those of
Feda, John and Etta.
Feda : 33. Wrong idea of Bobbie’s complexion, obtained by “ feel-
ing ” only.
2. Doubtful idea obtained when psychometrising Mr Hatch’s
letter.
2l
H
P
P
1
—
I
-1^
Q
m
m
P
o
o
P
m
P
O
m
m
pi
P
P
m
H
P
H
W
H
C5
)-M
fi
D
o
g
O
<1
m
g
S
H
m
H
I-)
o
w
w
H
Etta’s
opinion.
r—1 f—
(
Q
• *
O
P o/
P
P
\
o o
P CM CO r—1 (CO
^
John’s
opinion.
fi
\
I—1 1—1 r-H
/
P
P
o/
O
P o ^
P CO CO ^
Feda’s
opinion.
r—
H
Q 1—^ I—1 CM
P o
pR 1—t 1^ V
p r-H r—< iO
/
p CM r-H CO
^
Bobbie’s
opinion.
r-H I—1 -
Q
\
o ^
/
P o/
P 1
—1 r-H (M
P
\
C<1
2
P 1—1 1—1 CO i“H LO r-H (CT
1—
H
Bobbie’s
memory.
--H 1—( CO
P
\
^ r-H i-H (M CO 00 ^
P 1
—1 0-1 ^H 1—H r*—^ CO ^
pR
CO ^ CO CM 01 CO
p Rl I—1 CM 1-H r-H
..
p lOCO'+i'Mioicci T—IQOCX)/
r-H I—1 i-H CO
Sitting No.
o
r-<cqcO'^iccoc-'^|Z|
00
c<i CO
on on
OJ 2
o P
o P
1
^ as
C» P
e
o
&o
S
cS
q;
^ .
o '
o
^ 'S
CQ
p4
plJ
CO CO
o
CO
nd
CJ
0^
o ,
o
rO
O
W
N.jB
.
—
In
several
instances
the
statement
given
in
the
sitting,
and
which
I
count
as
one,
consists
of
several
items.
Were
all
such
counted
according
to
the
number
of
definite
items
they
contain,
the
above
totals
would
be
considerably
greater.
Those
marked
“
right
”
would
be
over
150,
and
the
total
number
of
statements
more
than
200.
As
full
information
is
given
in
the
notes,
readers
will
be
able
to
make
their
own
comjrutations.
143 ]
John : 83.
Etta : 15.
104.
A Proxy Case 505
Doubtful remark about the pipes having been rendered
less dangerous than formerly.
Wrong opinion about Bobbie’s constitution being good.
Wrong opinion as to Bobbie’s ability for drawing.
It is of special interest that the communications contain several
statements upon matters happening at the date of these sittings,
i.e. many months after the boy’s death.
Were there no evidence to the contrary, it might have been sug-
gested that such information had come telepathically from the
people at Nelson. The evidence of the “ pipes ”, however, gives no
encouragement to those favouring that hypothesis.
Other attempted alternatives, such as Universal Memory, or
unlimited Clairvoyance, do not help us. I can think of no explana-
tion which fits the facts save that of the boy’s continued interest in,
Making something like stone—studying it
—put together
in lumps.
Bobbie was reminded of this place lately when his people
went there.
Family going to place H— thinking of him.
Mother thinking about Rosemary.
Bobbie’s people help an aged lady.
His mother thought of his cap.
She found his heart-shaped badge.
Four items re his mother visiting churchyard.
She thought of apples in connexion with him.
His mother wants new dressing gown.
Cardboard boxes brought him to his mother’s mind.
His mother and a pyramidical tree.
His mother’s throat trouble.
9. F. :
46. R. :
65. G. :
66. R.
106. R.
111. R.
112. R. ;
113. R.
114. R. ;
127. R.
129. R.
134. F.
141. R.
A boy of ten might be expected to mention toys, games and
various exercises m which he had been interested. We find these
communications contain many such references. They are as
follows :
7. P. Special cooking.
24. G. Interested in a building.
29. R. Played with grooves and numbers after tea.
30. R. Coloured marbles on table.
39. R. Girl with a ball interested Bobbie.
49. R. Description of a strap about which Bobbie was warned.
54. G. Reference to the salt-sifter. A treasured object described.
56. P. References to the salt-sifter. Something like a duck.
61. R. References to the salt-sifter. Name “ B ” of toy or animal.
55. R. Building to picture-pattern, with point.
506 C. Drayton Thomas [part
References to the Rink :
Carrying for his mother something swinging.
Manner of walking with his mother.
A purchase for the winter.
A frequented place described.
People met there, etc.
Discussion re footwear for the above place.
Something that floated in air.
Exercise in attic.
Another boy went there with Bobbie.
Celluloid article he was using which was disapproved of.
Shape, colour, etc., of articles in tissue paper.
Further activities in the attic.
Description of toy box changed, round label.
Reply to question about cycling in a garden.
Notice, similarly, how we find references to objects in which Bobbie
had been interested :
71. R.
72. R.
73. R.
74. R.
75. R.
76. R.
77. F.
78. R.
85. R.
91. R.
93. R.
95. R.
105. P.
144. R.
31. R.
32. F.
34. R.
35. R.
53. F.
57. G.
58. R.
132. F.
133. F.
Something yet incomplete making in the house.
Interested in rabbits.
Photograph with boards.
Cap without peak.
Interested in special plants.
Mice.
Apparatus fixed to wall.
Description of photograph to be shown me.
Description of an object connected with above photo.
It is known that Bobbie frequented the places and was familiar
with the localities which are referred to in the following passages :
8. R. Town in provinces.
10. R. Largish town and important things.
11. R. Manufactories on canal or river.
40. R. Broken stile.
41. R. Footpath described.
42. R. Open view past stile from path.
43. R. Church with group of trees.
44. R. Dangerous place near stile.
45. R. Place sticky and wet there.
48. R. A collapsed building past stile.
86. R. Not quite country where “ pipes ” are.
87. R. Stables, straw. One side partly open.
96. R. Bentley is a clue to the “ pipes ” place,
97. G. And Stock.
98. R. A route given in detail.
109. R. Visited place like chennst’s shop.
117. R. Pipes can be reached past the school.
143 ]
A Proxy Case 507
118. R.
119. R.
120. R.
121. R.
122. F.
123. R.
125. R.
126. R.
136. R.
137. R.
138. R.
139. F.
140. R.
A turning to the right.
Route up hill described.
Place “ B ”.
Enter at corner of side road.
Building that was added to.
District there is H—
.
Route near place with precipitous drop.
Can be reached by alternative routes.
Swings at this time of year, disliked by his mother.
Dangerous racing track and accident there.
Home is in hilly district.
Steep and awkward place about which complaints made.
Place near the above with name like Cattle.
The proportion of success banishes any doubt based upon the
possibility of chance coincidence. Fraud or collusion is quite out of
the question.
Much of the evidence given was exactly such as we should expect
from a little boy ;
it relates to his treasured possessions, his special
interests in the home or elsewhere, his games, the local Gala and the
annual Fair with its swings and racing track. It includes correct
descriptions of streets and roads around his home, even mentioning
the street which must have been specially familiar to him because
his school was there.
The replies to questions sent by Bobbie’s people show intimate
knowledge of the boy’s interests both within the house and else-
where.
In response to my persistent inquiry as to the whereabouts of the
pipes, there was given a mass of information which was finally found
to be correct, although much of it was entirely imknown to Bobbie’s
relatives. Above all, there emerged in the course of the sittings a
suggestion which had never occurred to anyone, and which related to
the probable cause of the child’s death. Investigations following up
the clues given have shown the extreme probability that the com-
municators were right in their surmise, and that the boy’s system
was injuriously affected through his playing with contaminated
water in a place of which his people knew nothing—and of the
existence of which they remained sceptical for a period of six months.
This is conclusive evidence that the messages did not emanate from
minds on earth ;
for no one who knew of those pipes had the least
suspicion that I was receiving messages relating to Bobbie Newlove,
or, indeed, of my existence. On the other hand, I had not the least
knowledge of the Marsden Heights or that Bobbie had played at any
place where there was contaminated water. My knowledge of
Bobbie and his home was hmited to what his people wrote in com-
508 C. Drayton Thomas [part
meriting upon each sitting as the records reached them. What they
wrote has been stated under its respective dates, and it will be
observed that I was told nothing which could have enabled me to
elaborate the messages, even had I been sufficiently unprincipled to
wish to do so.
We have, therefore, a feature which is probably unique in the
records of psychical research. It is this surprising expression,
definite, emphatic and repeated, of an opinion which had no exist-
ence in the thought of any person on earth previous to its emergence
at these sittings. No clairvoyant inspection of the Marsden Heights
would afford the medium information as to the reason why the boy’s
illness should have ended fatally ;
leakage from human minds and
the supernormal acquisition of information by the medium’s unaided
faculty are both ruled out by the circumstances of the case.
Is there any alternative but to recognise the activity of extra-
mundane intelligence, one which knew facts which were unknown to
the family at Nelson, and which based on those facts a conclusion
which is highly probable if not demonstrably correct ?
143 ] A Proxy Ca^se 50!>
PART IV
THE MODUS OPERANDI AND INSIGHT INTO
TELEPATHY
In the foregoing series of trance messages we have found varying
degrees of success and failure. We may profitably study a few of
these with the hope of learning something about telepathic reception.
The immediate receiver is the Leonard-Feda combination, and my
view is that Feda first receives and then causes it to be voiced by
Mrs Leonard’s mind-brain-nerve-muscle mechanism. It is not
necessary to hold that hypothesis ;
others may serve our immediate
purposes, which is simply to note how the receiver “ feels ” when the
information comes into consciousness. Some may like to think that
the information has first arrived telejjathically in the sitter’s sub-
conscious mind, and that Feda perceives it there ;
but, even so, Feda
must receive or obtain it from the sitter. We want to know how
information arrives.
Those who deem that a Control is but a secondary personality of
the medium have the same problem to solve. How does the idea
reach the medium’s consciousness, whether the primary or the
secondary consciousness ? How is the thought received ?
When Feda said, “ Is there a place with an address on ‘
B ’
? He
is trying to write it up on a board ” (see 120), what was actually
happening ? It may be guessed that someone changed the method,
as if hoping thereby to convey the required idea ;
if the sense of
soimd did not respond, the sense of sight might do so. But how is
that switching from sound to sight accomplished ? Is it by effort of
the communicator ? or does Feda shift the mechanism of reception?
We find her, at times, saying that they are mahitig her feel so-and-
so, or that what is being described gives her the feeling thus and thus :
often she will seem to quote verbatim, then presently to fall back on
paraphrase. Do these variations indicate different forms which the
idea takes on reaching Feda’s consciousness, or do they denote
differences in the manner by which thought is sent to her ? Is it
Feda or the communicator who decides the form ?
Naturally, I have asked Feda, and the reply is, in essence, that she
tries one method and then another, but cannot use them simul-
taneously. That looks as if she can to some extent choose the form
in which the ideas reach her consciousness, but I doubt if that is the
whole secret.
The following dialogue with Feda bears upon this question.
C. Drayton Thomas
510 [part
C. D. T. : Sometimes for minutes on end you seem to get their very
words. I wonder what it is that makes that possible.
Feda : Mr John says, “ We find at one sitting that we can go on the
dictation method, and at another we have to make pictures
without dictation, and these we transfer, or we assist Feda in
transferring, to the brain of the medium. Whether we shall do
the first method or the second method it is not in our power to
determine. We have to accommodate ourselves to your con-
ditions. I am inclined to think—and I have exchanged ideas
with many serious investigators and we are all agreed—that it
is nothing whatever to do with our ability to communicate ;
except, as I once remarked to you, some of us have a temperament
that fits us for communicating more than others.”
C. D. T. : That I can understand.
Feda : Mr John says, “ On many occasions I have come here prepared
to dictate to Feda ;
and I have thought, ‘
Now the material
I have in hand to-day needs the dictation method ’, but I find
myself unable to dictate. I find a condition which makes it
advisable to switch over to some other topic, unless the material
I have in hand could be shown pictorially. It is limiting—it
holds us up.”
C. D. T. ; Have you noticed, Feda, what previous condition is best for
a sitting that is to have much dictation in it ?
Feda : Yes, I have noticed. If Gladys (Mrs Leonard’s name) has not
been writing letters, or thinking about letters, or reading letters
that the postman brought, and she has been just thinking of
nothing at all that morning—especially to do with words—then
I get the dictation well. But if she does letters she thinks all the
time, “ This person needs to know so-so, and even if I don’t write
now this person wants me to say so-so ”. Now that isn’t good
for the conditions. She has worn herself out a bit about words,
you see.
C. D. T. ; Is it that you don’t, then, hear the words plainly ?
Feda : Well, I think it is that I can’t get them, can’t catch them in her
mind because her mind is tired of them, her mind has already had
enough of words.
C. D. T. : You don’t find the dictated sentences are there for you ?
Feda : No. Etta says I am convinced that an area of the conscious
mind, or that part of the brain in which the conscious mind works,
has over it a kind of sensitised material like—let us say—wax,
and if it has been used for one thing it won’t take another im-
pression.
C. D. T. : Like the sensitised gelatine of a photographic plate ?
Feda : Yes, but at the same time you can’t very well make that into an
analogy, because we sometimes can get something else on that is
very good. The “ wax ” will take something else, but it won’t
take what it has already been used for. Now that is what Etta
says, and she is right. If you take Gladys of a morning when she
143 ] A Proxy Case 51 1
hasn’t been worried or done letters but is just ready for a trance,
that’s a very good dictation time.
The reference to a broken stile, see No. 40, is peculiarly interesting
because, although the broken stile was there during Bobbie’s lifetime,
it had been removed before the date of this sitting.
Clearly, then, the description was given from the memory of one
who had known the place in Bobbie’s lifetime, and not from any
clairvoyance of medium or Control : the latter hypothesis would
involve the difficulty of having to suggest how clairvoyance could
be directed to the right town, and then be able to trace, amidst its
many scores of streets and paths, the particular route which had
been a favourite walk of the family.
There have been many occasions when proper names were pro-
nounced easily and correctly. The conditions of which Feda has
been speaking were then, presumably, at their best ;
but I find that
names usually present a difficulty.
An attempt to give the name Callow Bottoms illustrates this. It
was at the end of a description of the neighbourhood in which he had
lived that Feda, speaking for Bobbie, said :
(140) Feda :
“ There is a place ‘
C ’
close by, a long name sounding like
Catelnow, Castlenow. There seemed to be two or three syllables,
like a Ca sound, cattle or castle something.”
The family comment was :
“ The name given is like Catlow, a
hamlet near here. Bobbie and I went there the day he was taken
ill, the last occasion that he left the house.” Wdien studying Bobbie’s
diary I noticed that almost the very last entry read
—“ Went to
Catlow Bottoms. Sore throat. Went to bed.”
Remove two letters from Catelnow and we have Catlow.
Feda can sometimes give a name without difficulty, but should
there be any hitch, necessitating a second or third try, it is rarely
she achieves success. Her explanation is that, even when she hears
the name clearly, anxiety to get it voiced affects the medium’s brain,
causing a tension which hinders expression of the required word.
But often Feda cannot hear the name distinctly.
On referring to section 19-20 we find three initials given in lieu of
the full names. These initials were entirely appropriate to the
context, but Feda’s ignorance of the names which they represented
may be inferred from the remark, “ Does the girl’s name begin with
‘
J ’
?
” Now the name was Jack ;
as Feda was unaware of the sex
it is evident that she had not heard the name clearly. This error
remmds one of her remark, “ Some of the thmgs I have got for them
C. Drayton Thomas
512 [part
I don’t understand, and just a little bit of a twist would give them a
wrong meaning.”
In this connexion we may refer to section 75, where Feda re-
marked
“ ‘
M ’
I think that would be the man’s name Whether
that was a guess or an inference, it was wrong ? Feda apparently
did not catch the name itself, but only the initial. Yet there have
been occasions when it was quite evident that the actual name was
known, whether to Feda or to the communicator, and yet could not
be pronounced by the medium.
Let us pass to a further point. It would appear that Feda is
sometimes unaware that reference is being made to an object
previously described. The following seem to be illustrations of this :
A few weeks before Bobbie’s death he had a short holiday at
Morecambe, where, at some children’s sports, he won a salt-sifter of
glazed earthenware shaped like a dog. It was usually kept on the
corner of a shelf in the dining-room, and at dinner Bobbie had a
habit of rolhng it along the table and twisting and untwisting the
cork at the bottom. In general appearance it is round, smooth and
polished. Note how curiously the reference to this article is intro-
duced.
(54) Feda :
“ You must not take it off the shelf, you must leave it on
the shelf near the corner.” Leave it on the shelf where the others
could see it and have it. He used to take it sometimes—I think
I have got this right—there was something that used to be on the
corner of the shelf, and sometimes Bobbie wanted it, and they
used to say, “ Leave it on the shelf in case the others want it —
Something round and smooth and polished.
C. D. T. ; I wonder what he did with it when he took it in his
hands.
Feda ; Was it a watch ?
C. D. T. : Are you guessing, Feda ?
Feda : I was only asking him, because it looked like a watch he
was holding in the palm of his hand.
C. D. T. : What does he say ?
Feda : He seems to be twisting something like you do a watch or
a clock.
C. D. T. : Winding it 1
Feda : Yes, winding something.
C. D. T. : Is it Bobbie showing this ?
Feda : It is Bobbie giving it to me. It feels something like a watch.
C. D. T. : It looks like a selected bit of evidence, but it just lacks
the definite indication. I could think of at least four things.
Feda : You had better not guess. He rolls it or winds it. It was
not a watch. They still have it. It is not in that place, it has
been put somewhere else. Bobbie thinks it has been put in a
143 ] J Proxy Case 513
drawer instead of on the shelf. Is it on a plate ? He is giving me
the idea of a plate being near it.
The family recognised this as referring to the salt-sifter and in-
formed me that it had been moved, but not into a di-awer, and that
it was now kept on a shelf just below the dinner plates.
At a later sitting this salt-sifter (if my supposition is correct) was
agam indicated.
(56) Feda : Had Bobbie a duck ? I will tell you what he is showing
me ;
it looks something hke a duck. Will you ask if he had a
toy duck ? I think that is right. I see it in his hand like as if
he is pushing it towards me. I don’t think its legs is very long,
or else he is holding his legs up a bit, but ducks have not got very
long legs. I think it must be a duck because of its legs.
Then Feda dropped the subject and, after some minutes of talk on
other matters, suddenly commenced to speak again about what I
believe to be the same object, although it is very doubtful whether
Feda was aware that this was an attempt to make up for the previous
failure.
(61) Feda : Not the name Bobbie, but another name beginning with
‘
B ’
that was rather important in their house. I mustn’t say
sound because I am getting this by feeling. He gives ‘
B ’
by
sound, but now I get the feeling that this would seem to be more
like an animal’s name, or the name of a toy. It is something in
their house that he was very fond of, and he calls it a funny name
beginning with ‘
B ’, not a long name. Wait a bit—Ber, Bunkey,
Bussey. The name he is giving me sounds as if it began Bus or
Bos.
Since it is said to be an animal’s or toy’s name which begins with
‘
B ’
it seems highly probable that Bobbie was tr}dng to describe the
salt-sifter which he won at Morecambe so shortly before his death
and which he greatly prized, always calhng it his Bow-wow. The
name Bow-wow agrees with the description, “ begmning with ‘
B ’
and not long ”. If this assumption be correct it further illustrates
how imrehable Feda’s clairaudience can be, for she said it sounded
to her like Ber, or Bunkey, or Bussey, a name begmning Bus or Bos.
Bobbie had spoken of his mother and a cap of which she had been
thinking, and went on to say (through Feda) :
(112) “ She came across something with a special badge on it. It is not
a heart exactly, but the lower part is shaped rather like a heart,
at the bottom it is heart-shaped. It is something like a straight
line goes through the top of it and a little upstanding piece comes
out of the top.”
514 C. Drayton Thomas [part
The reference to a cap may have been intended to lead up to a |;
mention of his Jack of Hearts crown (Cf. 35), or it may perhaps have j
suddenly brought the latter to Bobbie’s mind, but the phrasing con-
|
fuses the heart with the crown op which it is fixed. “ Not a heart f
exactly ” would be true of the crown. The rest of the description is i|
accurate as apphed to the heart itself, but misleading on account of i
being preceded by the words, “ the lower part is shaped rather like ij
a heart.” It is not surprising that the family reported they knew of !l
no such badge.
On my visit to the house I asked if Bobbie had any badge on his \
sports jacket, or other kind of badge. They knew of none, and we
marked this down as a failure. Later in the day I asked to see the ;
Jack of Hearts boards and cap, as I washed to photograph them. ^
When they were placed in position before the camera I noticed that i
the heart corresponded with the description of the badge. “ Some-
thing like a straight line goes through the top of it, and a little up-
standing piece comes out of the top.”
This crown was part of Bobbie’s Jack of Hearts’ outfit, and if we
study the way m which this had been first given (see 34 and 35), we
may suppose that Feda was “ shown ” the boards, but that the cap
was described to her in words. If that were so, it need not surprise us
that, when this cap w^as again described, after an interval of five
months, Feda did not recognise it.
If we read sections 24 and 31, comparing the messages with their
verifications, we get the impression that Feda received the descrip-
tions in so vague a form that she was unable to form a clear picture
of the objects intended. The idea “ building in a scullery ” reached
Feda’s consciousness as “ like building an outhouse.” The second
item, which referred to fitting up a gymnasiimi, was spoken in a way
which suggests that it came in fragments. It is evident that re-
ception was not pictorial, but rather a succession of nebulous ideas.
And is not this exactly how telepathic impressions are usually
received by experimenters, and often, also, in cases of spontaneous
telepathic impressions ? How often we find that a recipient becomes
“ aware of something wrong at home ”, yet is quite unable to say
what the trouble may be.
The following illustration merits being given in full, even if in-
volving some repetition of what has been said previously. Note the
vague and partially inaccurate way in which the ideas are expressed.
I state the facts first, and then give Feda’s wording.
One of Bobbie’s special interests was roller skating. Among the
people he met at the rink was a child named Marjorie, who held a
semi-professional post there. She was an accomplished skater and
frequently gave an exhibition before the commencement of the
143 ]
A Proxy Case 515
hockey matches. Indeed, the home team termed her their Mascot
and she would begin their competitions by an exhibition of skating,
in which she finally drove a ball into the goal. She was a year or
two older than Bobbie and they were great friends, as can be
gathered from the fact elsewhere stated that once, while she was
away on a visit, Bobbie said to his mother, “ If I don’t see Marjorie
soon I shall go mad ”. This was but a month before his death. He
often skated with Marjorie, and was familiar with this exhibition in
which she played with the ball—indeed, it is probable that he some-
times joined her in playing with it.
And now, notice how this emerges in the sitting (39) :
Feda : Did I tell you last time about a girl, a little older than Bobbie,
that he was fond of. She seemed as if very kind to him, like
giving up things to him and being very nice to him, and this girl
has been—I can’t get this quite—but it is something to do with
this girl and doing something with a ball that belonged to Bobbie.
I don’t think this is much good—you see I am not getting this
from Mr John now, I am getting it from Bobbie.—Something this
girl has been doing about a ball that Bobbie was fond of when he
was here, the girl has been doing something with it.
I think there is no doubt that this refers to Marjorie and her
exhibition with the ball, but how vaguely expressed ! Does it not
give the impression that Feda only heard a few words here and there,
much as a deaf person catches the general trend of a discourse ? Or
shall we say that, while receiving the ideas, there were breaks in the
reception, and that in voicing the message Feda fills each break with
the word ‘
something ’
? One notices that she says, “ It is something
to do with this girl ”, and “ doing something with a ball
On another occasion, after Bobbie had been giving a considerable
amount of information relating to the skating rink, I gathered that
the subject was concluded, because Feda said, “ He is losing it a bit,
he is going back a bit
I therefore sought to introduce a new subject by putting a question
sent by the family. I said, “ Bobbie, what did you keep in the bath-
room cupboard ? Show a picture of it, think about it and let Feda
see.” (77.)
This is what followed. No reference was made to the bathroom
cupboard ;
but instead came what appears to be a further reference
to the rink. It would seem that Bobbie either did not notice my
question or that he chose to ignore it because, in the interval, he had
recollected something further which he wished to say about the
skating rink.
Confusion not infrequently follows the putting of a question, for
516 C. Drayton Thomas [part
the communicator may disregard it and continue his previous line of
thought. Feda naturally assumes that it is the question which is
being answered, and the sitter may fail to reahse that the communi-
cator is calmly continuing just as if no question had been asked.
We have seen that the method of reception by the Feda-Leonard
consciousness is not, as a rule, clairvoyance. I gather that Feda
“ sees ”, or “ is shown ”, when the objects in question are such as can
be easily pictured. An outstanding case of this clairvoyance for
mental pictures is found in section 34. The description of the boy
looking over his sandwich board is most striking when compared
with its verification. It seems as if Feda “ saw ” what her words
described. But apparently something went wrong with the latter
half of the description, which contains the inaccuracies “sitting”,
“ leaning a bit forward ”, “ crouching position ”. Were these later
touches due to Feda’s imperfect perception of a mental picture ?
This seems probable. On the other hand, the inaccurate points
added to the description may have been given by my father, who,
after all, would have only received his idea of the picture at second-
hand from Bobbie. There is, however, an alternative siggestion
which is not without interest. It may have been an instance of a
composite picture resulting from the commmiicator’s marginal
thought mingling with the main idea which he was trying to project.
For it is known that a second photograph was taken by a Press
photographer, and in it Bobbie with his boards was among other
fancy-dress companions. Unfortunately, that negative was not used,
and is lost or destroyed. Possibly Bobbie himself was adding to
what had been said by my father and unintentionally gave Feda a
generalised impression of his various attitudes while in the fancy
dress.
Clairvoyance was certainly not used in item 91, where one might
have expected that it would have been a simpler method of trans-
mitting the idea. Reference is made to an article of celluloid which
might flame or explode. The verification of this object is sufficiently
certain. Why was it not “ shown ” ? The verbal method failed to
get through so difficult a word as cinematograph, whereas clairvoy-
ance would, one supposes, have produced a visual impression of the
toy which, if described to the sitter, could have been easily recognised
for what it was. True, it would not have been sufficient, for clair-
voyance could not have imparted the information that they “ wanted
him to stop using it ;
they thought it might make a flame or ex-
plosion ”. For that statement a definite thought had to be trans-
mitted ;
a “ feeling ” or a picture would not have conveyed the idea.
And here it may be remarked that Feda uses the words “ see
”
and “ feel ” with a certain amount of careful distinction, and will
143 ] A Proxy Case 517
always give me her exact impressions when I inquire by what means
she is getting such and such a fact.
In these sittings we find numerous clearly-expressed and even long
and intricate descriptions. This is never achieved telepathically,
apart from mediumistic utterance. Telepathy, as we know it from
spontaneous occurrence and from experiment, is chiefly feeling,
rarely a transmission of clear-cut thought. Now we may ask, are
the numerous clear-cut and accurate thoughts, which were ex-
pressed in the course of these sittings, sent by persons at Nelson or
not ? If they came from Nelson they would represent a triumph
which places them in a class of telepathy about which psychical
research knows nothing. But we have seen that the most outstand-
ing feature of these sittings—the pipes problem—did not come from
people at Nelson. Telepathy from earth was ruled out. Conse-
quently, we may, m my opinion, confidently assume that the infor-
mation, so copiously and so accurately given, came from Bobbie
Newlove’s mind and was transmitted to Leonard-Feda. In other
words, it was not due to the telepathy which is familiar to psychical
research, whether in experiment or observation, but is an instance
of information imparted by one who had left the physical body
behind at death. Let the reader turn to section 130 and note the
boy’s description of his attitude towards his mother. Much of it
would be far from true of most boys, yet it is recognised as being
“ remarkably correct ”. Now that I have met Mrs Newlove I can
vouch for its perfect relevancy. Notice, also, that it rings true to the
boy’s viewpoint, and is not the kind of description which would have
been derived from his mother’s thought about him. Such a message
as this exceeds, in extent and in detail, anything known to have
passed from mind to mind on earth by extra-sensory channels. When
it is remembered that my only fink with the family consisted of
letters sent in acknowledgment of my report of sittings, that I knew
nothing but what these told me, and that the family were most
careful to give me no information likely to lessen the evidential value
of subsequent messages—remembering all this, it would be difficult
to maintain the supposition that the medium was reading my mind,
or tapping the thought of unknown persons two hundred miles
distant in an unnamed town.
It may be asked why telepathy in the presence of a medium
should produce results so much better than does telepathy between
agent and subject under non-mediumistic conditions. Is it that those
between whom thought-transmission takes place during a mediumis-
tic sitting are within a field of influence created by the medium ?
Such a field of influence might render possible a community or
interpenetration of sensation and thoiight. (The hypnotic experi-
[part
518 C. Drayton Thomas
ments of M. Emile Boirac suggest this. See his Psychic Science, i
Rider 1918.) !
I do not press this hypothesis, but offer it for consideration in |
view of the fact that mediumistic messages are incomparably superior [
in extent and accuracy to non-mediumistic telepathic messages.
The most puzzling question connected with the problem of the ;
Pipes relates to the difficulty experienced by the communicators in !
telling what they knew. It is evident that they knew the facts
during the six months which elapsed between their first hint and
our final discovery. And there is no reason to doubt their wish to
make it plain.
Why, then, could not the facts have been stated in one short
sentence, such as, “ Bobbie played by the pipes where springs issue
on the Heights ” 1 That is the question which I asked my father
after the mystery had been solved. His reply, which opens up the
whole subject of modus operandi, was, in substance, this—The diffi-
culty lay in the necessity of fitting-in the information, of being able
at the opportime moment to fit it upon the medium’s brain, either
personally or through Feda. The several parts of any message
which we desire to give may be likened to the separate pieces of a
puzzle. “ I should wish ”, said he, “ to start with that piece which
will enable me to proceed methodically, but I may find that I cannot
convey it to Feda, or that she cannot convey it to the medium. So
I have to give just whatever happens to fit at the moment. Then,
suddenly, while the medium’s mental activity is running like a
machine, I notice it bringing up something which harmonises with a
different piece of the puzzle, and I hurriedly cast about to find the
piece that will fit. Even when the opportime moment comes, I may
be further embarrassed by failure to recall my prepared material.
Hence it is necessary that I should provide clues, or association-
links, with my own material, in order that I may recollect it iustantly
when it is required. That which I hope to give must harmonise, or
associate with, what is uppermost in the medium’s brain, or I shall
fail to attach it and to fit it in so that it will be taken. All happens
in accordance with the laws of association. The brain does not take
that which is at the moment unsuited to it. I frequently wish to
speak on a particular subject, but cannot. I may try to lead up to
my desired topic, but that leading up to it is, in effect, ‘ padding ’.
Much of a sitting may consist of that, and while the communicator
keeps the brain-machine revolving in the hope that it will bring
round something suitable to his purpose, the chances are that the
sitter, being unaware of this, grows listless and weary because,
although words are being spoken, they do not convey anything that
he wishes to hear. Did he fully realise what is going on he might
519
l43j ^4 Proxy Case
assist in giving us the opportunity for which we are waiting.
’
’
Finally
he added :
“ Much depends upon the medium’s condition at the time, but the
sitter’s attitude also exerts its influence : keen interest freed from
anxiety is a great assistance, and although we dislike leading
questions, yet suitable questions will sometimes help.” That was
the pith of the reply.
We are, I think, better able to perceive his meaning if we recall
the difficulty sometimes felt by ourselves in speaking to others of
things we deeply feel. Very sensitive persons become keenly aware
of that difficulty : they feel, without realising how, that it is useless
to mention some particular subject, because it would be incompa-
tible with the other person’s present state of mind. So we decide to
wait a more suitable opportunity lest the seed fall upon ground too
stony to receive it. It is the highly sensitive minds which feel this
most strongly, and it is, I think, beyond question that the mind of
a medium in trance is super-sensitive. I imagine that the mind of
the communicator is vastly more so.
VTien psychology achieves a more complete understanding of the
working of the average mind, and shows us the meaning of those
puzzling differences which we often notice in ourselves between one
time and another, it may help us to fathom the precise difficulties
of those "who, from life’s further side, strive to express their thoughts
to us by means of a stranger’s brain.
O M
A FURTHER NOTE ON MR WHATELY CARINGTON’S
INVESTIGATION ^
By J. Cecil Maby
Mr Whately Carington’s reply to my Note in Proc. S.P.R. vol. xliii.
(see p]). 362-70) would appear to justify some further remarks on
my side. Incidentally, I would also like to avail myself of this
opportunity to discuss certain general aspects of this class of investi-
gation that were implicit, but not explicit in my earlier remarks ;
my chief aim being not to oppose, but, if possible, to complement
]\Ir Carington’s own attitude.
First, however, a few words regarding Mr Carington’s reply to my
Note.
I am, of course, only too willing to admit that I am no professional
statistician, and hence was compelled to rely, to some extent, on
Mr Carington’s own interpretation of his long and involved calcula-
tions. I hasten, therefore, to acknowledge his elucidation of one or
two issues that may not have been altogether clear to some of those
who had not been through the actual computations, nor employed
the analytical procedures advocated. I should, however, have
appreciated a little more lenity with respect to such misunder-
standings, in view of the facts, first, that it is obviously impossible
for anyone to be a master of every branch of science in these days,
and second, that Mr Carington has, to some extent, misinterpreted
my remarks. Thus, when I speak of general reliability of the
original data I use the word reliable in its common connotation, not
in any special statistical sense.
Lastly, I fear that Mr Carington was a trifle perturbed by what
may have appeared to him to be unjust criticisms of his admirable
work. As, however, I have since reassured him privately that no
such injustice was intended, there will be no need for me to comment
further here on the somewhat terse tone of his reply to my previous
Note, which, no doubt, was the result of mutual misunderstanding
now happily past.
Quantitative Analytical Methods
i\Ir Caringt.on has been at considerable pains to impress us with
the value of statistical analysis in connection with Psychical Re-
^ The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities, Proc. S.P.R., vols. xlii.
(p. 173) and xliii. (p. 320).
520
[part 143] A Furthe?' Note on Mr Carington's Investigation 521
search, and I gather that he erroneously beheves my Note to have
been aimed at questioning it. Far from it. For though mathe-
matical work does not happen to be my own metier, I have often
had occasion to carry out many laborious sheets of numerical corre-
lations and probable errors, and other estimates of like nature ;
and I know well that graphical or other less rigid methods of analysis
of the data would not have yielded such conclusive or reliable
results. Moreover, I was careful, in my Note, not in any way to
question the value or excellence of Mr Carington’s analyses, as such.
To my mind, no question can well arise as to the merits of statistical
analysis : its value has long been proved in other fields, and, to-
gether with our author, I regard it as an extremely powerful instru-
ment—however incomprehensible and boring to the non-mathe-
matical mind !
]\Ir Carington pomted out in his first paper that his chief aim was
to demonstrate a method, rather than to make any startling deduc-
tions with regard to the nature and constitution of human person-
ality. Well and good ;
but such deductions cannot thereafter fail
to be drawn from so much careful work on the reactions of mediums
such as Mrs Leonard, Mrs Garrett and Herr Rudi Schneider, and
published withal in the Proceedings of this Society. Indeed, Mr
Carington himself has not failed to draw them. Incidentally, he
also tends to cast rather a gloomy shadow upon logical and non-
mathematical methods of analysis and interpretation of psycho-
logical data, which, however, have long and well (if somewhat pain-
fully and tardily) shed light on many obscure psychological problems.
Now, without pretending to make an irrefutable point, but simply
in order to help preserve a balance at this juncture, I would like
to suggest that, since our minds express themselves in words
—
i.e.,
non-numerical symbols of metaphysical ideas, thoughts and sensa-
tions—Human Psychology ^ must, therefore, also primarily concern
itself with words. That being so, numerical analyses would appear
to represent a secondary and, in a sense, highly artificial mode of
approach to the psychological life and structure of the mind ;
though
not so, of course, as regards the physiological problems and quanti-
ties of the body and its nervous system.
It may, perhaps, be noted in passing, that abstract number in
^ N.B. that I am not speaking here simply of animal behaviourism. Since
they lack any clear and comprehensive language of self-expression, we cannot
rightly pretend to know anything whatever of the thoughts and feehngs of
dumb beasts, except by highly fallible analogy. So-called animal psychology
is a purely behaviouristic and physiological science into which true psycho-
analysis can scarcely be said to enter. This point has an important bearing
on the present enquiry. (See below.)
522 J. Cecil Maby [part
itself has no reality, even in the mind of a mathematician. For
example, what does the number 3, say, convey to the mind ? Either
it suggests three physical objects or sources of sensorial stimulus
of some sort, or else it is imagined as a graphic symbol on a piece
of paper, or, again, as the spoken sound “ three.” In the beast and
illiterate savage, all psychological ideas may be said to refer to
])hysical objects or sensations ;
in the more cultured and literate
mind they also possess a verbal symbology. Numerical symbology,
indeed, also arises from cultural development and the progress of
civilized intercourse and barter ;
yet I believe that one is justified
in assuming a science of numbers to represent a later development
than one of words. One may say, therefore, that the sentient mind
is occupied primarily by purely sensorial ideas ;
while, subsequently,
the idea and its word symbol become more or less inseparably inter-
woven. In attempting to analyse the ideational content of a person’s
mind, therefore, we cannot well avoid devoting ourselves primarily
to verbal symbology and verbal inter-associations. Unhappily, such
associations do not appear conveniently to offer themselves for
mathematical analysis, except, perhaps, of a very simple kind.
Physiological reactions, on the other hand, are evidently measurable,
quantitatively in ordinary space-time units. Such quantities, how-
ever, must ever remain purely secondary to the thoughts and feelings
themselves, which they cannot even be said to represent in sym-
bolical form. At least, physiological quantities are no more or less
than an indirect expression of the relative intensity and duration of
a given emotion ;
whereas the concomitant (resultant or causative)
thoughts or feelings remain absolutely inviolable and unplumbed
by such behaviouristic analyses.
Fortunately, however, since Mr Carington has interested himself
in behaviouristic response, the above facts do not affect his numerical
calculations. For the psycho-galvanic reflex is essentially a physio-
logical reaction (though sometimes psychologically actuated), and
word reaction times are, likewise, physiological concomitants of
psychological processes. Numerical data are, therefore, here primar-
ily in question. We have no more reason, however, for assuming
that such physiological reaction values are direct and proportionate
indices of concomitant psychological states ^ than we have for
assuming that the violence of an earth-worm’s struggles, when
trodden upon, are an index of its pain
—
seemingly so certain.
We have seen that Mr Carington, on his own admission, makes use
^ As I hope shortly to show in a paper to be pubhshed on the subject, the
psycho-galvanic reflex, for example, is deplorably unreliable as an index even
to simple emotions (though useful in a general way) ;
much more so in relation
to non-emotional psychological states, for intelligence tests, etc.
143] A Further Note on Mr Carington’s Investigation 523
of behaviouristic responses in his endeavour to analyse human
personalities. The reactions which he employs are not only primar-
ily physiological, but they are also—or should be, if things are to go
smoothly of a reflex type. One may fau'ly state, therefore, that
Mr Carington has based his deductions, respecting the various
supposed personalities in question, upon behaviouristic reactions in
the bodily organisms of his three mediums, which are strictly of a
mechanico-physical nature. The important question then arises :
Precisely what do we mean by the expression human persoyiality I
I beheve that the great majority of people use the term personality
with reference to psychological make-up ;
that is to say, the term
refers to mental structures and attributes rather than to bodily ones.
Hence, when Mr Carington employs behaviouristic tests and physio-
logical data in his analyses, there can be very little doubt that what
he is investigating is the physiological organisms rather than the
psychological personalities of the supposed communicators and
controls. That being so, the further and yet more important
question now arises : Can the control of the medium’s organism, in
the trance state, by the invading personality be supposed to be so
complete as to influence not only the medium’s mind (and hence
govern the organs of articulate speech via the appropriate nervous
mechanism), but also the entire physiological mechanism, to the
extent of influencing reaction times, electrical skin resistance, etc. ?
Of course, I do not wish to deny the ultimate possibility of such
complete control, amounting to actual possession of the bodily
organism (in the old sense) by the invading spirit, but it is un-
deniably a tremendous assumption, which, if proved, would settle
Anally the main problem of Psychology, namely : Do the spirit and
mind possess a discrete existence and autonomy outside of the bodily
organism, or are they not rather expressions, in another mode, of the
complex of physico-chemical activities that constitute a living
organism and may be of certain activities of the nervous system
in particular.
It appears clearly to me that the assumption of comj)lete bodily
and mental possession is imphcit in l\Ir Carington’s method ;
and
he may be right in permitting himself that assumption. If, how-
ever, such an assumption were finally shown to be imjustified, and
yet such physiological changes of state in the medium were still
found to occur under the given conditions, then we might see m that
a sure proof of the fact that the soi-disant personalities were no more
nor less than alternative controlling personahties inherent in the one
original organism ;
a proof of multiple personality, in fact.
What a pity it is that the results of such a quantitative investiga-
tion cannot, in the nature of things, give us a decisive answer to the
524 -/. Cecil Maby [part
question : Are these cases of true spiritual invasion and possession
from without, or have we merely a sub-division of an unitary psycho-
physical organism /rom within ? And it is just here that the addi-
tional value of verbal responses and ideational mental contents are
of paramount importance ;
since the completely foreign nature of
the latter alone would be likely to prove (or else strongly to suggest)
a real inspiration from without—all the more so, however, if they
are found to be associated with distinctive physiological reactions
in connection with the supposed personalities.
Here we come up against the question of possible telepathy. In
so far as the different word responses might chance to arise out of
telepathy or mind-reading between the medium and an operator
such as Mr C. Drayton Thomas (see below), one might expect either
() a general and fairly consistent (?) lengthening of reaction
times for all trance “ communicators ” : but which might
also be due merely to the trance state as such, and hence
involve the “ controls ” as much as the “ communicators.”
() sporadic and inconsistent variation of the individual reaction
times of the “ communicators ” owing to variable delay in
getting the answers telepathically.
Unfortunately, I have not details of the reaction data now before
me ;
but I recollect, and some graphs for the Leonard personalities’
reaction times seem to indicate, that the responses in trance were
consistently much slower than those of normal Leonard. Moreover,
when the times coimected with individual words were discounted and
simply reaction-time distribution curves drawn for the several
personalities, those for all the trance personalities fell pretty much
together, while that of Ln (normal Leonard) was most conspic-
uously distmct. From this it would appear that the trance state
itself increased reaction times as a whole—trance inter-personal
distinctions being comparatively slight as compared with the
distinction of Ln already noted.
As for personal reaction times to the individual words, Mr Car-
ington would be able to tell us how far he found them to be con-
sistent ;
but my general impression was, I recollect, that they were
extraordinarily variable and sporadic as compared with the sort of
reactions one gets from normal subjects. If that, indeed, was so, may
not the actual reaction times on any single occasion (in trance) have
been simply an expression of the medium’s varying delay either
(ffl) in reading her sitter’s mmd, telepathically, or
(6) in receiving and comprehending the “ message ” of a real
spirit communicator ?
I43j A Further Note on Mr Carington s Investigation 525
Spiritistic Possession
To return to the problem of spirit communicators, and their
possible possession of the medium’s organism. If the body be re-
garded merely as an elaborate physical instrument built by the
spirit for the achievement of certain psychic experiences and pur-
poses, and guided by the psychic organisation that exists spiritually
and develops mentally (as a captain directs and steers his shijj),
then it seems practically inevitable that the specific qualities of
such an instrument should “ colour ” every idea or communication
expressed through it—no matter whose the personality that lay
behind it. In other words, one would expect that although the
actual thoughts expressed by a “ communicator ” should be foreign
and patently “ inspired,” yet the physiological properties and re-
actions of the medium’s body {qua physical instrument) would
remain unchanged by the state of possession. This “ local colour
”
might even extend so far as to limi t the verbal vocabulary of the
“ communicator ” to that inherent in the medium’s normal mind.
Indeed, so much one would rather expect, if the idea of the physical
instrument is correct ;
just as an organist is limited in his j^laying
by the number of keys, manuals and stops on the instrument before
him. So that if it can ultimately be shown that spiritistic possess-
ion can go so far (supposing that it happens at all) as to modify the
normal physiological reactions of the medium’s body, as good as
proof will have been evinced of the reality of such an invasion from
without. The present great difficulty, however, is that it is imposs-
ible to say just where the normal personality’s, or else personalities’,
faculty for modifying psychological and physiological responses ends.
If only we knew that at all certainly, we might then state where
spiritistic mvasion (if any) begins ! Add to this protean power of the
organism the ability also to receive telepathic impulses, to mind-
read and sense paragnostically, etc., and the complexity of the
problem is only too apparent.^ One way or another, however, Mr
Carington appears to me, personally, to be making an uncommonly
penetrating and persistent attack on that problem, for which he
merits our praise and admiration.
One last word upon the possibility of an mvading psyche not only
directing the thoughts (and speech), but also modifying, to some
extent, the normal physiological reactions of a medium’s organism.
It should not be thought that the analogy of the organist playing
upon a given instrument is altogether a fair one, for it omits the
important fact that in the human organism (as instrument) there is
1 1 am glad to see that, in liis second paper, Mr Carington admits that “ the
whole story is enormously more complicated than (he) at first imagined.”
526 J. Cecil Maby [part
a certain amount of undoubted plasticity, so far as the protoplasm
and the nervous connections are concerned. It appears to be a fact
that nervous connections can be quite readily built up and destroyed
in tbe adult organism, as well as s}maptic thresholds raised and
lowered appreciably at will. Hence our persistent ability to learn
new facts and habits, as well as to remember and forget. It would
appear, therefore, that an invading psyche might actually get more,
or even different, things out of a given bodily organism than did
the normal controlling personahty ;
whereas an organist is ulti-
mately limited by the special physical construction of his instrument,
which lacks such plasticity of response.
If, then, Mr Carington actually finds specific and detailed be-
haviourisms corresponding to each soi-disant personahty, we need
not be immeasurably surprised ;
and we can at least deduce there-
from that such personalities are autonomous, whether they originate
within the medium her- or himself, or whether they represent true
spiritistic invasions from without. And if I may be allowed to
express a personal sentiment, based upon common, though not
rigidly “ scientific,” observation, it is that we are ah of us subject
to occasional possession (
= invasion ?) by spiritistic impulses {N.B.
I do not venture to say complex personalities) of a kind apparently
distinct from the mere emergence of a dissociated, or subconscious,
part of our o-rni personalities. Such possessions, if real, may
represent either
(a) the release of certain physiological genetic elements in our
complete organic make-up, or possibly
{b) a true spiritistic impulse received from without our own
physical organism, from another personality, whether alive
or “ dead,” and permitted to play its own melodies upon
the instrument of our body.^
In their simpler and more generally recognised form, the latter
constitute what we term telepathic impulses, in which the percipient
appears sometimes to play a passive role, but at others (conjointly
vdth the agent) an active one.
In their fuller and less generally admitted form, such psychic
invasions are exemphfied by the feeling that many of us sometimes
have of the spirit of another (near relation, such as a deceased
father, or a powerful friend), working through us pro tern. While,
in their completest form, we see such apparent invasions in the
phenomena of the trance medium or the somnambulist.
^ Re vital impulses in general, see von Uexkiill’s excellent work, “ Theor-
etical Biology," Kegan Paul, Trubner, Trench & Co., 1926.
143] ^4 F^irfher Note on Mr Carington's Investigation 527
Experimental Procedure
As we have seen, Mr Carington originally stated that he was
chiefly interested to demonstrate a statistical method ;
which he
appears very ably to have done. Nor have I ventured to question
the validity of that method or of his actual calculations and de-
ductions. In my Note {vide supra) I did venture, however, to raise
certain questions regardmg the method of collection and intrinsic
reliability of the actual data employed ;
and that not, I must
reassure Mr Carington, with any idea of mere fault-finding or im-
pertinence, but with an honest desire to further the interests of
such work. I cannot but think it a pity, therefore, that he took
rather less pains, in his reply, to answer my comments upon experi-
mental procedure than to justify his calculations, which, presumably,
need no justification.
Mr Carington commences his rejoinder by admitting that his
data were more or less mireliable, and does not exactly deny that
the experimental conditions might have been improved, one way
or another. Here, then, is my first point : that it was a mistake to
have expended so great an amount of time and energy on these
lengthy tests and computations, including the risk of exhausting
three good mediums’ interest and reactive-capacity,^ without having
first experimented in extenso with the proposed technique on several
ordmary subjects. As it is, any such minor sources of confusion or
error as may have existed will have detracted from the maximal
value of the data obtamed from the main investigation itself.
Again, though it would be unreasonable to expect that every
difficulty or problem should be foreseen, it would have been to
advantage to have tested IMrs Leonard in her normal (imprepared)
state between and m parallel wdth the main (trance) sittmgs, instead
of as an afterthought ;
and the whole question of histrionic poses
and secondary personalities {vide the Besterman-Gatty and Salter
tests) might have been gone into as a preliminary. The important
questions of possible telepathy between medium and operator (see
below), cmmfiative mental facihtation,- on the one hand, and
psychological boredom, on the other, might have been first studied
^ Such an inference appears to follow from actual tests of many normal
and neurotic subjects, that I have made, employing the word-association test
and psycho-galvanic reflex : —a subject’s spontaneous reactivity to a given
class of test progressively flags. Subjects that have become famihar with
such psycho- analytical methods also grow “ sophisticated ”. Preliminary
experiments are, therefore, better made on unimportant subjects.
“ I.e., increasing reflexivity and “ sophistication ” of the responses con-
comitant with repetitive reaction, tending to reduce reaction times, lessen
p.g. reflexes, and standardise word responses.
528 ./. Cecil Maby [part
in detail. The effects—which are undoubtedly important—of such
factors as change of operator, method of presenting the stimuli,
choice of suitable stimulus words, irregular time intervals between
sittings, etc. might also have been made the subject of preliminary
investigations and discussions. Finally, I believe that Mr Carington
would have benefited and saved much calculation by the use of
some other form of p.g. reflexometer apparatus [e.g. Mr G. G.
Blake’s device ') ;
while I have previously pointed out the fact that
small p.g. reflexes to spoken replies often appear to be merely an
indication of the degree of psycho-physical disturbance, resulting
from the mere effort of articulation, rather than of personal psy-
chological significance, and that when no verbal response is made
many reactions fall to zero—especially with a familiar subject.
Actually, Mr Carington reassures us (and I am glad to hear it)
that “in so far as the factors mentioned are constant for a given
word, personality or occasion,” and also “ in so far as they are not
constant ”, they are duly accounted for in his calculations and/or
by the quantity that he calls OWP, representing Error.
All that I need add, therefore, is the query ; Would not the data
have been rendered more secure and valuable, and the calculations
simpler, if some of these sources of error could have been ehminated,
or reduced, by preliminary experiments and more attention to the
empirical side ? I beheve, personally, that they would. Possibly,
however, Mr Carington made such preliminary experiments as are
usual m such a case, but did not happen to refer to them in his
papers.
Injluence of the Sitter—Telepathy
In answer to my suggestion that telepathy between subject and
operator ’
was not only possible, but highly probable under such
circumstances, Mr Carington affects not to understand quite what
I mean.
I mean, of course, that thought transference in the broad sense was
possible, no matter whether the operator might be termed an active
agent or merely a jMSsive source of information. These two processes,
namely, active telepathy by some sort of energetic emission of
thought from agent to a passive (?) percipient, and telaesthesic
1 Vide G. G. Blake, M.I.E.E., in Journ. Roy. Soc. Arts. Vol. Ixxx., No. 4126,
pp. 128-153.
- Vide also pp. 351-2 of Mr Carington’s second paper, loc. cit., in which he
beheves that he has refuted telepathy ;
though he is careful to add :
“ But
ardent spiritists should note that any construing of this remark (see actual
text) into the sense of ‘
telepathy hypothesis disproved,’ or the like, would
constitute a gross and unwarrantable perversion of what I have said.” Exactly
what, then, are we to believe of Mr Carington ?
143] ^-1 Further Note on Mr Carington's Investigation 529
mind-reading of a passive (?) agent by an active percipient, are
commonly included by the term Telepathy. The distinction, how-
ever, has often been intimated, and the Earl of Balfour recently
discussed the matter in his important paper {Proc. S.P.R. Vol. xliii.)
on Mrs Willett’s mediumship ;
so that I can scarcely believe that
Mr Carington should have failed to appreciate my meaning.
For example, take the case of Mrs Leonard, with Mr Drayton
Thomas as operator.
Am I not right in supposing :
() that Mrs Leonard, in trance, is perfectly capable of reading
her sitter’s mind (especially one so familiar as C.D.T.’s)
almost like a book ? Certainly, she thus read my mother’s
—
a complete stranger’s.
() that all the words and ideas actually given in response by
Mrs Leonard’s communicators, “ John ” and “ Etta,” were
familiar to Mr C. Drayton Thomas himself—no matter
whether they happened to be supraliminal or subliminal
at the time of the tests ?
(c) that the replies of “ John ” and “ Etta ” (in so far as they
were specific, and did not show confusion with ideas in the
medium’s own mind, or that of her control, “ Feda ”) might
be supposed to be fairly well segregated in C.D.T.’s own
mind as memories relating to his father and his sister
respectively ?
Add to this the facts that the operator himself called out the
stimulus words, and cannot but have entertained appropriate
answers (whether supraliminally or subliminally is not the point),
and it will be apparent for all to see that mind-reading and/or
active telepathy from person to person were practically inevitable.^
Even though Mr Drayton Thomas was tested separately with the
same word list, and found to give foreconscious rephes in non-
agreement with those by “ John ” and “ Etta,” - it is no proof
that the medium did not read the subliminal ® part of the operator’s
Whether such telepathic action should have at all influenced the reaction
times and p.g. reflexes, as apart from the response words, is another matter
upon which it would be interesting to hear Mr Carington’s opinion. But if
so, one would be all the more surprised, since it is scarcely to be expected that
a telepathic percipient or active mind reader should borrow another’s physio-
logical, as well as his mental reactions and dispositions.
^ Vide pp. 349-352 of Mr Carington’s second paper, loc. cit.
® General evidence appears to point to the abihty of metagnomic subjects
to read the subhminal as well as, or better than, the supraliminal mind of a
sitter—or even that of a person distant in space or time. {E.g. see Osty’s
‘
Supernormal Faculties in Man.”)
530 [part
J. Cecil Mabry
mind. In any case, Mrs Leonard is, I understand, so familiar with
Mr Drayton Thomas as a sitter, and hence also {ex hyjrothesi) with
the “ John ” and “ Etta ” components of his mind, that the appro-
priate answers would be ready prepared, even when some other
operator such as Mr Irving took his place.^ And if anyone should
doubt the possibility, nay probabihty, of such mental interaction,
then I can only suggest that he must either be ignorant of, or have
purposely blinded himself to, the facts of Psychic Science.
The case of “ Feda ” is simpler, and has already been discussed
by Mr Carington. For “ Feda ”, hke Mrs Garrett’s “ Uvani ”, may
not irrationally be supposed ^ to constitute a secondary personality
of the medium’s own mind ;
and one would not be at all surprised
to find that the mental content of such a more or less dissociated
personality was fairly discrete from that of the primary personality.
Concomitantly, however, some degree of similarity and overlapping
might be observed ;
and that Mr Carington actually found, I gather,
in the cases of both “ Feda ” and “ Uvani ”, as well as in the inter-
esting and important experiment with Mrs Salter upon her normal
and “ automatic ” selves.
But in the last instance, one should remember that, on the hypo-
thesis which supposes a certain amount of real spiritistic inspiration
overlaid and somewhat confused by the automatist’s own mental
content,^ both significant similarity and significant difference would
be exjDected to be found between the normal and automatic reactions.^
Mr Carington here suggests a resemblance to the two Gatty poses,®
which, elsewhere, he refers to as “ generalised, non-fraudulent poses,
or changes in mental orientation ”. Of course, the question arises
as to whether any conscious pose is not fraudulent in such psycho-
analytical tests. Let that pass, however. The more important
point is, I think, as follows. Might it not easily appear from quanti-
tative analyses that the sort of relationship existing between two
histrionic poses, say, of a smgle individual was similar to that
between another individual’s primary and secondary personalities,
or even that between a medium’s normal personality and a veritable
spirit communicator, whose reactions had been somewhat confused
and overlaid by the medium’s own personality. Yet, au fond,
might not all these really represent absolutely different and un-
related cases, bearing only a numerical resemblance to one another ?
^ Vide pp. 349-352 of Mr Carington’s second paper, loc. cit.
^ Vide pp. 329-43, loc. cit.
3 E.g. see Mr Drayton Thomas’ paper in Proc. S.P.R., Part 141, pp. 371-96.
*
Vide p. 353 of Mr Carington’s second paper, loc. cit.
^ Vide p. 353 and pp. 325-26, loc. cit.
531
143 ] A Further Note on Air Carington's Investigation
I only suggest this as a possibility, and perhaps Mr Carington will
be able to tell us whether he thinks his quantitative methods would
or would not be able to distinguish reliably between three such
cases. If not, it would obviously be dangerous and misleading to
hint at resemblances between the Gatty and Salter pairs of
personalities.
The Verbal Responses
Finally, I suggested in my previous Note that Mr Carington might
have benefited from being personally present at the tests. He
rephes to this :
—
“ I do not agree. The experiments are behaviouristic, not psycho-
analytical,^ and one of their chief aims has been to secure objectivity
by eliminating personal judgements.” Well and good. So much I
appreciate ;
nor need I trouble to answer the insinuations contained
in the second paragraph of Mr Carington’s reply, since these are
patently unjustified by my suggestion. Given Mr Carington’s ex-
planation {supra), all that I now wish to add is that, granted such
good opportunities, it seems a pity to have missed making the investi-
gation psycho-analytical as well as behaviouristic ;
though I appre-
ciate that that would have been over-much for a single investigator,
and would have necessitated a separate treatment from the quantita-
tive analyses.
Word analyses of the kind here in question would undoubtedly
be coloured by the subjective attitude, experience and intuition of
the individual analyst ;
but, given some detailed experience of word
association tests and of the reactions of a number of average minds
of various types and grades, it should not be difficult for an impartial
third-party analyst to glean further interesting information from a
careful study of the actual word responses of the various person-
alities. Mr Drayton Thomas has, in fact, already given us an inter-
esting summary of the words from the Leonard sittings, together
with his personal interpretation of them. But when Mr Drayton
Thomas very kindly lent me the word response sheets for two or
three weeks, I fomid that it was possible yet further to analyse the
responses upon a number of lines apparently additional to those
already followed by Mr Carington and himself ;
resulting in further
simple numerical comparisons between the various personalities.
Since this was merely a private pioneer and subsidiary experiment
on my part, the results of this analysis have not been published, but
some of them were, I think, sufficiently in agreement with Messrs.
Carington’s and Drayton Thomas’s own findings to intimate that
' Mr Carington here seems to use the term psycho-analytical in a curiously
limited and special sense.
532 J. Cecil Maby [part 143]
the method employed was at least worth further consideratioh.
A good deal of personal “ intuition ” (really crystallised subjective
experience of word association tests, etc.) certainly enters into the
process, and I fully admit the soundness of Mr Carington’s sentiment,
that such analyses are necessarily less conclusive and objective than
numerico-statistical estimates. At the same time, it is evident that
they can be made, and that they may 'lend additional support to
deductions drawn from quantitative analyses of the physiological
data. The results of such verbal analyses may be expressed in
simple numerical form. They are also complementary to analyses
such as Mr Carington has himself carried out so successfully, in that
they deal with the words and ideas themselves, which his physio-
logical data can scarcely be said to do.
To conclude then, may I sum up the gist of this argument as
follows ? In everyday affairs we usually rely as much upon the
personal judgment and expert opinions of individuals of experience
and acumen (in any given field) as we do upon the impressive figures,
percentages, probabilities, etc. provided by statistical science. All
I wish to suggest, therefore, is that we should continue to do like-
wise in Psychology and Psychical Research, wherein, as in Art,
Religion and Philosophy, all cannot be determined by the balance,
the foot-ride and the pendulum. Qualities are quite as important
as, and sometimes more important than, quantities. Thus
—
momentarily taking leave of physical science, but not of psychology
—one may remark that had the ancient Greeks valued statistics as
highly as they valued patriotism and military discipline, the Persian
host would never have been so valiantly opposed at Thermopylae
and ultimately routed at Marathon.
I leave Mr Carmgton to disport himself at showing the ineptness
of this analogy. There may, however, be others who will appreciate
the broad idea that lies behind it.
Throughout this Note my aim has been to discuss matters in a
general and, I hope, constructive way, rather than to insinuate
various vague criticisms. But should Mr Carington decide—as I
expect he may do—that I have still “ failed to indicate a single
numerical result with which (I) disagree,” then there can remain
very little for us to quarrel over ! At the same time, I shall have had
the opportunity to remark upon one or two principles which appear
to be connected with the general conduct and subsequent evaluation
of an exceptionally important investigation, and one that I, per-
sonally, have found highly interesting and stimulating.
Oxford, August 1935.
SOME COMMENTS
ON MR MARY’S “ FURTHER NOTE ”
By Whately Carington
It is now clear to me that my reply to Mr Maby’s first Note was
based on an extensive misunderstanding of his mtentions—a circum-
stance which I trust may be held to extenuate any undue acerbity
in my remarks.
I know that Mr Maby will not take it amiss if I refrain from dealmg
with all the points of interest which he raises, but confine myself to a
few of the more specific and important. I should like first, however,
to make it clear in the most general way possible that I have no
desire to claim that the quantitative methods I have introduced are
the only methods, or even the most fruitful, that can be applied in
psychical research. They are, I believe, capable of yielding results
not otherwise obtainable, and perhaps of giving us a degree of
assurance on certain points to which the qualitative approach cannot
lead ;
as such they are likely to prove indispensable, but they must
always be supplemented by, and themselves at best be comple-
mentary to, less specialised studies. Generally speaking, we must
rely on these latter to tell us what to look for, and on the quanti-
tative methods to tell us whether it is there.
The following comments occur to me in reply to particular points
raised in Mr Maby’s Note.
1. I am afraid I cannot agree with the suggested artificiality of
numerical analysis. It is true that, for the most part, we think m
words rather than in numbers ;
similarly we also eat bread and
butter rather than economic statistics, are the figures of agricultural
production therefore to be stigmatised as “ artificial ” 1
2. I fail to see that my methods in any way assume “ complete
bodily and mental possession ”. They are, primarily, means of
obtaining comparative data regarding the reactions of mediums in
their various conditions of trance and otherwise, but these data re-
quire interpretation in the light of our knowledge at any given
moment ;
e.g., when I started, I supposed that significantly different
sets of reactions could not be produced by a single personality, but
the Besterman-Gatty exqDeriment showed that this is not so. It may
be that future work will yield results which will demand something
in the nature of a “ possessive ” explanation, but the theory must
follow the facts. The only way, it seems to me, in which the method
may fairly be said to “ assume ” possession is that it does seem
533
WJmfely Caringfon
534 [part
capable, in principle, of producing data which might virtually force
such an explanation upon us.
3. I agree that there is a tendency for all trance reaction times to
be slower than the normal, but it seems to me scarcely practicable
to decide whether this is due to a process of communication, to
telepathic delays, or to “ the trance state as such The question
of identity is all important, and I think that if ever we were to
obtain from a communicator a set of reactions significantly different
from those of the medium and significantly similar to those obtained
from that communicator ante mortem (themselves also differing
from the medium) it would be difficult to support Mr Maby’s con-
tention that the method “ cannot, in the nature of things, give us a
definite answer to the question ; Are these cases of spirit invasion
. . . from without, or ... a sub-division . . . from within ?
”
4. As regards the consistency of differences between reaction
times for different words : This is covered by the quantity I have
called “ I ” (RN 1-18, 42-70, 135-153). Reference to these results
will show that the consistency is significantly large compared with
the error present, in nearly all cases. Prepared Leonard is the most
important exception.
5. Experimental Procedure : (a) Reliability is never absolute,
though in buying pounds of butter we do not usually worry about the
probable error of the weighings. Where error is liable to be serious,
as here, we can do no more than use the best methods we know,
estimate how great the error is, and compute the chance of the
observed results being due to it. This I have done.
(b) In 1920 and thereabouts I observed a matter of some 10,000
reactions with nearly a hundred different (normal) subjects using
the same technique as in this work. The results (cf. my Measure-
ment of Emotion) seemed to me to justify the belief that the pro-
cedure was good enough for all practical purposes, although, of
course, one can always go on refining any method—and methods for
testing the refinement of the method—indefinitely. I do not think
I can, in these circumstances, fairly be accused of neglecting the
preliminary testing of my tools.
6. Exhaustion of mediums : If a subject were to become ex-
hausted by re]3eated tests, the result could only be, I think, that
all words would sink to a common dead level of uninterestingness,
so that the differences between them would no longer be significant
compared with the day to day errors involved. This would be
refiected in the quantity “ I ”. But the relevant figures for the
Irving sittings show more significant values here than for the earlier
Thomas experiment. It is true that somewhat different words were
used, and that the improvement is probably due to the smaller
143] Some Comments on Mr Maby's “ Further Note ” 535
intervals between sittings ;
but “ exhaustion ” is certainly contra-
indicated.
7. Telepathy : I naturally cannot deny that telepathy in a broad
sense was taking place, though I have no reason to suppose that it
was, and I should certainly challenge at least the first of Mr Maby’s
suppositions. I am not sure whether telepathy ever takes place at
aU ;
if it does, and if in these cases it has done so very freely (so that
Mrs Leonard may be regarded as sharing, as it were, in the mental
content of Mr Thomas and Mr Irving), surely we would expect that
she would feel the effect, so to speak, of the ideas which determine
the lengths of their reaction times and produce somewhat similar
results ;
which she does not. If she did, it would constitute positive
and very remarkable evidence of telepathic intercourse ;
her failure
to do so does not prove that nothing of the kind took place, but it
does seem to me to render very much more difficult the task of those
who seek to attribute the effects observed to telepathic action.
According to IVIr Maby, as I understand him, we must suppose that
Mr Thomas and Mr Irving have something in the nature of secondary
personahties of their own tucked away in their minds (“ segregated ”)
and that these supply Mrs Leonard telepathically not only with
responses but with hesitations and failures in reproduction other
than those characterising the main personalities. I do not say it is
impossible, but it does seem rather far-fetched, and quite mmecessary.
8. If it “ appears ” from quantitative analysis that the three cases
mentioned by Mr Maby are identical, then evidently the method in
question is incapable of distinguishing between them, and if we have
independent reason for beheving them to be distinct this will be
to the discredit of the method concerned. But perhaps I have mis-
understood the point. If it be asked whether I think that quanti-
tative methods of some kind would be capable of making the dis-
tinction required, then surely the answer is that, if they cannot, the
distinction is without validity. A quantitative element of some kind
must, I think, enter mto any method capable of yielding valid
results, if only to the extent of telhng us the likelihood of the
differences between our various observations being due to chance.
But if it be asked whether the particular methods I have hitherto
employed will be capable of doing this, I can only say that I cannot
tell at the present stage ;
broadly speaking, I should expect them
to do so, provided we include such extensions as those used in
sections 29 to 32 of Q.S.T.P. II. Elaboration is likely to be necessary,
if only because an experiment which can only yield one of two an-
swers {e.g., “ same ” or “ different ”) cannot distinguish between
three or more possibihties.
9. Verbal responses : The fact that I have hitherto published
2n
536 Whately Carington [part 143]
nothing much about these should not be taken as indicating that I
underestimate their importance. Actually I have spent scores of
hours work on them, but have repeatedly been driven back by my
inability to find a system of classification which satisfies me on the
two counts of being both unambiguous and informative. I have
been trying to penetrate to the kind of way in which the mind re-
sponsible for the reactions works—the relational thought-structure,
as it were, underlying them ;
if I could do this, I feel I noight be
able to determine whether the responses of Leonard and John, say,
were produced by the same type of mind, and that this would be
important ;
but it is very difficult.
One or two points of interest have emerged, of which the most
remarkable perhaps is the very strong tendency of Normal Leonard
to react with words evidently determined by stock phrases, chches,
and compound words. This suggests to me the raising of a kind
of shield or barrier from which the stimuli glance off without pene-
trating at all deeply, and behind which the true psychic life goes on
undisturbed. Feda, again, seems noteworthy for the sharpness of
her imagery—a kind of pictorial attitude, so to speak ;
one can
almost, to put it colloquially, see her visualising the scene which the
word suggests.
It seems possible that further work on these lines, if I can hit on
the right plan for conducting it, may throw much light on the
essential nature of the personalities concerned ;
but the requisite
inspiration is hard to come by.
In conclusion : Mr Maby is undoubtedly right in insisting on the
value of other-than-quantitative methods ;
certainly we need all
the weapons in our armoury to deal with the problems before us,
and I am only too delighted that he, or others, should bring every
device that ingenuity can suggest or virtuosity command to bear
on the interpretation of the facts I have obtained. But as regards
these facts themselves, and the methods used to gain them, I do
not think there is much room for doubt. It is perfectly true, of
course, that if I were to plan the whole experiment over again I
might do slightly better as a result of past experience ;
but I do not
think that the results would be appreciably different, except perhaps
for being of the same kind but rather more emphatic. At the same
time I cannot fail to appreciate the great amount of trouble taken
by Mr Maby in elaborating the various points which he has raised,
even though I am not at all persuaded that any conclusion I have
reached is adversely affected by them.
ON “ THE QUANTITATIVE STUDY OF TRANCE
PERSONALITIES ”
By Hereward Carrington
The two contributions by Mr Wbately Carington, dealing with this
subject, are doubtless of first-rate importance. His doctrine of
“ countersinularity ” between medium and control is psychologically
valuable—though clearly predicted by Professor Flournoy,^ and to
some extent by Mr Whately Carington himself in his original paper
upon the subject {Proc. S.P.R., vol. xxxi., pp. 401-16). His
findings would seem to indicate that his original theory was to some
extent erroneous, and that (partly in consequence of this) our own
findings were erroneous also—as set forth in Bulletin I. of the A.P.I.
It is in this connection that I venture a few words of comment upon
Mr Whately Carington’s conclusions.
While it is now contended that the regular Controls (Feda, Uvani,
etc.) are probably subconscious personifications, it is freely admitted
that other alleged Communicators do not appear to be so. My own
conclusions hi this connection were surely tentative enough. I
said :
“ As to the ultimate nature of ‘
Uvani ’
I do not pretend to
speak. I can only say that our experiments seem to indicate . . .
the mental independence of a so-called ‘
spirit control ’
. .
.” etc.
Elsewhere I said : “In mediumistic cases we seem to deal with
a perhaps fictitious personality which is nevertheless in touch or
contact, in some mysterious way, with another (spiritual) world,
from which it derives information, and through which genuine
messages often come ” (pp. 72-73).
It can hardly be contended, therefore, that the main conclusions
of our Report have been invalidated by these newer findings : on
the contrary, they seem to have been confirmed by them. Our own
opinion was that the responses from the Communicators were far
more striking and conclusive than those from the regular Controls.
It is to be noted that Mr Carington, in his last Report, based his
conclusions almost entirely upon reaction times—leaving out of
accoimt the galvanic deflections on the one hand and the words
themselves on the other.
But does this procedure give us a fair picture of the whole case ?
Take the Gatty experiment, e.g., to which Mr Carington (very
rightly) attaches great importance. Gatty (0) and Gatty (H) were
1 In his Spiritism and Psychology (Trans, by H. C.), 1911, pp. 193-94.
537
538 Hereward Carrington [part
found to differ from one another as greatly as two individuals would.
Very good. But did either Gatty (0) or Gatty (H) furnish any
definitely supernormal information ? They certainly did not. They
furnished memories and associations quite in keeping with their
own past lives. One can quite understand how a medium’s sub-
conscious mind could concoct hypothetical reactions from some
fictitious personality (such as Mr Pickwick, for example), or even
from some historic character—assuming he knew even the smatter-
ings of history. But how could it accurately concoct and supply us
with a series of typical and personal reactions, seemingly emanating
from some person who actually existed (but whom the medium had
never seen), which were afterwards checked by members of the family
and found by them to be strikingly appropriate and eminently
characteristic ? There is the crux !
It might be contended that this material was in the sitter’s mind,
and hence obtained from it by means of telepathy. (I understand
that this is Dr Rhine’s contention.) But Mr Carington’s experiments
in this direction seem to indicate very clearly that telepathy played
no part in them, and he so stated.
We may be willing to grant any amount of play-acting ability on
the part of the subconscious mind of the medium. But that does
not alter our main problem, viz.. Why are the responses invariably
typical of the right person ? Or, as the Rev. Drayton Thomas put it
:
“ ... all that we have found seems to favour the supposition that
with change of control there comes into operation a differently
composed mind and menioryC (Italics mine.)
The association words we received seemed quite characteristic
and typical of the personalities involved in life, as subsequently
verified by friends and relatives known to them when living. All
this is very different from the Gatty (H) = Gatty (0) material,
interesting as this is from the psychological point of view.
In short, as I stated in our Report
;
“ It would thus seem that the reaction words are, in a sense, a
far better indicator of the actual state of affairs than are the
galvanic reflexes [or reaction times] which were treated statistically.”
This conclusion seems to have been amply borne out by Mr
Thomas’s results, in which some highly characteristic reactions were
also obtamed, judged by the words alone.
This personal and identifying material seems to me to have been
unduly slighted by Mr Carmgton, in both his original Reports, and
also in his review of our Bulletin, as I have already indicated in the
Journal.
A final word in conclusion. Certam critics of jisychical research
are constantly contending that psychiatrists are the only persons
143] On “ The Quantitative Study of Trance Personalities ” 539
capable of judging our results adequately, and that from tbeir work
alone may really frrdtful results ever be obtained.
I ask one question, in reply. Do sucb critics believe that genuinely
supernormal phenomena have ever really been obtained 1 And
do they beheve that the theoretical possibility of “ communication
”
should at least be left an open question ? If not, then there is of
course no use for further discussion. But if so, then it is my opinion
that a man like, e.g., Dr Hodgson knew more about psychical and
trance phenomena than all the psychiatrists in the world—inasmrich
as their whole theory is based upon the non-existence of these super-
normal phenomena. I can see no reason, therefore, to kow-tow to
their opinions in the shghtest degree, or to beheve that their esti-
mates of psychic phenomena are any more valuable than those of
other men. Indeed, if genuine supernormal phenomena exist, they
are usually less so.
Therefore, while it is doubtless true that both psychical researchers
and psychiatrists might benefit greatly from a mutual knowledge of
each other’s work, it is not logical to contend that either of them
is entitled to pass final judgment upon the results of the researches
in the other’s field.
No one branch or science may hope to solve the problems of
psychical research—though every branch has its contributions to
make, once its exponents accept the reahty of psychic phenomena !
EEPLY TO MR HEREWARD CARRINGTON’S NOTE
By Whately Carington
There is so little that is controversial between Mr Hereward Carring-
ton and myself that httle is called for beyond a friendly acknow-
ledgment of his remarks.
The only major exception seems to be that whereas, in his Bulletin,
he concluded pretty definitely, albeit cautiously, that “ Uvani
”
was an mdependent entity (unless I quite misunderstood the general
tenor of his remarks), I am equally confident that the personality
concerned is a countersimilar secondary. But he would almost
certainly have come to the same conclusion as I did, on the basis of
his own material (Cf. my RN 19.1), if he had been able to subject
it to the same statistical tests.
On the other hand, it is not quite correct to suggest that “ while
the regular Controls (Feda, Uvani, etc.) are probably subconscious
personalities, it is freely admitted ” (by me) “ that the other alleged
Communicators do not appear to be so ”. I am by no means satis-
fied that John, Etta, Dora and Mr Hereward Carrmgton’s Com-
municators are not “ subconscious personafities ” of some sort.
What I said was that they do not appear to be countersimilar second-
aries ;
but I went on to remark that “ . . . Communicators, if and
in so far as they are not what they purport to be, are more in the
nature of histrionic poses than secondary personafities in the
ordinary sense of that term ” (Q.S.T.P. II., p. 342). This is
reasonably non-committal, but a long way from contendiag or
admittmg that the personafities concerned are not
“
subconscious
personafities ” with the implication that they are what they claim
to be.
As regards the points raised by Mr Carrington with respect to
supernormal information and the character of the response words :
Broadly speaking I agree with all that he says, but the first takes
us clean outside the field in which I have been working and into that
of psychical research generally ;
while the second involves diffi-
culties from the point of view of quantitative treatment which I have
mentioned in my Comments on Mr Maby’s Note. But, although in
my review I drew attention to the striking nature of some of the
responses obtained by Mr and Mrs Carrington, I must confess that
in my concentration on the instrumental and quantitative aspects
of the case I was inclined to do them less than justice. I do not
think it sensible to dismiss such responses with a vague appeal to
540
541
[part 143 ]
Reply to Mr Hereward Carrington’’ s Note
“
telepathy ” ;
for, if telepathy occurs at all, it seems to me to open
the door to the praeter-physical generally so wide that our chief
concern should be not with deciding between the terms of the
antithesis “ Telepathy-Communicator ”, but with epistemological
considerations as to whether there is any real distinction between
them other than that created by our traditional habits of thought.
But in self-defence, I think I may fairly claim that, so far as my
own work is concerned, I have expressly and specifically been dealmg
with the quantitative study of trance personalities, whereas this
whole question of responses remains, so far, almost wholly in
quahtative field.
NOTE ON PROFESSOR THOULESS’S REVIEW OF
EXTRASENSORY PERCEPTION
By Dr J. B. Rhine
While deeply appreciative of the attention and criticism Professor
Thouless has given my volume, I find it necessary to correct the
general impression which his review (Proc. S.P.R., Vol. xliii., p. 24)
gives as to the principal contribution of the work, and to consider
a few other points of the review.
Professor Thouless states ;
“ The novelty of Dr Rhine’s results
lies in his apparent demonstration that this power is not uncommon
and it is here that his evidence is quite inadequately stated.” I call
especial attention to the fact that this emphasis on frequency is the
reviewer’s point of view, not that of the book reviewed. Nowhere,
I think, is this to be found m the book. Certainly its list of con-
clusions and suggestions are silent on the point. It is therefore
hardly to be held accountable for the failure to present detailed
descriptions essential only to such a point of view.
After reporting in detail on the first three of the eight principal
subjects, I expressly excused myself (page 88) from further repeti-
tion, and thereafter omitted description of conditions except where
new experiments were involved. The frequency question was never
an outstanding one to us, and, furthermore, the report had to be
limited in length.
It was plain to me that those left unconvinced by the work of
Linzmayer, Stuart and Pearce, for which details were relatively fully
given, would not be convinced by mere repetition of similar details
of the other work. And, so far as the other subjects go, most of
them worked in special experiments, the conditions of which are
given in the book, and which go considerably beyond the minima
required by Professor Thouless. For example, three of the five
remaining were successful subjects in distance telepathy tests, a
fourth in DT. Both of these conditions exceed limits laid down by
Professor Thouless. This leaves only one whose capacity for extra-
sensory perception may be regarded as not fully accounted for by
the report of conditions. But as stated, it was not intended that
every subject should be given an independent case. We were work-
ing for bigger stakes than frequency of distribution of E.S.P. ability.
Our objective was to try to explain it as far as possible.
In the judgment of most critics the “ novelty ” of the Duke work
lies in its experimental separation for the first time of telepathy and
542
[part 143]
Note on Professor Thoiiless’s Review 543
clairvoyance, and of their independent demonstration. It is much
more novel than the number of subjects foimd. Estabrooks and
Coover both used college students for subjects as was done at Duke,
and in both these cases too the positive deviations were contributed
by many individuals. The only novel feature m the Duke work in
relation to the number of subjects was the fact that the better
scoring subjects were followed up further.
Professor Thouless rejects one of the most important points of the
book because he uses, I think, an inadequate method for evaluating
the significance of the results. I refer here to the remarkable fact
that all our eight major subjects showed both clairvoyant and
telepathic ability, and reached under comparable conditions ap-
proximately similar score-levels. These facts along with others
presented in the book suggest strongly that there is some basic
relation between the two phenomena. This would be a most
important relation if true. I had not regarded the case as doubtful
enough to require statistical support, but Professor Thouless appar-
ently does. First he unfortunately overlooked a footnote (page 148)
entered to show that the eighth subject at last showed both abilities.
Second, the method he uses is not capable of efficient evaluation of
the probability of the coincidences.
If a mathematical basis is needed for judgment of this relationship
the treatment should be applied to all the facts available. First,
what is the probability that, assuming no known relationship be-
tween telepathy and clairvoyance, eight ^ principal subjects found
possessing the one capacity will all have measurable capacity for the
other as well ? To compute this it is necessary to estimate how rare
good subjects really are, a very difficult matter. If one takes the
highest possible estimate yet made of such frequency, reflected from
our own experimental study, he might approach the figure that one
in every two persons is telepathic or clairvoyant. Surely, no one will
insist on a greater frequency. But even with one half as the prob-
ability estimate, the eight cases give odds of 255 to 1 ,
against a chance
theory of the coincidence of telepathic and clairvoyant capacities
being found in the same individuals. This is itself a significant
relationship. If now a more conservative estimate of the frequency of
good subjects is taken, the signiflcance soars into huge figures at once.
If we wish to concern ourselves fmther with the closeness for
each subject of the averages for the two test conditions, the fact
that in five out of the eight subjects the average scores per rmi for
both telepathy and clairvoyance fell upon the same unit, and in
only two cases was there more than a unit’s difference, offers further
^ The facts in the eighth case arrived late and were inserted as footnotes,
pp. 92 and 148. (In the Enghsh Edition, Faber and Faber, pp. 124 and 202.)
544 Dr J. B. Rhine [part 143]
support to the finding stated above. If the differences between the
averages for P.C. and P.T. are treated by finding the ratios of the
differences to the standard error of the difference of the average
deviations from the theoretical mean, the result is that six of the
eight show insignificant differences, and the totals for the eight
subjects make another, or seven in nine examples. It is also note-
worthy that the two cases in which the differences are significant
belong to the three examples in which the data for both P.C. and
P.T. could not be limited to the same period.
Finally, it should be added that, for the two subjects in which
comparable daily fluctuations were available, in all but four in
fourteen fluctuations the scores rose and fell in both the P.C. and
P.T. together.
In the chapter devoted to this comparison other evidences are
given which support the view that there is close fundamental
relationship between P.C. and P.T., such as similar effects with
certain drugs taken by the subjects, with distance intervening
between percipient and the perceived, and others.
Perhaps it may be pardonable to re-state here what the objectives
of the Duke work actually are. The chief aim is, beyond the
separating out and clarifying of the basic phenomena of extra-
sensory perception, to find out their relations to each other, to the
rest of the mental, organic, and physical universe. As such it is a
part of a broad scheme (too broad for an individual, of course) to
find the boundaries and the powers of human personality as a natural
system, for what they may be worth to human life.
In the book here discussed, it was myhope not so much to estabhsh
its points with absolute finahty, by one stroke, in so difiicult a field,
but to effect some approaches which may warrant the help of others
in the independent repetition which must precede wide acceptance.
If these reports can but stimulate repetition with a moderately sym-
pathetic attitude I shall be content. I have to thank Mr Tyrrell
for so ably helping toward that end with his ingenious technique.
I take this opportunity to endorse heartily Mr Tyrrell’s view of
the importance of “ atmosphere ”. Favourable mental attitude is
essential to success in many delicate human activities ;
precautions,
of course, are essential to safe conclusions. With patience they can
be brought into mutual harmony. But not all of us have the
patience and others of us have personahties which through sugges-
tion create unfavourable mental states in their subjects. Such
inhibiting effects are not hmited to the parapsychical field but are
matters of common observation.
For the review as a whole and the excellent analysis of Coover’s
work I am much indebted to Professor Thouless and the Proceedings.
PKOFESSOR CUMMINS’S “ NOTES ON ‘
WALTER ’
THUMBPRINTS ”
Some confusion appears to have arisen among persons not familiar
with the technique of finger-print investigation by the use by
Professor Harold Cummins, the author of “ Notes on ‘
Walter
’
Thumbprints of the ‘
Margery ’
Seances ” in Part 139 of our Pro-
ceedings, of the term “ rod core ” as apphed to the negative wax
impressions inspected by him on his visit to England in August 1934.
It appears to have been thought that, as a negative impression
reproduces the features of the original in reverse, converting ridges
into furrows and vice versa, a negative described as having a rod
core must derive from an original having the opposite type of core
known as a “ staple core
To dispel this confusion Professor Cummins has contributed a
supplementary note explaining in detail the way in which negative
impressions are described by experts ;
this note is preserved at the
Society’s Rooms. The gist of Professor Cummins’s note may be
briefly summarised in his own words, as follows :
“ Finger-print science follows the practice of describing pattern
details in terms of ridges of the actual skin (registered by furrows in
the plastic negative)”, and again, “ Recognised practice consistently
describes core structures (and all other minutiae as well, such as
endings, forks, inclosures, islands) in terms of the actual skin,
irrespective of the type of impression mider examination. ... I say
again that the ‘
Walter ’ prints in question have rod cores, and that
in this feature as well as other jDattern details they are identical with
the ‘
Kerwin ’
(Dr ‘
X ’) right thumb.”
545
REVIEW
J. C. Flugel, a Hundred Years of Psychology. London : Duckworth,
1933, pp. 384. 15s. net.
Knowledge of any science is incomplete unless the story of its
origin and development is also known. At the present day, when
interest in psychology is so widespread, a book such as Professor
Flugel has here given us should be welcomed by all who desire to
know what the problems of psychology are and how they have been
dealt with in the past and in our own times. The origins of the
science of psychology are to be found further back than a himdred
years ago, and Dr Flugel approaches his task by describing briefly
the kind of knowledge of the mind that might have been attained by
a student at the beginning of the nineteenth century. Having
indicated the state of psychology in 1833, he goes on to describe its
development up to 1933 when this book was first published, and in
doing so he gives an admirable account of the influences that have
been at work in the formation and growth of the various schools
of psychological thought which exist at the present time.
Among these influences are to be found the physiological re-
searches concerning the relations of mind and body, the attempts
to correlate mental and nervous functioning from the days of the
phrenologists up to the most recent work on cerebral localisation,
the physiological psychology of sensation and the sense organs, and
the data derived from the study of abnormal mental states.
In the course of this exposition more or less detailed reference is
made to some of the topics which have been investigated by our
Society, such as hypnotism and the psychology of subliminal states,
but only once is there any mention of Psychical Research. In his
description of the part played by Phrenology in directing men’s
minds to a search for some specific form of psycho-physical correla-
tion Dr Flugel says that in the first half of the nineteenth century
“ phrenology w’-as, as some of the historians of psychology have well
suggested, somewhat in the position of psychical research to-day.
Its claims seemed, on general scientific grounds, unlikely to be true,
but had aroused great popular interest and belief and had not as yet
546
[PAET 143] Review 547
been confronted with any evidence that could be said to amount to
definite disproof. It was, moreover, frowned on by the principal
authorities, both in psychology and physiology, and therefore never
became in any sense one of the recognized teachings of academic
science.”
Although it is admitted that “ phrenology has been psychology’s
great faux fas ”, yet a chapter is devoted to an account of its doc-
trines, because they undoubtedly influenced indirectly the develop-
ment of psychological investigation. It may be a want of foresight
on the part of Dr Flugel that he does not recognize the possible
influence of psychical research on the future of psychology, but there
seems no reason for his neglect of the part it has already played in
the investigation of certain unusual phenomena of the human muid.
But criticism of Dr Flugel’s sins of omission is forestalled by his
disarming admission in the opening words of his preface :
“ Such a
book as this is almost inevitably bad ;
in the sense at least that
what the reader will find will not correspond to what he hopes for or
expects.” On the contrary Dr Flugel may rest assured that his
readers, whether they find what they expect or not, far from con-
sidering it a bad book, cannot fail to recognize how good it is. To
the student it will prove an invaluable guide to the many “ schools
”
that exist at the present time, and he will share Dr Flugel’s hope
that some day “ there may come into being one ‘ psychology ’
with
many methods, in place of the several ‘ psychologies ’
that exist
to-day.”
T. W. M.
Y UK
PKN;iv Sfi'IK
NOT TO BK f;
>hL
iJBRAK
^FN PF
'
u c I
I op > p'.’
procep:dings
OF THE
Society for Psychical Research
INDEX TO VOL. 43.
For the sake of brevity such qualifications as “ supposed,”
“ alleged,” etc., are omitted from this index. It must, however, be
understood that this omission is made solely for brevity, and does
not imply any assertion that the subject-matter of any entr3
' is in
fact real or genuine.
Appeal for Co-operation in Further
Experiments in Extra-Sensory Per-
ception, 38-39.
Automatic physical movements in
Mrs Willett’s mediumship, 112-114,
123-124, 144-145.
Automatic vTiting of AL’S Willett,
49-51 ;
styles in, 74-78.
Balfour, Gerald W., Earl of, “ A Study
of the Psychological Aspects of
Airs Willett’s Mediumship, and of
the Statements of the Communi-
cators Concerning Process,” 43-318.
Behaviouristic responses, relation of,
to psychological personalities, 522-
524.
Besterman, Theodore, 17, 367 ;
his
word association test with Oliver
Gatty, 320, 322, 325-328, .537 .538.
‘‘
Bobbie ” case, report of sittings,
443-499 ;
analysis of results, 503-
508.
Brackenbury, Airs, 16.
Broad, Prof. C. I)., “ Normal Cog-
nition, Clairvoyance and Tele-
pathy,” 397-438.
Carington, Whately, “ The Quanti-
tative Study of Trance Person-
alities, II,” 319-361 ;
“ Reply to
Air Alaby’s Note,” 367-370 ;
“ Some Comments on Air Maby’s
Further Note,” 533-536.
Carrington, Hereward, 320 ; his word
association test data, 322 ff., 352 ;
“ On ‘
The Quantitative Study of
Trance Personalities,’ ” 537-539.
Clairaudience, possibility of, as source
of information in Mrs Osborne
Leonard’s sittings, 444, 511-514.
Clairvoyance, compared with normal
sense perception, 408-414 ;
con-
sidered as non-sensuous prehension,
414-416 ;
in J. E. Coover’s card
experiments, 25-28 ;
in J. B.
Rhine’s card experiments, 31-34,
36-37 ;
as source of information in
Airs Osborne Leonard’s sittings,
discussed, 511-516.
Communications, types of, in Airs
Willett’s mediumship, 49-59, 90-
116; difficulties in reception and
transmission of, 119-140, 511-516.
Coover, J. E., his experiments in
extra-sensory perception, 25-31.
' Covariance ” of trance person-
alities, 321 ff.
Crandon, Dr, 16.
Crandon, Airs, (“ Margery ”), con-
troversy over “ Walter ” thumb-
prints obtained by, 15-23, 545.
549
550 Index to Vol. XLIIl.
Cross- correspondences in Mrs Willett’s
mediumshij), 236-242.
Cummins, Harold, “ Notes on
‘
Walter ’
Thumbprints of the
‘
Margery ’
Seances, 15-23 ;
Sum-
mary of supplementary note, 545.
de Bratli, Stanley, 17, 21.
“ Difference ” of trance personalities,
321 £f.
Dissociation as an explanation of
mediumsliip, in Mrs Osborne
Leonard, 337-339, 340-342 ;
in
Mrs Willett, 141-157.
Driesch, Prof. Hans, “ Memory in its
Relation to Psychical Research,”
1-14.
Dudley, Mr, his statements concern-
ing the “ Walter ” thumbprints of
the “Margery” Seances, 15-16;
his identification of “ Walter ” and
“ Kerwin ” prints, 19-20.
Engrain theory of remembrance, 4,
6-
8 .
Excursus in mediumship, 211-228.
Extra- Sensory Perception, by J. B.
Rhine, reviewed, 24-37.
Extra-sensory perception, J. E.
Coover’s experiments in, 25-31 ;
statistical treatment of, 26-30.
Fisher, Prof. R. A., 320.
Flugel, Prof. J. C., A Hundred Years
of Psychology
,
reviewed, 546-547.
Garrett, Mrs Eileen, word association
tests with, 322 ff., 521.
Gatty, Oliver, his word association
tests with Theodore Besterman,
320, 322, 325-328, 537-538.
Gurney, E., his messages through
Mrs Willett, 50 ff.
Hatcli, Herbert, his letters re “ Bob-
bie ” Case, 439-440, 443 ;
his notes
on sittings with Mrs Osborne
Leonard, 444 ff’.
Hope, Lord Charles, 17, 21.
Hundred Years of Psychology, by J. C.
Flugel, reviewed, 546-547.
“ Individuality ” of trance person-
alities, 321 ff.
Irving, Mrs Dora, Communicator
through Mrs Osborne Leonard,
322 ff.
Irving, Rev. W. S., 352, 367 ;
his
sittings with Mrs Osborne
Leonard, 320, 322, 349-350.
“ Kerwin,” his thumbprints obtained
in the “ Margery ” Seances, 15, 16,
18-2.3, 545.
Leonard, Mrs Osborne, a proxy case
extending over eleven sittings with,
439-519 ;
report of sittings, 443-
499 ;
analysis of results, 503-508 ;
Rev. W. S. Irving’s sittings with,
322 ff.; her trance state compared
with that of Mrs Willett, 59-62 ;
word association experiments with,
371-396, .521.
Lodge, Sir Oliver, 43 ;
his sittings
with Mrs Willett, 54 ff.
Maby, ,T. Cecil, “ Note on Mr Caring-
ton’s Investigation,” 362-366 ;
“ A
Further Note on Mr Whately Car-
ington’s Investigation,” 520-532.
Mediumship, suggested modus oper-
andi of, in Mrs Osborne Leonard,
509-519 ; in Mrs Willett, 49-262.
Memory, nature of, 2, 12-13.
Mitcheil, Dr T. W., 341.
Myers, F. W. H., his messages through
Mrs Willett, 50 ff.
Names, difficulties in transmission of,
hr sittings, 511-512.
Newlove, Mrs, 442, 448 ff.
Newton, Miss Isabel, 17.
Physiological reactions, relations of,
to psychological personalities, 522-
524.
Piper, Mrs, her trance state compared
with that of Mrs Willett, 59-62,
169-174.
Possession, in mediumship, 172 ff.,
523-526.
Price, Harry, 16, 20.
Pseudo- hallucination in Mrs Willett’s
mediumship, 78-87, 92-94.
Psychogalvanic reflexes in the study
of trance personalities, 320 ff., 363-
364, 368, 522.
Index to Vol. XLlll. 551
Psychological personalities, relation
of, to physiological reactions, 522-
524.
Psychometrical theory of remem-
brance, 9-14.
Psychometry, in sittings with Mrs
Osborne Leonard, 441, 443.
Psychophysical parallehsm, 5.
Reaction times in the study of
trance personalities, 320 ff., 364-
365, 524, 534.
Remembrance, nature of, 2-4 ;
origin
of, 4-5 ;
defects in, 5-6 ;
depend-
ence on states of mind of, 6, 8
;
“ engrain ” theory of, 4, 6-8
;
psychometrical theory of, 9-14.
Reproduction test in the study of
trance personalities, 320 ff., 389-
392.
Rhine, l)r J. B., Extra-Sensory Per-
ception, reviewed, 24-37 ;
“ Note
on Professor Thouless’s Review of
Extra-Sensory Perception,'' 542-
544.
Salter, W. H., 20, 21 ;
“ Introductory
Note to ‘
Notes on the “ Walter ”
Thumbprints of the “ Margery ”
Seances ’
by Harold Cummins,”
15-18.
Salter, Mrs W. H., word association
tests with, 320, 322 ff., 353.
Schiller, F. C. S., 22.
Schneider, Rudi, word association
tests with, 322 ff., 521.
Secondary personalities, and trance
personahties, compared, 148, 154,
320, 333-339, 340-342.
Self, nature of, in accordance with
Willett scripts, 264-314.
Sense perception, normal, types of,
400-408 ;
comparison with clair-
voyance, 408-414.
Sharphn, Mrs, word association tests
with, 353-355.
“ Similarity” of trance personalities,
321 ff.
Society for Psychical Research, Presi-
dential Address by Prof. C. D.
Broad, 397-438.
Soul, nature of, in accordance with
Willett scripts, 264-314.
Statistical analysis, use of, in extra-
sensory perception experiments,
26-30, 32-34, 36 ;
in studies of
trance personahties, 320 ff.; valid-
ity of, 364-365, 368-370, 520-522,
.533.
Subliminal, re-detinition of, in accord-
ance with Willett scripts, 265-314.
Telsesthesia, definition of, as derived
from Mrs Willett’s mediumship,
189-211.
Telepathy, and telaesthesia, com-
pared, 185-211 ;
as explanation of
clairvoyance, 362-363, 528-531, 535;
as explanation of information in
sittings with Mrs Osborne Leonard,
509-519 ;
cognitive relations in,
419-423 ;
discursive cognition in,
427-438 ;
in J. E. Coover’s card
experiments, 25-28 ;
in J. B. Rhine’s
card experiments, 31-34, 36-37
;
method of communication in Mrs
W’Ulett’s mediumship, 164-184;
mode of interaction in, 416-419 ;
Myers’s theories of, discussed, 278-
284 ;
prehension in, 423-427 ;
spon-
taneous cases of, suggested mechan-
ism, 427.
Telergy in mediumship, 112-114, 123-
124, 144-145, 173-174.
Thomas, Rev. C. Drayton, 339, 347,
352, 365, 538 ; “A Proxy Case
extending over Eleven Sittings with
]\Irs Osborne Leonard,” 439-519 ;
“ Word Association Experiment
with Mrs Osborne Leonard,” 371-
396.
Thomas, Miss Etta, communicator
through Mrs Osborne Leonard, 442,
448 ff.; word association tests with,
322 ff., 382-386.
Thomas, John W., communicator
through Mrs Osborne Leonard,
442, 453 ff.; word association tests
with, 322 ff., 378-382.
Thorogood, Mr, his discussion of the
identity of “ Walter ” and “ Ker-
win ” thumbprints, 19.
Thouless, Prof. R. H., “ Dr Rhine’s
Recent Experiments on Telepathy
and Clairvoyance and a Recon-
sideration of J. E. Coover’s Con-
clusions on Telepathy,” a review
552 Index to Vol. XLIII.
of Kxtra-Sensonj Perception, by J.
B. Rhine, 24-37.
Thumbprints, controversy over
“ Kenvin ” and “ Walter ” speci-
mens, 15-23, 545.
Trance personalities, quantitative
study of, 319-361, 362-366, 367-370,
520-532, 533-536, 537-539.
Trance state in Mrs Willett’s medium-
ship, 56-59, 68-89.
Vcrrall, Mrs, 43 ff.
Willett, Mrs, her mediumship, 43-318 ;
development of, 49-59 ; early
automatic script in, 49-51 ; early
“ Daylight Impressions ” (D.I.’s),
.50-53 ;
spoken D.I.’s in presence of
sitters, 53-56 ;
development of
trance state in, 56-59 ;
comparison
of, with Mrs Pijjer and Mrs Osborne
Leonard, 59-62, 169-174 ;
criteria
of different states of consciousness
in, 68-89 ;
types of communications
in, 90- 116; conditions of success-
fid transmission of messages in,
117- 140 ;
difficulties in reception of
messages in, 119-130 ;
difficulties
of emission of messages in, 130-140 ;
dissociation in, 141-157 ; telepathy
the method of communication in,
164-184 ; telepathy and telaesthesia
in, 185-211 ;
excursus in, 211-228 ;
cross-correspondences in, 236-242 ;
mode of production of scripts in,
243-262,
Woolley, Dr, 16, 17,
Word association test in the study
of trance personalities, 319-361 ;
mathematical treatment of, 320-
322 ;
discussion of results, 329-
361 ;
words used, 349 ;
validity
of, 363-365, 367-370 ;
responses
obtained, 371-393, 531-532.
PRINTED IN GREAT BRITAIN BY ROBERT MACLEHOSE AND CO. LTD.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS, GLASGOW
